

The Bulletin
Vol 20.—N0. 1037. j
[Saturday, December 30, 1899.
."Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN’S ALE.
LAMB’S
m FRY’S MALTED COCOA
G-TT AR AUTEBP FTTRB COCOA. A3VTO EXTRACT OF MALT.
R7Gr. WATKINS «§£, 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
: ' ■ EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ akd GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW am> SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2 70
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
rr
BEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
W**v
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI-m.W GEORGE HOT EL, opposite St.
Kifda Railway Station and Cable Teams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Bvardei'B, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas ijer Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss ntt str«.t, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
ct.O’r* "gr» -*-» <r-Tt -f- -r* o_ d have in stock and to arrive-portable,
LiUX OE V-/ O. JL_«.. TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
EOOraiVTTaEI.IO THllA.Sia:iKrGr MIjSXCECIIMSS, S-A.'W' JSZESKTGIEaiES, &C-, &o*
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W- C- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 TOlili S't SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by i*st trout all the colonies promptly
attended to.
60
iECOND-HAND
AND
TftTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 . REK CENT.
.Cl Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
'
*—
Hadley s Orient fjotel.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another-thirfp they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
■ Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
I_| OLLO WAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT*,
a 1 There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
060,112 Bottles Sold in One Month
CO
=
—*
THE CHEAPEST AND THE
PIONEER
LEATHER
belting"
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to. ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICiIc SON, LTD.,
117 "ST oris: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, \V. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
i * PPIOE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSH UA ’S AISTItA LI A N
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OE OUR READING L>OCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang- Brandy.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WlNEi£>
AUSTRALIA.
£2T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER’S “HIGHLAND CREAM’’ WHISKY.
««r
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Love & Oo
241* George Street, SYDXET.


THE RED PAGE.
Why the Boers Must Win.
nyr OT why they should win—that is a ques-
Iyl tion whose answer depends entirely upon
-1. l one’s own opinion as to the eternal justice
of British domination. My reading of
history (writes Rupert Hughes in N. Y. Criterion)
has forced me to the profound belief that the
Boers will not be crushed.
There is Jomini’s axiom that a nation cannot be
successfully invaded and subdued when the in-
habitants are united in spirit. Since the exodus
of the Outlanders, the Transvaal and the Free
State are counted as units for defence, while
Natal and Cape Colony contain many Dutch in-
habitants of very dubious loyalty to Queen Vic-
toria. Think, too, of the large percentage of
Tories that diluted the Americanism of our own
forefathers. It can surely be claimed that the
attainment of American independence was even
more difficult than the retention of Boer integrity.
England’s relative superiority to the thirteen little
colonies was as great then'as her superiority to the
Boers. The Bbers began with victory, and so did
we. But after the evacuation of Boston, the
Americans had yet to endure the bitterness of
Long Island, the Brandywine, Germantown,
Valley Forge, Arnold’s treason and the depreda-
tions of the Indians instigated and sometimes
led by the British. Even when English troops
press hard on the Boers, it must not lie felt that
an end is hereby put to their hopes. Thermopylae
preceded Marathon, and a chronological list of
the battles of our Revolutionary War, with “A”
standing for an American victory and “ B ” for a
British, makes this surprising beadroll divided by
years :
B, B, B—A, B, B, B, A—A, B, A, B, A, B, B,
B, B, A, A, A, B—A, B, A, B—A, B, B, A, B,
B—B, A, B, A, B, B, A—A, B, B, B, A.
Note the predominance of the “B,” and yet
the “A” won.
It must be remembered that England cannot
bring her navy into play now as she could against
the seaboard colonies of 1776, and even though she
has a mortgage on Portugal’s soul and has Delagoa
Bay to use as she will, yet it is a long shot and a
long walk to the battle-arena.
The Boers are not the first people confronted
with the problem of resisting a vastly larger
nation. The Greeks hurled back the Xerxic
horde; Syracuse sent the splendid Greek navy
limping home ; Hannibal’s enterprise failed after
he had crossed the Alps and ravaged Italy, and
knocked at Rome’s very gates ; the English did
not yield to the Armada, though the wind did far
more for them than their cannon ; Russia froze
out Napoleon’s host; the United States recovered
from two British invasions, in both of which they
captured our capital cities (and yet many think
that the marching of F- glish column into Pre-
Hrir " ■ he B .• v..; instantly). How much
V ' f uz' . : mericans control after
• ‘ tlie ' c i - , the Boers have done
uhe t'ri mV ! v :;: g some of the most
•v v' ;« i' l :istory of warfare, and
establishing among then - I ves a proverb that one
boen m whip live Engli amen.
• to shoot that I place
ti-e gr.-ate-.it ;-e. ‘ are a people of whom
rinds the young Boer’s
■md the grandfather’s Testament.” It is the
Ambnoan’s “ good eye ” that makes him the
world’s best soldier. Washington’s system of com-
peW ve marksmanship and rifle ranges made his
jliav/.nccf J, h!f drilled fanners the match of
the icO sii ogulars. 4 t was marksmanship
enabled the Americans to take Spanish
trench; , ucn I • v and held by a force
vrd i; sn.;]cr;: po.vdr;. 1 ' w 'ip that
its for the comic m . over the
Fd.---.-cr->;-. 11 is ass.--i u.-*!. • '.uthority,
th .. ;>a'y three per cent, i regulars
to-day j.ttain a standard marksmanship to
winch s: ir. » cent, i ir regulars attain;
and tS« Dc<-.’ s are c-onai L-, < better than, the
\a-r. The abihtj* U - ot straight, and to do
delay, is one th , can hardly be over-
ec-i.mat . i''=o curse o >rd follows a
straight -hot bullet. To si .* ifle butts
is - ic thi g, and to shoe u tue open country and
a i c. ng down your mark is
another. Jan Potgiefcer is a nimrod. Tommy
Atk>ns is a cockney. The Boer oan live on a piece
of b. ig -days. ; Briton will mutiny at a
atom.
The Boers have not rested content with smoking
their pipes and grunting at English threats.
They have ammunition to burn and last them
three years. This period will be prolonged if they
oan coax a few more mules to stampede. They
have had plans drawn up in detail by German
experts, and have had German and American
military scientists teach them the latest arts.
They have spent millions of pounds buying war
materials which fill enormous warehouses. Their
artillery work has astounded the English, even
though they have not the advantage of lyddite.
They have improved Nature’s own fortresses with
the b est defences possible. They have prepared
great refrigerators against siege. The battles
already fought show that they have all the old
qualities, great solidity with amazing dash,
unanimity with individual initiative of the Yankee
sort, marksmanship, trickery and fearlessness.
They know the value of fighting from cover—a
practice no less important in days of artillery than
m bow-and-arrow times. The English confess
meekly that they have thusfar been outgeneraled
by the Boers, who surely cannot be denied
strategical genius. The English have showed in
many ways that fine old conservatism which has
been such a delight to their enemies. They are
brave with all an Englishman’s bravery, and
stupid with all an Englishman’s stupidity.
The Boers have shown a readiness to grasp the
nettle. Seeing war inevitable, they attacked
Behemoth before he was ready. Many a whale
has been bored to death by an alert swordfish.
The Boers fight like tigers and take victory like
Christian gentlemen. Fifty thousand of them in
a mountainous country equal thrice the array on
the plains. They have shown only one-half their
prowess as attackers. They fight even better on
the defensive; in one of their reported “routs”
they kidnapped their Hussar pursuers. One after
the other they have defeated every British general
brought against them.
Then there is the English side to consider.
Their confidence has been shaken by a series of
distressing humiliations that have killed Cham-
berlain’s popularity with his countrymen. The
English begin to feel that, after a few more
triumphs such as reported, they will be indeed
lost. The English peace party is very strong, and
Ministries are easily changed in England. Be-
sides, the English have always been quick to
recognise and acknowledge when they have had
enough.
They get cold feet easily, to use a metaphor.
To this, in a large measure, they owe their long
life as a power. Then there are, of course, the
diplomatic complications that made Yorktown
possible in 1781, hustled France out of Mexico,
and—the books are full of instances.
Considering all these things, and many others
1S no space to detail, I firmly believe that
the Boers must win. They are volunteers fighting
for liberty against a horde of mercenaries fighting
for a few gold-seekers. They have strategy,
modernity, initiative, a patriotism amounting to
religion, a confidence based on previous victory,
and a theatre of war of their own choosing and
their most intimate acquaintance. And they can
shoot straight.
The British at Omdurman.
FROM two recent sources comes light upon
the recent British campaign in the Soudan,
especially interesting now that Britain is
again at war. The first is Winston
Churchill s book, “ The River War ” ; the second
f. 11 . account of the battle of Omdurman pub-
i i cji ?, n , t “ e American press by Samweel Abdul-
laJi Shibley, an eyewitness of the battle.
Before Randolph Churchill’s brain failed in
general - paralysis he had a grand-mania period
during which his energy and eloquence made him
the foremost man in England. His son Winston
is a lively writer and soldier with much of his
father s force. As a war - correspondent in the
iransvaal, he was taken prisoner by the Boers,
escaped, and has been recaptured—possibly with
awkward results. ‘ ‘ The River War ”is an account
of Kitchener’s re-conquest of the Soudan, and will
always be a standard authority : it is the best
account so-far issued, and may remain the “ final”
book on the subject. The stories of correspon-
dents like G. W. Steevens are interesting and
delusive. Kitchener kept his correspondents well
under control; and at the battle of Omdurman
they were corralled far in the rear, taking notes of
such official reports as Kitchener chose to give
them. Churchill saw a little fighting ;he has had
better sources of information than any other
writer; and he dedicates his book to Lord Salis-
bury, to whose influence he has evidently been
much indebted.
The best of Churchill is that he is honest—as
far as he can be, if his book is to be printed in
Britain. He shows conclusively that Kitchener
made war like a savage, relying on his press
censor to prevent accounts of his barbarities from
reaching the English in time to impress the public
mind ; and relying upon his authority, and upon
British pride, to belittle and belie later accounts.
So, when war-correspondent Williams felt con-
strained to express his horror at the slaughter of
the Dervish wounded, war-correspondent Burleigh
was ready to curry favour with the authorities by
declaring Williams’ story false—so far as he knew.
But Winston Churchill leaves no doubt about the
matter.
A certain number—how many I cannot tell, but cer-
tainly not less than a hundred—wounded Arabs were
despatched, although they threw down their arms and
appealed for quarter. I have examined and listened to a
great deal of evidence on this point, and it does not
appear that there were more than a score of such cases in
all the British division and the 21st Lancers, and in every
case the men were severely reproved by their officers, and
prevented from repeating their brutal acts. . . Nearly
all who perished were killed by the Soudanese and
Egyptian troops, and in particular by Maxwell’s brigade.
Many atrocious acts were also perpetrated by the camp
followers.
And it must be remembered that not even
Churchill can tell all he knows. To pillory a sec-
tion of the British soldiery as hideous brutes—
though in every large army, British or other,
there is a section of hideous brutes—would alienate
his friends and injure his personal prospects. He
has to compromise between his inclination to tell
the whole truth, and his knowledge that the
whole truth would offend and injure the nation of
which he is a citizen. So he tells as much truth
as he can afford.
On the subject of Kitchener’s callous cruelty to
the wounded who were not killed, Churchill
is no less emphatic. Kitchener is a “ good
soldier ’’—that is to say,_ a good savage, taxing
himself and others mercilessly, and insensible to
human suffering as long as lie attains his end. He
does not, like a Red Indian brave, tie his prisoners
to a post, and slowly torture them to death. But,
to save his transport and commissariat, he delibe-
rately reduced his medical staff to insignificant
proportions, so that even his own wounded were
very badly cared for. Says Churchill—
In spite of the devoted efforts of the few medical
officers who had been allowed to accompany the force,
the wounded offioers and soldiers endured the greatest
miseries, and it is certain that several died of their
wounds who might under happier circumstances have
been saved. . . If more attention had been paid to the
subject arrangements might have been made which
would have increased the popularity of the commander
and diminished the sufferings of the troops.
The Dervish wounded were left to die slowly on
the battle-field exposed to a blazing sun. Three
days after the battle, three days during which
the sun had beaten on them mercilessly, there
were still wounded men alive among the dead.
And yet the gullible British public, as an English
paper points out, were assured, and believed, that
“the wounded Dervishes received every delicacy
and attention,” a statement which is, says
Churchill, “so utterly devoid of truth that it
transcends the limits of mendacity, and passes
into the realms of the ridiculous.” Compare with
Kitchener’s neglect the Boer care, which made
Sir George White telegraph, “ The enemy are very
kind to the wounded ”; and brought Lord Methuen’s
endorsement, “The enemy are most kind to the
wounded. And the British, who have attacked
the Boers for using Dum-dum bullets—which the
British themselves invented and first used—em-
ployed Dum-dum bullets relentlessly against the
Dervishes. It was General Gatacre, recently
beaten by the Boers, who ordered the troops to
convert the regular service bullets into improvised
Dum-dum bullets by filing off the tips so as to
expose the heavy core within the outer case.
The results were “found satisfactory as far as
killing power was concerned.” “I have seen a
Dervish,” writes S. A. Shibley, “with a tiny
bullet-hole iff his breast, but in his back a wound
more like that of a cannon-ball, so torn and rent
was his frame with the force of the bullet, which
expanded when it struck the vertebrae. To
recover from such a wound is simply impossible.”
Churchill calls the Mahdi “foremost among the
heroes of his race ” ; and as to ‘ ‘ the glory of Om-
durman,” where the Dervishes were withered by
artillery and rifle-fire, he says that—
The mind turns in disgust from the spectacle of un-
equal slaughter. . . . “The glory of Omdurman" will
seem to any who may five years henoe read this book a
very absurd expression.
The guilt of murdering the wounded is brought
home to Kitchener himself. Churchill divides
the Dervish wounded into three classes—(l) Those
who were dangerous, (2) those who, being terri-
bly wounded, were killed to put them out of their
misery ; and (3) those who were butchered in cold
blood. And he says—
I must personally record that there was a very general
impression that the fewer the prisoners the greater would
be the satisfaction of the commander. The sentiment
that the British soldier is incapable of brutality is one
which never fails to win the meed of popular applause ;
but there are, in fact, a considerable proportion of oruel
men in every army. The mistaken impression I have
alluded to encouraged this class. The unmeasured terms
in which the Dervishes had been described in the news-
papers, and the idea which had been laboriously circu-
lated of “avenging Gordon,” had inflamed their passions,
and had led them to believe that it was quite correct to
regard their enemy as vermin— unfit to live. The result
was that there were many wounded Dervishes killed. •
And this is ChurchiH’s picture of the man who
goes to aid in destroying the homes and liberties
of the Dutch in South Africa—
The General, who never spared himself, cared little for
others. He treated all men like machines—from the
private soldiers, whose salutes he disdained, to the
superior officers he rigidly controlled. The comrade who
had served with him and under him for many years in
peace and peril was flung aside incontinently as soon as
he ceased to be of use. The Sirdar only looked to the
soldiers who could march and fight. The wounded
Egyptian, and latterly the wounded British soldier, did
not excite his interest, and of all the departments of the
army the one neglected was that connected with the care
of the sick and injured. The lamentable episode of the
Mahdi’s tomb has already been noticed. The stern and
unpitying spirit of the commander was Communicated to
his troops, and the victories which marked the progress
of the River War were accompanied by acts of brutality
not always justified by the harsh customs of savage
warfare.
So far Churchill, whose softened testimony even
the British cannot impugn. S. A. Shibley, whose
testimony the British can impugn if they
like, but, whose story bears all outward
evidence of truth, is a native of Syria, educated at
the American College in Beyrout, who was
attached to the Intelligence Department of the
Guards in the Soudan campaign, and received two
medals for bravery and efficient service. He
points out that he has no motive either to harshen
or to mitigate the facts.
The rank and file of the English soldiery, the very
backbone of the expedition, I moved among constantly ;
with the native Egyptian troops, the arm and sinew of
the enterprise, and the loyal Soudanese, who were ever
pushed in the van and made the shield and targets of the
main body, and to whom, God witness, i’s due the glory
and honour of victory—l was ever en rapport, knew their
sufferings and pleasures, saw them living and dead.
Never stationed in one spot, my affairs kept me on
the run from post to post and through all ranks of the
soldiery, from the pampered sons of earls and dukes,
safely bivouacked in the rear, nibbling wafers and sip-
ping champagne over their oards in comfortable tents,
to the Baggara outposts in sleepless vigilance over a vast
untented field of sleeping humanity, fulfilling a hero’s
destiny on a diet of dharrah and brackish water, watch-
ing the fires of the enemy afar, ready to up and fight at
the roll of the drum and the shriek of the bugle, to lay
down their lives in the bleak wilderness of the upper
Nile and be forgotten, while those who said “ Go ! ” and
he goes, and “ Come !” and hq comes, took all the glory.
Shibley declares that to the Soudanese and
the chief credit of the Omdurman vic-
tory is due.
The magnificent fighting of the Soudanese and the
Egyptians in that terrible h,our of battle is something
that God must reward them for in the hereafter ;
precious little credit have they received at the hands of
the English, or the world in general, so thoroughly has
Great Britain taken all to herself the meed of praise and
the spoil of conquest. I repeat, that the success of the
charge of the heights where the Dervishes were so solidly
entrenched, and the whole success of that mighty first
blow to the Khalifa, were due to the Soudanese and
Egyptian troops, under their native officers ; for, not
only did they scale the mountain stronghold under a
whirlwind of hell fire, but they dashed into the very pits
of the Dervishes, and drove them scattering and stam-
peding from their fortress, while the rear battalions split
at the base of the mountain, and drove the enemy around
both sides of the hill, pressing onward toward Omdurman
and victory.
This is bad enough for the British ; but worse
follows. “As the English troops came up,” con-
tinues Shibley,
with the gay Twenty-first Lancers flourishing on the left,
the latter had no more than rounded the edge of the hill
when a party of Dervishes, who were lying in ambush
toward the Nile, sprang up amongst them, with wild yells
and clashing swords. The mounted men were taken by
complete surprise. After the Soudanese and Egyptians
had performed such miracles of courage —yes, and the
rank-and-file of the English, too—one would have thought
that this crack battalion would have plunged into the
thick of the ambushed Mahdists and fought them to the
death. But not so. There was an instant of amazed
hesitation, an hysterical mock show of resistance ; a few
brave men dashed into the disheveled ranks and fell
fighting; but the majority wheeled about in a body, and
back they came plunging and leaping toward the refuge
of the lines in the rear, the Dervishes following swiftly
on foot and actually clinging to the horses’ rumps, slash-
ing and lunging till kicked off by the flying hoofs and
bowled over headlong in the sand. I stood perfectly
stunned by the spectacle, staggered with disillusion of
vaunted British bravery ; for not less than ninety-four of
the lancers, by my own count, returned to safety, the
flanks of their horses dripping with blood, themselves
wounded, one and all, in the back !
I know that this event has been bruited over England
and the world as second only to the charge of Balaklava ;
but if so, then Balaklava is one of the most colossal fabri-
cations of all time. To that hour I had been an English
worshiper, regarding Britains as the most civilised of the
conquerors of the world—heroes to a man. But the shock
of disillusion here made a lasting impression upon me.
Trembling in every fibre, my eyes blinded with tears, I
sat down and watched a lancer riding by, a score of
wounds in his back gushing blood, his horse’s rumps
stuck with spears and slashed to ribbons. Ido not know
what mad sentiment escaped my lips at that moment;
but I was brought to my feet by the eommand of an
officer at my side i
“ Shut up I" he growled. “If you ever say anything
about this, I’ll run you through. ”
There was the whole situation in a word. There was not
a foreign correspondent within five hundred miles of the
spot, and the English correspondents were cooped far in the
rear, taking notes of such events and facts as the officers
reported and nothing more, tongue-tied and censored to
a degree inconsistent with modern methods when a battle
for civilisation is supposed to be a matter th%t concerns
all the world. For instance, the published statement
from the field, that the Dervishes fell to the number of
eleven thousand that eventful day, is grossly exaggerated,
for not more than four thousand was the actual number.
As for the battalions of the Grenadier Guards and the
other petted regiments of the service, it is true that they
smelt powder-smoke and did a deal of shrieking; but I
state here, to my certain knowledge, that they were
never once nearer the danger line than five hundred
yards, with a solid wall of Soudan dust and cannon-smoke
between them.
And in all this there is nothing improbable.
The typical Briton is as brave as any other man-
or, if you like, a little braver; but average courage
is partly due to lack of imagination, and partly to
readiness and preliminary preparation. Very few
men will turn tail when they are “strung up” to
fight, are ready and expect to fight a known and
ascertained enemy ; but the bravest troops will
fly from an ambush, or when their “nerve” is
spoilt by fatigue or disaster. It is the business of
officers and men to cover up these occasional flights,
and covered up they are, to flatter the popular
fiction that every soldier is a herb. But Kipling,
in “The Drums of the Fore and Aft,” describes
one of the routs which have been not infrequent
in India ; and there are other witnesses.
Shibley goes on to describe the insolent treat-
ment of Egyptian soldiers and officers by the
British, and the horrors which accompanied the
sack of Oindurman ; and decides that it is to Slatin
Pasha, the Austrian, that the British owe the
,Soudan. Taken with GhurchiU’s, his account of
Oindurman leaves a picture of British warfare as
disgraceful as anything of the kind on record.
The English prisoners suffocated in the Black
Hole of Calcutta suffered less than the Dervishes
left to die of wounds and thirst under the blazing
sun of Omdurman.
—... ■» ———■ V .. - /
William Watson, who damned Sultan Abdul
for attacking the Armenians, is consistent in his
sympathies with the small dog, and joins with
Herbert Spencer, Frederic Harrison, and other
English writers, in condemning the Grab-War
upon the Transvaal. Criticising war-poetry in
general, and Swinburne’s “England, strike
home ! ” sonnet in particular, he writes—
Let us remember, that the existence of a great theme,
not less certainly than of a great poet, is one of the indis-
pensable antecedent conditions of great poetry. The
assassination of a State, and the strangling of a people,
are not heroieal themes, and never while this world
endures shall they evoke one note of noble song. More-
over, in all combats between a giant and a stripling the
Muse must of necessity be at a certain moral disadvantage
in the sorriewhat ludicrous task of enheartening the giant.
It is the valour of David with his sling, and not the arro-
gant bulk of Goliath, that kindles the imagination of
poets, and captures for ever the sympathies of man.
Memoranda—
W. H. Fitchett’s new Jingo book, “How England
Saved Europe,” is spread oht in four volumes. There is
an English suggestion that, in choosing a dear form, the
publishers will miss the cheap readers who bought
“Deeds” and “Fights.” But just now a record of
British victories will be consoling at any price.
Britain, in fact, has let slip the dogs of war, and Kip-
ling and Austin the doggerel.
Just issued at 16s. a life of Charles Sturt, Australian
explorer, by the wife of his sou, engineer-colonel Napier
Sturt,
Robert Buchanan’s literary reminiscenoes are announced
forthcoming, and will contain all the good reading which
Justin McCarthy left out.
Ob. Florence Marryat, tenth child of Captain M., and
author of about seventy indifferent novels.
The poetry of the Celt is merely the intensified
poetry of strong, emotional, unliterary races. General
Joubert’s remark on the war— “The heart of my soul is
bloody with sorrow ’’—would come fitly from the mouth
of the bard of the sons of Usna.
“ Kipling has recently joined an Edinburgh Masonic
lodge, where he is known as Brother Joseph Rudyard
Kipling.”
One of the moles who burrow for Notes and Queries
finds an original of “Rome was not built in a day” in
some lines of Palingenius’ “ Zodiacus Vitse ” (c. 1627), bk.
xii, 460—
Non stella una cavat marmor, necque protinus uno est
Condita Roma die .
Poet—“ Why is it you never print any of the verse I
send you ? ” Editor— “ Why is it you never send me
any of the verse I print?”
Some unprinted lines by the late Francis
Adams
IN THE " BOORA."
Here where the black man sat, I sit, and where
His gunyah spread fine odours in the air,
The ashes of some swagman’s fire lie dead :
But X, like black man, in the water stare.
The muddy God Australian in his bed 1—
Not less the water-violet lifts her head
By her frail fellow in the grass with the may,
Whereby the brown shows yellow plashed with red :
Not less the maiden-hair spreads, hid away
Round grassy tree-roots, while the live-long day
The creaking frogs give back to overhead
The birds' short songs, and lizards glide and stray.
Francis Adams.
More interesting than stimulating, maybe.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
?
ludson’s
u
Eumentho!” (g*|i»tered)
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
BSSltas
89
si
•
■i'N
invaluable
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
f
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. Gd. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, Oh HUDSON, Chemist,) Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Province. Sydney Agent: S.' Taylor, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
KST They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful' in INDIGESTION undDYSPEPSIA. *l3l


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send tor a Bottle of ELEOTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680—682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical,
&fhin Wi6ea6e6.
&7leu) Wkcotiery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
LIGMOLLIENE
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sg. Ei.irx<ri 73- 6tl. Bacli.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
's4s£
Caution.— Genuine Ohlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWHC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
« If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I sliouid say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
PER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
PER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
I debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
‘preparation"
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“Ji has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
soil) BY CHEMISTS AM. THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
PrssSotatioD CaScs— RAZORS.
Containing two of my Standard Razors with real Ivory
handles, 21s. for Case complete, post free.
If with Black handles, 15s. per Case, post free.
PRESENTATION CASES of CARVERS from 21s. per
Case, post free.
PRESENTATION CASES of SCISSORS from 7s. 6d. per
Case, post free.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Himter-st., Sydney-
THE BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT
Webster’s
INTERNATIONAL
A Library in itself.—Besides the Dictionary-
proper it also gives the often desired information con-
cerning- eminent persons; facts concerning the countries,
cities, towns, and natural features of the glohe; particu-
lars concerning noted fictitious persons and places;
translation of foreign quotations, words and pro-
verbs, etc., and a valuable Australasian supplement.
This Work is Invaluable in the household, and to
the teacher, scholar, professional man, and self-educator.
SEND FOB FBEE PROSPECTUS AND SPECIMEN PAGES.
& C; Merrfam Co., Publishers, 8 Spring St., Sydney. ,}
INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY
Tb€ R€AL MACKAY
FINEST OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. & A.ttwood, Sole Proprietors
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes—Central Whake.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
FOR
n
COMBINES WHISKY
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
with' aesoLuiE purity
r.N
0O^ U
A
B uUt<: ,
POTTED
(Assorted kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
EATS.
warners
safe '
Specific Cure
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
pamphlet H H.WARNER & C 9 LIP
from MELBOURNE, AUST.
AURALIM
Battery mawaoers
fRIEMO
rXhervey.
171 CLARENCE ST
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 fer Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In 41b., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/0
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
a COMMON SENSE EAR
DRUM.
THE
DEAF
HEAB
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
’• *>T‘ ' 1f v) •
binges,
’■^ssrassaspaJfer
2t)ln •' ;>’!(!, 6/0. oil real halt.
Gs ?{NGS & COMBINGS
fe Aw"P. per oz.
' 'ive Af i the cneapeStlo io»
t*oll»C?flr all Hair Work.
ol Hajr-
ItsliEJl* Wigz^ll;
'"'iItrWILLIAU STRBET,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Train will stop at Doo*..
_ Send etamps for full Prioe Lf«V«.
Fmppt attention'giyeD to Country Order*
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists and
and Stores.
LOZENGES.
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN. .
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE J
HIC H-CRAD E FAR M IIV! P LEM EN TS AND MACHINERY.
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
—ON —
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHNER
FIAJXTOFOKTE S
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
Post Pree.
The
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
Sol?
Ageots-
W. H. 6LEW & CO.,
359 Georgfe Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins St., Melbourne.


TATTERS ALLS
Aaaress
C are GEO,
ADAMS, Hobart.
GrEELONGr c.
January If.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
above.
shares in the
Name
£
Address
Anniversary 11. January 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
-.shares in the above.
Name
Address.
Hobart 0. February 13.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in above.
Name
Address
To TATTEBSALL.
Address
Newmarket H. March a
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
Newmarket H. (Special) Drawn Morning of Race
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
in the above.
Please allot me
shares
£
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


m,
SNEEZE
And sneeze again. Then
keep on sneezing. Per--
haps you think you can
sneeze La Grippe out of
you in this way ! But
the trouble is La Grippe
isn’t in your head alone.
It’s in your back, your
blood, your nerves, your
muscles ; all through the
body, everywhere.
| It don’t take a doctor
f to let you know you have it.
And it don’t take a doctor to
cure you, either.
ygyers
Cherry.
Pectoral
is the cure. It’s a sure cure and a quick
cure. It quiets your restlessness, con-
trols your fever, stops your coughing,
and drives La Grippe right out of the
system. One dose relieves; a teyr
doses cure.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chest one
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
VP
s©
d e< *
SSI ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running' a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have along thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
■.o
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
TO MEASURE
X l4/G
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
■seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
■cheques (is.) Note the Address :
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
686 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
'“Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Tubnhb ahd Hsndbbson, Sydnsy. Post, la. Id
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How Long?
How long will the parsons lie,
Who, smiling and smirking, tell
Of a “ beautiful land on high ”
For the vile who oppress and cry :
“ O, Lord ! I believe ! ” —and yell
To the unbelievers who dwell
In goodness, fierce threats of hell ?
How long will the parsons lie ?
How long will the rulers lie,
Who, double-faced, aye delight
To trade on a cheap-drawn sigh
For the poor, but are ever nigh
To work out the rich man’s spite,
And crush, with tyrannic might,
All freedom and truth and right?
How long will the rulers lie?
How long will the rich men lie,
And claim as their own the land—
The land that the poor live by—
And all things beneath the sky;
The toil of the worker’s hand,
The lives of the hunger-banned ?
How long shall their false claim stand ?
How long will the rich men lie ?
• •
How long will the People lie %
In abject and crouching woe
At the feet of the men on high,
Who are only men, and can die ?
How long will they vainly cry ?
How long ere their rights they know ?
How long till they sweep the sky
With Freedom’s flag, and defy
The forces of Tyranny ?
How long ere they boldly go
To Slavery’s overthrow ?
How long will the reckoning grow ?
How long will the people lie ?
J. A.ANDREW[?].
The Rose and the Wish.
There’s a red rose tree in the Gardens ;
It’s all a-hum with bees ;
And the girls go trooping around it,
Eyes wide, in twos and threes.
But a man stands guard o’er the treasure
That tempts each dainty nose,
And, although they tip-toe to rifle,
It’s few may steal a rose.
There’s a wishing tree in the Gardens ;
It towers above all trees ;
And the girls go trooping around it
In laughing twos and threes.
With their eyes upcast to the brmehes
They blush and name their loves,
And their wishes mount to the tree-tops
And brood aloft like doves.
But alas for Fate in the foreground !
And woe to weakly flesh 1
And it’s only one in a hundred
That comes to get her wish.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN .
The Challenge.
I paused, as the woman was passing ;
The crowd flung me out of my place ;
But her roving eyes swung in their orbits,
And focussed their glance on my face.
A moment it lit, and then vanished
As swift as the swing of a bird,
And left me with eyes that were swimming,
And ears that but vacantly heard.
And all that my brain could remember,
As I shook myself up with a start,
Were insolent eyes that were staring
Through mine to the depth of my heart.
Gray eyes could not glance with that boldness,
Nor blue with that passionate light,
Nor brown with their deep amber softness—
But only orbs black as the night.
And they must be liquid and gleaming,
Like metal gray-hot from the fire,
And full of a tentative meaning
That quickens the flame of desire.
Shall I take up the challenge she threw me—
The lightly-cast taunt of her sex,
That womanhood dangles before us
While binding her chains on our necks?
Shall I bite, at the lure of the tempter,
Red lips, with their subtle demand —
Or crouch, like a dingo in hiding,
If Prudence but lift up her hand ?
Shall I call myself man or a nithing?
Shall I churn my red blood into milk?
Shall I flee at the shimmer of satin
Or faint at the rustle of silk ?
Shall I hang in the wind when a womaw
Gives signal to follow her ? No !
Should pleasure or pain be the profit
The gods may decide. I shall go.
W.A.
JULIAN MITCHELL.
At Richmond (Vic.), the other day, a boy
of thirteen was charged with habitual cruelty to
his father. Young Australia had been in the
habit of “ laying for ” the old man with a billet of
wood. He was sent to the reformatory. Some
of our young children are quite unfit to be trusted
with the control of adults.
*J^VA/WW?
5 j?
G-O TO HEI.T.-
IGOI.AN1) for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Of THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by effecting
CECURE a Sbare of tbe Profits
a Policy with that Office before~the close of the year. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the year
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1599 (all bonuses vest
immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among the
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direct or through the
Society s Agents, so as to reap the benetit of this year’s Bonus.
Dlre f 0 w : M Tt ! e on ’ S i r J ’ , P ’ Abl,ott ’ K C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman;
A. W. Meeks, Esq. ; Joseph Abbott, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq. ; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., 4.10 10s.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in Hie colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIETI, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINfi
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING. /
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says :
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and X have
not only st >pped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihavean entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
y
: '
a
i
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
IKOKO MARICOPAS COV., LTD., 16, BEVIS MARKS, LONDON, ENGLAND.!
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL !
&
&
59
52
-Sf.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland's Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has pained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it i*
Thin, TRY IT. Price —35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
Wamii.m, & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
IHE
“ Plum
Si£PTC
THU
(1 ENILEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
■ vV a ‘ k' s razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings hke a bell and never requires grinding. Bein'_ r practical tradesmen ourselves, »e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We i/uarantee each Razor for Two Yeaio
Ihe Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, Gd> cake.
Price | o- n^! e ?} ;lz<>r ’ ! n *f ron g leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle' 1 in beautiful case, 30s.
Iteiristered and sent Post Free to any part oi the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole
Agents
KT.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
«Sz f"' arirllery Ma,n F. Company
193 to 195 Cieveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying' from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descnptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S A PDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
They oannot do »o. and vou pay 16 per
sent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL \o. 2
£S 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-


Lichtest Wines in Australia.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS: 222 CANNON ST. HOURF
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
CANNON ST.
Loixcl on,
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London bv
3FC. .A. IK:
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old eounhv
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon stricUy Agency ternis
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wd,Ies— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines) Blierh-street SYDNEY
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE k
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. J. Adams, Manager,
Pick out what is hest in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
hare Tattersall’s.
Tariff—los. per Day.
£3 per Week.
THE BOOMEB.AHG.—The Eest, Finest,
Loudest, and Strongest Mouth Organ
ever invented. Price, 2s. 6d. Post Free.
The special process of the alloy the Reeds are made of,
as well as their shape, gives that wonderful tonality to
the instrument.
ALBERT & SOOT,
118 ICing Street, Sydney,
Manufacturers of the famous Boomerang Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
CATALOGUES of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Polyphone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
Si
SPECIAL VALUE &. REUABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKH& CCLB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
sSJSSSss*
S 3?
SMOKE
m
up
★
ss?
Nn Ss^S# ! ’
K 23
NOBEL-SLASSOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
o
L
RADEMAR
*4^
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Dalr/ety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria,
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTIC.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
fey
MOISTURE.
penetration
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BAttISTITS won over <£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
nam in April and May, 1899; or over £lOOO more than any other powder^ —Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
' PARVO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
onooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
P.B RUBEROIP
• ROOFING •
CHEAP!
P & B Ruberoid (including the gal-
vanised wire netting over which it
is fixed) costs much less than iron.
LIGHT!
A handy lad can carry a roll con-
taining 216 square feet of P & B
Ruberoid under his arm.
SAFE!
Buildings of P & B Ruberoid are
insured by all companies at the
same rate as shingle roofs.
CLEAN!
Water flowing from a roof of P & B
Ruberoid may be used for all
domestic purposes.
DRY!
Dams (9ft. high) have been con-
structed of P & B Ruberoid, and
are absolutely water-tight.
E RICH & CO. LIMITED.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
Psß RUBEROIP
• ROOFING •
Has been used in the construction or repair of the
following representative buildings' of Sydney with
satisfactory results:
The Houses of Parliament
The Treasury Building
The Lands Office
The Customs House ...
The Sydney Mint
The General Post Office
The Railway Booking and Tele-
graph Office ...
The Government Electrical
Power-House...
The 00-Operative Wool and Pro-
duce Co. Ltd.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and
Ice Co. Ltd. ...
The Australian Mortgage, Land
and Finance Co.
The N.S.W Lager Bier Brewery
The Citizens’ Life Assurance
Association ...
The Civil Service Co-Operative
Stores
Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
(new building)
Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd. (new
building)
Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
(new building)
M acquarie-st.
Macquarie-st.
Bridge-st.
Circular Quay
Macquarie-st.
Martin-place
George-st.
Ultimo
Pyrmont Stores
Darling Harbor
Bligh-st.
Dowling-st.
Castlereagh-st.
Pitt-st.
Bent-st.
Castlereagh-st.
Bridge-st.
E, RICH & CO, LIMITED.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. ,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1037.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1899.
Pbicb 6a
TURNING OVER A NEW LEAF.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australia ns. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drql ts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
v'hether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not extending two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black, and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applyhly to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
tfc Co.. Cornhill,
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — 11. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, ivith 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance. N
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l£<J. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynhe-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1899.
The People or the Syndicates.
In view of the fact that the Commonwealth will
shortly be established, and that a Commonwealth
capital will shortly be wanted, the Lyne Govern-
ment has provided one of its friends with a light,
clean, airy billet inquiring after possible sites.
What kind of instructions were given to the Lyne
Government’s hired inquirer and official note of
interrogation isn’t definitely known, but if any
opinion can be formed from the scanty published
reports of his proceedings, he has got the wrong
instructions. Or if he hasn’t got the wrong in-
structions, he has perhaps misunderstood the right
ones, or perhaps he is the wrong man altogether.
The terms of the federal Constitution are that the
Federal capital is to be in territory now belonging
to New South Wales but to be ceded to the
Federal Government, said territory to be at least
100 miles from Sydney, and not less than
100 square miles in area. It may be as
much larger and as much further from
Sydney as are thought desirable. Any land on the
site selected which is now the property of the
N.S.W. Government is to become the property
of the Federal Government free of charge; as
regards private lands, the-Federal Government,
as sole ruler of this patch of territory,- will have
the same rights of resumption that every Govern-
ment enjoys ; it has merely to pass the necessary
laws and make the necessary arrangements for
assessing and paying compensation.
* * • •
The Lyne Government’s Commissioner appears
to possess all the elements of a great mistake from
first to last. To begin with, the Federal capital
is to be the joint property of five States—until the
other two cqme in, when it will be the joint pro-
perty of sevtffi ; it is to be paid for by five States,
and is to be placed where it will best suit the in-
terests of five States. When one State appoints
an agent, pointedly ignoring the other four States
and joint-proprietors, to select possible sites, a
suspicion will probably arise in the minds of
the other four that he is appointed to select
and recommend sites which will suit that
one State only, and that they were ignored
of cat jmrpose. Also, when ho was ap-
pointed by a Premier who was mostly against
Federation, and who was one of a little parochial
band that was willing to sell Australia into per-
petual disunion unless it got the Federal capital
located in, or close to, its own city of Sydney, an
idea may get abroad that the stipendiary investi-
gators’ chief business is to find promising sites as
close to Sydney as the 100-miles limitation will
permit, and to find eminently unpromising sites
everywhere else. Also, what is worst of all, the
commissioner appears to hold a brief for private
landlordism, and to assume, without any shadow
of authority, that the Federal Government won’t
decide to have national land-ownership inside the
Federal territory, and that it will make a present
to the private land-owner of all the vast
increase in values that will be created by
the expenditure of the Commonwealth’s money
on Federal territory. Furthermore, a ques-
tion has arisen as to whether the fact
that the Federal capital is to be at least
100 miles from Sydney means 100 miles as the
crow flies, or 100 miles by the nearest road or
railway—which latter may mean only 50 miles in
a straight line. Imperial law measures distance
as the crow flies; N.S.W. law measures it by the
nearest road; and certain Sydney politicians
insist on the N.S.W. measurement being adopted,
in the hope of thereby dragging the Federal city
closer up to Sydney’s back-door. And the Com-
missioner apparently holds a brief for this special
view of the case, which, if adopted, may lead to
fearful and wonderful complications hereafter.
For, if the Federal capital is planted on a site
that is now, say, 105 miles from Sydney by a
devious mountain railway, it is probably oniy a
matter of time till the straightening and improve-
ment of the line disqualifies the new and highly-
expensive city by reducing the distance from
Sydney to 95 or 90 miles.
* » * *
The following extract from a recent daily-paper
report of the Commissioner’s sayings and doings
at Bathurst probably sums up that gentleman’s
objectionable attitude as briefly as possible :
Mr. Oliver said he had been receiving a great sand-
papering from the Melbourne papers for having said that
the question of distanoe from Sydney was governed by
local law rather than Imperial statute. The Age and
Argus had sent him what they considered good advice.
They urged that it was a question for the Federal Parlia-
ment to decide. He had only expressed his opinion, but
was supported in it by' some of the leading spirits in the
Federation movement. He argued that it would not be
right to exclude any site which conformed to the rule of
being without the 100 mile - radius. Messrs. Barton,
Wise, O Connor and other authorities agreed that the
point was arguable, but that his contention was right.
As far as Bathurst was concerned, only one portion of
the proposed area would be affected, even if the distance
was taken as the crow flies, The Federal Parliament
would only resume what was requisite for buildings,
parks, reserves, dkc., and the N.S.W. Government would
hand over all land vested in them. Court-houses and
other public buildings were not vested in the Crown, as
were other lands, and where these were resumed the
Government was compensated.
• • * *
The Bulletin calls Mr. Oliver’s attitude ob-
jectionable for many good and sufficient reasons.
In the first place it is, of course, a fact that a great
deal depends on whether the 100 miles distance
of the Federal capital from Sydney is measured
as the crow flies or (as the Commissioner and the
purely Sydney crowd demand) by the nearest
means of access. In the latter case a number of
places may crawl in as eligible—some of them with
a good many miles to spare—which would other-
wise be shut out. But the 100 miles ought to be
measured as the crow flies. In that case the
Federal city which is eligible now will always
remain eligible. If a place is selected which is
just over the 100-miles limit by the nearest exist-
ing crooked road or railway, then it will be necess-
ary to enact that anybody attempting to open up
a shorter road, or to invent a new kind of railway,
aerial or otherwise, which can take a straight line
over the steepest grades, shall get five years’ im-
prisonment as a public enemy who is trying to
disqualify the Federal capital and put Australia
to the fearful expense of getting a new one. More-
over the Commissioner shouldn’t be fooling around
any places just on the 100-mile limit, in the
already populous parts of the country. The
capital,. instead of being as near Sydney as
the limit will allow, should be as far away
as it can get without going close up to Bris-
bane or Melbourne or Adelaide, which would be
every whit as objectionable. Seeing that the
building of a Federal capital means creating a
large new centre of population, every effort
should be made to find an eligible site where
there is no population now, or next to none—
where land-values are lowest, and where the
country most wants opening up. The fact that
Bathurst, Goulburn, Wagga, Armidale t Albury,
Dubbo, Orange, &c., are good - sized towns
in thickly-settled districts, where almost every
inch of land is already privately-owned, is just the
reason why every one of them should be rejected
firmly and definitely.
• * * *
And if the Lyne Government’s Commissioner
really stated, as alleged in the newspaper report,
that the Federal Government would only resume
the land required for buildings, parks, reserves,
that it would not insist on being its own
ground landlord, and on securing for the nation
the enormous wealth in the shape of increased
land-values which will be created by the expendi-
ture of the nation’s cash on the new capital, but
will let all that stupendous profit go to private
land-grabbers, banks and syndicates—if he really
said that then he invented the thing that is not
true. Also, he evidently holds a brief for the pri-
vate land-stealer and the private syndicate, and
against the nation at large. It is not settled that
the Federal Government will be the unspeakable
fool and criminal that the Lyne Government’s
agent cheerfully assumes it will be. If the Federal
Government has brains enough to grasp a great
opportunity it will insist on these three things
(1) That the Federal territory (which is to be not less
than 100 square miles in area -equal to a square 10 miles
each way) shall be at least 5000 square miles (say a square
70 miles each way).
(2) That every inch of the soil in the said territory
shall be for ever and inalienably the property of the Com-
monwealth. Whatever form of leasing may be adopted
the Commonwealth must be the sole ground landlord’
and all leases must be subject to periodical re-valuation.
(3) That the capital must be in a cool, well-watered
spot high up on the N.S.W. table-land and as far removed
as circumstances will permit from all listing centres of
population.
* •
These are points of such immr /ise importance
that the Australian community can’t fix its eye
on this matter any too soon. The new city should
be high up on the table-land because it w'ill grow
into a great city some day, with a great surround-
mg population as well, and when there is a chance
to get a million, or two, or three, of extra popula-
tion, it is essential that they be, not enervated
dwellers in the steaming coist lands, but hardy
highlanders with the splendid physique that the
dwellers in the cold highlands develope—good
athletes, good soldiers, with a reserve of good
blood for the future repair of the debilitated Aus-
tralian constitution. It is essential that the Com-
monwealth should be sole ground-landlord because,
by establishing in a spot, now empty or nearly so
Parliament Houses, Governor’s residence, public
offices, courts of justice, gaols, military head-
quarters, &0., &c\, it will gradually draw together
a great population, and thus turn a site, now
worth, perhaps, half-a-million at most, into one
worth 40 or 50 millions. And the question
that the nation has to decide is just whether it
will insist on the right to buy that site bodily at
its value as it was immediately before it was fixed
upon as the location of a Federal capital, and
make these 40 or 50 millions, created by the
nation’s expenditure, the nation’s property—or
whether it will make them a present to the land-
boom fiends of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. In other words, whether the nation
will hang on to a prospective income (not so very
far away either) of a million or two annually,
or give it to the least deserving class in the
community. As to the reason why the Federal
territory should be 5000 square miles instead of 100,
that speaks for itself. If the Federal territory is
only ten miles by ten, even if the Commonwealth
is sole ground landlord inside the territory, much
of the unearned increment will be annexed by the
private land-owner over the border. It wants to
be so large that the Commonwealth will appro-
priate all the increased land-values for itself, and
so that nothing, or practically nothing, will slop
over into the hands of the private owner outside.
* * * *
Of course, it would require money—much
money—to buy up the freehold of 5000 square
miles of land, to lay out a city thereon, and to
build a Parliament House, Government offices,
barracks, State bank, law courts, residence for the
official figurehead of State, the harmless necessary
lock-up, gaol, &c. Well, the money can be got
without taxation, without borrowing, without
paying one penny of interest, without robbery,
without injury to trade, and without damag-
ing anybody’s vested injury. It can be
done without adopting any wild, reckless, novel
or untried theories, but simply by following the
sound and well-tested policy of a British com-
munity which was blessed in this matter with more
sense than ourselves. In Canada it has been the
law for many years that every bank shall keep 40
per cent, of its cash reserves in State legal tender
notes. To put it another way, the State has a
perpetual loan, without interest, of several mil-
lions which would otherwise have been lying idle
in.the banks’ vaults and earning absolutely no-
thing. A similar law would give the Common-
wealth £10,000,000 or more in cash without any
interest to pay, and with no obligation as to re-
payment at any fixed period. And with that
fund the Federal territory of 5000 square miles
could be acquired and the new Federal city
created in other words, a magnificent asset,
which would yield the Commonwealth a great,
perpetual, and ever-expanding income, could be
created out of nothing. It is merely a question
as . to whether Australia is or is not too tired to
seize the opportunity, It is an opportunity that
will only come once in Australia’s history.
• * * m
Of course all that section of the influential and
respectable press whose proprietors intend to go
land-jobbing, and booming, and syndicating and
trading in wild cats in and around the new
Federal city will denounce the idea of the Com-
monwealth being its own ground landlord as
visionary. Also these disinterested syndicators and
wild-catters will say off-hand that it is impossible,
not to be seriously considered, the dream of an ill-
balanced Labor Party, something contrary to
sound banking theories, an outbreak of well-
meaning socialism, and a scheme whose absurdity
is self-evident and which needs no refutation. In
short the stodgy, tall-hat party will do everything
except prove that there is anything absurd or im-
possible or even difficult about the matter. So far
as the community is concerned the case can go
into two sentences: The creation with public
MONEY OP A NEW CAPITAL WILL ALSO CREATE A
VAST AMOUNT OP WEALTH IN THE SHAPE OP
INCREASED LAND VALUES. EITHER THE NATION
(WHICH CREATED THEM) OR THE PRIVATE LAND
SPECULATOR (WHO DIDN’T CREATE THEM) IS TO HAVE
THAT WEALTH. NOW, WHO IS TO HAVE IT?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some Very Plain English.
“Falcon” of Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald
sends the following :
Editor, Bulletin. —Under the heading “The Bulletin’s
•hay Sermon " you affirm among other things that you are
not a “ good enough liar,” etc. Those who have lived
behind the scenes are not prepared to accept your affir-
mations. The} 7 are more inclined to denounce you as a
good enough perjurer to violate your newspaper oath in
pretty well every issue. The accusation may be best
made in the form of a question having special reference
to your attitude on the Boer War. Is it not a fact that
the publisher of The Bulletin is under an oath, made
before a judge of the Supreme Court of this Colony not
to allow to appear in its columns anything the character
of which is seditious or against the good government of
her Majesty the Queen, and that sureties were entered
into for its due observance ? I challenge you first to pub-
lish my question intact in a column where men who do
not know you may read it, and second to give it a truth-
ful answer.
.The Bulletin has the greatest possible plea-
sure in publishing “ Falcon’s ” question intact
in a column where it may be read both by men
who know this paper, and men who don’t
know it, and all other sorts and conditions of
men as well. And it proceeds to give him a
truthful answer with great pleasure ; in fact,
the few minutes thus spent constitute one of
the happiest periods in its life. The publisher
of The Bulletin is under some such oath as
above described—he doesn’t remember the
exact words, but the meaning is all right. And
for nearly 20 years this paper has striven hard
to keep down sedition (Webster’s dictionary
defines sedition as synonymous with “insur-
rection, tumult, uproar,' riot, rebellion, re-
volt,” also “excitement of discontent against
the Government” and “resistance to lawful
authority ”) by helping, so far as in it lay,
to remove the causes which lead to tumult,
and to make the Government one that no one
would be discontented with, and to make
lawful authority so walk an honourable chalk
line that the public wouldn’t dream of wanting
to resist it. Also, it has never knowingly or
intentionally said a word against the good
goverment of Her Majesty the Queen, though
it may have been justly severe at times on the
bad government—not of the Queen, who
doesn’t govern, but of those who do so in her
name. It never took an oath to uphold the
bad government of anybody, only the good
government; and being somewhat particular
about its oaths it lias toiled hard all the days
of its life to uphold every sort and variety of
good government it has met with (there isn’t
very much of it) and to arouse popular objec-
tions against all had government. Would
“ Falcon ” like to ask any more questions’
Wolseley’s Reputation.
It is high time that Field-Marshal Wolseley
began to consider his reputation buried in
South Africa along with all the other bloated
British reputations. Exactly 20 years ago—in
December, 1879 —when Wolseley was com-
manding the cocksure troops in the Transvaal,
he stated (at a banquet to Bartle Frere) that
no British Ministry would dare to surrender
the Transvaal to the Boers. Also, he pooh-
poohed the very palpable signs of discontent
among the Boers, whose grievances at that
time were based partly on real fact, and partly
on suspicion—false, but perfectly natural sus-
picion. Twelve months later the Boers
opened their rebellion—or War of Indepen-
dence— with an unexpected attack on Colonel
Anstruther’s force of 250 men, marching
from Middieburg to Pretoria. Ansteuther was
told by messenger that a Boer Republic had
been proclaimed, and any advance of the
British detachment beyond Bronkhorst Spruit
would be treated as a declaration of war. The
message gave the astonished commander two
minutes in which to decide whether he would
halt or advance. Anstruther could only say
that he was instructed to proceed to Pretoria,
and immediately the war began ; 120 Britishers
were “laid out” by Boer bullets—the others
surrendered. So much for Wolseley’s know-
ledge of Boer feeling towards the British.
A little later came Majuba, and Glad-
stone relinquished the Transvaal to Boer
control. So much for Wolseley’s knowledge
of what the British Government would dare to
do. During the past 19 years Wolseley, the
small-headed hero of petty warfare, has learned
nothing, seemingly, of the country wherein he
prattled nonsense to Bartle Frere’s banquet-
ters. As Commander-in-Chief of the British
Army, he utterly failed to realise the magni-
tude of the task he took in hand last October.
His original plans for the invasion of Boer
Africa were, by his own recent admissions,
formed on a scale of arrogant ignorance. He
failed to foresee that the Boers would invade
the British colonies and gain large reinforce-
ments from the Afrikanders there. He was
so staggered by the news of the British re-
treat from Dundee that he lied to the House of
Commons and called the retreat a “ change of
front.” When is the cable going to announce
the decease and interment of Garnet Wolse-
ley’s reputation ?
Australian Labor Parties—the
Sweaters’ Friends!
With few individual exceptions, the Australian
Labor Parties in Parliament are now found
supporting or acquiescing in the despatch of
Australian mercenaries to the Transvaal—to
fight under the syndicate-banner in the Great
Grab War, and aid in sweating the wages of
Johannesburg workers down to Kimberley
level, for the benefit of the Rhodesian gang of
capitalists. Labour representatives, one of
whose chief aims in Australia is to keep up
wages to a decent level, doing their best to
bring down the wages of their co-workers in
Africa that the dividends of the Rand
companies may be further increased ! This
is the result which Rhodes and Co.
have striven for; but they' could hardly have
expected that the Australian Labor Parties
would help them. As every South African
know's, under Boer rule Johannesburg was one
of the best places in the w'orld for the white
worker ; as under British syndicate rule Kim-
berley is one of the worst. Right up to the
outbreak of the war, under the so-called Boer
tyranny, white miners and artisans earned at
Johannesburg from £1 to £2 per day ; while
at Kimberley wages have been sweated to from
£!2 to £3 10s. per week. And, in spite of these
wages, the Rand mining dividends for 1898
were £4,847,505 — more than the whole income of
the Transvaal Govt. From 1892 to 1898,
when, according to the Rhodesian yarns,
the Johannesburg mining industry was op-
pressed to the last degree, the dividends
paid rose from Bs. to 13s. 2d. per ton of ore
crushed. This is the statement, not of one of
Rhodes’s opponents, but of his friend, John
Hays Hammond, one of the signatories to the
famous sham “ women and children ” letter
—concocted months before the Jameson Raid,
and published as extempore by London Times
on the day the Raid commenced. Mr. Ham
mond is not satisfied to take from the Rand
mines 4§ millions a year. He points out how,
under “good government’’—like Kimberley—
the mines can be made to yield a further
dividend of 6s. per ton, or a total in-
creased dividend, according to Hammond’s
reckoning of probable output, of £4,826,535.
Mr. Hammond assumes that, under British
rule, labor will be plentiful and cheap.
Y\ hen British civilisation is forced upon
the Boers, British sweating is to acoom-
pany it. While Australians are taxed to pay
the cost of the Transvaal Contingents, the Rand
syndicates are to gain by the war nearly five
millions a year additional in dividends. And
the Australian Labor Parties will have the
proud satisfaction of knowing that their mili-
tary enthusiasm has signally aided to reduce
the wages of their comrades overseas.
+
More Widow.
The N.S.W. Government being short of money,
and having pledged itself not to increase
customs taxation, and not caring to go out of
its groove and raise coin by means of the tote,
or by a bicycle-tax, or by any other unusual
device, has fallen back on the handy expedient
of increased probate duties. The Victorian
schedule of duties has been adopted whole, and
in the main, and so far as the taxes on large
estates are concerned, there isn’t much in the
Victorian schedule that can fairly be objected
to. As regards the taxation on small estates,
the arrangement is objectionable all round.
Estates of less value than £lOOO go free as
heretofore, but between £lOOO and £5OOO the
taxation is doubled, and now stands at
2 per cent. Where the person who
inherits the goods and chattels of the
deceased is a male adult relative, or
almost any kind of relative except his widow,
there is no particular reason why it shouldn’t
stand at 2 ner cent, or even more. But in the


case of the widow a tax of 2 per cent, on an
estate of less than ,£5OOO is very like highway
robbery. The widow isn’t inheriting someone
else’s money as any other relative does ; she is
practically inheriting her own money. She
and her husband, by all equity, were joint
owners of the property, and in fairness it was
all along as much her property as his. The
only financial difference caused by his death is
that she loses whatever income he earned by
his personal exertions, so that she makes, in
the average case, a serious loss. If he earned
.£5OO a year, and in one form or another she
got £l5O of it, then his death means
the loss of about £3OOO of what is
practically her personal property. If she
is left with £2OOO accumulated capital, then
she has lost three-fifths of her property by the
old man’s death. The law which, when a
woman loses her nearest relative and three-
fifths of her property, regards her as a fair
subject for special taxation on what goods and
chattels she has left, is a brutal law. More-
over, it is based on a wholly erroneous theory.
Where the old man’s pile goes to a nephew or
other outsider, that individual is really coming
into unexpected wealth, and if the State takes
part of it and leaves him the rest he is still a
gainer. The widow is merely retaining part
of w'hat (on the principle that man and wife
are one) was always her own, and to tax her as
a person who is inheriting wealth and suddenly
coming into property is an absurdity. And
when a woman with probably no knowledge of
business, and no capacity for turning her little
pile into a larger one, is left with, say, £l5OO, it
is only a safe income of about £6O a year at best.
Is a bereaved, elderly female with less than
255. a week the sort of bloated capitalist that
direct taxation was intended to fall upon ? Of
course she is rich when compared with the
bereaved elderly female who has nothing a
week and goes out washing ; just as the latter
is wildly affluent when compared with the
female who has no money and no legs, so that
she can’t even wash—but that isn’t the ques-
tion. It is positive, not comparative, wealth
that has to be considered.
O
The Plaintive Cry of the Shopkeepers.
Melb. Age seems to be losing grasp of that
acumen which has so long enabled it to run
with the hare while it hunts with the hounds ;
also, its discriminating capacity for trimming
seems to have been slightly overworked of
late, for a paper mostly gets the letters it wants
and is judged by those it prints. Recent
letters relate mostly to the Factories’ Act
Amending Bill and to the alleged demand for
an inquiry into the working of the present law,
and, while they make up in iteration what they
lack in logic, they are all built on the same
lines, and merely repeat the same old weari-
some stupidities. A couple may be taken as
samples. The first is from the president
of the Vic. Shopkeepers’ Association, who
puts his case in a nutshell when he re-
marks : “ The truth is, this proposed legis-
lation to compel a man to close his
business and remain idle is simply monstrous.”
Further, he enquires how the poor shop-keeper
is to succeed with only five days’ trade and six
days’ expenses ; though how he succeeds now
with six days’ trade and seven days’ expenses
(for rent, taxes and food and clothes go right on
Sunday and week-day, and wages are so-much
a week —not so-much every six days) he never
dreams of explaining. Probably he never
noticed the awful position he has been in all his
life through the law not allowing him to open
on Sunday. In fact, things are even worse than
that, for he doesn’t keep open all night, so he
has in every week about eighty hours’trade and
168 hours’ expenses. This is terrible ! Another
correspondent, a suburban shop-keeper, objects
fiercely to his being compelled to close one half-
day a week “because other people want to go
pleasuring.” He winds up by enquiring “as
long as I pay my rent and 20s. in the pound,
what right has any one to close me up and
make me remain idle and probably go insol-
vent ? ” The ideal is noble, even pathetic ; and
it is pleasing to observe that there is at least
one man in Melbourne who desires to pay 20s.
in the £ as long as he can. But if this gentle-
man and the other letter-writer would take a
few hours off on one of those half-holidays and
do a little plain thinking—provided they have
the needful plant and implements—they would
see that a compulsory half-holiday a week is
not only not a loss but is an actual gain to
them, provided all shops in competition with
them are also closed. For the volume of trade
in the particular suburb or city or province is
the same whether the shops close for half-a-day.
a week or not, and on the other hand
when the shop is shut the gas-meter isn’t
working, and the dust isn’t getting among
the goods, and the customers aren’t wearing
the floor out, and the assistant isn’t wearing
the varnish off the infrequent seat through too
much sitting on it, also the woman who always
helps herself to a handful of biscuits has to
stay at home, and the small boy who sneaks
peanuts from the bag at the door is tem-
porarily disengaged. The short and simple
case is this : The average person has to
spend all the money he has in order to live,
and as he will still continue to live under early-
closing and one half-holiday a week he will
still spend all he has. And he wouldn’t spend
any more if the shops kept open seven days a
week and 24 hours a day—for he hasn’t got it
to spend. But when a man has spent long
years considering the beauties of a half-penny
a pound profit here, and a half-ounce short
weight there, and all the other small mean
things that go to make that great entity known
as trade, it is difficult to get him to view any
new idea in a clear light.
Kiplingesque War.
Long courses of Ritdyard Kipling have created
in the English mind a .conception of war and
the part played therein by Tommy Atkins,
utterly at variance with facts. Poems and tales,
based wholly upon English experiences in
fighting savages, have taught the slaughter-
loving section of the English public to expect a
British regiment to “ disperse” any enemy that
stands up to it within the hours provided by
the Early-Closing Act, and come home comfort
ably to tea. The modern Major-General must
live up to this ideal or perish, so far as his
status as a provider of sensational copy is con-
cerned, and if he doesn’t stand well there he had
better be out of service. All the Generals,
irom the beginning, have been playing to. the
gallery. The idea that there was any opposition
in front worth reckoning has not, before this
last week or two, struck any of them.
Their business was not merely to win—
that was a task too ridiculously easy to
worry over—but to win a la Kipling to
take the Africander position before break-
fast —to march serenely like Kiplingesque
demi-gods through the entrenchments of the
enemy. Methuen’s and Buller’s attacks were
made in front, in daylight, seemingly without
reconnaissance, apparently without pre-
caution against ambush or surprise, and with
the fixed idea that the enemy stand in the same
intellectual relationship to themselves as a six-
tooth wether to a Supreme Court Judge. The
business of the enemy was to act after his kind
—i.e., after the kind of Kipling’s enemy, the
enemy depicted in Kipling’s military tales —
and disperse before the superior genius, reso-
lution, and equipment of the British. As to
strategy, why should a British general stra-
tegise? White attempted that at Nicholson’s
Nek, and fell in. If he had only been content
to stick to the tactics which press and public
(instructed by Kipling) demand, the successes
at Elandslaagte and Glencoe might have been
continued indefinitely. The methods of the
British leaders must obviously be short, swift,
and business-like. Kipling has explicitly laid
down the plan and specifications to which
British generalship is expected to conform.
A battle between Briton and Boer must satisfy
the expectations of the nation, trained for ten
years in the Kipling school, or it had better
not take place. “ Up then comes the regi-
ment, and pokes the ’eathen out” was the ideal
set up by the Jingo bard, and the regiments
were accordingly set to the task of realising it.
—
Labor-Members and Ministers.
Labor-leader Batchelor’s inclusion in the
newest S. Aus. Ministry may mean a lot. It
is the first time an Australian Labor-party
has allowed one of its members to join a Minis-
try. Hitherto Labor-parties have refused to
sanction anything of the sort on the ground
that if a Labor-member were a Minister “ the
caucus ” would most likely call in vain upon
that member to throw his colleagues and him-
self out upon the cold, hard Opposition benches;
it was forgotten that if a Labor man or two
were in a Ministry it would be less likely to
need throwing out. Labor-parties were, how-
ever, formed on the idea that there was no good
outside themselves—that both the old parties
were incorrigibly bad, and that nothing could
be got out of them that was not squeezed or
dragged. Experience has since thrown doubt
on that plan, which has yielded a fine crop of
promises, and little else. Besides, Laborites
themselves have been getting very sick of it,
because it has cooped them up and kept
them private members. The old argument was
that they should wait for the Labor Ministry.
But a Labor-party’s Ministry seems out of the
question; anyhow, the Labor-party has no-
where gone ahead fast enough to bring a
majority in sight. Also, by the time its prin-
ciples are supported by a majority, the chances
are that the most Radical constituencies will
want a more advanced programme, and will
call for a new party ; in fact, they are calling
for one already. So far, then, Laborites have
only been able to get into Ministries by seced-
ing ; and secessions have naturally outnum-
bered the Ministerial appointments. It is a
striking fact that of the big batch of N.S.W.
Labor members returned in ’92 only three are
Labor-members now. Those who have not
seceded have been displaced by Liberal or
Radical members; for many Liberal con-
stituencies have not been willing to keep
a Conservative crowd in office on the
off-chance of the Labor-party being able to
squeeze out concessions from the crowd. The
S. A. Labor Party proposes to now try the
plan of making the Liberal party more Liberal
by joining forces with it. There is sense in
that. You may win the Melb. Cup with a cart
mare guaranteed to go 8 miles an hour, and you
may also win it with a draught horse
guaranteed to go 6 miles an hour. The old
idea of the Labor party was to buy a whip and
flog the nags indiscriminately. The new idea
is to mix the old cart mare’s blood with some
of a speedier sort ; and the Bulletin reckons
the party has a better chance to win with the
progeny than with the old draught horse no
matter how hard he may be walloped.
«.
Gaol as a Sanatorium.
Victoria’s new Ministry, which was to show
such splendid administrative ability, has lost
no time in following at least one bad example
set by its predecessors. In his Bairnsdale
speech Premier M'Lean promised that, pend-
ing the establishment of Old Age Pensions, the
poor and the sick would at least be temporarily
relieved. It will be remembered that towards
the end of last session Turner, in the House,
promised that in future the old, the poor and
the sick should be assisted somehow, by magis-
trates’ order, and should at least not be
gaoled; since then not only have the sick
and the poor been repeatedly sent to prison,
but time after time prisoners discharged
from Pentridge, after serving their term,
have been sent back for three or six months,
as the unspeakable J.P. thought fit , for the sole,
crime of ill-health. Hitherto six months has
been the longest term awarded, but recently
the Coburg Bench started in to break the
record and establish a precedent. On Oct. 28
a young woman named Malena Howell was
discharged from Pentridge stockade. Being un-
well and feeble she was seized- by a policeman
as she went out, and the disgraceful Coburg
honorariums actually sent her back to the
cold cells and the hominy for afurther 12 months.
She was charged with having no! lawful means
of support, but, as the wages paid her during
her sojourn in gaol were not extravagant, and
as the practice of thrift while under lock and
key is hardly calculated to produce a compet-
ence, such a charge wus a farcical absurdity.
Her real crime was being ill; that is all. The
brutality of this sentence appears to have stag-
gered even ttie departmental officials, as the
Under-Treasurer called for a report on the
matter. Said report from the police and the
Stockade medical officer indicated that the un-
fortunate woman was not a fit subject for any
charitable institution, as she had been placed in
one previously and had escaped ; therefore
she had better remain in prison. The fact that
she had thus escaped would seem to suggest
that the conduct of the institution, rather than
that of the woman, should be inquired into;
but, apart from that, is it already a crime to
refuse charity in Victoria? The idea of leaving
a sick woman in gaol for 12 months merely
because she once quitted a charitable institu-
tion in au informal sort of way, and refused to
be a burden on the community any longer than
she could help, suggests that the refusal of
public aid is a very awful sin indeed.
♦
Quite a squad of M.L. politicians who lost
their seats in the partial Liberal slump of 1896,
have been returned at the late General Election.
Among others, appears on the scene again W.
W. Collins, freethought lecturer, said to have
been rejected in Christchurch through the
raking up of a very plain ancient public utter-
ance of his anent Her Gracious. Also,
diminutive Hee Hem Smith, alias “Ironsand,”
the lamplighter, is up again from Taranaki.
The Radical Scotch constituency of Dunedin,
after lapsing from grace in 1896, has returned to
the Liberal fold and elected three Ministerialists.
In 1896, Dunedin took to her inmost bosom
Soobie Mackenzie, the Tory funny man ; and
Scobie was under the grand illusion in 1899
that that bosom was still his for the asking.
“ Dismal Bill ” Rolleston, the heavy father
of the M.L. House of Reps., has fallen before a
politician of less calibre and reputation, but on
the popular side of politics. Rolleston was
second-in-command of the Tory party, and his
fall is a notable event. The left-wing band of
guerillas, which has been scotched by the dis-
missal of Tommy Taylor, Invercargill Kelly,
and that awesome wobbler, young Mont-
gomery, never will be missed,except by specials
hard up for copy, who could safely rely on one
“scene” a week emanating from the corner.
The wing crystallised in the session of 1896
under the leadership of G. W. Russell, as the
Radical left of the Liberal party, and was then
a force to be reckoned with. The general elec-
tion which ensued, however, cut out several of
the free-lances, including “ Ricketty ” Russell
himself. What remained of the party, under
the leadership of political-mosquito Pirani,
ran off its original track and rapidly evolved
inLo an Opposition skirmishing corps, diluted
with Cold Water. As such the Wing became
a ghastly nuisance, a fact which the M.L. free
and independent have evidently realised. The
Corner is now reduced to Pjrani and ex-Labor-
member John Hutchison, who got in on the
Tory ticket. “ Ricketty ” Russell, by the
way, long ago renounced the Wing and all its
ways, and has just successfully contested the
Riccarton seat as a straight Ministerialist.
+
“ Malle ” on coupons :
Your correspondent" Cockney” (25/11/’99) endeavors to
bolster up one of the worst of commercial vultures—
couponism. Instead of the big shops trying to get this
curse blocked by law, they would gladly have an army of
small boys to whoop it up, for nothing could suit then-
book better. Let’s vivisect it. The trader pays the
coupon fiend 12s. 6d. per thousand for the coupons, and
gives one away with every sixpennyworth of goods sold.
When the shopper has laboriously collected, say, 500
coupons he, “or principally she,” trots them round to
the coupon establishment and obtains an article, probably
some piece of tawdry electroware that she does not want,
and which she would never dream of buying for straight-
out cash. The shopkeeper gives a five per cent, discount,
but out of this comes all the coupon harpy’s printing,
advertising, canvassing, rent, and living expenses, so
that the public only gets about one-fifth of what the
retailer pays. The small men are constantly crying that
they cannot compete with the big shops, and many of
them disappear through this yearly, How on earth then
can they give away five per cent.—not of their profits,
mark, but of their gross turnover—and have a hope in
such competition ? A shopkeeper who would reduce his
prices five per cent., the full advantage of which would
be reaped by the public, or who gave his own coupons
redeemable for cash or goods on production of a specified
number, thus securing a mortgage over puchaser’s
custom, might succeed. At present the non-producing,
blood-sucking coupon promoter is the only person bene-
fited. The retailer is bled of five per cent, of his gross
takings, and tries to get it back by squeezing his em-
ployes, fining his miserably underpaid shopgirls, selling
inferior goods, &c., and all the time sees himself drift
nearer to the insatiable maw of the “universal providers.” .
No doubt the system is popular with a section of the
public, which is mostly an ass, and fancies it’s getting
something for nothing, but the coupon promoter is only
a commercial vampire, and the sooner the law squashes
him—as it has done in America—the better.
♦
“Gumleaf,” writes:—
The disparity of sentences in the eriminal courts of
Australia is a growing scandal, It is not solely a matter
of different Judges having different ideas of what
constitutes adequate punishment. That is pnly one of
the causes of the scandal. I have had personal experience,
as a newspaper man, of the criminal courts of four of
these provinces, and I have seen the same Judge on
different occasions dealing with the same offence, under
exactly similar circumstances, and passing sentences so
diverse that he couldn’t account for the difference him-
self. There cannot be two opinions therefore, that much
of the trouble arises through the varying temper and
health of the Judge at the time of passing sentence.
An illustration of this kind was furnished by Justice
a’Beckett in the Vic. Criminal Court the other day.
He had been showing signs of bad health and worse
temper throughout the sittings, and this culminated in
his making a savage attack upon a prisoner,, found guilty
of perjury of a comparatively harmless kind—to defeat
one of the silliest provisions of the Licensing Act—and
sentencing him to five years’ imprisonment. I would
suggest that every Judge who presides in criminal juris-
diction should be medically examined at intervals,
with a view of ascertaining whether he is in a fit
mental and bodily state of health to exercise
judicial powers in a reasonable manner. It should
also be necessary for every man appointed to a Judge-
ship to undergo an annual medical examination in the
matter of his sanity. I am quite positive that there are
men on the Australian Bench to-day who do not come up
to the ordinary standard of sanity. They are not
lunatics ; far from that, but they are certainly fanatics*
No religious or teetotal zealot should be tolerated on the
Bench, for it is a clear indication that his mind is subject
to fits of hysteria. I have seen men of this stamp
sentencing prisoners while their faces were aflush With
anger, and a violent passion-quiver shook their voices.
There is one Judge now on the Bench who fairly spits his
passionate words at prisoners through his thin lips, while
his eyes glitter with a maniacal glare. It would be in-
teresting to find out how many criminals these '-•* v iust
and unequal sentencers manufacture yearly.
——— 4
The M‘Lean Ministry has already begui/ to
go to pieces. It got a bad set back, as a coun-
try Government, by the defeat of M*Cay at
Castlemaine by a substantial majority. Then
the internal strife which was foreseen from the
first by anyone with eyes has, it appears, been
raging for several days past. A third and
surer sign of the Ministry’s decomposition is
the fact that Fink, who joined the Government
as an honorary Minister with palpable pleasure
and pride, and immediately had his name
printed in large gold letters on one of tlie
Treasury doors, has deserted it. His ostensible
reason for doing so is that he disapproves pf
Shiels’s speech at Bairnsdale and his dual con-
trol in the Government. This excuse is far too
.thin, when it is remembered that in the letters
which passed between M‘Lkan and Shiels,
and in which Fink’s name was mentioned,
the dual control was provided for. The truth
is that Fink is a political, turncoat of the worst
description, and believes in early desert-
ing a born - dead Ministry. His seat at
Jolimont is most insecure, and it is only by
barking with the biggest dog that he has a
chance of getting into the next Parliament.
The Conservatives led by Gillies, however,
are sure to make a big fight to keep the pre-
sent Ministry afloat, and the reason is plain to
see. If they accomplish this object they have
a better chance of getting the province so
divided into Federal electorates as to provide
safe pocket constituencies for some of the more
prominent members of their party. Gillies
himself, Murray Smith, Irvine, Johm M‘ln-
tyre, and others are all after seats in the first
Federal Parliament.
—
So far as N.S.W. is copcerned, there is a
mighty difference between the second Trans-
vaal contingent and the first. Despite the
“unparalleled enthusiasm” which the local
anti-Australian papers rave about, only about
1000 men volunteered to take 4s. 6d. a day to
go and fight Boers ; and this small number
included a lot of weedy specimens whom even
the relaxed-to-suit-circumstances medical ex-
amination could not pass. If the medical,
shooting, and riding standards had been fully
maintained, not 300 men would have
passed muster; and 450 were wanted.
Yet every possible pressure was brought
to bear on the militia; and the police
force was temporarily crippled so that
the number promised should be made up. As
a matter of fact, the War Office is being cheated
over “Australian enthusiasm” just as it was
cheated over the Lancers’ enthusiasm. The
men who go, go chiefly for the fun and the
change. As they are paid 4s. 6d. a day, they
are not volunteers but mercenaries ; and just
as many eould be got on the same terms to join
in any foreign fight that Parliament chose td
back up. “ Loyalty ”is natural enough in the'
English settled here ; but “Australian loyalty
to England” is all flam, though “ Australian
disloyalty” is carefully suppressed by the
newspapers. Australians are loyal to Australia
—to the land they live in; and their loyalty
stops right there.
Justice A’Beckett, hitherto regarded as an
absolutely sensible Judge, rushed off oh an un-
warrantable side-path in Vic. Criminal Court,
the other day. A man was charged with a grosg
crime—indecently assaulting a little girl BJ.
years of age. The Crown case was none too,
strong, and the defence suggested that the
motive for laying the charge was blackmail on;
the part of a relative of the girl, who was said
to be an immoral woman. Altogether there
was considerable doubt about the case. The;
accused did himself no good by the manner in
which he talked all round the compass, and :
when the jury returned with a verdict of not
guilty he made an exhibition of himself .by cry-,
ing and hysterically thanking the jury. The;
Judge promptly told him that it was in-
decent to thank juries for doing their duty,'
which was sensible enough, but hfe went
further. He evidently considered the man;
guilty, and allowiug his feelings to get
the better of him, he overstepped the,
bounds of justice and propriety. Speaking,
with considerable warmth, he said he inter-
preted the verdict to mean that the jury be-
lieved he committed the crime, although there;
was not sufficient evidence to prove it. To
this the lickspittle foreman of course remarked,
“ Quite right, your honor.” Then, turning to,
the accused, a’Beckett said, P Leave the court
at once —you are disgraced but not convicted.”
Surely in the eyes of folk with a sense of com-
mon honesty the accused was not the only per-
son who stood disgraced in connection with the.
incident ! If Vic. Parliament approves of this
sort of thing on the part of judges, it should at
once reform the law by giving juries the alter-
native of finding a verdict of Not Proven.
The Highland regiments, with the bullet-
attracting "kilts, seem doomed to leave all their
bones in South Africa. Their new commander.
Hector M‘Donald, who succeeded the dead;
Wauchope, is said to be “ a man of great ambition
and insensible to danger in fact the worst pos-
sible sort of hero for the position. At time of
writing dauntless M‘Donald still lives, but the
days of such a man in such a campaign are num-‘
bered, unless British tactics have been suddenly
reconstructed on the lines of the Boer laager
system.
Compare the Transvaal leaders with, say,
our Australian patriots. The principal Dutch
legislators who threw down the gauntlet to Britain'
—Joubert, Cronje, Schalk Burger, Lucas Meyer
—are all in the front of the fight, and risk-
ing their lives for their country. Now that Lyne,
Seddon, McLean, Philp, Neil Lewis, and Forrest
all favor the sending of a second band of Aus-r
tralian buccaneers to S’africa, they had better
follow this good example, and thereby silence
those mean people who suggest that Lyne and co.
are only after their own personal bauble.
Apparently the Lyne Government is still
half inclined to build the principal Syd-‘
ney railway station at Devonshire-street, where
it will be about as far away from the business
centre as it is now, with an apologetic little
“ extension ” into the city. Fancy the second
city in Australasia, and the fourth in the southern
hemisphere, being served by an “extension.” If
all the trains are to come into the city, then the
great terminus wants to be there to give them
room. If only a few are to come in, then the rest
of the passengers will have the same old grievance
as at present, and the row about the need for a
big city station will start over again in a few
years.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK. *
Hbr Majesty’* “Little Red Riding Hood.*
® OTAL “ The Only Way."
Lyceum ..... . “ The Power and the Glory.*
Criterion .... “ a Tale of the Transvaal."
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Little Christopher Columbus.**
Alexandra « Les Cloches de Corneville.*
Buoo Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Ha 11.... ........ M’Adoo’s Jubilee Singers.
The improved edition of Sydney Royal
re-opened on Christinas Eve under Williamson’s
management with “The Only Way’’-which is
Freeman Wills version of Dickens’ “ Tale of Two
L/ities. It has always been a recognised fact that
Dickens doesn t dramatise well, but it can at
least be said for Freeman Wills’ production that
it. is quite as successful as could be expected.
Dickens had a leisurely method of developing his
p ots, which is unsuited to the hurry of the stage,
where the whole tale has to be told in three hours;
em Pl°y ec J a vast array of characters who
fitted so accurately into his story that it suffers
when some of them have to be left out to give
breathing room _to the others. Jerry Cruncher,
the resurrectionist, and his wife (who flopped in
prayer) and son are omitted as a matter of course.
Ihe Vengeance, with her knitted registers, is a
mere shadow who howls a brief but convincing
w m Act 111. ; Miss Julia Merton’s Vengeance
is a Vigorous character while she lasts, but she
lasts a very short time. John Barsad is only a
casual mention, and his sister is dropped altogether.
And there isn t time for the prisoner of the Bas-
tille to relapse into periodical idiocy and start
shoemaking so he is of necessity a rather
undeveloped martyr. But the essentials of the
story are preserved. It goes rather slowly at
hrst, and the act which is mainly devoted to Syd-
ney Carton being drunk hangs fire in a good
many places. Thomas Kingston takes the part
of Carton, and he presents hardly a sufficient
resemblance to Harry Hill, who fills the green
coat of Darnay, to account for things. AlsoT the
back view of Darnay in his green coat and tight
green pants and long hair isn’t artistic, and when
Cecil Ward, as a slimy and deceitful man in a
blue coat and tight pants, lays a wicked trap for
him the public sympathies are rather with the
bad blue man than with the good green one. The
strength of the drama lies in the last two acts,
which go strongly enough to redeem previous
deficiencies. The revolutionary tribunal is a loud
and energetic court of justice, where everybody in
general constitutes the jury, and where the jury
rushes at the prisoner every now and then with
a U j e ," s ? 11( * threatens to brain him on the spot.
i n 11 , W^iere the frivolous and
beautifully-upholstered noblesse of France trot off
cheerfully to the guillotine, is a picturesque piece
ot work though there is a certain monotony about
the yell of the invisible populace outside. The
populace seems to have no preferences, and the
ory of execration it • discharges at prisoner No.
41 is exactly the same as the one it discharges at
every number up to 47.
,* * .
There is comparatively little room for
scenic effects except in Act 11., where Goatcher
has surpassed himself, and in the final tableau,
where Carton’s dark figure looms up on the
guillotine against a reddish background that sug-
gests the burning of Moscow. The rest of the
glory goes in costumes, which are done with an
elaborate and beautiful detail. A part of the
company is reluctantly held over till next week.
But The Bulletin desires to mention hurriedly
that Thomas Kingston, though weighed down at
first by the slowness of Act 1., is very satisfactory
in some later scenes, and plays his sombre character
hke a real artist. Also, Miss Rose Musgrove’s
Mimi is a nice good girl ; and Miss Linda Ray-
mond is a pretty and pleasing though slightly
monotonous Lucie Manette. David Glassford,
Havvtrey and Cecil Ward leave a good impression
on the writer’s vast intellect; Hawtrey’s little
sketch of Stryver, the hard, pompous, bounceable
lawyer, is really good, while Cecil Ward, as a dark
bitter vengeful oily man in blue clothes, is about
the strongest feature in the cast. Ward has the
bottled-up vengeance of 18 years in his eye, and
his concentrated and apologetic malevolence is an
interesting study. A passing glimpse of Oily
Deenng as the bloated prosecutor creates a desire
to see more of him ; also many glimpses of the
vague.and sketchy Harry Hill make the writer
feel that he would be quite satisfied if he saw a
good deal less of him.
** * *
The “Little Red Riding Hood” panto-
mime was due at Her Majesty’s last Tuesday, but
the exigencies of a paper which goes to press on
that evening make it impossible to describe the
beauty and pomp and glory thereof until next-
issue. The literary part of the work is by Mr.
Bernard Espinasse, an Australian dramatist of
good repute in the past and with promise of much
freater repute in the future, and his name should
e a guarantee that the book at least will be all
right.
*# * *
Sydney Lyceum started a premature
Christmas on Saturday night with a great and
irresponsible production, entitled “The Power
and the Glory,” by Charles Darrell. It hinges
mainly on the supposed profitable business of the
burglar ; but the cracksman’s trade is apparently
not all that it is cracked up to be. But apart
from its aggressive morality, the piece is capitally
adapted to the needs of the Christmas season. It
is low comedy, farcical comedy, drawing-room
comedy, melodrama, patriotic drama, plain
insanity, variety show, music-hall entertainment,
and largely pantomime. It is, moreover, highly
moral. When Ferdinand Crayle, the “ King of
the Mobsmen,” attempts to hurl the virtuous
heroine off the top of the Monument to bottomless
P erc *iti° n > there to dwell in unrecognisable smash,
the heavens open, and Ferdinand sinks in a
heap of horror at the vision of a blind child sailing
aloft on a cloud. This is the cheerful side of the
play; the gloom comes in whenever a low-comedy
proprietress of a coffee-stall, a lowly baker, and a
stage-struck purveyor of lambs’-frys appear upon
the scene to make music for those whom Svengali
was wont to call ze pig-dog.
* * * *
“ The Power and the Glory ” affords little
scope for acting. Miss Ida Gresham as the wife
of a sentimental and aristocratic burglar enlists
sympathy; and Miss Beatrice Holloway, the same
burglar s blind daughter, deserves some praise.
Ihe sentimental burglar’s wife is a poor and de-
serted, but flawless, woman of humble connec-
tions;but the blind daughter is a childish im-
possibility and a perpetual nerve-irritant until she
is taken to the angels in a thunderstorm over St.
Jrauls Cathedral, on a “property” cloud with
hook and wire attachment. The sentimental
cracksman is portrayed by Mr. W. J. Mont-
gomery m a strong and painstaking manner, but
tne honors fall easily to Lawrence Dunbar, as
Ferdinand Crayle, “King of the Mobs-
men. _ The third burglar is an honest, hard-
working*, horny-handed Bill-Sikes, with a pro-
fessional jaw, and muscles hardened by well-
deserved tread-mill exercise. The hero of the
piece, a large and important British person in a
Jack iars uniform, is undertaken by Mr. Charles
Holloway, in whose personality the United King-
dom and its Dependencies are nobly supervised,
and fought for, and bragged about generally,
ihis representative of might has a low-comedy
mother, who keeps an open-air restaurant on
wheels ; a sister who gathers the roses of wicked-
ness as a tight-wire-walking demi-mondaine; and
another sister who is a spotless flower-girl,
pursued by the attentions of a gushing Johnny of
high degree, a weary comic baker, and a stage-
struck butcher whose mother was a gipsy countess
and whose father was a troubadour Moravian.
As the sailor’s “Mar,” Miss Roland Watts-
Jrhillips is great, but sacrificed to the sordid
demands of the coffee-stall; Miss Roxy Barton
gives a striking impersonation of the dashing
elder daughter, and Miss Alice Deorwyn is the
seller of faded flowers. The scenery is glorious,
but “ the Summit of the Monument,” with sleep-
ing London spread beneath, is the gem of the
collection, and on the opening night the audience
fetched artist Clint out about six times to tell him
so at great length.
** * *
“A Tale of the Transvaal,” staged at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday, is partly a revival
of Rider Haggard’s old story of “ Jess ” and partly
a new “Jess,” brought up to date regardless of
expense and anachronism. The Boer war of ’Bl
and the ditto of 09 are mixed together, in defiance
ac * :s an d dates and circumstances. The
characters belong to the war of ’Bl, but the Aus-
tralian contingent, which rushes in and deals out
large and embittered stoush to the hardened
Protestants of the Transvaal, belongs distinctly
to ’99. And when Mr. Lewis Scott, who is
responsible for the trouble, represents the British
soldiers as falling back in disorder until Australian
reinforcements turn the scale—the Britisher is
evidently no good by himself, but the Australian
reinforcements simply stamp the Boer flat—he is
playing to the gallery in lamentable claptrap.
Ihe Bulletin begins to foresee a time when an
Australian history of the Transvaal will be written,
showing how the war of ’Bl panned out badly
because the Australians weren’t there, and how
they saved the sinking empire in 1900, just as Bill
Adams saved it at Waterloo. It will be some-
thing like a certain Spanish account of the Penin-
sular war, wherein Cuesta and Castanos drove the
French over the border, though hampered a good
deal by a foolish Irish person named Wellington,
Set * n roac * something that he
c f led his troops just when Castanos was about to
charge and wipe the French off the face of the
globe m fact, Castanos’ most brilliant charges
were mostly spoiled by his anxiety not to tramp
on Wellington, which well-meaning but unprac-
tical individual was always in between the two
armies and letting off yells at the wrong moment
• * * *
Kruger, who was little known in ’Bl, is
also dragged largely into the drama by way of
bringing it up to date, and the author has gratified
public sentiment by making him a mean, fat, un-
warlike comedy-hypocrite of the Nonconfor-
mist variety. Taking it all round, it is a
m j Xec * and rather awful production, partly
redeemed by some fine scenic effects and war
tablea,u. Harry Diver, not being sufficiently
capacious in the lower chest for a stage Boer,
represents Englishman John Neil ; and Miss
Dunckley and Miss Hope Mayne look nice and
fresh and pretty as the two English girls, Jess
and Bess. Certain large fat unwashed Boers
and Boeresses, who will doubtless be officially
bathed by the British Government when the
present regrettable armed coolness is over, await
consideration at a more favorable moment.
** * *
At Sydney Palace G. W. Hunter, the
comedian with the short coat and the baggv pants
raconteurs nightly to a crowded house. The gap
left by Tom Costello is filled by Professor Davy’s
life-sized marionettes, a gorgeous ballet, little
t army Powers, and the Newsky Family of alleged
Russian _ vocalists and dancers. Unfortunately,
when this paper got round, the crowd had slopped
over into the street, and the great organ of public
opinion solaced itself with mixed drinks and the
fact that it would give full particulars next week.
*# * *
At Sydney Opera House (the King-street
ancient playhouse), a diorama of the Boer war is
raging, to the accompaniment of much martial
music. The sanguinary display is preceded by an
inoffensive - looking individual, named Drissco,
who, among other things, beats variations of
Home, Sweet Home ” out of a collection of
empty whisky bottles. When the last tinkle of
the ancient refrain has died away the diorama
begins. The best picture is that of the Gay
Gordons carrying Elands Laagte by storm. It
shows a crowd of unkempt-looking Boers working
rifles and quick-firers for dear life, while up the ridge
sweeps a wave of kilted Scots. One big High-
lander, mortally wounded, seems to spring right
out of the canvas; another has sprung in and
bayoneted a Boer; while on the right, away down
the line of tartan, looming through the smoke, is
the figure of the officer waving his men on. While
the pictures are being shown several people sing
moreor-less national songs. Afterwards, one
Salma, dressed as a lady, kicks the back-hair of
his own blonde wig. The last item is jugglery, by
Miss Vidi Providi, a little lady in yellow satin,
who juggles not at all badly.
** * *
Sydney Royal Standard re-opened after
all, contrary to this paper’s hopes and expecta-
tions, with the appalling “Kelly Gang.” The
‘ Kelly Gang ” is bad enough at ordinary seasons,
but in hot weather the sight of Ned Kelly frying
in his armour is too painful to be further men-
tioned.
** * *
“ Little Christopher Columbus ” started at
Melb. Royal last Saturday week, the wind in its
favor. The show is a large good-looking venture
launched on the holiday market at popular prices ;
also, it is a novelty in Melb., and it brings two old
favorites back to notice at a time when the
Princess has gone to sleep, therefore Little
Christopher should pile up riches on earth for the
Royal management, and gather reputation from
century to oentury. This is the sort of opera that
must either boom or perish. The jokes are mostly
puns, the quaint music is not built to catch the
common or garden ear, and the story amounts to
something resembling a Gaiety burlesque strength-
ened with an infusion of Widdy O’Brien. Inasmuch
as little Christopher depends on the performers
for its humor, the performers need full houses to
cheer them on their way. Fortunately they are
getting a liberal supply of the needful. Bridget
O Brien has married a millionaire named Block
during her five years’ absence from Aus-
tralia, and the result of their union is a
bright new daughter (Miss Denny) who
loves a cabin-boy. Miss Gracie Whiteford,
rounder and more effective every way than the
former Gracie, plays the Cabin Boy in several
changes of costume, and is a fetching little hero all
the time ; but she may be earnestly implored to
substitute a new ballad for the antique coon-song
which she sings in the second act. Detective
O Hooligan, played by Fred Sinclair, is about the
most frequent item in the tragedy, and first im-
pressions of this attenuated stranger are highly
favorable. Sinclair, who appears to be a
very young man, or a rather elderly youth,
reproduces the methods of lank Teddy Lonnen,
the original O’Hooligan in London. He is
weaker than Lonnen in singing and business
details, but he sometimes is funny without any
effort. In fact, Fred Sinclair follows close upon
the heels of Bert Gilbert, who also derived his
mannerisms from the laborious Lonnen. There
are two or three other acceptable new arrivals in
the . Sheridan co., and the. ballet, the chorus, and
the fixings in general have been arranged with a
reasonable regard for splendor,
** * *
At the Bijou the first part of the Rickards
show now happens amid a nice new “sylvan”
scene with a fountain thrown in. The ballads in
a first part usually make some mention of a foun-
tain a silver fountain, as a rule—that ripples
down the moonlit stream in the sweet golden
sunset, but this is the first time that Rickards has
conferred the favor of an actual dripping fountain
on the Melbourne stage, as far as The Bulletin
can remember. Good old Wallace King warbles
by the fountain in his good old winning way; also
basso Hahn is there ; furthermore Little Alma
Gray reappears after a long absence. The Xmas
bill at Rickards’comes fully up to requirements,
and even if it didn’t the house would be crowded
at present, all the same. Tom Costello was to re-
appear on Boxing Night, weather permitting.
Tom Logan, from America, took the floor last
Saturday, and is at present under earnest
consideration.
** * *
For the third week in succession here
cometh the announcement that “Les Cloches”
will clang at the Alexandra for a holiday season,
dating from Boxing Night. In a time of dearth
of ordinary theatrical news, it is permissible to
hammer away at a rather small fact until you have
flattened it out to look like a very large one.
Next week the true character of the Vic. Operatic
Society’s performance will be reverently laid bare.
A show that begins on a Tuesday night gets nine
days start of this Jingo newspaper.
** * #
M‘Adoo’s Jubilee Singers, supported by a
“special representation of the Ober-Ammergau
Passion Play,” fell due at Melb. Town Hall on
Boxing Night, and were no doubt uttering their
quaint soothing harmonies to a mighty big
attendance when The Bulletin went to press.
A Waxworks and other matters have started or
are about to start business at St. George’s Hall,
and the conjecture that something will happen at
the Exhibition Building (where the Aquarium is)
on the first night of the old century’s last year is
confidently hazarded herewith.
At Poverty Point.
“ Melb.” : Deadheadery had a glorious show over Mar-
shall-Hall's Conservatorium Concert at the Alexandra
the other night. Everybody came on the nod, and there
was far more slavering humility than in the Beauchamp
case. The tickets given away were, respectively, for
dress-circle, stalls, pit, and gallery, according to Respec-
tability or the layers of the Crust in the Social Pie.
Marshall-Hall, in his determination to boom, gave away
the house about twice over. The droves of deadheads
along Exhibition-street were a sight to be remembered.
Marshall-Hall s girls rendered opera selections in cos-
tume. The deadheads were decidedly flat and fishy, as
they always are. Floral tributes were ostentatiously
fetched in at the stage-door, and handed up at the wrong
psychological moment. Greatest mistake in the world to
play to the supercilious and contemptuous deadhead.
“ S.S. ’: The charity performance at Melb. Princess on
Dec. 16 served to illustrate the terrible butnorlessness of
a swagger “ push ” in Melbourne, and the stupid intoler-
ance of the “ great dailies.” Will Whitburn got off some
harmless little wheeze about the Scotchmen at Majuba
being asked a shilling a pint for beer, and succumbing to
the charge. This outraged the feelings of the solemnly
jingoistic audience, and it treated the performer much as
a i^ e ven utterance to some flaming blasphemy.
Also next day the idiot press took him severely to task
for his “egregious outrage on good taste in making war
incidents a subject for poor jesting.” This after two
years of jibing at the Boer! But that was another
matter—the Britisher considers himself beyond a joke.
“S.S.”: This last season of the Broughs in Melbourne
convinces me that Robert Brough is not in his real
element in farcical comedy. Brough got much praise for
his work in plays like “The Magistrate,” but he was
almost invariably Poskett in farces of that stamp—the
same Poskett every time. lie is at his best in character
work and superior comedy, and nobody wants to see him
again doing rubbish like “The Brixton Burglary,”where-
in he revived our old friend the magistrate, and ranhim
through a fresh series of trials and tribulations. How
much better his work in “One Summer Day,” “The
Liars,” “Trclawney,” “The Gay Lord,” “Sowing the
W ind —and yet Brough himself was amazed at the
failure of “The Brixton Burglary,” and thought highly
of that new box of old tricks.
The “divine Sarah" Bernhardt was 65 in Oct. last
having been horn in Paris in 18-14. of French and Dutch
parents, both of Jewish extraction.
Thejate Martin Siinonseii was at one time violinist to
the King of Denmark, and, although of late years his
hand had lost his cunning, he certainly was, in his prime,
one of the finest players ever heard here,
himonsen was an unconscious humorist. In Bendigo
M ° nce - , chorus, in the first act of
tne Bohemian Girl,” instead of appearing* as gipsies
caine on dressed as alleged noblemen ; and on the fail of
the curtain the irate Martin rushed on the stage and
wanted to know “ Vot yon mean by coming on like that!
r, on 1 J’ ou know 3’ou should be dressed in rags?” “ But
U V.° ns ! n ’ „" e could not find any other things.”
. ,' at •. J?°. n * tell me 1 no rags ! I got boxes full of
em., I haf more rags den any other man in the profes-
ston M hen business was slack Martin was not chary of
speaking his mmd to his audience, thus virtually abusing
those who did patronise him for the neglect of those who
lle °nce told the Nelson (M.L ) people at the
close of an unsuccessful opera season that next time he
AILn e ho < V' V ? U .i d , bn '£ them a dog-and-tnonkey show.
Also, he hinted broadly that a very inferior dog-and-
monkey show would be down to their level. *
Harry Rickards, after long consideration, has decided
to extend his operations to Adelaide. He has secured a
ong lease of the pretty little Bijou Theatre. A gallery
is to be built and other alterations made, and the theatre
opens as a music-hall next Easter.
“Mc'ficurnian ” : Last evening I went to a sort of
ades sc , h "°! speech night. The little dears, all in white
were seated in a semi-circle on the stage, a large number
of them. In the course of the programme, a young gen-
tieman gave a recitation called “ Me and Maria.” It was
about a newly-married yokel and his wife, who put up at
a fashionaWe London hotel. They went to bed in P t,he
bath, turned the tap to shut off the gas, and brought the
Th°p U h r t d f°' V H ° n , themselves - How everybody laughed!
Ui ***
Clever Fred Storey, remembered in Australia as the
loose-legged dancer of two Gaiety Burlesque companies
has made a name for his Rip Van Winkle performance’
t ‘ lne a ~° 1 1 1 ? played Rip in the comic opera version
wia h n ,hl ™’ and r - va ,! led F, e d Leslie’s success. Lately he
was Ripping again (in Boucicault's drama this tin,eiat
ot van Winkle is off, Tiik Blllktiv supposes The
demand for Dutch heroes on the London stage has dried
(Continued on page Si.)
STRANDED.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
He started off from Sydney with the Scramble-out
Brigade ;
The management was genial, but it hardly ever paid.
They flitted over gullies, and they flitted out of pubs ;
They skidded down the mountains, and they scampered
through the scrubs.
But the road beyond was heavy, over countless miles of
sand—
The road from Bullock Blazes to the Never Never Land.
The man above referred to was a young ambitious chap
Who’d never sounded misery, but lolled in pleasure’s lap.
His future glinted brightly, and his fortune seemed as
made
As he took his first engagement with the Scramble-out
Brigade.
Oh, joy of rushing on to say: “ No, damn me if you do 1”
As the villain tells a woman, “Then, by God, I’ll force
you to 1 ”
It thrilled him at the Gil-ghi Flat, he glowed at Groggy
Creek,
But the scene began to pall on him when done six times a
week.
His artificial fury was a noise, and nothing more,
Which couldn't be convincing even down at Bungendore.
On reaching Jumping Sandhills, where the Mallee hens
are hatched,
They paid him with a promise and they told him he was
“scratched.”
A hundred miles from anywhere the Jumping Sandhills
stand,
And on the road to Nowhere, in the Never Never Land.
He wasn’t only stranded in that distant, barren hell,
Through years of patient agony he ‘ silted up’ as well.
He started trapping rabbits, as a means of livelihood.
And teaching “Little Jim" to kids and cutting billet-
wood.
His hair was grey and scanty when he started back to town
In the blazing days of summer when the wool was going
down,
And lighting out to ‘pad the hoof’ across the waste of
sand,
He cursed the Jumping Sandhills in the Never Never
Land.
NARRINOIII BOORI.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
o, the _ UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during. 1898 ... ...
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... <M
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in-amount of Assurance in force during 1898
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq ML.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.G.I
Hon. CHAb. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and QueulSp *?
STEAM BOILERS
o
&
Vi hj
-'tap
m, :
? , A
i:
l << r
!<*•
(< <
Lancashire, Cornish,
Multitubuiar
and other types.
To standard sizes, or to
special specifications,
Suiting all requirements.
Please state :
HORSE POWER
REQUIRED
and
CLASS OP FUEL.
file Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Clyde Works,
Granville.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Lyne (N.S.W.) Government proposes to
spend £2,016,341 of loan moneys during che present finan-
cial year, so the loan fraud and swindle isn’t growing any
more honest as time goes on. Some of the items are just
as disgraceful as anything ever perpetrated in the
worst days of George Reid. Here are a few samples of the
more or less “ permanent and reproductive” works which
Bill Lyne proposes charging to posterity
Munitions of war .. .. .. .. ..£100,000
Other military expenses .. .. .. ,. 40,550
Thinning forests.. .. .. 10,000
Altering unpaid-for steam trams to electric trams 80,000
do. do. do. .. 65,749
Snagging rivers .. .. „ 13,000
New steamer to replace old one (unpaid for) ... 15,000
Law expenses, &c. (M'Sharry case) ... .. .. 52,500
For Board of Exports .. .. „. .. 100,000
Museums, &e ... .. .. 20,000
Roads, bridges, gaols, &c., &c. .. .. .. 145,000
Repurchase of land, previously sold and proceeds
treated-as revenue 55,500
Every one of these, and many more similar items, are a
gross swindle upon posterity, and another example of
that pitiable cowardice which seems to make it impossible
for the Australian people to honestly face their responsi-
bilities. In particular the £100,000 for ammunition is a
thing which any respectable Ananias might be ashamed
to call “ permanent and reproductive.” It isn’t perman-
ent for it goes off with a bang as soon as the trigger is
touched, and it isn’t reproductive in any sense. Yet
there was hardly a single member honest enough or brave
enough to object to this ghastly item, or to any of the
others like it.
.* » • 9
For the first 5J months of the present financial
year (1st July to 15th December) the Victorian railways
yielded £118,610 more than for the corresponding period
of 1898. There are great hopes, therefore, that this year
will see the Vic. railway deficit lower than it has been for
11 years. In 1886, 1887, and 1889 Vic. railways showed
a handsome profit over working expenses and interest on
capital,' but since then the losses have been on the fol-
lowing cheerful scale:—
1890 .. .. £190,083 I 1895 .. .. £300,445
1891 .. .. 293,032 | 1896 .. .. 493,949
1892 .. .. 379,998 j 1897 .. .. 295,924
1S93 .. .. 283,639 1898 .. ... 374,446
1894 .. .. 292,256 I 1899 .. .. 294,802
Up to 1895 there was very little to choose between the
railway deficits of N.S.W. and Victoria (in fact N.S.W.
showed the worse record as a rule), but since then a
great improvement has set in so far as N.S.W. is con-
cerned, while the over-railwayed province down south
started in 1898 to put up the worst record in its history.
* * * *
The National Bank and the Bank of Victoria
both pay the last instalment of their reconstructed
deposits next March, and thus bring to a close the most
disastrous transaction in their history. Owing to that
truly lamentable re-construction they have, for six years,
been paying 4J per cent, interest on a mass of deposits
which they would otherwise have got for about 3J. Also,
the part of their deposits which was converted into pre-
ference shares has cost them 5 per cent, per annum in
dividends, whereas if there had been no re construction it
would also li we cost only about 31. On a rough estimate
each bank has paid fully £200,1)00 more in interest than it
wou’d have done if there had been no re-construction.
And neither bank had any real need to suspend payment
in ’93—at least, a very small measure of State assist-
ance would have pulled them both through. If the
Patterson Government had had the plain horse-sense
of Dibbs in N.S.W., and rushed a measure through
making bank-notes legal tender, or had authorised an
issue of State legal-tender notes and lent a few millions
of them to the banks, making their repayment a first
charge on the assets—if it bad done anything like this
instead of losing its head and tearing up and down in the
dark, the National and Bank of Victoria would never have
gone under. The ineptitude of the Patterson crowd has
already cost these two institutions fully £200,000 each in
interest ; and probably 1. 1,000,000 in depreciation of
assets, for a vast amount of the depreciation was caused
by the suspensions and the consequent dislocation of
business. Further it will cost them an indefinite amount
in the future by way of dividends on preference capital.
What the Government’s incapacity cost other institutions
and the public generally it is difficult to say. Probably
i. 20,000,000 wouldn’t cover the needless loss, wreckage
and depreciation, all because James Beef Patterson and
Godfrey Carter lost their heads for about a month at a big
crisis.
* * * *
The National Mutual Life Association (Mel-
bourne) finished, on 30th September, 1899, its third year
since the amalgamation with the Mutual of Victoria. The
following is a condensed record of these three years :—
1897. 1898. 1899.
Premiums .. £303,098 £347,417 £362,787
Interest .. 116,763 132,248 136,966
Total Income.. £419,861 £479,665 £499,753
Claims, &c. .. £199,607 £240,447 £222,764
Expenses .. 78,450 86,398 91,059
Written off .. 1,573
Total Outgoings £279,630 £326,845 £313,823
Added to Funds £140,231 £152,820 £185,930
Expenses per
cent, on total
income .. £17 18 0 £17 15 5 £18 4 5
Interest earned
on funds .. £4 17 2 £4 18 2 £4 15 10
Apart from the unfortunate increase in the ex-
pense rate and the unavoidable fall in interest, the re-
port is a good one all round. The National Mutual
shows a steadily-increasing premium and interest
revenue, a decrease in claims, a larger addition to the
funds every year, and a good rate of interest earned on
funds. Its accumulated assurance fund is now £2,951,502,
so another year will evidently see it well past the three-
million mark.
The statement of assets is a very full and com-
plete document, and there is nothing in it to which
serious objection can be taken, always excepting that
dubious item: “Deferred instalments of annual pre-
miums, 1 50,840.” This is arrived at by assuming that
premiums ought to be paid yearly in advance, and if a
policy-holder pays half-yearly or quarterly, and if his
policy dates from, say, the beginning of June, so that
when the society’s year closes on 30th September he lias
only paid half or quarter of next year’s premium, the
remainder of the year’s premium is putin M a debtdue
to the society and consequently as an asset. uctinff
is an asset, for the society makes a practice the Dohcv
any unpaid balance of the year’s premium from the policy
money in case of death. But it isn’t a tanK'We asset «hi,h
the society has actually in hand, and it sn an, asset
which brings in interest. If it were eft °ut altogether
and written off the investment fluctuation fun ,
make the rate of interest earned on the total funds ap-
preciably better. An item of £50,840 which earns noth ng
reduces the average interest considerably. lhe y
Mutual also used to reckon ‘ Deferred instalments of
annual premiums” as an asset. But last year, t y
decided to abandon the practice and to write off the item
by degrees, and the National Mutual would be well-
advised to do the same.
The only other office in Australasia which
almost exactly corresponds to the National Mutual in
size and age is the State Life Department of Maoriland.
The balance-sheet of the latter is due about three months
hence, and apparently both assurance funds will reach
the ±'3,0110,01)0 limit about the same time. the
absorption of the Mutual of Victoria, however,
has given the National Mutual 'a much larger business
than its rival, and its funds are consequently increasing
more rapidly, so unless there is a big boom in the affairs
of the State Department (which does business in one pro-
vince only), the National Mutual (which draws its busi-
ness from seven provinces, also from England and Cape
Colony) appears bound to get ahead. There are two
points especially worth noting: in the comparison between
these two institutions. The National Mutual’s expenses
absorb over IS per cent, of its income; the Maoriland
State Office only uses a little over 14 per cent, in working
expenses. And at the end of last.year the State Depart-
ment, with a business representing ±279,000 a year in
premiums, had a larger assurance-fund than the National
Mutual with a business represented by £347,000 in pre-
miums. The National Mutual is a good, sound, reliable
office, but in some important respects the Maoriland
State institution appears able to keep ahead of all Aus-
tralian rivals of its size and age.
* * * •
J.W.U. (Melbourne): The New York Life In-
surance Co. is the best of those mentioned.
« • . *
The Fourth Victoria Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne), whose financial year closed on 31st
October, 1899, shows further signs of recovery. The re-
sults of recent years have been as follows :
1892 .. Profit £9,916 1896 .. Profit £3520
1893 . „ 1,021 1897 .. „ 2912
1894 .. Loss 33,375 1893 .. „ 3353
1895 .. Profit 2,711 1899 .. „ 4214
In 1894 there was a profit on the year’s actual trading
transactions of £2560, but it was in that year that the
lamentable fact dawned on the institution that it had
made a loss of nearly ±36,000 on properties in possession,
and it was found necessary to write off the reserve-fund,
profit balance, and £28,114 capital. Since then the society
has paid four dividends of 2 per cent, per annum each
(the one declared for 1899 absorbs £2022), thereby
accounting for £7932 ; created a new reserve fund
of £4315 ; and applied £4463 to the further writing
down of properties in possession. As the Fourth
Victoria realises over £4 12s. per cent, per annum gross
on the present alleged value of its assets,_ and the per-
centage is increasing, it would seem as if most of the
losses were now provided for, and the institution was get-
ting near the end of its troubles.
* * * *
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co. (Sydney) begins to get its head above
water again in a small way. The last three years’ profits
have been :
1897 ... £452 I 1899 ... £l4Ol
1898 ... 477 |
The co. is so much inflated over this small gleam of pros-
perity that it pays a dividend of 1J per cent, per annum
(±lO9l) —a thing that hasn’t happened to it for a long
time. The remaining £3lO, added to previous balance of
£5963, leaves £6273 to carry forward. The Haymarket
Co. has a reserve of £33,148, contingency fund of £l5OO,
and accumulated profit balance of £6273 —total reserves
£40,921 ; so, on paper at all events, it occupies a very
strong position. But its assets only yield, even with the
present improved earnings, about 3 per cent, per annum
gross. Deposits have been reduced in the past two years
from £61,872 to ± 54,827, and other liabilities are being
steadily wiped off, so this big land-jobbing institution
appears to have better prospects before it, comparatively
speaking. But the dividend of lj per cent, per annum is
a very comparative affair.
* * * *
The Planet Permanent Building Society (Mel-
bourne), for the year ended 31st October, 1899, reports
that the earnings were £3322, and as the ordinary outlay
for management expenses and interest at 21 per cent, on
the reconstructed deposits was £3415, the co. went £93
to the bad on its ordinary business. In addition, it lost
£5441 by the sale of properties below book value, so it
really went £5534 to the bad, and the accumulated loss
increased from £9783 to £15,317. These results compare
with last year as follows :
Loss On 'r n j- a l T.oss
Income. Expenses. Sale of V" v
Properties. 101 Year '
1898. £3249 £3878 £3lll £3740
1899. 3322 3415 5441 5534
Income is improving a little, and expenses are decreasing,
so it looks as if the Planet might soon be able to meet
ordinary expenses out of earnings. But the Planet’s
assets are obviously in a bad state. They yield about
£2 7s. per cent, per annum gross, and though this is a
great improvement on the ±2 Is. 6d. per cent, realised in
1898, still it appears that, at present values, the alleged
£141,000 worth of securities would probably fetch £BO,OOO
at the outside. Out of £lOO,OOO paid-up capital, £15,317
is already absorbed by accumulated losses, and it seems, on
present values, the other £85,000 is about all absorbed also.
Still, the shareholders have some consolation. Out of their
±lOO,OOO alleged capital, only one-half was paid-up in
cash ; the other £50,000 was profits capitalised in the good
days, and bad as things are the shareholders'may yet
with patience get as much out of the society as they
actually put into it.
* • * *
It is announced that the Citizens’ Life Assur-
ance Co. (Sydney) has offered an annuity of £1 a week
(±52 a year) to the first Australian or Maorilander con-
tingenter who wins the Victoria Cross in the Transvaal.
This liberal offer, in the case of a healthy young Boer-
killer of 25 or so. is equal to a present of about £BOO cash,
and it would be interesting to know if the money is to
come out of the directors’ or manager’s remuneration, or
out of the shareholders’dividends, or out of the profits
accruing to the policy-holders ; and in the latter case have
the policy-holders been consulted and what do they say
about it ?
* • « •
The Australian Mont do Loan and Deposit
Co. (Melbourne) is an institution which shows that even
the pawnhroking business isn’t necessarily too profitable.
Last half-year’s earnings (to 31st October, 1899), after
writing off £5O for wear and tear of office props., were
£893, and an 8 per cent, dividend on the paid-up capital
of ±'21,605 absorbed £864. The concern started business
in 1881, buying up the already-established connection of
one Hyams, and it has just now succeeded at long last in
writing off out of profits the goodwill asset thus created.
It has no reserve fund, and the accumulated profit
balance is only £l6OB. But the most surprising circum-
stance is that the Australian Mont de Pi6t 6 has amort-
gage of £lOOO on its South Melbourne establishment. The
spectacle of an incorporated pawnshop with its own
premises in pawn is something heartrending.
A rather curious little institution, the Town
and County Permanent Investment and Building Society
(Melbourne), publishes its balance-sheet for the year
ended 30th September, 1899. The book-value of the-
total assets is £4631, and the year’s revenue was £259.
The expenses of running the concern were £269, so it
went £lO to the bad on mere trading-, and quite apart
from £998 lost by sales of property below book-values.
This made the year’s loss £lOOB-more than one-fifth of
the society gone in one fell pop. The mistake seems to
be in keeping the Town and County Permanent Invest-
ment and Building Society in an office instead of in a tea-
cup. If some other institution could be persuaded to-
take it over, and run it in the office-boy’s spare time at a.
cost of not over t'so a year, it looks as if it could pay 3:
per cent, dividends to shareholders, and have £5O a year
over to write off depreciation with. And for a tea-cup
institution that wouldn’t be so very bad.
* * » •
The Vic. tobacco-growing industry this year
scored its direst failure up to date. Fifty hogsheads of
leaf, specially chosen by Government expert (Bondurant),
were shipped some months ago, to test the same old Lon-
don market which had previously snorted at Victorian
’baccy, the result being the same old 3d. a pound for the
pick of the shipment, and no market at all for the
balance. Bondurant is throwing up his billet this month,
for a more promising job in the West Indies, and there
doesn’t seem to be a keen political demand for another
expert. Even the prediction that this blue-mouldy
industry would end in smoke is falsified. The contents
of the 50 hogsheads will be mostly boiled down into soup
for the destruction of insects.
* ♦ * *
Somebody writes to the Age re Victorian tobacco
growing—“ For two years we have had no tobacco crop to
be cured according to the Bondurant or any other method.
The price of hops is so discouraging that growers are giv-
ing that up, and if the local tobacco market is cleared they
will grow tobacco, which by the way, is this year entirely
free from blue mould, and the plants look strong and
healthy. This will be the first clean crop grown from
seed bed to harvest since the Govt. Expert arrived,
and, if he is permitted to leave the province now
when his work is only beginning, the Vic. growers
will be thrown back once more upon their old
methods of cultivation and curing, and the work
done up to this date entirely lost.” From the pessimists’
point of view, the Age correspondent condemns his own
cause. Expert Bondurant came to Victoria three-and-a-
half years ago, and in the meantime two crops of tobacco-
have gone wrong, notwithstanding that he has per-
sistently preached the principles of successful growing
and conducted an experimental farm where the results
were no better than in other places. As for the present
crop it has been lucky thus far in escaping hot winds,
but vvhen the hot winds and other ordinary summer
calamities happen to it, it will probably go wrong as
usual; and even if it doesn’t go wrong there is surely
little left for Mr. Bondurant to teach the growers. The
grower who has failed to learn how to pick, clean, and
cure tobacco leaves on Bondurant’s system after three-
and-a-half years of verbal and practical instruction should
retire from the business and turn his mind to turnips.
• • * *
N.S. Wales P.M.-G. Crick would confer a boon
on the local public by the introduction of Id. postal-letter
cards. The extra damns the sale of the present
card, whereas the one-brown letter-card would swell the
coffers of the Postal Dept, and greatly popularise Crick.
• m «* #
The average mining fields, and especially the
fields way-back, know from experience what theuitlander
is after; and so they summed up the S. African situation
promptly. And a violently-Jingo paper prints this from
White Cliffs (Sleath’s stronghold !) —“ Sympathy here is
with the Boers.” Curiously in Westralia the goldfielders’
sympathy with their fellow-uitlanders leads crowds of
them to applaud the idea of sending a contingent to shoot
the foreign ’Gropers. They must ease their feelings
somehow.
• • • •
Apropos White Cliffs opal-mining and the re-
cent wholesale dismissal of tributors, and the lately-
published statement that “ leakage” is at the bottom of
the trouble : “ leakage ” is not quite at the bottom, but
it is down that wav. The trouble really began with the
history of the field—and that history is worth telling,
first because it is absolutely unique, and then because
White Cliffs itself is one of the most interesting fields and
one of the least known in Australia. Eight or nine years
ago opal was found on a droughty western station, miles
from anywhere, by some Wilcannia people. They knew
nothing about mining, and all they knew about opal was
that it was worth a bit. Whether it made into lodes at
depth or bubbled up in springs they didn't know ; but
they pegged out 40-acre blocks on the off-chance. The
Mines Department knew just about as little of opal (it
had never been worked in the province) and granted the
leases! Of course, it was soon discovered that the
country ought to have been treated like an alluvial gold-
field ; but it was too late then—the pick of the country
was leased. The leaseholders were poor men, and so put
on tributors as the speediest way of making a rise. They
did not know what the stone was worth, and so were at
the mercy of the one or two buyers who were
in the business, and had no regular outlet for
surplus stones; and for their part the tributors,
knowing even less of the value of opal, were
at the mercy of the leaseholders. Now, after six
or seven years, the older diggers are as good judges of the
market-value of the gem as the buyers ; and when they
compare what they now know was the real market-
value of the stone they raised in the early davs with
the prices which they actually got for it, they are the
maddest men between here an'd Albany. Scores of them
say quite openly, “No ; So-and-So (or perhaps the co.)
‘had’me for three or four hundred ‘quid’ (opal was
plentiful then), and I’ve got to make it up somehow"—
though, as a matter of fact, somebody “had” the Aus-
tralian dealer, who also possibly “ had ” the leaseholder,
so that the digger certainly was not the only sufferer.
And, further, there is a much better market for the stone
to-day than there was six or eight years ago. It is a fact,
anyhow, that there is a great deal of “cronk stuff”—
stolen—about the field ; and though leading buyers will
not have anything to do with the business directly they
buy it indirectly, since dozens of diggers are themselves
also dealers. And there’are other buyers who have
practical men, tired of hard graft, in their regular pay,
with instructions to hang round pub. parlors and “do
in ” all the “ cronk stuff ” offering.
The opal is got in almost any kind of country—
in ironstone, clay, and sandstone, and even in quartz—
and at depths of from a few inches to about 60ft. A man
sinks a pot-hole ; if he finds gem-stone, or “ potch ” (un-
colored opal) at, say, 20ft., he drives that hole in any
direction, following the opal or “ potch ” along. When
he has worked out his tribute-block (say 100 ft. square) at
that level, he may sink again, and at 40ft. may find more.
Then the groping begins again. Sometimes men work
for months without seeing a sign of gem. The lease-
holders (most of the best leases are held by the English
co.) don’t direct operations in any way ; a* man simply
looks around once a week or so. Gem may have been got
but the co. has no proof of it. No timbering is done ;
most of the ground is a sort of soapstone. Some day
there will be serious “ caves.” Already there have been
one or two. When a man gets tired of one hole or block,
he quits it; but it remains his so long as he doesn't put
in a pick elsewhere. When he does that, hole and all (as
on an alluvial field) belong to the first comer that has a
fancy that way. When the opal is got it is taken to the
office. Sometimes the “office ’’ buys it; but if the price
offered doesn’t suit, the tributer may take it elsewhere
bringing to the office a certificate of the buyer that he has
given so much. The system of working—and, in fact all
the other arrangements—are crude ; and that up to i5OO
men could have been employed there without more
trouble than actually has arisen is almost a marvel.
* • * •
The S W. districts of W.A., adjoining Jno.
Forrest s beloved Bunbury, are about to have their boom.
Good seams of coal have been opened at Collie, there are
inexhaustible forests of karri and jarrah, and tin has now
been proved to extend more or less from Greenbushes to
the Donnybrook field, which last looks like being a big
gold-producer.
•.•. • • *
In consequence of Zeb. Lane’s transactions in
Murchison shows and the probable booming of the dis-
trict prior to the flotations which he contemplates in
Europe, the fashion now is to secure Murchison options.
Numerous claims which had been more or less abandoned
have been taken in hand ; and in some cases the early
birds have snapped up winding plants and batteries for a
mere song. Work on tribute mostly follows.
* • * *
London financial papers are often much
funnier for being five weeks old when they arrive in Aus-
tralia. About that time the “ Bear ” attack on the Lake
View Consols commenced. “ Moses Moss,” of Truth,
who always fights for “Bulls,” referring to the “ Bear”
squeeze said : “ The shares have gone from £2o£ to £23,
and I have every reason to anticipate a further important
advance, and there are many who say they are going to
£3O. Here is a co. paying diys. at the rate of £4 per
share per annum, or 400 percent., which at the present
price works out at 17 per cent, with every prospect of
this distribution being maintained.” He also published
a letter to show that a well-informed man has run the
rule over the Lake View bonanza and finds it to contain
15,886 tons of marvellously rich rock, while less than
3000 tons had been taken away. The writer wonders
what “ M.M.” is saying now that the shares, instead of
rising to £3O have fallen to £l5. Will he kick himself or
engage some able-bodied person to do it for him ? “ Moses
Moss” must write himself down as an ass and not a suc-
cessful tipster. He says of the notorious Peak Hill :
“ These have been quietened down to £6 155., but they
will probably take a very sudden jump shortly. They
have taken it—downwards—unfortunately for “M.M.”
They are now standing at £5 10s., a loss of another 255.
per share for his followers if he has any.
* * • *
W.A. November gold production (official
figures), 133,1260 z.
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining: and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• * • »
The early-day tip was that the Iron Duke was
going to be one of the big things of Kalgoorlie; and they
took over a high-grade Broken Hill man to develop it.
So far, little but shaft-sinking has been done, and that
leisurely if elaborately; but now, on the discovery of a
big low-grade sulphide body, the new Associated Northern
Blocks Co. is shaking things up, and the next few months
ought to show what the three or four already-discovered
formations are stuffed with.
* * * *
Diehl, metallurgist in charge of the Brownhill
works, Kalgoorlie, is attempting to treat sulphides by
amalgamation, concentration, and cyanidation of battery
residues without preliminary roasting, and his experi-
ments are keenly watched.
* * * •
Apropos the Ministerial exemption given to a
mine near Warwick (Q.), in which several important
politicians are concerned, against the Warden’s recom-
mendation, Brisbane Worker is confirmed in the
opinion that Premier Philp “ is the biggest schemer since
Mollwraith.”
* * * *
When two or three Australians foregather, their
first impulse is to have a drink, and the second to ask
Govt, for a grant. They do it instinctively. The out-
skirts of the great dredging boom having just reached
Charters Towers, and every available gutter for 100 miles
around being pegged out, and, of course, duly exempted,
a meeting of interested speculators was called. It was
moved (1) that those present form themselves into an
association and subscribe 2s. 6d. per member (presumably
for drinks) ; (2) That Govt, be asked to purchase and in-
stal a dredge on some area to test the whole spec.
Carried unanimously. In the meantime, and while Govt
is being harassed for cash, the unwary traveller smashes
his shins on the pegs that fairly bristle all over the coun-
try. And any man who hasn’t any shares in a tin or gold-
dredging venture is a very mediaeval person indeed.
Apparently the hitherto self-reliant mining industry has
succumbed at last to the tired feeling that make one look
in Australia for the fabled land of the lotus-eater.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Bough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies;
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLI.NKR,
and particulars apply 80-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
m
W'.&i
feSmoke“.p‘Sr
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.,—Sydney.
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
E laced an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
ltd.. South Melbourne, to build a pair of compound con-
densing: engines of 700 h.p. to drive their extensive mill-
ing: plant. These engines will be of the latest type, with
Proell valve gear; the flywheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes, and weighs upwards of 22 tons ; and
the total weight of engine will be 85 tons. The engines
are to be completed by the end of the year and will be
the finest ami largest plant on the field. Three engines
under construction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie
Goldfields have an aggregate of 1800 horse power.*
• * * *
Monet, Ist July, 1809: — “In eleven years the
accumulations of the Colonial Mutual have been sufficient
to bring the total up to something over 2J millions. No
more striking testimony to the high-class management
could be desired.’’*
• • • •
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for ail
classes of mining plant*
* • • *
The United Brothers gold mine, situated at
Glen Wills, about 25 miles from Omeo, Gippsland, has an
improved appearance, and even better things are looked
for as deeper ground is reached. The mine possesses an
up-to-date mill. The stone is conveyed automatically to
hopper, thence to Gate’s Crusher and on to 20 head of
stamps of the A.T. B. pattern. A small but complete
plant of Luhrig Vanners and Classifiers treats the battery
tailings and continues to win a large percentage of valu-
able concentrates, which are a satisfactory source of
revenue to the co. This Luhrig plant was supplied and
erected under contract by Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere,
606 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
• • • •
The contract entered into last year by Mephan
Ferguson for the supply of his patent rivetless or locking,
bar pipes to the South Australian Government having
been completed, Mr. Ferguson is now removing portion
of the Adelaide machinery to Western Australia, in order
to increase the output of pipes for his Coolgardie Water
Supply contract. IJe is at present delivering about 400
tons of pipes per week, but expects to more than double
this quantity when the additional plant is started. Mr.
Ferguson has just left for London by the Orient steamer
Oruba to arrange with the manufacturers for larger de-
liveries of plates and bars.*
* * • *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &a, &c.*
• • • •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, _ “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part ;of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Ny. Markv/ald,
Sydney;
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“Day Dawn Gold Mines, Ltd., Charters
Towers, Oct, sth., 1899. Your agent sold us one of Bil-
lett’s Patent TuyOres some ten months ago. It has been
m constant work ever since and has given every satisfac-
tion, and I consider it by far the best article of its kind
which has been introduced here. (Signed) R. Kirkbride,
mining manager.” Write to W. Dewhirst, Broughton
Lane, Sydney, for list of agents.*


SOCIETY
Ifc is a common jibe ajvinst the hysterical
French that, whenever a military disaster strikes
them, they raise the wail, “We are betrayed.”
Notably when they had lost 60,000 men in the
early battles of the Franco-German war this
dolorous cry was loud all over the land. Appar-
ently the Australian is built on much the same
pattern. When General Gatacre lost less than
1000 men at Stormberg the lament arose in large
ink on almost every newspaper-bill in this
country: “ General Gatacre trapped,” “Gatacre
Betrayed,” &c. Two days later it appeared that
there was no certainty about any betrayal.
WHEN HE LOST
HEART.
“ Now, Major , did you never wish yourself
well out of an engagement? ”
“ Only once, ma’am, and that was in a little
affair with a widow.”
Gataore merely put his faith in a policeman-
guide, who was to lead him to where the Boer
army was looated, and the way was long, and the
men were dog-weary, and the Boers. were there
more suddenly than was expected when they
arrived—and, of course, the policeman led a lot, of
Gatacre’s men to quod. It is the way of police-
men.
• * * *
New South Wales has already got back in
fines and liquor-duties a part of the money spent
on. its Contingent. The news of the latest
British reverse came to hand on Saturday, and on
Monday morning about 30 more drunks and
assaults than usual came up at the police-court.
The story was much the same in each case. The
patriot who was full of whisky said Buller was
a blamed fool for not making a strategic move-
ment by Cairo and Khartoum and taking Burger
in the rear. Then the patriot who was full of beer
drew a map of North America on the pave-
ment, and showed that if Buller hadn’t been
a very great fool he would have gone round by
Timbuctoo, with his base resting on South
America, and his left flank protected by the guns
of Gibraltar, and struck Burger, on the right
flank, just below the ear. And at this point
a third patriot generally chipped in and pointed
out that Peter Jackson would have hit Burger
straight on the point. Then the three patriots
fell on each other on top of the map, and fought a
demoniac shindy till the police came along.
* * * *
Interesting cablegram :
The terrible effects of tbe lyddite shells were demon-
strated during the recent engagement at Magersfontein
between Lord Methuen ’s Kimberley relief column and the
Boers under General Cronje. The shock of the exploding
shells accounted for many of the enemy, who were found
standing up dgad in the trenches during the night.
Possibly the Dutchman has such large feet that if
he dies lying down he immediately falls up into a
standing position. If his feet are larger than his
body he would naturally fall on to the longest
part of him.
The English papers were not slow devising
a means to turn an honest penny out of the war.
The latest scheme is the issue of regular bulletins
to subscribers. “For 6d. per day the subscriber
receives one message of 12 words (including
address); for Is. 6d. a day a service of three
messages, if news of sufficient interest is received;
■or he may deposit a sum of money and leave it to
our discretion to send important news as it arises.”
Bulletins are dispatched at 12 noon, 5 p.m. and
7 p.m. The first man to avail himself of the
innovation was a shopkeeper, who wished to stick
fresh war news in the window to attract people,
who might thereby be induced to notice the fact
that he was selling herrings much cheaper than
any other shopkeeper in the street.
All told, there are now just eight men
resident at G-undaroo, N.S.W. ; _ and all
but one are J's.P.
NO FRESH BREW.
Sarah, of the way-back pub. (to Mr. Sorfstuff
who never touches poisonous liquors, and has
asked for a cup of tea with dinner and hopes
he won’t be troubling her too much): “ Oh,
it ain’t no trouble, fur I alius makes enough
in the mornin’ to last all day. It only
wants biling up agin, an’ at most a little
water added; yer can ’ave it whenever yer
wants.”
Jingoism is humorless indeed ! In the
South Australian Assembly last week somebody
implored the Govt, to discover the “ villain ” who
had fooled the local Stock Exchange with a tele-
gram announcing “Relief of Ladysmith—6ooo
Boers captured.” In consequence of this tele-
gram the jobbers went forth on the burst, and
they will not feel happy until the iniquitous
joker has paid for the drinks with his life, or 10
years penal servitude at the least. It is an awful
thing to play larks upon the Himperial sentiment
of a Stock Exchange.
* * * *
A recently-departed military person seems
to have left a good many financial liabilities
behind him in one of the
Australian provinces.
PARENTAL PRIDE.
Irate Neighbor: “See here, that boy of yours
has broken five panes of glass at my place,
killed my cat, set my fowl-house afire,
blackened my son’s eye”
Proud Father : “So Johnny has done all this,
has he, and him only six years of age—six
years, sir !”
They have a quaint old mad woman at
Carlton, Vic. She is small and perfectly wizened
and dressed quaintly in frocks of many colors and
numerous bits and pieces. Wherever she goes she
is accompanied by a dog, or at least she accom-
panies the dog, and her confidence in
that small wall-eyed tyke is the
peculiar characteristic of her mad-
ness. The dog leads, she follows,
and if she starts out to go across
the way her ever getting there
depends entirely upon the pup.
She trots after the dog in all his
devious windings, and often fetches
up, exhausted, in unheard-of places,
and has twice been caught wading in
the sea in devout emulation of
the responsible dog. The
sight of a little old woman
jigging exuberantly up
and down, playing fol-
low-my-leader to an ec-
centric, bob-tailed terrier
has ceased to be a novelty
in her own neighborhood,
but in other suburbs she
draws great crowds, and is
frequently seen with a
frenzied, unwavering optic
glued on the dog, and fol-
lowed rapturously in her
wild career by three day-
schools and about five hundred
unemployed. '
. *■ *
Under N.S.W. Licen-
sing Act the widow of a
publican must obtain per-
mission to “carry on.”
The latter legal expres-
sion being generally
synonymous with amorous
intrigue, the bench and the
•' solicitors get an opportunity to
display their small-beer wit.
“The British have been repulsed at every
point except Arundel,” cabled Agent-General
Reeves to his Govt. And the same day—to make
the tally complete—came news that the British
had been repulsed at Arundel. The “ embattled
farmers ” have beaten, one after the other, every
British general brought against them.
* * * *
A Balmain (Sydney) father was sevSrely
rebuked in court the other day because he chained
up his small son as a punishment for playing the
wag. Strange how opinions change. In a very
moral book (the “Fairchild Family ”), written by
a lady too, a very kindly father of two or three
generations ago is represented punishing his off-
spring by taking him at nightfall to see the cor-
rupting body of a murderer hanging on a gibbet.
A certain amount of starvation and locking-up
were included in the programme, but these were
too trifling to be dilated upon.
* * * •
Birth advfc. from the Wellington (M.L.)
Evening Post :
Browne.— On sth December, at Wellington, the wife
of M. J. Browne, elected a daughter. No more.
Query : Is the little elected Browne no more, or
have the old Brownes taken this opportunity of
informing their friends and the public of their
determination' to abstain hereafter from helping
to supply the greatest want of their young country
—population ?
The King’s School, Parramatta,
which assumes new dimensions under
the design of Architect Blacket, was
founded by the authority and at the ex-
pense of the British Govt. It was
christened, not King’s School, after Gov.
King, but The King’s School, after the
then King of England The first head-
master arrived in 1831, and for a time the
attendance was small. But if the boys
were few the chapel of the building held
many worshippers, as the imprisoned
convicts were sent there for Sunday ser-
vice. This is the third great architectural
change the historic old school has under-
gone. The headmasters were almost all
distinguished men, even outside the
bounds of their special profession.
Among them was the Rev. W. B.
Clarke, the Australian geologist.
G. E. Ardill’s anxiety to get
permanently on N.S.W. Estimates for his
Home of Hope should not be taken as a
sufficient reason for putting him there.
_ When the late Royal Commission on
Charities asked him what preparation
> he had made for fires in his establish-
ment, Ard ill replied : “ Personally, per-
haps, I take a stand that most folks do
not —I think that by trusting in God in
most of these matters we secure deliverance.”
Let him trust in the same way for a salary.
In the theatre gallery ’Arry’s best girl
solaces her thirst with microby lemonade and is at
peace. Down below, female aristocracy shudder-
ingly repudiates chocolates done up with blue
ribbon, and gets nothing better. Curious that
while man rushes out in a body to the bar at every
interval, woman manages to survive the three
hours of martyrdom without wetting a lip. All
the same, it is a wonder no enterprising manager
has thought of proffering ice-creams round among
the Nicest on hot nights. Seems to me he would
earn gratitude, likewise half-crowns.
THE VULTURE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When gaily in the morning
The flags of battle flew,
And trumpet-notes gave warning
Of bloody work to do,
Above that host unquailing,
With scarce a beat of wing,
A baleful bird was sailing—
’Twas the Vulture King.
He heard the bugles calling ;
He heard the soldiers cheer;
He saw the front ranks falling,
Linesman and cannoneer—
Around him sailed the others
In grim and gruesome ring—
“ Good feasting here, my brothers 1 ”
Said the Vulture King.
Some fought to make a story
Immortal —for a day—
And load themselves with glory ;
The rest, they fought for pay.
The red blood ran like’water
Down creeks in days of Spring—
“ For us is all this slaughter ! ”
Quoth the Vulture King.
Blood-mad like Berserk Norsemen
On death the squadrons dashed ;
The long swords of the horsemen
Like summer lightnings flashed ;
The fight in many an eddy
Did backward, forward swing.
“ Now let your beaks be ready ! ”
Said the Vulture King.
Like leaves that on the wind drift
In winter, phantoms pale
Flew past; they flew like spindrift
Before a shrieking gale.
The smoke above the battle
Rose thickly ring on ring—-
“ Men taste as well as cattle ! ”
Said the Vulture King.
The Boer fought not coldly
For Freedom, as he thought;
The Britisher as boldly
For Rhodes and Empire fought.
Both sides found red sepulture—
Their friends hosannas sing—
“ This War is for the Vulture”
Said the Vulture King.
When ended is the quarrel,
The butchery complete,
O, some shall wear the laurel,
And some the worms shall eat:
But, be who may the winner,
It is a dead-sure thing—
A table’s spread for dinner
For the Vulture King.
CRKEVE ROR
A COOL CUSTOMER
>~SUIVIIVIER ATTIRE.
Washing and Lounge Sacs
and Trousers.
In White or Fawn Khaki ... 14/6
Fancy Flannels, 21/6, 28/6, 32/6, 38/6
Fancy' Flannels (Double-breasted
Sac) 35/-
Fancy Stripped Linens SO/-, 35/-
Assani Silk 35/-, 40/-
Fpr
Evening l l'ear.
Dinner Jackets (silk-faced)... 45/
Black Worsted Trousers ... 21/
Vests.
Fancy and White Duck
6/6, 7/5, 10/6
Fancy and Colored Cashmere
8/6,10 6,12 6
Men’s Lounge Sacs.
Black Alpaca 12/6
Colored Alpaca 8/6
China Silk 14/6,18/6, 25/
White Duck} cotton ... 7/6
Russia Crash 10/6
Men’s Trousers.
Fancy Tweeds ... 8/6, 10/6,12/6
White Serge ... 11/6,12 6,16/6
White Duck ... 6/6, 8/6
Russia Crash ... 7/6 .
FIRST QUALITY Ready-made
EXTRA QUALITY Ready-made
SPECIAL QUALITY Ready-made
Men’s Orient Suits ... 35/
Men’s Orient Suits ... 40/
Men’s Orient Suits ... 45/-
> DAVID JONES & COMPANY, Orient Clothiers,
George & Barrack
Streets, jSyduey.
HARRINGTON & CO. L“
are -REVOLUTIONISING the ]?ASHION of
IPNOTOGRAPNYi
MiiWWOi
Over a Hundred Varieties of Cameras
FROM
*)/» 21/-, 24/-, 25/-, 30/-, 37/6, 47/6, 50/-, right up to £5O
Even the ss. Outfit is capable of taking nice photos
(2J x2\ inches, as an inspection of genuine specimens
at our warehouse will show.
Inspection Invited. Expert Assistants. Dark Room Free.
Send for our New Camera List.
Sydney: - 66 King Street.
Brisbane: 34 Queen Street.
Melbourne Agents—Craven & Co., 179 Collins Street. Agents in every Colony.


The Queen will not this Xmas leave
Windsor Castle, says the cable. It’s an ill war
that blows no good to anyone. Premier Salisbury
and other old and decrepit personages will be
spared the trouble of journeying all the wajr to
Scotland every time their Gracious Sovereign
wants ten minutes with them.
THE REWARD OF BRAVERY.
“ But I thought you was engaged to Jim."
“ So I was, but he went off with the contingent.”
Adelaide Chronicle reports in all appar-
ent seriousness that a patriarchal stone-breaker,
aged 90, was charged before Chief-Justice Way
with passing bogus coin, and was sentenced to a
year in gaol, the Judge saying that prisoner was
“ old enough to know better,” and that he hoped
the crumbling ruin would follow some honest em-
ployment when he came out. Next case was that
of a man aged 67 who had tried to cut short his
bright young life by suicide. He got a sentence
of six months and a severe warning to “act better
in the future.” Little stumpy Samuel’s fatherly
manner towards these badly-brought-up old men
is touching. But surely there should be some age
at which suicide is allowable. When a man has
given Australia 67 years’ trial and found it all
dust, he ought to be allowed to act on his matured
judgment and leave. Not being rich enough to
leave by mailboat, the only other vehicle to leave
by was death.
J * * * *
Plaintiff, a lady butcher, the other day
sued a N.S.W. resident for damages. In course
of her examination
wherein she had
and if her busi-
suffered. “Oh,”
fell off a side of
sheep.”
she was asked
’sustained loss,
ness in any way
replied she, “ I
beef and six
An interesting example of law as opposed
to justice came before Judge Edwards in M.L. a
little while ago, in a will case. Testator left his
property in shares to his widow and children, and
a plea was put forward that a share be allowed to
another child whose claim to citizenship is yet in
the future. The plea, however, was disallowed,
so in a short while the curious sight will be seen of
four children enjoying their father’s wealth with
all its educational advantages, and the fifth, for no
particular reason, an absolute pauper. Considering
this posthumous child cannot by any possibility
have annoyed its father in any way —for instance,
it cannot have refused to marry the girl its father
wanted it to, or taken to the turf or any of the
courses which are popularly supposed to have a bad
effect on paternal grey hairs, there seems no reason
why Baby Collins should be so severely punished
for happening on the scene rather later than his (?)
brothel's and sisters. Evidently, M.L. and this
country badly want a law which shall correct
such mistakes, and which shall also step in and
undo the effect of greed, malice, or religions
mania. The idea that a man has a right to dis-
pose of his own property just as he likes seems
deeply imbedded in the public mind. So, by the
way, was once that other idea that he could thrash
his own wife whenever he felt disposed.
• * * *
The election of Mauger, the water apostle,
for Footscray, has already brought grief to one
member of the Bung brigade. After the poll, a man
strolled into a Brunswick hotel, and said affably,
“ I see this ’ere bloke Magger got in for Footscray
all light.” “ Magger nothin’,'” said O’Bung,
“ It’s Morger ye mane.” The discussion proceeded
till at last the customer said disgustedly, “Oh, it’s
no good argin’ with an iggerant Irishman.” Then
O’Bung was over the counter, and the other man
lost three teeth and gained a black eye in five
seconds. Next day O’Bung paid a fiver for his
fun, but he’s likely to be an authority on the
English language in future—in his own bar, at
any rate.
* * * *
Vandemonia is now the reverse of what it
was 60 years ago. Tenderness of heart and con-
sideration for prisoners on the part of the
authorities have taken the place of tenderness of
the back and inconsiderate curses on the part of
the convicts. A few days ago a Sandy Bay milk-
man was tried in Hobart for bigamy. His sister
wrote from Sydney to say he was mad, and his
wife (the first one) sent to the prisoner’s lawyer
to ask him to tell the judge that the prisoner
wasn’t a bad sort, and as soon as he came out of
gaol she’d take him to her arms again. She
wanted him back at the earliest convenient time.
“ He’s been in gaol three months,” said lawyer
Ball, “ and I’d suggest your Honor should give
him three months and a little more, so that he
may spend his Christmas with his wife and five
children.” “I’ll make it four months from his
committal,” proposed the judge. “Oh, then,
he’ll spend Christmas in gaol !” said Ball. “All
right,” responded the judge, “I’ll make it ten
days.” Then the lawyer had another application
to make : “I hope they won’t shave him or cut
his hair, your Honor?” Of course it wouldn’t
look nice to go home for Christmas with stubble
face and gaol crop. But the judge only grinned,
and the gaoler bundled the bigamist down below.
* * * *
Panton, P.M., did a neat piece of cross-
examination at Melbourne City Police Court last
week. A man, charged with obtaining money by
means of a valueless cheque, elected to give evi-
LOGICALLY REASONED OUT.
Intoxicated Gent: “Ye shee, it’sh thish way, I've forgotten—hie—my name. Name on collar'sh
quite ill — hic—legi—hic—blc. Can’t find envelope addressed to me in pocketsh. I belongsh to
firm of—hie—can’t remem-em-bersh names of other two flersh. But one of ush was drowned
this morning , an’ I can’t remembersh if it wash me or not. I asked at hie morgue if it
wash me an’ they didn’t know; an’ I didn’t know whether to go home or go to shemetcry, sho
I came to shemetery on spec. For if it wash me that wash drowned , an I went home , it zoould
be most inconshiderate conduct to rclativesh.
dence on his own behalf. He stated that if the
cheque was valueless, he was innocent of felonious
intent, as he had obtained it from another man
named Williams in payment of an old debt.
Panton : “ Did Williams say from whom he got
the cheque?” “Yes, he got it in payment for
work done.” “Do you know his employer?”
“No.” “ Does his employer know you ? ” “No.”
“ Well, how is it that the cheque is made payable
to your order ? ” Collapse of witness. Result —
one month.
Letter from a Lancer published in northern
N.S.W. paper:—
We have had our first day in South Africa at about SO
miles from Capetown at a town named above, if you can
only pronounce it. What an experience we have had,
and only landed about 24 hours. This morning, about 9
o’clock, we saw about 30 blackfellows, South African
natives, getting flogged. My word, they got it properly,
they were tied across a log stark naked, and the strongest
and ablest men were chosen to use the whip. Each got
from a dozen to two dozen apiece. All the Lancers saw
the performance. I have often heard of poor devils
getting flogged, but little did I think we would ever
see anything like what we saw this morning. How they
did sing out. When the flogging was finished a tinful of
brine was obtained, and about a pint was poured over
each one’s back. Whilst the flogging was going on they
had about 300 other fellows watching the performance,
and they were told if they caused any disturbance in the
night they would be dealt with in a similar manner. The
boss over them asked them if they understood and each
one said “Oh ! yes boss, we know.” A disturbance had
arisen the previous night and one of their mates was
badly handled—nearly killed in fact. I think he must
die, and if he dies three of these fellows are to be shot.
The cruelty of the Boers towards the local nigger
is one of the strong points in the case against
Kruger’s crowd, yet it would seem as if the life of
the Cape Colony nigger isn’t unadulterated beer
and skittles either.
* * • *
Apropos the recent disappearance of a
highly-trusted Victorian solicitor and its lament-
able results, “ Yamba ” writes to The Bulletin :
The man’s victims include dozens of people who are
now reduced from comfort to beggary. The horror with
which I view these crimes dates from three years ago,
when I became acquainted with the persona? of the fol-
lowing obscure tragedy: A man, his wife, and four
children and a grandmother were living in comfort on an
income of about £2 10 per week, the. result of 40 years, of
hard work and careful saving. The agent for the in-
vested money—the father had retired from business—
was a boornster who is now in gaol, and one morning the
family discovered that its whole little fortune had been
s vept away. The shock was coo much for the father,
aged 60, and in a fortnight he was taken to Kew Asylum,
where he is now. The wife’s health then gave way, and
she had to go to hospital. The four children were left
with the grandmother, aged 81, who, keeping her poverty
to herself, sold article after article from the house to buy
food. A philanthropic friend of mine who visited the
sick wife was asked by her to look up the children, and
when she did she found the house stripped of everything
but a few bags. Even the beds were gone, and the old
dame and the four children were huddled together,
clothed in rags, in a corner. We got them blankets at
once, and when the wife grew better we bought her a
sewing-machine ; and by working 16 hours a day she
keeps the family in food and clothes. And now, when I
hear of cases like that trusted solicitor’s, I feel that for
once I would like to be either Judge or jury.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent:—
A strange thing happened in connection with the
remains of an old woman who died at Balmain, Sydney,
the other day. The body was coffined, and, at night,
candles were iit about the corpse. Some 30 neighbors,
mostly women, sat in the room and gossiped. At mid-
night a candle suddenly went out, and a bird flew in
through the open window and settled on the quenched
candle. There it sat the whole night long with its eyes
fixed upon the corpse. Nobody disturbed it and it took
no notice of the visitors to the chamber of death. It said
nothing, not even “ Nevermore ! ” Daybreak saw it still
sitting on the candle and it was perched there when the
undertaker arrived at 2.30 p.m. When the coffin, how-
ever, was closed and carried out of the room, the bird
shot through the window and was lost to view. The
people of Balmain are, just now, more concerned over
that mysterious bird than they are over news from South
Africa or anything else.
A picturesque story, but lacking in detail. What
kind of bird was it that roosted on the candle
which “suddenly went out,” and “sat the whole
night with its eyes on the corpse ? ” The Bulle-
tin would much like to cross-examine say half-a-
dozen of that party of 30 neighbors—mostly tunned
Murphy, no doubt.
* * • •
The Supreme Court Judges in Tasmania
don’t go on circuit like Judges in other places,
and a queer instance of what happens under the
Tassy system occurred last week in Hobart. A
man was sent from Queenstown, on the West
Coast, to stand his trial for an attempt to steal
two bottles of Usher’s whisky in a village pub.
With him were shipped the police inspector of
the place and 12 witnesses for the prosecution or
defence. “Her Majesty’s Solicitor-General,” the
Hon. Alfred Dobson, Q.C., &c., &c., came down
in a wig and silk gown to proseeute the hardened
monster of iniquity, and the Hon. W. W. Perkins,
M.L.C., &c., &c., appeared in wig and gown- to
grapple with the indictment and move the jury to
tears—or whisky and water. The senior Puisne
Judge of the Supreme Court of Tasmania sat on
the bench in state, and the sheriff, in evening
dress (though it was before lunch) sat beneath the
Judge—suggestive of a speedy execution. Then
the jury found the prisoner not guilty, and as the
attempt to steal two bottles of grog was the only
case on the calendar, the great legal machine
resolved itself into its constituent elements once
more.
DESOLATION—IN EIGHT LINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beneath the pepper-trees,
I kissed her brow :
Ambrosial was the breeze
Beneath the pepper-trees;
But night came on—and please,
I’m sorry now
Beneath the pepper-trees
I kissed her brow.
MILKY WHITE.
FOR BEDUTY'S SAKE
THERE’S never a castle-tower so stbep
Nor the breath of her guns so warm
But, if Beauty lay bound in herdun'geon-keep,
The cowards of earth would storm ;
Not a barrier built in the bounds of Time,
Not a charge in the lists of Life,
But a man would dare, but a man would climb,
Were Beauty to crown the strife !
There’s never a ’chaser too»wild to steer—
-1 One touch of her hand to earn ;
There’s never a fence for ajnan to fear
If Beauty shall watch at the turn ;
And heavy the quest will a man take up,
However so light the need,
If Beauty will fill him his stirrup-cup
And kiss him his last God speed !
By height and hollow a man may ride,
By river and ridge and plain,
But Beauty will beckon and Love will guide
Till he win to her feet again.
Beauty’s the toast! Be she dark or fair,
Wherever her witch-spell lies
We shall fight for a lock of her golden hail
Or a glance of her dear brown eyes.
WILL ODILVIE
Nature’s remedy for Nature’s iIIs—ZETZ
SPA WATER, compounded m Nature’s labora-
tory. Nothing to equal it.*
BEWARE of the Party offering Imitations of
MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
Sold by all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
SORE EYES.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment— the uni-
versal remedy—over 50 years in use, still un-
rivalled. See testimonials. Sold everywhere, 2s.
per pot. Take no other.*
Don’t be put off
with worthless
imitations of
SUNLIGHT
SOAR
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astral la.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
Bracing 2
Refreshing!
Invigorating S
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
All Substitutes are inferior.
Insist on Buying “CONDY’S FLUID.”
rmiE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
x LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter into
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices J
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... £l5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.


A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, December 26, 1899.
Mr Dear Myee,—
One Xmas is very like another, you won’t deny,
but the ghastly details of the war lend this a
miserable distinction. Nobody expects to do
much merry-making, and the summer hotels are
looking forward to anything but a good season.
Who has the heart to go after fun in the face
of Lord Methuen’s description of the Battle of
Modder River, fought December, 1899 ; “ one
of the bloodiest battles of the century ! ”
The Bohemians in this city who banded them-
selves together into a club that agrees to have
suppers at certain times and musical evenings
after, so that there can be no mistake about its
freedom from all social conventions, gave a sit-up
evening last Tuesday with His Ex. as the honored
guest. The supper came off at the Victoria Hotel.
Everybody pleased himself about dressing. Some
of the men came straight from office with the ink
fresh on the middle finger, which represents only
a certain amount of freedom after all.
From a woman’s point of view, a club where
everyone had to turn up dressed to the best pos-
sible advantage, but where the shackles of a
musical programme were cast off—where there'was
no chairman to call on Mr. Throatee for a song,
and Mr. Dorbo for a lightning sketch, and where
music didn’t always stick out of overcoat pockets
in the lobby, and the evening didn’t repeat all the
saddest features of a local concert with the addi-
tional anguish of having to be a friend to the
perforiners thrown in—would feel far more like
freedom and release and the genuine long-haired
atmosphere, and all that sort of thing. It is
always a mystery to me why men will persist in
drawing down on their heads the musical evening
aforesaid, particularly as the Bohemian Club
(which changed its name, I must hasten to
remark, somewhere near its beginning, and
called itself the Supper Club) in Sydney
is a fraternity that never gets wholly ob-
livious to what goes on after supper.
His Ex. and Wilfred Smith, who is now P.S.
and aide-de-camp, and chaperon and middle-man
all rolled into one, arrived at seven o’clock, and
were welcomed by poets, artists, journalists,
musicians, and a few unclassified kinds. I don’t
know why they put His Ex. next to Attorney-
General Wise, who is only an ordinary being
after all, such as His Ex. knows heaps of, when
there were so many queerer kinds about that
would have been positive novelty to an English
earl. However, that’s neither here nor there.
The great feature of the party was that His Ex.’s
speech was a grown-up effort, unadulterated with
Kipling, and pointed with a story about a mixed
bathing-place. Can it be possible that the dew of
his Excellency’s youth is drying up under the
burning Australian climate.
Speaking of clubs, a story is going about lately
regarding a brotherhood that is altogether made
up of poets. The club hasn’t a meeting-house.
It falls-to on the curbstone, or against a lamp-post,
at any time, in any spot. His Ex. met the presi-
dent of the club lately, unofficially, and said some
nice things about the latter’s “ poitree,” and in-
vited him to lunch at Gov’ment House. Where-,
upon the president quickly told all about the club
that met against the lamp-post, and His Ex. just
as quickly said that he would like to meet all these
gentlemen at the lunch aforesaid. So His Ex.,
never tired of entertaining bodies, has now taken
also to entertaining souls. A lamp-post club is all
soul.
A war story that has been circulated in Melbourne
has been freely fastened on to Miss Sylvia Darley.
A Melbourne paper lately wrote of the story of a
mysterious marriage between an officer who left
by the Aberdeen and the daughter of a Sydney
Lieut.-Gov. It told how the marriage came off at
Manly, just before the troops started, and how the
bride was on the Aberdeen under her maiden
name to see the newly-made husband off. As
there’s only one Liout. -Governor in Sydney, it was
either Miss Kitty or Miss Sylvia Darley. The
Darley family was besieged'with inquiries, veiled
and otherwise. The officer was freely spoken of
as Captain Dangar," I suppose for want of more
reliable information. It turps out now that the
whole romance is only romance—not a word of
substance in it. j
I went down to see the Moana off last Wednes-
day and found a big crowd going. There was the
very young bride, who has just married JSSOOO
a-year in a grey suit with a nice face, nie Miss
Pery, of The Towers, and her bridegroom, Mr.
Hineheliff. The young couple are off to. one of
the wealthiest ranches in California. Charlie
Kenningham was farewelled regretfully by heaps
of friends. He goes to play big parts in New
York. Miss Viola Gillette Alan-a-dale, in
“Robin Hood ” —cut-up the outlines of that big,
beautiful figure of hers in a huge blue-and-white
check frock, and sported the latest thing in your
second-best hat—a straw, trimmed with scarves,
the fringed ends falling over one side of the brim,
in the old-man puggaree style. Mrs. Fred Aron-
son, the well-known Sydney pen-woman, was on
board, bound for the hot baths at Rotorua. She
has. been a victim to rheumatism lately, and her
large circle of friends hope that the baths will do
her a world of good.
Speaking of pen-women, Miss Darehy, of the
Daily Telegraph, is leaving us,in January, to go
lecturing on metaphysics, and the like bottomless
subjects, in America.
Do you notice what hilarity marks the local
artist of to-day ? It looks as if Art was beginning to
be a more paying game than in the old days when an
artist wasn’t the genuine article unless he could
starve and go without Pears’ soap. The nice'
young men who paint Sydney’s pictures are quite
remarkably trim ; not a hollow cheek nor a hectic
flush among them. They cut their hair more
than once a year, have their manners carefully
pared and prepared, and look unanimously eager
and healthy, especially when a picture-dealer is
inspecting their canvasses. No. There are too
many ambitious Australian maidens yearning to
learn to paint roses climbing over fiddles, or
sliced oranges keeping company with a dead bird,
a woman’s shoe, and a Sevres vase, for any artist
who will teach to indulge in a hollow cheek.
“ The Only Way ” opened at the Theatre Royal
on Saturday to a d.c. that was nearly all from
Israel, or else theatrical. The Jewish element,
you will be glad to hear, is going through a trans-
formation scene in its theatre frocks. Even the
largest, fattest Jewess wears black now, and
kaleidoscopic raiment that used to mark the
Chosen all over the house is rapidly disappearing.
Edith Trilby Crane was a figure you couldn’tover-
look in pink satin, pluckily suspended from her
large white shoulders by thin pink threads. Mr.
and Mrs. J. C. Williamson watched from one of
the boxes, the latter looking particularly well-
gowned in jetted black, made liigh to the throat.
And there was seen the curious spectacle of
“ Goody ” sitting out a play from start to finish.
Linda Raymond takes a leap above her head in
the part of Lucie. She makes up fair and plump
and pink and gold and white, and subdues herself
a good deal, but still makes eyes in 'a too-moni-
festly manufactured way. One arch glance or so
carries a delicate meaning, but a whole battery of
made eyes that look as if they know too much are
out of place. Miss Raymond frocks herself in
flowing clothes. A sky-blue satin frock, worn in
the garden of Dr. Manette’s house, falls in long
lines from the bust, with a blue chiffon fichu round
the shoulders. Her second frock is black, worn
with a big black hat. And then, when she falls
asleep and Sydney Carton steals one kiss off the
extreme edge of her cheek, she wears pure, soft-
clinging white, as you know very well she must.
Rose Musgrove has an uncomfortable-looking
little part in elbow-sleeves that seem too tight
and frocks that have a squeezed look generally.
Rose wears a thin white face and a look of patient,
earnest fragility, and you like her better when she
sits down with her elbows on her knees than when
she walks carefully across the stage in that un-
comfortable little bursting brown dress.
The fat of the play, with the exception of that
large-waisted part. The Vengeance—taken so
cleverly by Miss Julia Merton, in revolutionary
dishabille —all falls to Mr. Thomas Kingston.
Yon won’t be surprised to hear that I like King-
ston much better sober than in the otherwise state
in which he plays his first act. It reminded me
of Wilson Barrett’s drunk-scene in “Silver King”
—now sober, now sober, now able to say “Colonel
Richardson,” then Suddenlyand mysteriously gone
in the legs and tongue in the most hopeless
way. Kingston looks the part to the life, and, after
the first half of the play, gets into your sympathies
till you find yourself looking for your handker-
chief when the final beautiful tableau' shbws
Sydney Carton mounting the scaffold to lay down
his life for Harry Hill. The marvellous likeness
between Harry Hill and Kingston doesn’t strike
the d.c. as forcibly as it is meant to. In fact, if
both men “did ” their hair the resend lave— such
as it is—would vanish into thin air, f r dieir chief
similarity is in the way in which their long, dark
locks are equally uncombed.
The third act of “The Only Way” shows
The Revolutionary Tribunal, a stirring crowd of
citizenesses; and blood-seekers. It is such
a relief to have the attention chained, to
have the thoughts gripped till they cease to
wander. Half through your average play the
mind gives itself up only by fits and starts, and
very dreary are the long dull spells when the stage
is only a stage, and all the actors are merely
mummers. This Tribunal scene goes splendidly,
the trial of Charles Darnay, his defence by Sydney
Carton, his acquittal, and tlie woman with the
long starved arms ceasing to cry “ Warm Berlud ”
for a minute, then his sudden arrest again, re-
indictment, sentence of death, almost before you
can breathe, and the thin woman howling “ Warm
Blood ” again—all this is thrown at the audience
so vigorously that the house was carried away on
Saturday night, and gave the end of the play a
hearty welcome.,
Fashion is in an eccentric mood just now. All
the things that “no lady ” would ever do are done
now with impunity, flaunted in your face by the
upper ‘ten, by d’ay as well as by night. Linen
collars are bye-gones, and with their passing the
bare neck showing in street costumes has become
not only permissible, but admirable. A little
while ago the low neck characterised chorus-girls,
actresses who coiddn’t act, and maidens, who
smiled from behind bars. Now, everybody wears
it. Women tie a bit of ribbon velvet for
choice—round their necks, and clasp a string of
pearls beneath the ribbon. And pearls—these are
put on before breakfast now, and worn all day,
and any part of the day. The vulgarity of jewels
in the morning is exploding rapidly. The smartest
women are in town nowadays in the morning in
holland frocks, with jewelled chains around their
chests, and pearls around their throats, and
jewelled chatelaines at tlieir waists, and jewelled
pins all over the lace sailor-tie, and jewelled hat-
pins in their sailor hats ; also they put on many
rings, carry a fan in one hand, and a purse
that looks like a scent-bottle in the other,
and go gloveless anywhere and everywhere. This
is extremely swagger. But if you wish to go a
step further, you can treat yourself to a pair of
white cotton gloves at elevenpence halfpenny a
pair, and carry a shilling grass-bag of very common
quality in your left hand.
But oh ! the contumely that has fallen on cer-
tain well-beloved articles of woman’s dress that
held a place of honor for years! The belting
of last year, and other years before, is suddenly
dead. Nobody looks at “Petersham” nowadays.
A fold of ribbon on the skirt—cerise, turquoise,
black, or matching the skirt—knotted at one side,
is the only belt permitted. Also, quite dead is
the colored shirt-tie for blouses, although the shops
keep on showing it. The twist of cream or
string-colored lace has driven ties out of time. A
slower death, but a surer one nevertheless, is that
of the silk petticoat. White underskirts have
come to the front this year, billowy with lace and
frills, and overskirts, and the silk petticoat (was
there ever an idol in the wardrobe so widely and
passionately cherished as the silk petticoat?) is
creeping outwards into oblivion.
An ingenious tip for women travelling by boat,
where the soft sea-breezes have a way of smacking
one’s hair hat out on the forehead, is to travel with
a toupee sewn inside the hat. If the hat is well
pinned-on the toupee can’t swerve in the stiffest
breeze. This is a regular boon in a bathing place
where a woman unrobes, has her swim, and when
she is ready to depart, pops on her hair and her
hat, and there she is. Nothing lank and damp
and water-washed about her front fringe, While
if she had merely.reinoved her toupee, and put it
on a chair, the chances are ten to one it would
have blown away before she returned. You can’t
beat hair for blowing.
While on the subject, a toupee is a thing you
can talk to anyone about nowadays. I don’t
know why, but it has almost grown into an item
of conversation: “Is my toupee straight, Hr.
Dash ? ” “Just an eighth of an inch to the right,
Miss Blank,” wouldn’t make Mrs. Grundy agitate
an eyelid. For my part, I believe that the woman
who sits in a shop-window in Pitt-street and
dresses woman’s false hair all day long to crowds
of curious men is doing hastily away with much of
the solemn and unbroken mystery that used to
belong to any sort of hair you paid for.
New music continues to pour in, and it is easy
to see that the war is going to lay its great red
hand over all who follow the Muse. I have before
me (from Paling and Co.) Alfred Hill’s new song,
“When the Empire Calls,” words by Hugh Mac-
Donald, M.L.A. The best thing about the song,
which is a long way after Mr. Hill’s “ My Fairest
Child,’’is a photo, of Nelson Illingworth’s clever
statuette of one of the Australian Horse. The
words are strung together with “the crimson tie
of kinship,” and the music hasn’t the magic, irre-
sistible voice of the Empire calling. “ The Chal-
lenge Waltz ” I suspect to be martial also,
although Alfred E. Perkins dedicates it to Mayoress
Harris, who has often revolved to much less
melodious valse music. “Fidelis et Paratus”is
frankly a regimental march of the 4th N.S.W.
Infantry, by W. G. Bentley, a tuneful well-
marked piece that makes you all soldiers.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Vic. National Gallery exhibition of students’
work in competition for the travelling scholarship
shows in its seven features a large quantity of good
painting, an amount of drawing of mixed quality,
and an infinitesimal trace of imagination. The
technique of the worst of the paintings is ten
degrees higher than the best is in composition and
dramatic power. Apparently the moment the
Vic. students attempt to think out a picture the
strong draftsmanship they show in their studies is
instantly affected. For months past artistic Melh.
lias looked upon the scholarship as a foregone
conclusion for Meldrum, the little Scotchman,
and in the face of the opinion of artistic Melb.,
the judges evidently thought it “up to them”
to give Meldrum the prize. To the lay-
man, and the unprejudiced man who knows
good art when he sees it, Meldrum’s
picture, over-crowded, ill-drawn, and dirty-colored,
would appear to be about fourth on the list; Like
nearly everybody else, his idea of ‘Welcome
News ’ consists of one person reading a letter to
an interested crowd of uninteresting people, and
it is streets behind the picture of Norman
M‘George, in which two unlovely female artists
have rushed into the studio of a male ditto with a
daily paper. Miss Violet Teague’s bright picture
with a heliotrope key-note is the most striking
of all, and Hennessy’s attempt to catch the
popular eye by putting a Transvaal map at the
back of his picture provides a bit of bathos to a
good picture of an aged couple with the inevitable
letter. Ramsay has a domestic picture of the
Meldrum sort, and Miss Hake, Somers and Wilkie
all provide commonplace surroundings to the
eternal missive.
“The exhibition of studies is put away in
another part of the building, apparently in order
that the sassiety crowd who come to see the
scholarship pictures may riot be shocked at the
naked and 'unashamedness of Miss Trilby. The
gallery itself might well be-ashamed of its models,
for, of the two girls whose forms are shown at the
exhibition, one is skinny, the other is bloated, and
both are distinctly plain. The same eccentricity
of judging the characterised scholarship pictures
is manifest in the studies also.
“Florence Fuller, the Australian artist whose
portrait of Cecil Rhodes is reproduced in Revikw
of Reviews, has painted no less than three pic-
tures of her famous sitter Miss Fuller is a sister
of those tuneful warblers, Christie and Amy
Fuller, and she has an elder sister who formerly
contributed graceful verse to local journals. These
gifted girls worked themselves to the front at a
time when benefits were less common than they are
now.
“ Lord Brassey runs an elegant little picture-
gallery at Govt. House. It is not much of a pic-
ture-gallery when visited by daylight —it chiefly
consists of the conventional rich man’s pictures
guaranteed to have cost heaps of money—but
visited by night it fetches the loyal to their knees.
His Ex. touches a button, and the electric-light
does the rest. Conspicuous in the collection is a
large, red, Turneresque painting looking like a.
turbulent sunset ; all round the frame of this
picture are set a score of little lamps, and when
the button is manipulated, the painting is bathed
in a sea of glory, and is seen to be a portrait of
Lord Thomas Brassey himself. This is Brassey’s
idea of the fierce white light that beats upon a
Throne—once removed.
“ Students at Melb. National Gallery are sore
afflicted of late by the gambols of juvenile
‘ talent ’ in their midst. Half-mast-skirted school-
girls come giggling up to the easels arm-in-arm
and discuss Art as though it were chiefly a means
of escape from helping mother to make the beds
and peel the domestic ’tater. And the work they
put in for the most part reveals only .their special
aptitude for the household duties they have fore-
sworn.
“ Attorney-General Isaacs’ 3500-guinea fee from
the Melbourne Tramway Co. to conduct its
municipal-rating appeal before the Privy Council,
is p'rribably the biggest sum ever paid to counsel
in an Australian case. Mr. Isaacs’ordinary fee for
attendance in the Vic. Law Courts is 30 guineas
a day. As he expects to be away about three
months the 3500 guineas figures out at about that
rate. Mrs. Isaacs accompanies him, and should
go far to show official people at ’Ome that the
wives of Australian public riien are riot all female
hoodlums. For the wife of the ex-A.-G. is as
brilliant as her husband —an excellent linguist, a
fine judge of art, and a witty talker. Isaacs
refused a knighthood two years ago.
“A recent Melbourne demise and probate is
that of Mrs. Nicholas, of Toorak, widow of the
rich western squatter, Johnson, who when left
with a heap of money put some of it to
good use by buying for her buxom self a
nice, well-curled young riian riamed Nicholas,
on whom she settled some cash and from
whonoshe soon separated? I have seen a news-
paper paragraph that he died in. the East. Any-
how, the will doesn’t credit the name of
The Johnsons, her children, have got
all, as they ought to. The story, doubtless false,
used to be that Nicholas —he was once a bank-
clerk—courted one of the daughters, but the
mother took him. A daughter married City
Organist Lee. Another was the famous boy-girl,
so called only because she sensibly got her hair
cut, as hundreds do now.
“‘Charles Donaldson,’ in private life Dr.
Charlie Law, whose Shakesperean . and Dickens
recitals are praised by London critics, is a tall,
bright-faced, light-hearted Victorian. This pro-
mising elocutionist is chiefly self-taught. When,
as a boy, he set his heart on an actor’s career, his
parents, whose only son he is, persuaded him to
postpone any steps in the direction of the stage
till he should have qualified as a doctor. His
ensuing medical course, owing, perhaps, to divided
devotion, did not slip hy as smoothly as a motor-
car, and the student quitted Melbourne medical
school for a Scottish one before he arrived at the
dignity of a fully-fledged physician.
“Actors, and especially actresses, experts in
simulation and dissimulation, are as little able to
disguise their emotions as the undisciplined ruck.
I have been a dutiful theatre-goer for 15 years, and
have yet to discover the actress who can refrain
from looking painfully and abjectly demoralised
when the showy bouquet handed up from the
orchestra is carried to her professional sister. The
lady sheds what is no doubt intended for a con-
gratulatory smile, but what a rigid, lost-soul of a
grin it is ! —as joyous as the facial spasm of a
gouty alderman when his big toe rings him up
suddenly.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The accompanying illustration is merely used as
a simile for Blackness.
MARK FOY
has no connection tvith the Prince of Darkness,
beyond the fact that the deuce is i\i it if Foy’S
Hosiery not as Black as Beelzebub, although
there are those who protest that his Satanic
Majesty is not of an eoctra inky or murky hue.
Be that as it may, Mark Foy’S Hosiery
is of the BEST BLACK DESCRIPTION.
SEAMLESS, SURE,
aQd LONS LASTING.
Simplest-—Most Durable—Best.
MACHINES!
Write lor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
IS SE
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
For your Bedstead,
try
It annihilates
THEM.
All the principal ironmongers, or, at least, those
that are “up to date,” are now carrying stocks of the
“Albatross Lamp Wick.” If anyone tells you they are
no better than ordinary wicks, you may be sure he does
not know what he is talking about, or is too greedy and
doesn’t want to lose the immense proßt on the old wick.*
WATERS’
RE-BUILDING
SALE ..
Come direct to us for
XMAS REQUISITES
In our Line,
and avoid the Fancy Xmas Prices.
W- T- WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ & Children’s Outfitters,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
GLOBE TEAS N °
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
War-artist Melton Prior, now in South
Africa for the Illustrated London News, has
already represented that journal in 21 campaigns,
beginning with that of Ashantee in ’73. The
Ashantee campaign is memorable as having given
rise to PuNOH’s.last real joke :
Coomassie was to ashes burned,
And Coffee forced to flee,
And only ash and Coffee left
Of what was Ashantee.
“P.”: Strode, a name “not unknown in
Melb.” (8., Deo. 2). liather! Why, Thomas
Strode was the printer and publisher of the Pr.
Phillip Gazette, Victoria’s first legalised paper,
first issued on Oct. 27, ’3B. A plucky fellow he
was. He had only small type, and out all his
“ poster ” letters out of pine; also, for some
months he set up the whole issue himself, twice a
week. He had been overseer on the S.M. Herald.
Arden (aged 19) was the first editor.
Dr. Wollaston, secretary for Vic. Customs,
•is grandson of the first parson who ever settled in
Westralia, where Wollaston hitnself was born, in
the Bame place and year as Premier Forrest. He
is deaf as a post but sharp as a needle. His father
was a surgeon, but became a parson, and
for years had charge of Holy Trinity Church,
E. Melb. Old Archdeacon Wollaston, the Customs
man’s second brother, brought out a church in his
portmanteau or otherwise, and erected it at Picton,
Westralia, aud it’s there still.
The members of N.S.W. Marine Board
haven’t always been fossils. President Hixson,
when he belonged to H.M.S. Herald in the early
’6o’s, received the Humane Society’s medal for
jumping overboard after an A.B. in Shark Bay
(W.A.), and on State occasions wears a miniature
of the medal, of which he is very proud. Also,
one other member of the Board, when third mate
of a Sydney-London clipper, made a run away
match with a lady passenger. He doesn’t 100 b ’
much like running away with anything now !
A.n indignant Melbourne Britisher :
People here remark that you are not “ game ” to print
a portrait of your friend Kruger in all his bestial ugliness.
No pro-Boer newspaper would be so rash as to publish
Kruger’s portrait. His vile old countenance is at once a
condemnation of himself, a cruel satire on the credulity
of his disciples, arid an insult to the name of Religion.
Train up a hog ter wallow in the Scriptures, and when he
is old he will be a flattering likeness of Oom Paul.
And yet there are half-a-dozen harmless monkey-
shaved Melbourne preachers who look just like
Oom Paul !
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
MAUDIE: “ What does 'a la carte ’ mean,
Andy? ”
ANDY: “ Yous girls knows nuthin’. That’s
Italgun for yer brings yer own feed in per
own cart.”
Hornsby, who has ousted Squatter
Buchanan from the Wairarapa Tory stronghold,
is a well-known M.L. journalist. Hornsby gave
Buchanan a severe shaking three years ago.
Shortly afterwards he lost his billet as editor of
Wellington Times. This happening cost
Buchanan his pocket constituency, for Hornsby
settled in the enemy’s district, bought a local rag
and steadily boomed his own candidature and
Liberal doctrines. Wairarapa was a Tory fortress
of very long standing, and an extra large
Ichabod was written on the wall when the party
heard of this loss.
’Victorian ex-Chief Secretary Peacock’s
recent appearances on public platforms indicate
that the mantle of Berry has fallen upon him. He
is fast becoming the idol of the Liberal masses of
Victoria, and wherever he goes gets a great
reception from the crowd. Unlike Turner he is
a born fighter and not afraid to hit his. opponents
when opportunity offers. He has no original
thought and his heart is a bigger factor than his
brain. The blood in his veins is warm and that is
the true secret of what is generally called platform
magnetism. Like Berry, too, he was, at one
period of his life, in the grocery business.
“ D." writes :
Referring to a recent Bulletin paragraph, South Aus-
tralian Attorney-General Gordon is not the son of a Bible
Chrisiian minister. His father was for many years the
minister of the Presbyterian Church in Gawler. Gordon
began life in the office of Duffield, a well-known wheat
buyer and miller in Gawler. He was subsequently
articled to a solicitor and in due course was enrolled in
“The Devil’s Brigade.” For many years he had a good
practice at Strathalbyn which brought him in from 11500
to <£2ooo a year. About ten or twelve years ago he sold
his practice, intending to go to Alice Springs to take
charge of a cattle station in which he was interested, hut
instead he gravitated to Adelaide, ran for the Legis ative
Council, was elected arid became a partner with that
well-known, eccentric and most able lawyer, E. Paris
Nesbit. Gordon is a very fluent and ornate speaker with
a persuasive manner, the effect of which is marred by his
apparent lack of sincerity and conviction. It is difficult
to take Gordon seriously. He has the misfortune of
seeming to be an agreeable man who believes in nothing
Vic. ex-Sheriff Ellis talks of writing his
reminiscences. He should entitle the bonk
“Recollections of the South Corridor,” which is
where the gallows stand in Melb. Gaol. A small
grey man, always dressed in grey and of a grey
nature; a pensioner of some years’ standing, and
apparently good for another twenty ; he may be
seen any fine afternoon on Collins-street block, or
walking home to St. Kilda. His recollections
would be interesting, though grisly-grey, em-
bracing, as they would, a long series of incidents
connected with the hangman and the white cap
and the “dull, sickening thud.” One of the first
“episodes” he assisted at, as under-sheriff, was
the turning-off of Mrs. Scott, the first woman
hanged in Victoria, her paramour, George, and
an accessory, a Malay. The lady was possessed
of good looks and considerab’e personal charm,
»nd the under-sheriff had known her previously
and had even danced with her; so was most
desirous of keeping in the back ground on the
morning of her abrupt demise. Among the
spectators that day was an unknown man, an ex-
sea captain, who, as the condemned woman
emerged from her cell, started forward with the
cry “Good God!” but "was restrained by
by-standers. Questioned afterwards he put it
down to involuntary and irresponsible nervous
excitement, but he was supposed to have been an
old flame of the lady’s.
The only hereditary-titled official in the
Westralian Government service is Sir Alexander
Cockburn Campbell, Bart., lately appointed clerk
to the magistrates at Wyndham, the farthest-
north Westralian town. The young man,
whose father was formerly president of
W.A. Leg. Council, onoe held a Parlia-
mentary assistant-clerkship, and has since
had experience of station life in the tropical
Kimberley district.
Since the days of Robertson,
Jennings, and Farnell, W. J.
Lyneis theonly'N.S.W. Pre-
mier whose personal know-
bdge of the land laws of
the country entitles him
to a hearing when land
topics are in dispute.
Parkes was notoriously
ignorant of the land laws
and their effects, though he
sat in the House 40 years
and affected to know all
al >ont the subject. Dibbs,
with a 20 years’ record,
confessed his ignorance,
and as palliation main-
tained that not more
than half-a-dozen men in
any Parliament possessed
a decent knowledge of
the theme. Reid talks
fluently from points jotted
down for him by Carru-
thers or some other au-
thority, but, mislay his
brief, and pre - emptions
and selections and con-
ditional purchases become
a cyclone of unintelli-
gible noise. Lyrte, how-
ever, has been through
the mill in three provinces ;
tas selected, squatted and
pre-empted in Tasmania, Queens-
land, and N.S.W., and can speak
with first-hand authority on almost every phase
of the question.
The recently - deceased John Hancock,
M.L.A. for Fitzroy (Vic.), was a compositor, and
worked in London at a house where Dickens’s
novels were printed. John often “set-up”
Dickens’s copy, as he himself told the present
writer. John was fond of telling that his mother
was Irish, and that she used to say, “ Whatever
good there’s in you, John, you’ve got from good
Irish blood ’’—and he trotted out this at Michael
Davitt’s reception in Melbourne, a few years ago.
Trenwith was the next speaker, and he, too,
wanted to establish an Irish connection. “I
can’t say,” remarked Trenwith, “ that my mother
was an Irishwoman or my father an Irishman,
but I served my time as a shoemaker to an Irish-
man who had ; done time’ for politics.” Which
brought down the house, and set Trenwith at
ease.
NOT MARRIED THEN.
“You never got in a temper before we were married
“ No —I'd no occasion to.”
In obituarising the late Colonel Mac-
donald a Sydney daily made wild work with its
history and geography. “In 1839 he served in
the Scinde campaign ; was in command of the
Poonah Horse in Upper Scinde in 1847, and was
engaged against the. Beluohee and Candaharee
tribes infesting the frontier.” Ist. There was no
“Scinde campaign” in 1839, or for two years
after. (Butler’s “Life of Sir Charles Nanier.”)
2nd. The Poonah Horse were not in Upper
Scinde in 1847. (“Records of Scinde Horse.”)
3rd. No “ Kandahari tribes ” ever “infested the
frontier.” Kandahar is a long 250 miles from
the then British frontier, and the Kandaharis
would have had to fight their way for at least 200
miles of that distance through tribes that hated
them like poison.
The war in South Africa has rent the
Schreiner family like a rag. Before, they were
divided on questions of religion and politics, but
the war has made the breach complete. The
eldest brother is a teacher in England and is abso-
lutely unknown in South Africa. Theodore
Schreiner is an evangelist preacher, an enthusias-
tic temperance lecturer, and in politics an ardent
Imperialist of the Rhodes and red-paint party.
The eldest sister, Mrs. Lewis, is built on the same
lines. W. P. Schreiner, Premier of Cape Colony,
is a la wyer, leader of the Dutch Party, and a pro-
nounced agnostic. Olive Schreiner is like W. P.
in politics, and in religion is said to be the same,
only more so. The.family are the offspring of a"
German father and an English mother, and there
is no Dutch blood in them.
During the recent political juggle in Vic.,
a reporter from one of the dailies was despatched
to interview an M.L.A., who was rumored as
possible Treasurer. The Minister expectant is a
suburban shopkeeper in private life. “ What is
wanted,” he remarked, with a sweep of his hand,
“ is a man with a knowledge of finance —not a mere
visionary, but one who is accustomed to deal with
large figures, and who has a thorough grip of the
money questions of the world.” Just at that
moment, the conversation was interrupted by the
entrance of a little girl, in a pinafore. “ Well,”
said the prospective Treasurer, “what is it?”
“ Please, sir,” said she, “ can you give me change
of a shilling?” The man accustomed to deal in
large figures pulled open his till impatiently, then
banged it back ; “ No,” he cried, “ we haven’t got
it !”
H. S. W. Lawson, the newly-elected
member for Castlemaine (Vic.), has had the novel
experience of getting evon with his old school-
master, M‘Cay. The late member and very tem-
porary Minister used to teach young Lawson at
the Castlemaine college not many years ago, and
the pupil has now wiped off the score of all the
keepings-in and canings that M'Cay inflicted on
him. Lawson has just turned 23, and is conse-
quently the youngest member of the Vic. As-
sembly. In private life he is a law-student, and
he first came before the Castlemaine public as a
cricketer and footballer. He gave up both games,
however, a few months back, because he could no
longer endure the langwidge habitually used by
his fellow-players, and devoted himself to his
studies and tiie Sunday-school where he is a
teacher, until M‘Cay was unhappily chosen as a
member of the still-born “M’Shiels” Govt, fn
app arance, Lawson is a big, heavily-built young
fellow with a face that might be that of “ Bread-
or-Blood ” Vosper, minus all the hair and 20 of
the years.
In Christchurch (M.L.) the National Ass
party, after appealing to various Fat men to allow
themselves to be nominated for Parliament, had
to fall back on an .unknown, building contractor,
a devoted adherent of the Fatman beliefs. A
hall was taken, the meeting advertised, and on
the appointed night a goodly number rolled up
to hear the candidate expound the woes of the
capitalist and the iniquity of the working man.
In the chair was an obese brewer, and on the
platform numerous other persons with bald heads
and big bank-balances. But lo ! when the candi-
date stepped to the front and essayed to speak,
not a sound could he utter. He reached out and
desperately drained a glass of water — then a
second and a third—but still no.effect. Then a
man rushed out from the back and refilled the
empty jug ; and still the unhappy candidate
drank on, till at last speech came ; but there was
no “go” in it, and he drifted waterlogged to a
dreary conclusion. The Ass party intends to have
a tank of water on the stage the next time it tries
a new candidate.
There lias been much speculation in Vic-
torian political circles as to the reason of Watt’s
inclusion in the M'Lean Ministry. When the
censure motion was before the House he was
absent; he has a habit of being absent when fine
points are being decided. He gave no indication
how he would have voted had' he been present,
and it is common knowledge that his guide in the
House is Deakin. That gentleman colors almost
all his ideas and actions, and as Deakin paired in
favor of the Turner Government, and has since
gone into Opposition with them, people are saying
that Watt was given the Postmaster-Generalship,
which only lasts till Federation is accomplished,
in order to insure his support to the new Govern-
ment. Had a good Liberal been put up
against Watt he would have had a close shave.
Watt’s attitude on the proposed second South
African contingent from'Victoria is as sinuous as
all nature’s creations that crawl upon the belly.
He was against the first contingent because Eng-
land didn’t need Australia’s help to crush a 33rd
rate power. N.ow he is in favor of a second con-
tingent of 200 men at a time when England is
able to mobilise 50,000 extra troops for South
Africa at a few days’ notice. The reasoning is
poor but sufficiently strong to convince an ordin-
ary politician, always providing he gets a port-
folio with it.
The following sort of miscellaneous fare-
well to “ Banjo ” Paterson on his departure for
Africa, appeared in Logan (Q.) Bulletin :
THE SUN FROM BOND STREET.
I hari written him a letter
Which I had, for want of better
Reason, sent to where I met him
Down B Mid St.-—days of yore :
He was dun ging when I knew him,
So I sent the letter to him,
Addressed to Bond St., Banjo, and
The number 64.
And a letter came directed,
In a maimer unexpected,
And I think the same was written
For to give a nasty jar.
’Twas his legal pard who wrote it,
And verbatim l will quote it
“ We have seen the city sheriff
’Cos we now know where we are ;
And somehow we must remind you
That you left some debts behind you
Which seems unto the people of this city very odd ;
And although you don t deserve it,
By jingo we must serve it,
Victoria, etcetra, by the—you know—Grace of God.
Banjo's gone away to blazes,
’Neath South Afric s sunny hazes,
To manufacture cables for a lying morning press ;
And the foetid air and gritty,
Of this dusty, dirty city
Is beastly—so I’ll shs' « myself and wash myself and
dress.”
Well! while nursin’ oi one baby,
I can sometimes picture A.B.
A hittin’ off to Kruger in a igh and mighty style ;
Sittin’ cool and neat and tony.
On a shaggy, sturdy pony,
With a polo stick for cannon
An’ pome for projectile
I can hear the army singing.
And the British cheers a-ringing
A sweet poetic picture that is beautiful to see,
As “ Ban o” takes the glassy
With a firm set face and brassy
Singin’ “ ltise up, Oom Paul Kruger, now, and coroe
along with me.”
And at, midnight in the shanty,
With his close cut hair and scanty,
All bedabbled with the ruddy gore
Of dear “ Hold Hinglund’s” foes ;
He writes out the roomin' cable,
In a manner terse and able,
And borrows Oom Paul’s ’andkerchief
To wipe ’is gory nose.
lj a i r.qICK Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
oiroPLF lazy,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
ro sleeD badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enousrh to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC »*-
p,rp«M.3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
Dr M MACKENZIE’S
DU THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
—•
*X252£ C. E. Newman
Kino-St., SYDNEY.
I-UI
z (out
< HI mu
OOQhU.
Address <a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies' Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Fleas© mention this Paper.]
Have Zetz Spa Wafer with your Xmas
dinner —positively prevents indigestion. Doctors
pronounce ZETZ incomparable.”
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTUY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS BT.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 40.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS BT.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 40.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and "Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.


Aboriginalities.
A large and imposing Yic. Western district
J.P., who regards himself with reverent solemnity,
got a peculiar moral jilt one recent morning. He
had risen to discharge homilies at a disorderly
conduct—a melancholy wreck with a nose like a
torn hat and an eye like a ripe gooseberry, who
was maundering behind the spikes, apparently
dead to the world. “We are determined to rid
this district of disreputable loafers of your stamp,”
said the J.P., weightily. “You are a danger to
defenceless people and a disgrace to your sex.
You have no regard for ” But just here
disorderly Conduct had a lucid interval ; the
ohieken-headed spider on the edge of the dock
ceased to interest him, and he fixed an alert eye
on the justice. “ Wha’—you here again ?” he
said, sternly. “ I (hie) fine you for’y shil’n ’r
sheven days, an’ (hie) don’-li-me-see-you-’ere-
again ! ” The J.P. gasped and collapsed, and the
policeman cried aloud in his agony, but Disorderly
Conduct was again absorbed in the blue centipede
and the carmine wood grub with the glass eye.
AUSTRALIAN ROYALTY.
Election candidates often drift into tight
places. One well-conditioned Maoriland legisla-
tor found himself caught in rough weather, after
receiving a thorough drenching, at a small farm-
house. The good-natured occupants at once
invited him to undress and get inside a spare pair
of moleskins and blue shirt of the house-father’s,
to which arrangement the man of talk eagerly
acquiesced. But, alas ! the moleskins positively
refused to meet—by inches —across the lower
chest of the capacious orator. When the M.H.R.
discovered into what straits he had fallen, nothing
remained for it but to draw the bedroom door
slightly ajar and inform the housewife point-blank
of the unhappy circumstance. “Bless me, hthat
all?” she remarked, taking off her apron and
handing it in; “ put that on ! ” A few moments
later the hon. member came forth with the stride
of a Caesar, and began, amid the family giggle, to
get outside a steaming dinner of pig’s counten-
ance and cabbage.
According to Treasurer Philp, Queens-
land is now possessed of 711 bores, an increase of
67 on last year’s total, while those flowing natur-
ally number 439, an increase of 60.' The daily
flow amounts to 268,000,000 gallons, enough to
cover 562 square miles to a depth of one foot an-
nually. Total cost, £1,044,822 ; so that for every
£1 of cash there is a daily supply of 256 gallons in
bad country, or 93,440ga15. per annum. Deepest
bore m Queensland is at Both well-4860ft. : the
shallowest at Manfred Downs, where there is a
permanent flow at 10ft. Average cost, 255. a foot
Average depth, 1175'6 feet.
* * *
Pelican : Re snakes jumping. Q.
nigger once warned writer never to try and kill a
dear-adder from the immediate rear. “That
fellow come back all same boomerang.” No other
kind of snake, however, he said, had the same
power. Also, re speed of snakes. Have killed
hundreds of various varieties, and have only twice
been gone for once by a tiger snake, other
time by a brown. Had no difficulty in either case
in getting away, though the country was bad for
pedestnanism.
* * * *
A common superstition (?) among miners
is that falls of earth or rock are more frequent
between the hours of 12 p.m. and 4 a.m. (the first
half of night shift) than during the whole of the
remaining 20 hours. Akin to this are the assertions
of many bushmen to the effect that timber falls to
a greater extent at night than during the day.
Also furniture and old houses only creak their
loudest between midnight and 4 a.m.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —A fact that has puzzled
me for the past 10 years, during which I have
taught hundreds of sth. and 4th class boys.
Directly the melon season comes round, the boys’
drawings of circles get more and more melon-like
in their contour. I have at present about 50 boys
doing ’ the 3rd book of Euclid. At the be-
ginning of this quarter they drew circles on the
blackboard as round as “Giotto’s O,” but now
only about half-a-dozen draw reasonably good
circles ; and be it noted, none of these eat melons.
With the others, even the cane can do nothing, so
I want to know if any of your reading can throw
a «y light on the subject ? Same experience has
been mine in the Big Scrub—on the Hawkesbury
in Parramatta, and now in a Sydney suburb.—
Billy B.
* * • .
Gr.M. W.” : On Garibaldi Hill, near
Rutherglen (Vic.) lately came upon a bike-lady
who had pulled-up at sight of a monstrous snake
lying across a by-road, and was alarmedly waiting
for somebody to come along and kill it. ’Took the
buggy-whip, and advanced upon the foe, which
was about 9 feet long, remarkably slender and
apparently semi-torpid. Turned out to be a pro-
cession of large hairy caterpillars (78 in all) moving
tail-to-beak from one vineyard to another. In-
vited the bike-lady to come and see, but she
gathered up her skirts with an injured air, and
pedalled off without thanking me.
“ Fortuna ” : I remember, years
ago, when the aboriginals of Dungog
and Paterson (N.S.W.) were preparing
for a “ bora,” ambassadors were sent
out to inform neighboring tribes. These
spent days, sometimes a week, at each
camp, having a short discussion daily
with its males but rigidly excluding
gins from such. The ceremony called
“bnmbut” (“u” as in .“full”) was
performed with great secrecy, anti
seems to bear some analogy to our
baptism, as the youths initiated re-
ceived fresh names, never afterwards
using their former ones. Gins were
not allowed any knowledge of the pro-
ceedings under penalty of death. The
natives in those days wore only a belt
of ’possum-skin with fur suspended in
strips, and knotted in this fur they
often carried pieces of clear quartz
called by them “ murals ” and used to
test friendship, their acceptance by
another betokening amity. The women
were never allowed to see these.
* * *
“ P.F.W.” : The lessee at old
Gunbar Tank on JTay-Hi listen Road
asserts that when the crows eat the
poisoned wheat he lays for them they
fly to the tank, take a draught of vvjiter,
then fly to a tree, grip a small branch
with their claws and swing themselves
head-down until they vomit the lot.
* * *
Dooley got a “ bhoy ” off the
reformatory “ship”; but as the
“ young haythen” was a Wesleyan,
Biddy started filling him up with the
Thrue Faith. Somebody informed ; and
when official inquiry was made, Bid.
explained that she “couldn’t taehe the
Wesleyan catechism,” and she thought
her own was “betther than noan.”
* * * *
“Double U.” : While a friend was re-
cently picking caterpillars off his grape-vines, he
asked me if I had ever seen an ant drunk, and,
selecting a fat caterpillar, he placed it near a few
ants (common black variety, about half an inch
long), which fastened on to it instantly. The
caterpillar squirmed and wriggled, until presently
ant No. 1 dropped off drunk, and staggered round
aimlessly for about half-a-minute. Then it seemed
to recover, and made a dash for more caterpillar,
just as another ant rolled off drunk. And so it
went on with all of them, so that there was all
the time at least one on the “flure.” But as the
caterpillar’s exertions slackened, the ants hung on
longer, and when they fell off recovered quicker,
until the merciful pressure of a No. 9 boot put an
end to the spree.
A TRUE BILL.
(On a sheep-station
in the far Nor’- West
where the nigger
flourisheth aloud and tends
his scattered flock by the placid cobble-stone river
Ashburton.)
Hard Case (to Squatter): “Can you give us a
job, boss?”
Squatter: “Maybe. Can you count sheep?”
H.C.: “No.”
SQ: “ Can you shear?”
H.C.: “ No.”
SQ.: “ Kill sheep?”
H.C.: “No.”
SQ: “ Drove? ”
H.C.: “No.”
S Q: “ Well, what the deuce can you do?”
H.C.: (showing his arm): “I can fight like hell.
SQ: “ Right. You can go as overseer at the back
of the run, and just see those boys don’t lose
any sheep. There’s your camp for to-night !”
“Ell.”: Have never seen any reference
to the young magpie’s enormous gorging-pnwer.
I had one which was always hungry, and squawk-
ing for more. Gave it on one occasion a chopped
up piece of meat, nearly three-times its own size,
which it swallowed in an incredibly short time,
and then didn’t appear disinclined for another go.
It consumed actually more meat than my large
dog.
* * * *
This story hails from near Swan Hill
(Victoria) and relates to a man on whose behalf
the cake for immovable calm is claimed by
enthusiastic neighbors. Bradbery is inhumanly
phlegmatic, and it is told that lie was patiently
fishing off a stump in the Murray on a re-
cent afternoon. He . had been fishing for
hours,' and had had neither bite nor sup, but
nothing ruffled his deadly calm. Two weeks or so
previously his wife Hannah had gone missing, but
that fact did not we'igh on his mind either; ltd
was simply a human vacancy so far as emotions
were concerned. At last, just after sunset, Brad-
bery hooked something, and cautiously drew to
the surface a length of skirt. Taking hold of this
he towed a body ashore. After looking at the
face in a. disinterested way for a few moments, he
said, “ Blowed if it ain’t Hannah 1 ” Then he
went on fishing.
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : Re the frequently-made
statement that, nowadays, stations have stopped
giving rations. No outback station refuses
to sell rations ; very few refuse to give when
coin is not forthcoming.' It pays to be good-
natured. Stop 1 the rations where Stations
are far between, and only “ financial ” tra-
vellers will venture out, and these, being in a
manner independent, can refuse work until offered
suitable wages. 1 This would tend in time to in-
crease the rate of wages. So the rations are still
doled out to keep up competition. Again, free
meat is a certainty on any sheep-station, because
it pays the squatter better to give a “ banjo ”
than to risk having a sheep killed on the run for
the sake of a “ piece.” No regular traveller will
go minus meat through a sheep-run. Deorepid
old men may at times be refused on the
assumption that they are too slow to catch a juin-
buck. But let the traveller have a likely-looking
dog or a rifle, and he can ask for a sirloin.
Dear Bulletin. —Can any reader enlighten
me as to how scrub-tick poisoning in dogs
should be treated. In Cook district our
dogs with few exceptions sooner or later
fall a victim to the deadly little para-
site. Usual bush treatment
is to locate tick and carefully
detach it, but by then
the dog is generally
paralysed. He is then
dosed with carbonate
j>f soda and bled from
ears or tail. I have
recently seen two dogs
die under this treat-
ment, so I should be
glad to hear of some-
thing more promising.—
Kangaroo Dick.
* * \
“Wallaroo” : A
suicidal tendency is
becoming manifest in
the way - back small
boy, induced, perhaps,
by too much Dead-
wood Dick and so
forth, and combined
with the unhealthy
tone of his environ-
ment. One youngster
recently being in-
terdicted from
something on
which he was
bent, went forth
to seek peace in
the local
stream. A
brutal road-
man, appeal-
ed to by the
terrified
mot'___r, advised
her to “let the little -
drown ! ” and went calm-
ly on his way. A damp
.youngster with a pocket-
ful of soaked “Terror of
the Rockies ” was even-
tually recovered, and
prevailed on to forego his
dire resolve.
Not long ago a photo-enlarger called on an
Illawarra man for an order. The latter told him
be had “a small picture of his head and body,”
and that he’d be glad to have legs added. “ You
see,” said he, “I wouldn’t look well in a big
picture without ’em.” Picture-man said he’d
“see what he could do about it,” and got the
order. In due time he returned with the enlarged
photo.—without legs. The customer paid 255.,
and remarked T “ You didn’t put the legs on it! ”
“ No,” said the other, “ we couldn’t do it.”
“Well,” said the old fellow, “I’ll show you how
/can do it.” Then he put the picture on the
floor, jumped on it, and smashed it to smithereens.
“ 1 can put legs on the blamed thing !” said he,
“ and I’ll put a head on you quick if you’re
not outside.” And outside it was, promptly!
THE LATE LIEUT. COL. O’DONNELL, of
Maoriland, who took part in 40 engagements
and was six times wounded.
“ Werrimee” : Pindara Hut, onConnulpi'e
Downs (N.S. W.), is noted for its snakes (a young
man lies buried there who died in 20min. from
the bite of a salt-bush snake that had got into his
bed). A boundary-rider hit upon an ingenious
idea to warn him of the approach of a snake. In
each corner of the hut and across the doorway he
pegged a sheet of newspaper, crossing which a
snake makes noise sufficient to wake him. When
camping out on the sand, snake-tracks are often
found all around in the morning. They come
within a yard or so, crawl round a bit, and then
go straight away.
INJURED INNOCENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tenement in Goulburn-street, where dwelt a fat old
Ohow
Who ran a fan-tan gambling hell (his name it was Ah
Gow)—
One Burglar Bill designed to loot; he swore he’d have
the beans,
Concealed within that tenement, by hook-or-crook-ed
means.
He forced a door and entered in, all by his little self,
And rummaged till he wondered where was planted all
the pelf;
Then found a score of one-pound notes, and turned to
look for more,
But saw a light show clear and bright through crack
beneath a door.
Now, Burglar Bill was startled some, but curious as well,
His eye he to the keyhole laid, and saw' it was the “ hell,”
With larrikins and Chinamen around a table square,
On fan-tau all intent—and he could hear the larries
swear.
Fan-tan it was a weakness old of this burglarious gent,
He wished himself inside the door against which now he
leant;
And, striving hard to see the game, he quite excited
grew,
He pressed too hard against the door and open wide it
flew.
He boldly walked within and put a pound upon the
“ four,”
And down he went upon the tray—he saw that pound no
more.
He played until he lost the notes of which he’d robbed
the Chow,
And then a blasted thief was what he called serene Ah
Gow.
Q.
GOBUNG.
The Favorite and Best Summer Drink is -
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Look for
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATiORI.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUfcB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS , LIMITED, SYDNE


A Me f_
bournite who
Yarra’d him-
self the other
day set up on
the bank a tab-
let with his
name and ad-
dress, marking
the spot where
he went down.
Which recalls
the disappear-
ance of a Mur-
ray-side settler
and the find-
ing of a rope
running out of
the river and
tied to a sap-
ling. On the
rope was a
docket read-
ing : “ Please
pull this.” The
discoverer
pulled the rope
and towed
ashore the
body of the
missing man.
* <
“ K.8.J.”
re deadliness
of Australian
snakes (“Shaker,” 8., 21/10/’99) :
Recent. Melbourne experiments would seem to have
proved the inefiicacy of both the chloride and strychnine
treatmen's, which were vainly tried on bitten animals
death resulting in every case. The difficulty is that
snake-venom is a compound poison, and the medical ex-
perimenters assert that in many cases of supposed
“ cure” the bite would not in any case have proved fatal ;
the poison having been more or less absorbed by the
clothing of the person struck. The poison of the cobra,
however, being injected through a tube in the fang in-
stead of merely along a groove therein, always enters the
wound. In these experiments the “ snake-charmer,”
Davis, appeared to suffer no effect from a bite beyond a
slight swelling and soreness of the part. He would,
without hesitation, put his naked hand into the cage and
pull out the snake required, holding it by the neck. To
extract the venom the edge of a watch-glass was pushed
under the erected fangs, and the furious reptile would
e.xude the poison for use in the experimental injectures.
The rouseabouts complained to the
Chinaman-cook that the supply of “brow-
nie ” was insufficient. Whereupon John
indignantly—“ Wha’ fo’! Me cookee tlenty
yea’ fo’ stielah—shelah no glowl! Me cookee
two day fo’ louseabout—louseabout no slatisfy.
Anyone you pluddy louseabout come ou’ si’
me givee you mo’ blowney dan you like ’em.”
* * * *
H. J. Mac., in stating’that
a carpet-snake never attains a greater length
than 12 or 13ft. is confirmed by Krefft and
Gunther. But for general information will
the M'Cooey point out the generic distinc-
tions between the carpet-snake (morelia
variegata) and the monster “rock snake”
(basis chiidreni)? Also the difference be-
tween the carpet and diamond snake. This
would interest hundreds.
* * » *
“A.C.”: Out beyond Lake Darlot
met a party of 20 bucks in war get-up. Fine-
ooking fellows they were, averaging 6ft., and
were well-armed and under-clothed. Indeed,
most of their apparel consisted of live lizards,
slung head-downwards. A chaplet of the
wrigglers encircled their heads, and they
stopped me —I am a girl, and was riding a
bicycle—to ask “ which way Preen (Breen)
walk.” He is a mounted constable, and a
terror to evil-doing nigs. The party were
bent on mischief to another tribe that had
offended them.
* * * •
“ J.S.T.” : Be “ X.’s " par. (B.
21/10/ 99). I have also seen a dog, when
jumping a tussock, “ struck ” by a snake,
and the canine was dead inside half-an-hour.
Once also, when riding over an Upper Mur-
ray flat, a lead-colored reptile sprang at iny
horse, just missed, and was killed with a
stirrup-iron. I have often seen a black snake
lie quite still until a blow was made at him,
when he would draw back his head swiftly
and “ strike ” like lightning forward and
downward at the stick. It’s not safe, though,
to experiment thus, except with a long waddy.
* * * •
From a notification of rules har-
pooned on t') the door of a Vic. country hall,
where fortnightly dances are given
Any gent, introducing any lady of doubtful char-
acter to these entertainments shall be fined sixpence,
and not allowed to dance until such fine be paid. Any
lady objecting to dance with any gent, against whose
character she can bring no charge, will, on complaint
being made to the M.C., have her invite immediately
cancelled.
* * * *
“““ Snell ” : Jim-jams affect many men in
many ways, and the impression that every dipso,
suffering the recoil is visited by the same kind of
fantod is a popular error. True, the mild maniac
who lies still, and patiently picks mauve spiders
off the edges of his bunk, is frequently met with,
and there are certain kinds of crimson snakes
afflicting a numerous class ; but scores of liberal
drinkers have their pet particular and private
fantod, a sort of registered blue devil, all rights
reserved. One gentleman, whom I knew very
well, always signalised the beginning of the end
by persistently and patiently lighting matches.
He sat at his hut door, striking the vestas, and
watching the flame in a pained and troubled way,
and would get through a oouple of dozen boxes
before working off his attack of beer-fever. An-
other interesting drinker when possessed of devils
spent his time anxiously digging little holes with
a shovel, and very carefully burying nothing. A
third —a publican—when afflicted, would squat
out in the middle of a big cleared paddock, and
derive great satisfaction from monotonously
pounding a tin dish with a stick.
A TRAGEDY OF THE GREAT GREY PLAIN.
Australia for the Australians ! Latest,
official return of Thursday Island marine and
land populations
Japanese, 790; Filipinos, 251 ; Malays, 247; South
Sea Islanders, 208 ; Torres Strait Islanders, 174; Austra-
lian aborigines, 150; Europeans, 86 ;,natives of Rotumah,
67; Javanese, 52 ; Cingalese, 19 ; East Indians, 19 ; North
American negroes, 14; natives of Sanioa, 8 ; natives of
New Zealand, 7 ; natives of Africa, 7 ; South Americans,
7; West Indian negroes, 6; AsiaticsVArabs, &c., 5;
natives of New Guinea, 2; natives of Mauritius, 2;
natives of Hongkong, 1; natives, of China, 1. Total,
2132. This was the marine population of the
people living on Thursday Island itself. There were 574
Europeans, 440 Japanese, 103 Filipinos, 60 aborigines,
71 Chinese, 58 Malays, 44 South Sea Islanders, 54 Cin-
galese, 6 Javanese, and 105 of other mixed races.
The Thursday Island Outlanders should declare
war on Ooru Douglas for refusing them the fran-
chise. They have collared everything else.
HE KNEW.
Ist. Retired Missionary: “ You have been to the
South Seas. Were you ever at a cannibal-feast
and was it disgusting?”
2nd. R.M. (gloomily): “Fes — I was the feast.”
Said the gun-johnny (one of those dear
fellows who lose their heads—in the proper sense—
at the right moment, and for whom the family
have to go into mourning): “ I saw something
move amongst the bushes. I crept nearer. I saw
a tail distinctly. I fired. The rabbit scampered
away. ‘ I nearly shot a rabbit,’ I said, when I got
back to the house. ‘Did you ! ’ said my hostess,
fiercely, and the rest laughed. Then the truth
dawned upon me. But there is one consolation
for the hostess. Her cat is now the only ‘ manx ’
in the district! ”
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourlte-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
“ Above all, to thine own self be true,” and for
all affections of the eye use an infallible remedy. Hick-
son’s Celebrated Eye Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to any address,
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S.W. Agents wanted.*
The New Zealand Eire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£400,000 is invested in the colonies. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
WATCHES
In every Make and Design we show.
We are Sole Agents for the world-known
P. & A. Guyes ‘ ‘ London-made Levers
Lever movements that. •;«> lo vo-inimite
per week. Cases screw together.
i 40s,
and supply them direct from the manufacturers to the user. No intermediaries.
Then, the celebrated Fx. & R. Watches know no rival for Style, Excellence and
Wonderful Cheapness.
The Fx. & R. Lever is
425. in Sliver Open-face.
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS,
APPOINTED VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SVDN-IY.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
For a Christmas stay
The Australia has charming- attractions without
number. In the hottest summer day, the hand-
some drawing and dining rooms are as cool as
early spring. The telegraph office is inside the
hotel. The attendance is unsurpassable in
London or New York. The hotel is situated on
a hill site, so that, it catches every evening breeze
in summer, thus ensuring visitors perfect night’s
rest. The hotel is perfectly fire-proof, and its
table has made Australia famous. Sara Bern-
hardt wrote—“ May I always be as happy as I
was at The Australia.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
K uppers Elberfeld Lager
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
E.S.S. : On reflection, the personalities in your
“ Tiboo.” would breed trouble. Without them, the
sketch is flat. Walloon: Not quite skill enough.
..... Hasta : Worthless .... F.W.H. : Not up .... N.S. (Q.) :
All promising; none quite good enough for print . ..
F.S.D. : Sorry unusable... .A.M. : Not point enough as
put E.F.Ia : Won’t even take it as medicine.... J.A.N. :
Until Federation you Have to patent separately in each
Australian province, and in Eng., and in U.S Sixteen :
Hope the Boojuin will get you—you deserve it E.J.G. :
Not so bad; not quite good enough J.M.H. : None
up; you have far to travel yet... Barney: Shure, we
attinded its wake Pipe : The George-street tram is
running, hut your poem will limp ho more R.S. :
“Selby’s Bank” is a hopeless refrain .... Alone: Kee(i
the verse for company Riley: Wants fun and spirit.
W. :O ! Hangfire : Still hung P.L. : “Men Could
Dream ” flat J.C.S. : Would as soon print a whale.. .
Leonidas : Another bard got ahead of you on the tin of
chocolate subject Von K. : Will print “Tree’d.”
E.A. : Your Minister for Works isn’t an Australian; he
is a picture of the big cast-iron Bismarck or Cavoui or
Metternich of Europe. And he imports a foreign atmos-
phere that spoils the story R.C. : “ Styx ” will he
printed. “At His Grave ”is too rugged in places. Ditto
“ Parted.” M. E. J. Pitt: Rather like the “Ode to'
Fat Man.” D.B. : Too much gore and shambles and
skull and putrid joint .... Becky Sharp : Spittoon yarn
old. First arose when Noah found Ham expectorating
into the Deluge... W.A.P. : “ Ballade of Morphine ” has
some good points, but labors heavily .... J.A.M. (N.
Queensland): Bulletin will be posted direct from
Sydney office. for £1 6s. 6d. per annum ....’J.C.M. : That
toe-nail item is an old friend..“ Nature Whimsical ” : A
beautiful shapeless cloudy White prose poem about
the pale indefinite French Maid : Thahks
C.N. (N.Q.): Sorry still too mixed and jerky. We take
your meaning, but the general reader doesn’t like conun-
drums. E.J. : The Martini-Henry came into existence
in ’69, through combination of the Henry barrel with the
Martini breech-action. It is still about as good a single-
shot rifle as there is .... Bogo : Some characterisation
power, but otherwise crude ... E.8.A.: Decidedly comic ;
may use ... J. Star :No time to decipher Prooshan :
Capital little bit R.S. : Idea good; may alter and use.
... - R. Thompson : Smoothty versified, but idea very
trite Pan : Not ungraceful; will consider Mad P. :
Not vividly enough told B.J.D. : Declined
V.M.W. : Tender trifle, but tame, tame W.M.W. :
“ Rocket” fell C.J.T. : Won’t do H.T. : If we had
a siab hut, now, that’s the sort of poetry we’d use to stop
the cracks ... Zad. : Considering “My Sorrow.”
C.M.A. : “ When Hope is Gone ” is indeed an eminently
•suitable title Five Corner: Thanks; it’s lively; pos-
sibly reprint Crosby’s : Too weak and timid to frighten
us into printing it Pipe : We’ve tried you with a hair-
pin and we’ve tested you with straw, but the verses that
you’re choked with are the worst we ever saw
Parouni : Verse misses... H.M.C. : Indifferent sing-song
—kind of thing a heavenly waiter would call the dishes.
in Young A. : Fiery enough—it burnt the oilcloth.
W.C. : Now, did you invent that yourself? . .
Jackdaw : “ How did you fall in ? Are you getting slow?”
We are not omniscient—like you. We can’t read every
other paper J.A.P. : Flat Harry M. : Some fair
lines; but just a little too loose and vague Mulga
Wire: May fix up .... Broken Hill: Thanks Tivoli:
Returned E.M‘L. : Sent toOgilvie Olive: Possibly.
Dabton : Good ; but some out-of-date through Xmas
number .... J.R.M. :No good Heb. T. :Isit a neat
device for getting weak verse in? ... N.M‘C. : The only
Marie wrote “ The Silver Domino ” —apparently with
some assistance from deceased Eric Mackay
Norman F. :No style or spirit Bee : Faint little buzz.
William T. : Humor strained and syntax shaky
J.S.W.S.: Not enough in it .. D.W. : Has good points,
but lacks deftness Ajax : Not up, but not very far
down, either Winda : “ V’s. V.” commendably concise.
... B.S. : “ Diggers ” has a “possible.” None of
the others good enough... J.G.L. : All humorous, but
none quite suitable... Neville M. : Would need more
distinguished treatment . Madge M. : Tapers away to
nothing A.F.H. : Good descriptive power, but too
long of its kind for Bulletin .... Jane E. : Wordy and
digressive, though otherwise not amiss... F.A.E. : Lacks
seasoning Tan Rei: Too scrappy and miscellaneous.
... Phrenic: Hand not strong enough W.F.L. : None
suitable. .. Maggie K.: The double-infidelity situation is
hackneyed enough to require Ist class treatment. Yours
is about 3rd. Barney: Answered unusable Oz. :
Not enough interest; and your metre would buck any
fellow off. C.H.W. : No; won’t excuse pencil when
you live in a township and are too lazy to get ink
Neila : Not force enough Wombat: Won’t do
Nix : Just so A'eldt: Wants inspiration C. B. :
Satire too uncouth F.H. : Xmas carol just misses
something—don’t remember its name, but it’s the only
thing that makes a carol bearable Long’Un: Alas!
we sometimes wrote funnier love-letters ourselves, when
we were young, and engaged to three girls at once, and
each of them was also engaged to two other fellows
Belly-band : Fine exhibition of incompetence M.A.R.:
“ While men willing to work are starving in N.S. Wales,
the Govt, can spend £lOO,OOO to assist a rich country like
England to crush the independence of the Transvaal.”
True ; but there is no “ glory ” in finding work for the
unemployed—and no knighthoods either Tim B.:
Rhymes received with execrations and sniff .. JoeW.:
“ not been a scholar it is ard for me to get my thought
on paper.” Wouldn’t mind that if it weren’t such an
ordinary thought when it gets there ... Jay Sem : Can’t
use H.R.M. : “Doeg” no interest.... T.B. (M.L.):
Unusable Sam N.: One belated ; one dull Rough-
rider : None suitable. Only good one old—also beastly.
.W.M. : Will use “ Poets of Australia.” The Lyre :
“Lilian” crude, and “Violet” cruder. Syntax, and
even spelling, defective Tenby : The lunatic-picnic-
idea has been too often used since Charles Lever worked
it first—and best. Curlew: Ingenious, though rather
crude in style. Will consider Fang-B. : Not enough
in it Alley B. : Feeble of interest Scrubber :
Ought to make two separate items ; may fix it up
W.M.F. : “Daddy," enforced pathos; may use. “His-
tory,” also pathetic, but too unequal Otto J. :
Well, such a desperate attempt to be humorous is worthy
of respect, at all events W. Brenta : “ Luck,” good
touches here and there, but on the whole unsatisfactory
C.C. : Almost a typical Family Herald yarn F.J.C. :
Sorry “Sketch” has no literary promise Justitia:
Shows observative power, but also entire lack of skill in
presentation .... J.A.K. : No point in it—and, anyhow,
nobody ever was “christened” Jones, or any other
family name .... E. Bowling; Funny in places, but too
long and ramblesome .... Nix: We do not answer by
letter. Briefly, however, the facts of the case are sub-
stantially as stated by yourself J. W.M. : Will ascertain
and let you know Lucius M. : No, because to reply to
the mean little attacks of that sectarian rag would be
giving it the advertisement it’s playing for.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.M.I. : One may possibly serve J.M.A. : Already
done. Unavailable: H.W.C., J.E.R., F.E.G.
“ Maorilander ” to The Bulletin :
The recent death of Lt.-Col. McDonnell, of Maori war
fame, reminds me that some time ago a writer in an
English paper professing a good knowledge of such
matters, stated that he had neverseen the “ New Zealand
Cross ” (conferred upon McDonnell amongst others) and
even suggested that no such thing existed. The decora-
tion, however, was instituted by the M.L. Govt, as a
reward for deeds of bravery by the local forces, mem-
bers of which were not eligible for the “ bit of bronze"—
like which the N.Z. Cross carries a pension of £lO a year.
1 have seen at least five, three of them being owned by
Wanganui men (McDonnell, Lingard and Austin).
Nevertheless the standard authority on “War Medals and
Decorations ” (Hastings Irwin) contains no mention of
this one, though the records are carried down to the
Dargai V. O.’s of ’9B. And yet Premier Seddon has been
getting “ beans” for giving this “ For Valor” Cross to an
Aucklander, and the incident has found its way into
numerous English papers. In this same book I find
Ensign McKenna, V.C., 65th ltegt., tabulated as
“deceased,” whereas he is still very much alive in Maori-
land though .it is 35 years since he earned his Cross.
Many Bulletin readers over here would be glad to see
some correction made of these errors.
P. R. BEAUCHAMP,
Winner of the Austral Wheel Race, 1899.
Rev. W. Wollaston, of E. Melbourne, tells
some remarkable stories of the early days of Wes-
tralia, when he was a medico at Albany. The
convicts once broke into the Commissariat office
and stole £l5OO in gold, and for some time nc
trace of coin or thieves could be found. Dr. W.,
however, had a convict servant, a tailor by trade,
and Mrs. W., going one day to this man’s work-
box for a needle, heard something rattle inside,
and on examination found that the box had a
false bottom, under which was a lot of gold coin.
The tailor had to own up that he knew all about
the robbery from the Commissariat office, and
pointed out the place on the beach where the rest
of the stolen coin was buried. He and his accom-
plices got ten years, which, as they were already
“lifers,” amounted only to the loss of their
tickets-of-leave. One day Dr. W. was out in the
bush, and heard a convict bullock-driver exhaust
his vocabulary on his team that had got boxed up
in the scrub. At length the driver went up to
the leader and knelt down—perhaps, thought Dr.
W., to pray. But, no—it was to bite a hunk out
of the bullock’s nose. This choice morsel cost
him six months’ gaol. A few days after the man’s
conviction Dr. W. found the family dog—a collie
for which .£3O had been refused —hanged in the
back yard.


I is Tg^f^
«**%
MW .>*"&£« SW
„ pr,r,ORD SCORE-
.Cojonel* Price found only three'ltofaea-
-2o: a. Werrlbee Park suitable for troop re-
* quirerrients. Mr George Chirnstde. how-
- ever, knowing now what class of axiijpa!'
is required, ‘will pcocurt? seven more fer-
tile colonel, and will present them to tfco
Government
Tor mohntefl rifle tftirporos JTSWmiy,
goty, strong limbed, compact sort of cob it
required. He should not be tall, but of a
shape to carry weight. The average mounted
rifleman will probably be abobt 11 st
weight, and when in additions that he
carries 106 lb. of luggage, the animal
all that lumber on his ~ back—say
M st. at leart—must have some
power about him. It has beea
suggested that the horses used by poMeq
troopers which are thoroughly broken, and
to some extent .accustomed to fire should be
Requisitioned for the contingent.
SOME MORE WAR NEWS.—THE CAMPAIGN IN MELBOURNE.


AJtucandf.r “Hi ! Englander ” ( pointing to abandoned gun), “ you’ve left some
thing behind.”
English General : “ Very likely. I always was an absent-minded beggar! ”
“ Mr. See informed the Legislative Assembly in reply to a question
by Mr. Ferris, that members of the police-force, although they might
sever their connection with the force in order to go to the Transvaal
with the Australian contingent, would be eligible for re-election again
on their return.”
th«;"ho?d w Th P s imht - thM
When he had the time hJ * a “ mun,tl °n.
whether it was VT L B°lnZ 8 ° ln Z to
factory for the ournJ ln stitute a
ammunition.’ ‘Hear ° Wn
"' J Sm Policeman (to Baer) : “ See J
s? here ; put up that goon or Hi
have ye oop fur. righteous
bahayvior."
Portrait of Mr. Lyne as he
s may appear after the recess.
.The result of “monkeying
p ''' N with explosives.
\
■ ■?
'v
♦fcu
' \
‘N,,
%
%
<P
N». I.—Geo. Reid’s version :—“ Go upon-the land, young man ! ”
“ Mr Moore asked the Colonial Secretary if proper care >
was being taken to see that the horses sent with the /
contingent were good ones.’’ /
“ Mr. See ; ‘ I can only say that in the selection of /
the horses the very best ones for the work will be /
chosen.’ ” /
THE LAW OF COMPENSATION.
First'Tiiougiitful Citizen : “To my mind
the worst feature of Australia s atti-.
tude in this Transvaal affair is the
serious loss of our bone and smew.
It is certain that many of our young
men will not return, and we can ill
afford this wholesale depletion of Qur
population.”
Australian Rojjgh Rider :
' My word ! I never was on such
- beast of a moke. time\
iny one lets off a gun he thinks it’s N
he omnibus door a bangin’, alnd then,
here’s no boldin’ him in.”'
“ Perth, Monday.—Preparations
are being made to send a number
of nurses to attend the wounded
amongst the West Australian con-
tingent. A large number oi nurses
are volunteering, and' probably
about 30 will be selected.”
Envious Young Lady in Back-
ground : “ Goodness! this knocks
Hospital Saturday out
What possibilities in that cos-
tume ! ”
2nd Thoughtful Citizen : “ But see how.
mahy of- our, local medical men Have
volunteered,' and the absence of all
these doctors must have a salutary
effect in lowering our death-rate at
home ! ”
LATEST WAR NEWS


A curious sea-rescue was that of a seaman-
of a schooner on a recent voyage from Newcastle-
to Sydney. While aloft, helping to shorten saiJ r
the man fell overboard, whereupon the captain,
as the vessel .swept past, flung the peak halliards;
overboard with such good aim that the bight
las.sooed the swimmer and enabled him to' be
hauled on board.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
In 1872 one Wilkins drifted into the
Transvaal. lie was an Englishman of the
English. Also, he was a dour, taciturn indivi-
dual, who hardly spoke a word from one week’s
etid to the other. He became friends with a
worthy young Boer named Hans Botha, and they
became partners. When Theophilus Shepstone
annexed the Transvaal, Wilkins astonished his
partner by entering the house with a wild yell,
seizing the Dutchman's Heavy paw, and con-
gratulating him on becoming an Englishman.
When the Republic was declared at Heidelberg
(wherein Wilkins and Botha were, located),
Wilkins stalked into the house, took his pipe
from his mouth, cocked his head on one side, and
said to Botha, “ Briton or Boer, Botha ? ” Botha
removed his long pipe and replied simply,
“Boer!” Wilkins put his pipe back into his
mouth and proceeded to halve everything in the
place, Botha spasmodically helping him. When
everything was halved, Wilkins took his share of
the stock, and, loading up his goods, trekked into
Pretoria, the Boers never dreaming of interfering
with Botha’s mate. He was a most deadly shot;
and when he got into Pretoria he was at once
made commander of a company of volunteers.
One morning he informed the haughty Owen
Lanyon that the Boers were in a bad position at
Black Kopje, and could be attacked and beaten
at little cost, and that a considerabk quantity pf
stock could be brought in at the same : irne. Next
morning the troops moved out. WiJ . ins and his)
company were to engage the Boers with the rifle,
and make the way clear for a storming party to
rush the position. The attack began, and Wilkins
cursed with delight because he had discovered by*
some means that his old friend Botha was in
command of the Boers. When they got into
position Wilkins hoisted himself up to see if there
was anything to be shot at, and got a bullet
through the fleshy part of the left arm. Botha
had shot him. Botha hoisted himself up to see if
there were any more, and got a bullet in exactly
the same place. Then there was silence, and
Botha put his hat on a stick and held the rim just
above the rock. Every volunteer fired at it, and
as the reports died away, up bobbed Botha and
got another shot somewhere or other. And so it
went on till the storming party got their oppor-
tunity and took the position with a rush. When
the wounded were brought into hospital, Botha
and Wilkins found themselves in adjacent beds. A
faint smile of welcome flitted over each face, and
Wilkins said, “ How many, Botha? ” “Seven ! ”
said Botha—he was wounded in seven places.
“ Done you.” said the silent Wilkins in triumph,
tapping himself with his uninjured arm ; “Only
six.” And the other day came news that Com-
mandant Hans Botha had got his eighth and died
before Kimberley. One wonders if his old friend
and enemy, Wilkins, fired that one too.
The Bulletin has received from the
American Tobacco Company of N.S. W. a new set
V c^ d V vhlch the 00 - mce5lds to enclose in its
Vanny Fair cigarette-boxes. The cards, neatly
executed and handsomely colored, have further a
I special value as presenting a complete historical
series of the successive developments in marine
architecture—as far, at all events, as 1812 —going
hack from the “ Constitution ” frigate of that
! date to the “Egyptian War Galley of 700 B.C.”
RRY
VICKERY'S BUILDINGS,
9
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I liave the representation in Australasia of this
“ DEY REGISTER.”
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
Cal] and see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
rV.
I have the representation afso of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASH REGISTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
ET)MANS OiV & ( Y). , lilock Arcade, Melbourne A gent.
WfiJ
WE recommend these Bitters to be taken two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children, For General Debility , Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, and Cutaneous
Affections. The action of Dandelion, more especially upon the liver and kidneys, is more reliable
for removing all impure secretions than any other medicinal plant known. Persons suffering
from Skin Diseases will find these Bitters invaluable. Directions for Use : One wineglass-
ful three times a day after meals, diluted with same quantity of water. Eor young people, about
half the quantity twice a day.
PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
BEAD WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row & Co.—With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and
consider them most excellent, and superior to many others that I have previously tried.
Port Adelaide, Oct. SO, 1886. Yours faithfully, Henry Charles Curtis, M.R.0.5., England.
CAUTION—Ask for Row’s 33a,n.d.01i0n Bitters
AND TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE
EDWARD ROW & CO., SYDNEY.
“ J^EMTEMBEPI
MA JUBA ! ”
Also, remember
that
ALLAN’S
Melbourne
usi c a l
A G A Z IN E
IS THE FINEST YET ISSUED.
mSmfdi!
m
‘••a e v ....
__ iopa of Vha *>•»*'« - v
4 Yh» Coon** «»r«nad* r ~y V. '*.' 'e
£s*&
5§
5 H«nlt,'i*rUß tiaJtWpon't Y#ic*y t«
a*
' • *
VZQAnIi Op l4
Contents :
1. “YOU SHOW ME YOUR SLATE” (the Ch''ld Song
of'-the Year).
2. “ SONS OF THE SEA ” (arranged for Pianoforte).
3. “ REMEMBER MAJUBA ” (by Drakeford).
4. “THE COON’S SERENADE” (another “Susie-oo”)
6. “ WRAP ME UP IN MY OLD STABLE JACKET”
6. “ HUSH, LITTLE BABY ” (Fanny Powers).
7. “ THE IRISH MESSAGE.”
8. “ SING A SONG OF NONSENSE.”
9. “CAN IT BE LOVE VALSE”(on popular melodies)
Allan & Co. Proprietary Ltd.,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
rvr*
T,
iiFttK,
FOREIGN STAMPS.
QETS of 12 Transvaal, Is ; 5 Orange State,
4d ; 7 Natal, Is ; 11 Cape, Is 3<i ; 50
Cuba, 3s 6d ; 50 Spain, 2s ; 9 Borneo, Is 6d ;
6 Guatemala, 8d ; 5 Bolivia, 6d ; 12 Luxem-
burg, 9d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d ;
250, Is ; 600, 2s ; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE COLLEC-
TIONS, 1000 differents (mounted) only 20s ;
postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N. or stamps.
Price Lists free.
A „U 1 „ J 162 Elizabeth Street,
Wm. AC-kland, MELBOURNE.
A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, JEWELLERY and SILVER-PLATE is the largest and best assorted stock
in Australia. Eireet from the London House. Guaranteed the utmost satisfaction.
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
ALL ARTICLES
POST FREE.
A. Saunders.
Special made Gold Waltham, } Keyless Lever,
20 years’ guarantee, £4 4s; 14c. ditto, £5 6s;
26 years’ guarantee, extra jewelled, high-grade
trorks, £6 10s; pure Silver, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Perfect timekeepers. Extra strong. Highly re-
commended.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
ctt
*2 1
Pi
A. Saunders.
New Design, Gold Brooch. Bell, Chain.
Red, White, and Rlue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Lar”- ■ Size 3-bar Amethyst, 265.
15c. Gold 3-bar Amethyst, 465.
A* Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, ‘2ss ; 15c. Gold,
£2, as above. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2 15s.
Very Latest Style.
Silver Gilt. Turquoises, 8s 6(L
Any Initial.
m&z
18c. Gold, Pure 5 Double-cut
Diamonds, £6.
3 Fmeralds and 2 Diamonds,
£5 10s. Out hole in card.
A. Saunders.
t-bar l 6c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Speoial value.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
15c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Links, Heart and
Dumb-bell, 13s 6d;
Smaller, 10s 6d.
16a Gold, 22a 6d.
9a Gold, 22s Cd.
16c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
2 Birds, Chain, and 2 Diamond-out
Amethyst, 20s ; Pearl-set Birds, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold Pearl Set, £2.
Gold Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain.
13s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
9e. Gold, Pearl and Bed Stone Set Scroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 365, £2 ss, £3,
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
Extra for Key Padlock
All with Safety Chain.
Solid Gold Oharm that
charms, 10s 6d.
Procured otilv at
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 80s.
$
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £B, £4.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
i Diamonds,
£3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18a Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
KINDLY
CALL.
TRY
US.
All Articles Post Free.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s ,
Silver Hunting Keyless, ±2, £2 10s,
£3; Key, 255, 30s, 355; Solid Gold
Keyless, £4, £5 ; Superior Quality
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
AMY
x
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
15c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
16c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s Od.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luolr
Brooch, 10s (id.
16c. Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 20 Diamonds, 8 Opals
or Sapphires. Extra Strong, £'l2 10s.
18c. Gold.
6 larg-e Diamonds,
£2O, £26, £3O.
a. Saunders.
Ilancl-iiiade "adding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, ,$ (id, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; ISc. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 4,05. Send for card.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR VARIED ASSORTED DISPLAY. ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER, 815 George-street, SYDNEY (nearly opposite Railway Station).


The Big Prize Turkey.
A Merry Christmas, Bob,” said Scrooge, with
an earnestness that could not be mistaken, as he
clapped him on the back. “A merrier Christmas,
my good fellow, than I have given you for many a
year. 111 raise your salary, and we will discuss
your affairs this afternoon over a bowl of smoking
bishop. Make up the fires and buy another coal-
scuttle, Bob Cratchit.”
And as to the big prize turkey which the regene-
rated Scrooge sent to Camden Town, do we not all
know what sort of bird it was? That turkey never
could have stood upon its legs, Mr. Dickens says.
I hey must have snapped short off like sticks of
sealing-wax. How they managed to cook and cat
that phenomenon the author doesn’t say, as it
was twice the size of Tiny Tim. Yet they did it
somehow, and it was a mercy if the family
(previously half starved) didn’t all fall ill of the
unwonted gorging of that wonderful Christmas
day.
Even assuming (as we easily may) that the
transmutation of an old skinflint like Scrooge into
a high priest of charity was quite beyond the com-
mon run of modern miracles, and that dinners from
such sources are as rare as the y are welcome, it
still remains true chat human nature is apt to he
at its best at Christmas, especially in England,
where, of all countries in Christendom, most is
made of that gentle and kindly holiday.
Yet, sad to tell, the very jollity and generosity
of Christmas leads to regretable excesses. People
eat and drink too much, and suffer accordingly.
The roast and the boiled, the mince pies, the plum
puddings, the tremendous flushings of wine, beer,
and other beverages, these things overload the
stomach and give the digestion more work than it
can do, and punishment follows. For Nature has
no favourites; she treats those who violate her
laws on the 25th December exactly as though they
had committed the offence on the first Monday in
August.
And as to the chronic dyspeptics, of whom there
are enough in this old island to cram all the parks
in London, they catch it fearfully about Christmas-
time. For, in spite of all warnings, they will go in
for heavy meals and take the chances. Often the
penalty is an acute attack which may threaten life,
and nearly always weeks of pain and digestive
disorders, whereof there are as many kinds as the
body has organs and functions.
To them Christmas maybe “merry”for an hour
or two ; then their merriment turns to misery, as
October fogs and rains succeed a hot summer.
Now the writer is far from advising a free in-
dulgence in the gustatory and bibulous festivities
of the country’s most popular holiday, but there
is no use protesting against the fixed resolution of
the people to enjoy themselves on that occasion.
The customs and traditions of centuries are behind
it, and you might as well whistle in the teeth of a
north-east gale.
Asa prophylactic and a cure for the evils alluded
to, I can only recommend the universal use of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, known to all as the best
stimulant and digestant in the world.
In a letter dated January 19, 1899, a gentleman
of Birmingham, who loves the pleasures •of the
table, and has money enough to buy whatever he
wants, writes thus “It is only fair that I should
thank you, as I did with all my heart, for the good
done me by Mother Seigel’s Syrup. For years I
have been vexed with indigestion, and always had
a tormenting spell of it after any public banqueb
or uncommon intake of rich food. Still, I was
seldom able to resist temptation, although I under-
stood perfectly well what yielding to it was sure to
cost me. I have sought a preventive or a cure in
vain at the hands of the best physicians, all of
vyhom assured me that there was but one way
namely, to live on a low diet, and let luxuries
alone.
“ But this did not suit me, and I broke through
the regulations frequently, with the inevitable
results. However, when I began to use Mother
Seigel’s Syrup I had (almost) a license to do as I
pleased. After an inviting but most risky dinner
last Christmas I took a double dose of ‘ Mother
Seigel,’ and scarcely suffered at all. I told my
experience, and a. dozen friends adopted this
amazing remedy right off. lam convinced that,
with a little caution, and a dose of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup now’ and then, one may bid defiance to
dyspepsia and the abominable ailments it sets up.
Thanking you a thousand times, lam, yours truly,
John Macfarlane.”
With these facts we wish a merry (and a
healthy) Christmas to the British people.
In the days 'when John (say) Smith was
member for a certain N.S.W. constituency, a
butcher, whose name we’ll say was Jones, took
the show prize offered for best round of beef.
Smith bought the bit of prize bullock, and took
it home to Sydney. Some years afterwards, when
addressing his constituents, and enumerating the
blessings contained in a new Land Bill he ua~.
helped to pass, he was interrupted by Jones,
with, “But what about the old Bill?” John
pointed out its defects, all of which he assured
them were remedied in the new one. “ That’s all
right, Jack,” said Jones, “but what about the
other old Bill ?’’ “What other old Bill ? ” “Why,
my old bill—for that prize round.” “Oh, I’m
real glad you reminded me of that,” said Jack,
“and I'll send you a cheque in the morning—
9s. Od., wasn’t it?” “No fear, Jack, one
pound nineteen / ” “ Oh, very well,” answered
John, with his painful smile, “but your beef
wasn’t like your bill; it didn’t increase with age.”
A deputation of clergymen and others
waited upon N.S.W. 001. Sec. See the other day
to request him to shut up, or regulate, or do
something very severe and drastic with the
“darnee” saloons of Sydney. A letter from
Archbishop Smith wa3 read. That astute prelate
stated that he thought the saloons might be
allowed to continue their existance if placed
under police supervision. How would it work ?
CONSTABLE CASEY, M.C.
O, the constable would stand,
He would stand,
And, with voice of gruff command,
He’d say, “ Grip your partners ! Bow 1
Shassy now 1 Shassy now !
Be aisy, Michael Moore—
Cock -eye Simpson has theflure ;
And Paddy Byrne, me niahn,
Be as dacint as ye can.”
And the concertina then
Would play “ Courting in the Glen ” }
And the dance would gaily go
On a square and proper toe,
And regulated be
By Casey, M.C.
O, the constable would say,
He would say,
To the wall-flowers in array
By the greasy dadoed wall—
“ Choose your partners, one and all,
And if any tnahn ye see
Should object to dance wid ye,
Why, just p’int him out to me—
And in quod he soon will be.
So get up and curchey now,
But beware of any row.
Swing your partners, gentlemin 1
Now it’s hand-in-hand ag’in
That’s the way things should b*
Under Casey, M.O.
“ Gyirls, yer programmes, if ye plaze,
If ye plaze.
Ha 1 These names ye must erase.
Ye must sthroike out Billy Wood—
For his morals are not good.
Ye must sthroike out Mike Diuoon—
He’ll be Wanted purty soon.
Ye must sthroike out Andy Greer—
He’s a married man, I hear.
Ye must sthroike out all the lot,
For religious coves they’re not.
What for partners will you do?
Then, says ye,
Why, God bless yer hearts so thrue,
And yer heels wid their tattoo,
Me fri’ud Constable M’Glqe
Will at yer service be,
Wid Casey, M.C.
C.R.
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
m
Campbell's Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6(1; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Aceordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12,6.
■ Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXOfiT & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYjVIARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
D R UN K E IM N ESS!
DR. MALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. , This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of ' ks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—lt. ..IIN-WALL, Manager Malintr Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Dkafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the earsas glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A, M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., bv a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of oure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W KEI.LOGia, MMbourn* Chamber*.
Wjrdwnjr
AYE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
Pie s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasei
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the aukles, round which the skin
may lie discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case .is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE \ OU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
tend at once for
ALHERTS GRASSHdI’PER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy dor the Cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
H*anMs, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. 'Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
AT BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, Loudon, England.
Agents •- ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g.ecn la el on ach box. (Regd. copyright).
D.S .MAI R
g> o
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulat' d and Guaranteed 1 year, 2,6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 86,9 6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Diau end
Ring. £4 198. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— 6B 4= George Street, Sydney
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CnjbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN ana
BEAST. As unscrupulous persona a*
offering injurious counterfeits.
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>bro^atioi).
■*
Tlio
ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings, Post Free.
bulletin KTewapaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
QUICKS/L m
WIWWJUIII.MWJ JIIJLiUyiiPWUW»4L^.
NOYES BROS., “ ve °S£Z t ? m
17 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Timepiece, Parlor Games, Musical Box and Alarm
ALL IN ONE (Patented).
w
N
h.poti e« • ••
ttmTs ro» Australasia
2k Royal Arcade
Sydney
This Clock is a combination of four different things, via.,
Time, Games, Music, and Alarm. The case is Solid Nickel
Silver with Chased Brass Mounts, Swing Brass Boor, and
Glass Sides. Each clock is timed to closest accuracy, so
will always tell you the correct time. It will play choice
selections the whole day or as desired. It has two most
enjoyable Parlor Games which can he played any time of
day by any number of people. There is also an alarm that
will awaken yon at any hour
Can be had in Three following styles:—
“ The Derby.” Time, Alarm, Musical, and
Two Race Games (Sandown and Cup
Handicaps)
PRICE, ONE POUND.
** The Qipsy.” 'Time, Alarm, Musical, Character
Reader and Fortune Teller
PRICE, ONE POUND.
“ The Opera.” Time, Musical, and Alarm*
Price, 15/.
Carriage Paid, N.S.W., 1/3 Extra. Other Colonies 2/a.
Each Clock is Guaranteed Perfect, and sent on
approval. If returned within 14 days money
refunded.
fh
A National Cash Register protects
the cash
The register is a place of safe deposit for the in-
coming cash, that can be opened only with sign and
signal. It is an automatic receiving and paying
cashier under mechanical bonds for faithfulness and
accuracy.
It protects the customer.
It shows instantly to every customer a record of
his transaction and gives him a printed voucher for
the same.
It protects the shopkeeper.
It makes an open record of every transaction and
preserves these records for inspection, furnishing
ready data for balancing the day’s work.
It provides the readiest means of discovering errors
and-locating responsibility for them.
It puts dishonesty in danger of detection.
It protects the books-
It is a witness against the one who “ forgot to make
the entry.”
It protects the assistant-
It safeguards the rights of employees by making
every assistant responsible for only his own trans-
actions and filing a record of the same which can be
referred to in case of doubt.
If an error appears, it is better for some one to be
convicted of a mistake than for anyone to be sus-
pected of crime.
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
The paper check which it issues for each sale is a
drawing-card. The printed promise on this check of
a premium when cash purchasers have reached a
certain amount will bring the customer back in order
to reach that amount, until coming has become a
habit and tbe occasional customer has become a
regular patron.
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
With its check system offering a discount for cash,
it encourages cash buying and so reduces the risks of
accounts. The system may also be extended to favor
weekly payments instead of long accounts, and so
solve the somewhat difficult problem of the good
but slow credit customer.
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full information
on application to
National Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.


POLITICAL
POINT
“ We are going to have a little promenade
to Berlin/’said a Frenchman in’7o. “I will be
Pretoria within a month of landing at the
Cape, and eat my Christmas dinner there,” said
General Buller. Ha ! Hm ! Exactly !
Bob Best’s brother-in-law, whose connec-
tion with the Vic. Lands Dept, helped to break
up the Turner Ministry, has been re-transferred
to the Post and Telegraph Dept, whence he came.
His path of glory led but to the Graves Enquiry
Board.
Cronjes force, which beat Methuen at
Magersfontein, is largely composed of boys. The
Boers have every male capable of bearing artrs to
front the invader, while the women and children
mind the cattle, sow the seed and gather the
crops.
Some disloyal ruffian visited the facade of
•,he Melb. Argl’S office last week and looted the
big war-map of all the little union-jacks pinned
on to show the positions of the British troops.
Next morning an astonished public found the
whole country in the possession of the Boers.
The Boers are fighting a War of Inde-
pendence, if ever there was one. The British, so
enthusiastic over Garibaldi and Kossuth, do not
jee it that way. But then patriotism is only
patriotism when it opposes some other nation. If
Garibaldi were a Boer, he would be a rebel and a
traitor.
The N.S.W. Council decided that Premier
Lyne’s Stamp Duties Bill required such an enor-
mous amount of thinking over it would be unfair
to pass it this session. So Plain Bill Lyne will
lose part of the revenue he has been counting on,
while his war expenditure will be at least <£30,000
more than originally expected, and the good old
ihortage looms ahead as usual.
Considering the many quaint questions
that are put in Parliament, it seems about time
jQme influential member rose like a tower and
Asked the Minister for Public Instruction what
is really the correct way to pronounce “ Kruger.”
Seven provinces have sent military forces to attack
Kruger, and not one knows enough about Trans-
vaal affairs to be sure of his name.
Bigjohn Forrest, of Westralia, is the
roarer of Australian polities. John has no power
of repartee, and his retorts
save all the grace and agility
of a hippopotamus trying
to frisk round a corner, but
iis yells when things go
wrong are awful to hear.
Holmes, of Fremantle,
.ately voted against
lim on a
Loan Bill,
*nd John,
vho had
inade him
a J.P. 48
aours’ pre-
•' i o u s 1 y,
roamed to
5h e effect
shat Holmes
aad obtained
she distinc-
tion “under
false preten-
ces,’’ and then
deserted. He
wasn’t above
admitting that
the J.P.-ship
was meant to
buy Holmes’s
vote, and
that he
wouldn’t
nave giv-
en it ex-
cept as a
means of poli-
tical corrup-
tion ; but even
clumsy John
stopped yelling and
brushed a fly off his ear in a
bewildered sort of way when he saw the look on
the faces of his followers. Then he gave two or
three yells in a tentative fashion, and sat down,
still wondering what was wrong.
Though the jingo party in Australasia
Cheerfully assumes that the extensive volunteering
for the Transvaal is a proof of this country’s
loyalty, it isn’t necessarily anything of the kind.
If anybody advertised for a man at the same
wages to undertake a plain, steady, dreary job at
pushing a barrow under a hot sun, with no glory,
no uniform, no excitement, no brass band, no
girls to see him off, no blessing of his country
bestowed upon him, no insertion of his name and
photo, in the paper, no Patriotic Fund, no
insurance on his life, no sea-trip anywhere and
back, no chance of seeing a new land, no possi-
bilities of Victoria Cross and promotion and
pension—even then the volunteering would be
very considerable in this miserably impoverished
land. A year ago the rush to paint Sydney
Domain railings was almost as large and wild as
the rush to the Transvaal is now.
In M.L. every candidate has to file a state-
ment of exfienses incurred during his candidature,
as a check on possible bribery. George Fisher, of
Wellington, sends in his statement thus:
“Receipts nil. Personal expenses. Os; one packet
cigarettes, 6d. The above include the whole of mv
expenses.”
Now reported that the British forces in
South Africa are to be raised to 150,000 men—
which, if it comes off, makes this the biggest
military effort in British history. The next
biggest effort was probably when England and
Scotland raised 130,000 men between them, and
battered each other at Bannockburn.
Christchurch (M.L.) constituency, after
three years trial of Prohibitionist Apostle Tommy
Taylor, has given the young man in a hurry a rest.
Prohibition hasn’t done well this election, and the
Clammy Bun Party has, to a great extent, with-
drawn the light of its small pale countenance and
its chastened shirt collar from the Legislature.
After the battle at Modder River, the
leading article in Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald
spoke of Cronje’s army as being composed of the
‘gaol birds, cut-throats, and scoundrels of the
Western frontier.’ It would have been very
little credit to the British armies to have driven
an assemblage of “gaolbirds, out-throats, and
scoundrels ” before them like sheep, but when the
British forces could only fight at best a drawn
battle with this alleged mob of ruffians it is surely
a low-dovvn way to speak of the crack regiments
of the British army.
According to present appearances, the
George-street (Sydnej - ) electric tramway is going
to be a gorgeously profitable affair, and the earn-
ings, added to the profits of other lines, should
enable the Sydney trams in general to 6how a
large margin over expenses and interest. Under
these circumstances, perhaps the Government
will think hard over the advisability of using the
profits to pay off the debt incurred when the trams
were first constructed, that debt being still in a
fine state of preservation. Melbourne tramways
are steadily paying off their original cost out of
earnings, and if Sydney can’t do the same what is
the matter with Sydney ?
Remarkable race, the Boers ! Men who
know them thoroughly, like Cecil Rhodes and
J. B. Robinson, the Rand millionaire, say the two
little states can’t possibly put more than 25,000
men in the field altogether. ’Cause why: they
haven’t got them. Nevertheless, the Imperial
troops, according to the censored cables, aie
always fighting against superior forces, though
they have 100,000 men
called out, and 50,000
actually engaged in fight-
ing—or probably more,
with the Natal and Cape
volunteers. Either the
Boers have a telesco-
pic army ; or—can it
be ? —the cables are
cooked.
HIS NEXT COURSE.
Waiter: “ Will you have anything to follow
that, sir? ”
Customer : “My word! yes — indigestion .”
S.A. Leg. Council defeated Household
Suffrage, last week, by 11 votes to 10. Two pro-
nounced opponents were away, or the majority
would have been three. Ex-Premier Kingston’s
latest move to secure his cherished reform is to
stand for the Council, and he has finally decided
to contest the Southern division against Tory
leader Stirling’ l , next March.
Solomon’s was the shortest-lived Cabinet
that even S.A. can show. Baker’s Ministry lasted
11 days. That of Torrens, who succeeded Baker,
held out 29 days, Dutton’s first Cabinet lasted
11 days ; and Ayers’ second Government 13 days.
Ayers’ third Government hung out 33 days;
Hart’s second Cabinet, 18 days ; and Ayers’ fifth
Ministry, 20 days. Strangways’ second govern-
ment held out 18 days. So Sudden Solomon
holds the record even in S.A.
Prendergast relied upon the opposition of
the Aok to put him in for Footscray, as it had
put in Hancock at last general election, but appa-
rently tile people are behind the Age again. Han-
cock, used to. tell a little fable of his own at his
election meetings: “The Age says I am insup-
portable, and I haven’t its support. I thank God
for that. Once an elephant saw a poor snail try-
ing to climb a pole. ‘Sir,’ he said, ‘ you have our
fullest support,’ and he gave the snail a push up
that wiped him right out. I don’t want to be
supported like that. If I don’t get to the top of
the poll, I want at least to be somewhere dis-
coverable when it’s all over.”
Cabled that many Boers are trekking to
Western South Africa, viz., Damaraland and
Naniaqua Land, the large German possession
where the unspeakable Kalahari Desert blasted
the Teutons’ early colonial aspirations. The
whole vast tract has, up to date, been nothing but
an expense to Germany, especially as the only
decent harbor, Walfish Bay, is, as per usual,
British-owned. But with material such as these
hardy voortrekkers would furnish, relatives of
the Germans, too, there is no saying what the
future of. the possession may be. Also,
German Last Africa ought to come in for
some valuable immigration, and on the
vvlude the present war will do much good
to Germany, by infusing sturdy blood into
her aiiceinic, artificially-fed dependencies.
The continental press jubilated over
recent smacks in the eye for the British,
and “ the Austrian press in particular
ridiculed the recklessness of Gen. Gat-
acre in allowing his small force to be
drawn into a trap.” Nevertheless the con-
tinental press is not an authority on youth
A friesn warfare, and the chances are that
the British, clumsy as they seem in contest
with the Boeys,could run rings round any sort
of mechanical German or Austrian force among
the rocky hills of Cape Colony and Natal.
Anyhow, the British seem to have captured
a few score Germans at Elands Laagte whilst
their more mobile comrades, the Boers, were
getting away.
The more one looks at the seizure of
Drake by the Philp cabinet the more unac-
countable the business becomes. Unless, the
converted politician above-mentioned could
take with him a section of his party to aid
the Government, his secession from the
Opposition . was absolutely .useless to the
Ministry, inasmuch as the seat he resigns
in the Lower House is a democratic stronghold
and almost sure to revert to the Labor Party.
It looks very much as if Philp and co. have
fallen in badly over the transaction. A general
election will undoubtedly take place next year—
the present position is insupportable.
Premier Andrew Dawson, who ran things
for one day in Queensland, did just one adminis-
trative act, and that was a good one. In his few
liours of office he dug out the fact that the leasing
of the Barron Falls to theChillagoe syndicate was
an illegal act, and everything done up to date in
that steal of Queensland’s great beauty spot falls
through. r
The question of Alien labor, in relation to
the, Provincial and Federal Parliaments respec-
tively, is very imperfectly understood in Queens-
land. The facts (much misrepresented by the:
press) stand thusly: The Commonwealth Parlia-
ment can take it up; so can the State Par-
liament ; but, in case of difference, the de-
cision of the Federal Parliament will, of course,
override that of the Provincial Legislature.
A certain section of the Q. Radical press actually
asserts that White Australia is more likely to
support the piebald and coddle the mongrel than
is poor mottled Bananaland.
The M‘Lean (Vic.) Ministry has already
started crumbling. Ministerof Education M'Cay
went up for re-election on accepting office, and
Castlemaine refused, by 310 majority, to have
anything further to do with him. And Fink, the
“intelligent man,” who was to help Sfiiels at the
Treasury, after hearing the new Treasurer going
it strong at Bairnsdale, handed in a disgusted
resignation. Shiels’s large and shrieky way of
putting things, and his wild comparisons of the
plain, steady-going Turner to Cam and Judas
Iscariot and other blood-stained persons, con-
vinced Fink that his new colleague lacked repose
of manner, and was too loud a person for any
ordinary man to get on with.
One honest and decent act of the Lyne
Government is it® attempt to remedy a gross in-
justice done to many N.S. W. civil servants a few
years ago. Under the old law, every N.S.W.
public servant had to contribute to the Super-
annuation Fund, with the right to retire on pen-
sion at the age of 60. If he left before the age of
60 he lost his pension-rights. And, in Reid’s
time, a brilliant piece of economy was effected by
firing out a number of old public servants a few
days, or weeks, or months before they reached
the pension-age, and then denying them their
pensions, and putting them off with a compara-
tively small gratuity, because.they didn’t stay in
till they reached 60. It was a smellful piece of
economy, and it can’t be put right too soon.
Never before in Vic. history has a Pre-
mier’s policy-speech fallen so flat as the one de-
livered by Allan M‘Lean at Bairnsdale. The dull
thud with which he dumped down the wretched
thing lias made everybody tired. The dark
secrecy which surrounded the whole business
to the very last gave folk the impression
that a great and dashing stroke of policy was to
be disclosed. But it was only the cheap gloom
which stage-manager Shiels adores. All that
M'Lean said could be condensed, without unfair-
ness, into a sentence. “I intend to take up the
legislation of Turner just where I snapped it off
by my want of-confidence motion.” There is noth-
ing in the M'Lean programme which Turner has
not already half finished. The most apparent dif-
ferenfce is that the strong man has gone, and the
two weak men have come.
For weeks and weeks before the recent
Maoriland election the Tory papers swarmed with
letters signed “Worker,” “ Working Alan”
“Conservative Workhrg Man,” “A Working
Man who is Disgusted with Seddonism ■
“Toiler,” “Working Girl,” “Honest Laborer'”
and so forth, telling how the writers and all their
mates were weary of Seddon, and how Digger
Dick was going down with tons of execration on
his head. Yet in some electorates where the
local editor wrote to himself most effusively m
“Toiler,” and “ Working Girl,” and “Working
Man’s Wife,” and “Small
Farmer,” and even as “ One
who is Weary of Corrup-
tion,” tiie Tory crowd hardly
• raised a dozen votes.
“ PARTING IS SUCH SWEET SORROW."
Father Doyle: “ Where did you have your last
drink, ye dissolute blackyuard? ”
Terence : “Sure yer Rivrence, they were all lahat
drinks except the two furst.”
Premier McLean included in his Baims-
dale programme a half-promise that he would
propose a measure of Council reform which would
make the gruesome House of 48 Rich Landlords
something like the democratically-elected Federal
Senate. If the McLean-Shiels combination had
anything like the fighting-power necessary to
carry such a reform through, every democrat
should hack it up ; for the radical reform of the
48 Dreadful Landowners is the first, second and
third essential in Vic. politics. But Shiels is in
it, and everything Lluels has been in so far has
the desperate energy of a wet rag, and the staying
power of a piece of brown paper.
N. S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan :
The local government was as dead as Julius Oaesar.
The best form of local government, t hey could obtain was
a good local member, and they had one. (Applause.) The
roads and bridges member (i as ret)wired, for roads and
bridges formed just as great a part of the policy of this
country as any other question.
Apparently this means that the old corrupt, un-
wholesome system of .bartering votes for Govern-
ment expenditure is to remain in full force if
O’Sulli van can manage it. The O’Sullivan himself
has always been the roads and bridges member
par excellence, and a most.successful agent for the
procuring of Government doles.
The foolish hole-and-corner tactics of the
wirepullers of Vic. Labor-party, which considers
it has a mortgage for its nominees on every demo-
cratic constituency, and that said nominees must
perforce be of the Trades Hall Council, and that
all outsiders are, anathema, were never better
exemplified than at the Fbotscray and N. Melh.
elections. A clever manager would have with-
drawn Prendergast from Footsoray, thrown the
whole Labor-vote behind Mauger, and run
G.M.P. for his old seat— only lose by 150 votes.
Prendergast did good work in the House, and is
well-known and liked in Hotham, and the
Fontscray withdrawal would have gained them
Liberal votes ; whereas they put up about the
weakest man they could raise, that dull, hopeless
bore Barker, who wr tes to the papers eternally,
and alw’ays signs himself Barker, J.P. Verily
Champion’s description of the Trades Hall
leaders, at the time of the shipping strike, was
true enough.
A CLEVER GIRL
Will always speak with enthusiasm of “ D.GL.”
Whisky after her “ boy ” has tried it once. Most
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him dull and
morose. A nip of “D.C L.”causes him to sparkle.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, tl • Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for *• Regimen
for the Obese ” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
tEie Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo. roe&c??
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEACHER&C? ovnucv
82 A pitt st. SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
sun
&
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Store*,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wina and
Spirit Wen bants.
DUi/^OAfPf-,
WUSKT
A
I Tv* r
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRADLCV CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art, Auctioneers,
Auction’ Room ', 324 Street, Sydney,
' Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION <&. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs. Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction fcjales, in the City' or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
2#' Soles Held ot the Auction Itoonis.
Casli Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltku Ilr.uh.ky & Co., 324 George-st.


PALING’S
Greetings for the New Year.
Health
Wealth and
Prosperity
to all onr Friends
Old and New
in City and Country.
W. N. PALING & CO., Ltd., Importers of Piai?oS, Organs apd MGS seal IpstrGro^tS,
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle.
11 1
1^
The Cohm I iments
of the Season .
to all Cyclists. . .
Ring out the Old
Ring in the New
MULTIFLEX
DUNIfiP 1?R
The Best and Truest Friend to all Wheelmen. Enabling
Safe and Comfortable Riding under all circumstances
FIRST IN 1888.
FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
VI
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO., of AUST., LTD.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z
■>3* ?"r"''
IM
> /V:>
saprr! , ; 2a
sgjfNS
.
W
; --TKS:
■ . . ' ife
/ '•''
6. • ".. %
■ -<r :
.. ,*%»*-/'.
:vr' *
Wv-l
>*
- -
M Cf 4
%
V
>
&
- - ’**’■£
• ->
fPHIS photograph of the camel laden with typewriters on the goldfields of Westralia affords picturesque evidence
-V of the push and penetration of the United Typewriter and Supplies Co. Illustrated Catalogues posted on
application to any of the undermentioned addresses.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
114 PITT ST., SYDNEY ; 362 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
Agencies— Queensland : Webster & Co., Brisbane. Adelaide: Reeves & Co., Kinjr William-street. Hobart
Walch & Sons. Launceston : Hedley-Button. Auckland : J. H. Colwill, Queen-street. Duqedin : Haynaid and
Garrett, Princes-st. Wellington : W. R. White, 12 Featherstone-st. Christchurch :J. O. Barnard, Hereford-st;
Edwards, proprietor of Bendiuo Inde-
pendent, is a local J.P., and never misses a
morning at the police-court. Before him recently
came one of Bendigo’s mining kings, charged.
with riding a bicycle on the footpath. In vain
did the reefer (who conducted his own case) claim
that there was no footpath within the meaning of
the Act on - that particular road ; Edwards
recorded a fine of ss. The man of money shelled
out growlingly, and waited for Edwards, whom
he knew well enough in private life. “ That's all
right,” he said to the court, “ you fined me ss.
and now you’re going to pay that fine yourself. I
knock off the Independent to-morrow until the
money’s made up.” And for 60 days no news-
paper was deli vered at his house.
The private office of a certain monstrously
holy Melbourne magnate, who distributes Bibles
among his factory-girls, is an object lesson in
piety. Prayer-books jostle against price-lßts on
the desk, tracts are sandwiched among the latest
patterns, while over the chair of the head of the
firm hangs an illuminated text, “ Heaven First.”
One day X. was seated in his sanctum when
another softgnods man, just ns big in his way,
was ushered in a trifle “under the influence.”
The bibulous bagman glanced round the apart-
ment until he caught sight of the text oyer X.’s
head. Then he extended a jerky forefinger at it,
and scandalised the pious warehouseman by de-
manding huskily, “ Weren’t there any other
starters ? ”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The Bulletin gladly receives the last two
volumes of the Victorian Statutes, edited by Mr,
Horwitz, from the publishers Messrs. Sands and
M'Dougall, Limited. Vol. VIII. is devoted en-
tirely to the Supreme Court Act and the rules
thereon—and there are a host of them. Some are
dead, but most of them are living, and the man
who has read this volume of the Statutes can
paralyse any Victorian Judge by firing off at him
2000 cases. From which it will be seen that the
vol. is a sort of legal maxim gun. Without the
“cases” it was a formidable weapon, but with
2000 of them —well, it’s invincible. Vol. IX.
covers the Acts from Temperance Halls to
Wrongs. Wrongs is divided into two parts. Part
I.—Defamatory Words and Libel. Part ll.
Wrongful Act or Neglect Causing Death. It is a
pleasant thing to find that neglect causing death
is a wrong. Vol. IX. also contains an index of
Privy Council appeals, a historical table of Legis-
lation for and in Victoria (including old 4-ots
passed in N.S.W.) with a note opposite each as to
whether it is still living, and if not what Act
killed it. Then there is an analysis of contents
of Acts contained in Vols. I to IX. with the re-
pealed sections carefully omitted. The work con-
cludes with a general index of all the cases cited
in the whole nine vols. Altogether it is a great
work, and it is pleasant to learn that the Vic.
Government has assisted by purchasing 100 ifets
for use in the courts and departments. The Bul-
letin now rises to carefully lock its set in its book-
case, and to wonder how so gigantic an under
taking was put through in so short a time.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
IDont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITUUE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
The City |||utual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.-5*
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( faciri * BHd s est) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Accident
(J C G 2LII Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessoe, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write fov Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED . . . 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
~ ~ 2 Years, 5%
~ ~ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Direotor.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
LoodoQ & Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
NeW ßr°a U nc h hf ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq."
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
/ '
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls #. Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
full value given.
A. BCNJAMIN aijd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St. Melbourne-
Shipp ng.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & One ansi and Ports.
For MELBOURNE'.
GEELONG
PORTLAND I
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Sat,., Dee. 30, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Tues., January 2, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 6, 12 noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Sat., January 18, 12 Noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE I
MARYBOROUGH |
ROCKHAMPTON f
BUNDAIiERG J
Leura, Sat., Dec. 30, 2 p.m.
Bnninyonjr, Tues., Jan. 2, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., January 6, 2 p.m.
MAC If AY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Sat., December 30, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., January 6, 2 p.in.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs.'MTlvvraith, M'Eaoharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, €*€C&torS,
AND
AgsiKV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDII. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-st.reet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,8011,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (ll 12’99) ._ £3,159,571 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker,
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsyate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 G MOIIGE STREET.
Manager; John M‘Nali.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual X*ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability'.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without Testfictson as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed. -
Head Office:
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, MANAGER.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas goiker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gasliyht Company hy payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
821 C Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN Jf HE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts inav.also be paid.
E. V.FmCKH&CO.
S 3 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants' tb. importe rs ,
Our Specialities are -Silks;
.'Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Dnrpr tijw;
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General lift;
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholes
'Maftrnjrj
dsetuare,
de otilyX
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & 00., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
CcflMng at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 11,984 tons, February.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid.equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
li
TIN GLAND VIA AMERICA
LJ by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINU>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
3158 Jan. 17
3158 Feb. 14
4000 I March 14
Leave
Auckland,
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Jan. 22 Feb.
Feb. 19March
March 19 April
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
-Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canadar and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
H) < |liHraith,H)‘Eacharn&(!o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL-^^
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL * - £20,000.
VX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
’’ Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M‘Bryde, Habvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary;
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Sheepskins, Hides,; Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Erineipal Selling Centre in Australasia,
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
. signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge Only;
m- MARKET. REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
w
W-YtrY; TRKNGHA-RD * CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(MMTTET).
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports. '
FOIt MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
5.5. Friday, Dec. 29.
5.5. Marine (from Melb.)
Tuesday, Jan. 2.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
December 29.
For BRISBANE J-S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Dec. 30.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and 0.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, ail cabins containing only two berths.
Best, <C* Cheapest iloute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S N
Company at all ports. -■
(J * * 1 17'LJfc CO., Lm, Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. 3. INI, Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOIvTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Brig
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, A 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £357 Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
jjuddart, parker $ (Jo’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING.. .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-<power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, Noith
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weher Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under P.ostal Contract with the
French "Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be despatched MONTHLY,'as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters: meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
y’s Offices,
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.


MEMORY
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
H. A. Tregurtha, Esq., Bank Manager, Daylesford,
Vic.: “. . . It fastens difficult names and dates, dry
facts and figures in the mind, so clearly that it seems
almost impossible to forget them. . . .”
, Mr. W. E. Blair, Pyrmont, Sydney: “. . . It is
simplicity itself, and could be acquired, and its principles
applied, by the schoolboy or the advanced thinker. . .
It has no equal.”
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Eoctract 9
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
CapillarinG !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’rJce, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result .
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
USE
SpooQgr’S
j^oONE^
Iroyalnavy dressing
5 FOR
il BROWN LEATHER
|| BOOTS St SHOES
| OF AU. DESCRIPTIONS
DIKECUONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Good Things.
The Christmas issue of The Bulletin is good.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good appetite,
provide energy, and bring back health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luckham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
As a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it. i :
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.* . j ; _
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box 100, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give j only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
Tb« B. a odN. Treatment
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For ail forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Ansamia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the-market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and'honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care :by an experienced and most reputable php.l%
maeist. It is'recommehded with unqualified confidence,
jpxlce, 10s. 6d. a Box.
» The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
rpHlfi 8001ETT, In addition to transactlnj: all tteuadfcSn.Kamanoe, !• th. ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
I hl tiX" In th, .vent .1 ternary Incapacity throm-h ill»,« to a U-.llhood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the oase of permanent incapacity through Illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RBNWIOK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices- 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
P-4
I
This is the Latest Type
Grcumophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
KaT* THIS MACHINE
w
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cinemato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
W< «7. y. Older shaw, Manager.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
dinnefordJ
Sold Throughout the-World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORB’S magnesia.
NOTE.—Our ONLY Australian. Address — 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY
Gold Lucky Wish Bone (Merry Thought)
with Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
Pearl centre, 18s 6d each.
Plain, large size, 9c., 7s 6d ; 15c., 11s.
small „ 9c., 5s 16c., 7s 6d.
cy
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid
Silver,.
Extra .
Heavy
7s 6d.
AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG BROOCH.
.JSTew Rustic Bar, Ivy and Pearl set Bird
Brooch, 11s 6d each.
FROM
THE:*
Gold Gross, Mizpah, and Ivy Brooch, 12s 6d.
GOLD CRESCENT
BROOCH,
[fnra
Set with Lovely Pearls or Pearls and
Turquoise, 27s 6d ; Smaller size, 17s 6d.
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst 8s 6d.
Our New Wild Boar’s Tusk
BBOOCH,
with Chain and Bell
Pendant.
Silver Mounted,
ss. 6d.
Gold Mounted,
14s.
CferiStnjaS
Presents •
...AND
New Year’s
(Sifts^^
Thousands of
Latest Novelties.
Please Send
for OUR
Illustrated
Slips of
Noneltiks.
Solid Gold Set with '
5-Turquoise, 10s (Jd, or
Pearl & Turquoise, 12,0
kd
Solid Goldj 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
- 50 other Patterns.
9c; 10/, 12/6, 15/, -20/
15e. 20/,-22/6, 27/6.
ISC./ 2}/,' 25/, .30/..
With any name or
Motto.'ls extra.
5 LOVELY OPALS.
10c., 425, small size, 355.
15c., 50s; 455.
18c., 555. „ „ 50s,
c
4RHW
180., Half-Hoop,
5 fine Diamonds, t'7
10s. Spialler Stones,
£ 4, £5, £6: 2 fine
Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals, or Pearls, £3,
£4, £5. 5 Lovely
Opals, 455, 50s, 555.
Gold Lucky Wish Bone Merry Thought
Brooch,
With 2 Pearl & Turquoise Love Birds, 14/6
With 1 Pearl & Turquoise Love Birds, 11/6'
Solid Gold
and
Shark’s Tooth
Pendant
BKQQCH,
• 13s 6d. '
Solid Gold
Mounted
Shark’s Tooth
PENDANT,
65.6 d.
The New CENTURY GOLD BROOCH,
Latest London Novelty, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold Mot to Brooch, 11s 6d.
Also, same style in Souvenir, Regard,
; ' • Good Luck, and Mizpah.
Gold, Two-bar
BROOCH,
with Amethyst &
Ohain Pendant,
13a 6d each.
New Gold Gross Brooch, with Raised
Mizpah and Bird, 12s 6d.
15c., 1 Diamond, and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 425.
Thousands of other patterns.
All Goods sent POST FIIEE
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best-, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd,
252 & 264 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
6000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
Is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors,
is perfect fitting-, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. W ater-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupplyßeady-madeMen’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Fatnous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Sersre Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. Th#
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing: in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2,6. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent's splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 16, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Press,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
Publications.
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
J- Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, 10 vols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. Bd. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
(san only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER, SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sjdnev.
PHOTOS FEOM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155..
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A • !
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney, f
ILLTISTR-A-TED
-\Tt7ITH numerous anatomical
VV colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDIGAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it T and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus itvoidl
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contentu
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
. _ (stamps) for stcpage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
• BOOKLET °b
RARE
BOOKS,
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney
FORBIG-N stamps
QETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 1
O Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new- issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue)' 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, lr,
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
60 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. lllus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B,
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-Street. MELBOURNE.'
PO STA
r!Sr
r%
How Do! May I send yo
my
Extra Special
Book Catalof/wp ?
WILL ANDRADE,
i2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has npt gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers' Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You cap, the knowledge im-
paired by this book unlocks the gate and you have, only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets.* Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUN J)KED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Publishing
to , Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N .b.W . Mention this
paper when writing
u
SCARLET 4 BLUE”
Grand Patriotic Song, by Lindsay Lennox. '
Sung Nightly, with unbounded applause, by Mr. Arthur
Hahn, at the Bijou Theatre.
Also, - ; .
“SABBATH EVENING CHIMES”
AND
“THE SMILE P.F.
By Willie Pape.
Played by Special Command of H.R.H Princess of Wales.
Of all Music-sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers, London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Post Free.
j£o nasox’s
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodqson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.


In the ’6o’s, the late Lachlan M*Gowan once took part
at the old Victoria Theatre in Sydney, in a performance
of Richard the Third, which rejoiced in no less ihan five
Richards -one for each act; to wit, M’Gowan himself, J.
P. West, J. J. Walsh, Win. Andrews, and Janies Simmons!
There were not, however, five Richmonds in the field, but
only one, the thunder-toned “Ned” Holloway.
Veteran Cathcart has one excellent precept that he
dins into his pupils : “ Remember that somewhere up at
the hack of the gallery on the last seat, amongst the cob-
webs, there is a small boy who has paid sixpence to hear
the lines. Think of that small boy while you are on and
speak up.”
A rather well-known Australian manager lately pro-
duced “ His Natural Life ” at a southern town. There
was no property man, but the actor, who had the pro-
perty-man’s duties thrown on him got this list of essen-
tials : Prologue: Furniture for room —carpet, letter
cup of tea, pocket-book.and papers, hunting-crop. Act
1 : Heap of stones, napping-hammers, pickaxes, tobacco,
handcuffs, revolver, knife, flask. Act. 2 : Rock-piece,
book, basket of provisions, loaf of bread, rum-bottle!
piece of wood, twigs, large stone, axe, bag of sawdust!
frame of boat, hides. Act S: Wicker chairs and table,
stick, ribbon, newspaper, pair handcuffs. Act 4 : Furni-
ture, carpet, decanter of alleged whisky and glasses. Act
5 : Triangle, pickaxe, rack, ropes, flask, cat-o’-nme-tails,
shpath-knife. The management reluctantly gave him a
shilling with which to buy anything he couldn’t borrow,
and told him not'to “blew” the bob recklessly. He
spent Id. on a bit of liquorice to represent the tobacco
that Parson. North divides among the convicts.
The foreman of a road-repairing job lent the picks
and hammers in return for a free pass, and. the hotel
landlady lent some tables and chairs, a decanter, and
a basket. Some real, rocks were carried in from
a paddock. The. carpet was cut out, also the victuals,
handcuffs and most other things. A cart-whip was
borrowed to flog Kirkland with, and for. want of the
triangles that victim howled in the wings while the whip
cracked. Rufus Dawes wasn’t brought in on the rack;
he was carried in and dropped on the floor. The boat
was left out, and old D vine, having no hunting-crop,
threatened his son with one Of the chairs. And'when the
lid. was handed back the management complained
bitterly that one of the pennies was battered.
“ Melb.” :■ An ex-Orangeman writes in the Catholic
Advocate on the ceremonies of Orange initiation
as he says they are practised in Australia. He says the
candidate for the Royal Arch Purple Degree is divested
of all clothing but. his trousers. He is blindfolded, and
has to walk barefoot oh broken road me;tal. A crash of
swords on the floor denotes .the “ wrath of God on the
children of Disobedience.” The trembling oandidate
feels the point of a sword at his breast. He is severely
beaten with green boughs. While walkitrg'the Milestone
he is tripped up by a man lying across, and conies down
with various degrees of severity and bruise according to
his height and weight. He has to stand on a table, off
which he is pushed suddenly into a tarpaulin, wherein
a number of brethren toss him, and finally let him
down on the floor with a thud. He has to take an oath
that he will not betray “the wife, sister, or daughter
of a brother Arch Purpleman.” Sundry other mum-
meries are detail- d by the writer, who appears to be
taking a very cheerful aiid interesting rise out of a
credulous generation.
W. 11., Wood field, who used to lift up a fine tenor voice
in the Firm’s old opera company in the “ Mikado ” days,
died at Perth (W.A.) last week of heart disease and
dropsy.
Brough had a very different tale to tell when the cur-
tain fell on the last performance of his latest Melbourne
Season. On the previous similar occasion the people
called up the plush, and Robert, looking down and de-
pressed, stepped forward and dropped a few meaningless
words, thinking he was done with the city for ever and a
day. This time he was buoyant and smiiing, and talked
of a quick return. R.B. did not talk on this occasion of
shaking the dust of the city from his feet, having a large
quantity of it in his pocket.
Now that the “Three Musketeers” is done to death,
someone should dramatise Dumas’ sequel, “ Twenty
Years After." Miladi’s son would make a blood-curdling
villain, and some of the scenes are highly dramatic. But
D’Artagnan and his mates at the wrong side of 40 would
probably fail to draw.
When Lane (husband of the .well-known Sarah, recently
deceased in London), first opened the Hoxton Britannia
Theatre, he instituted, “No re-admission without repay-
ment,” and on that account- aimed at furnishing, inside
the building, everything his patrons could possibly want.
One Saturday night he saw an elderly woman re-admitted
without a ticket, and on enquiring reason, was told by
the door-keeper that the woimn had forgotten to provide
her kindling-wood for next day, and that, as she was
a regular customer, he had strained a point when she re-
turned from getting it. “ What! ” said Lane, “ have we
no kindling-wood?” “No, Sir.” “Then, get in a couple
of loads at once.”
Cabled lately that at a Parisian bull-fight Taurus
leaped in among the audience and routed them with great
slaughter. According to mail accounts, the bull merely
wished to get away from the two-legged fiends who
were chasing him with swords and 1.-inces. He cleared
the palisade at a bound, entered a gangway, and climbed
two rows of seats. The panic was awful. The audience
climbed over each other, and screeched so that the hull,
unable to believe that he w-as the cause of it all, stopped
to try and reason it out. He was looking round him in
a scared sort of way when a woman seized him by one
horn and tried to poke her parasol into his eye. The hull
shook her oT, fell down two rows of seats, and finally
got away i.ito the paddock in which the arena stands. It
was nearly filled with bicycles, and his lordship amused
himself by tossing them up into the air and watching
them come down whack. He then proceeded to make a
light lunch off the short green grass, when he found
himself attacked by a horde of picadors, chulas, mata-
dors, toreros, gendarmes, and policemen armed with
revolvers. He was promptly wounded in many places,
got tangled up in the fence, and was stabbed to death.
Cow-prodding seems to be taking root in France—
another sign, probably, of national decadence.
In the good old “ Pinafore ” days the Josephine of a
certain co. was travelling as Sir Joseph’s wife, and great
was the public surprise when it was announced that she
was about to wed Capt. Corcoran (at that time Clement
Scott had not written his painful remarks about mum-
mers’ morality). A large crowd assembled at the
registry-office, and, owing to the bride’s peculiar posi-
tion, the C.P.S. determined to be very strict in his
inquiries. “Ever been married before?” he asked the
groom. “ Yesh, losh times.” “How many?” “Can’t
’member ’em all now. Jus’ put er down at a few—hie—
shever’l times,” said the groom. After an average had
been struck of the groom’s previous marriages, the
bride’s turn came. “ Ever been married before?” “ No,
sir.” “What! Never?” said the C.P.S. “Well,
h-h-hardly ever,” stammered the smiling bride. That
night, she and Sir Joe went through a trunk they had
used in common, and divided their “prop’s” quite
amicably. There was a packed house, and “ Pinafore ”
ran an extra week, thanks to the change of husbands and
the artless Josephine’s little joke.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
807 was a colossal score for N.S.W. to put lip
airainst South Australia. Noble made 2* l o, Svd. Gregory
176, and Trumpet - IGS. Noble and Gregory put up a
record for the fifth wicket, when they carried the score
from 278. to 664. Noble was at Ihe wickets 43
hours, Gregory 5 hours, and Trnmper 3 hours and
10 minutes Barring George Giffen, the South Aus-
tra it an bowlers made no impression, the veteran securing-
-8 wickets for 288 runs. Unless S.A. “discovers” some
rising talent with the ball its cricketing outlook seems
gluin indeed. There was no occasion to quarrel over the
gate, the attendance being very small—a South Aus-
tralian peculiarity when the locals are doing badly.
N.b. Wales’ first experience of sharing a pro-
portion of profits with S.A. is far from encouraging. The
recent engagement in Adelaide produced a loss. The
nrst day s takings (Saturday) amounted to £9O as against
an expected £3OO !
* ♦ * *
N-S. Wales’ score of 807 against S.A. in Ade-
laide establishes a record for first-class cricket in Aus-
tralia. The previous best was 803, made by Non-Sinokers
i>. Smokers, in Melb., in March,’B7. The best previous
worir , lnter P r ovmcial matches was 775, made by
N S. YVaies agamst Victoria, in 1882, when Murdoch com-
piled his 321 (not out).
* * » *
Victor Trnmper is, without doubt, the best
batsman in Australia at the present time. His 165
against S.A. in Adelaide was one of the finest specimens
of cricket skill the writer has seen, quite rivalling Hill’s
display against England in Adelaide last March. Clem,
bv the way, is in no form at all just now ; he took 80
minutes to make 46 in S.A.’B first innings. Noble is, un-
doiihtedly second only to Trumper in batting. New
South Wales is profiting from her wise policy of intro-
ducing young players into her team. Her five juniors in
the 'natch against S.A. are, without exception, fine all-
round players. Already S.A. critics are advising the
younger province to follow the example. Lyons has
clearly shot his bolt. He is an unreliable batsman and a
very weak point. F. Jarvis could also be dropped with
advantage. Young players like Claxton, Leak, and
teams® 1, * lave simply had to force their way into S.A.
9 * » *
George Giffen’s average of eight wickets for 287
out of a total of 807 again proves what wonderful stamina
the veteran possesses. He is S.A.’s only bowler once
more, as Jones average for this season of three wickets
for over 400 runs demonstrates. Trnmper, Gregory and
Noblehit Jones all over the field, and made his fast stuff
look plain The erstwhile lightning streak has lost about
50 per cent, of his old-time pace.
• • • •
With young players like Trumper, Hopkins,
Noble, P,\e and Collins coming on, it would seem that
Australia has no need to fear the assaults of England for
a year or two. Cricket was never in such a strong
position as it is in Australia just now. Men like Iredale,
Jones, Worrall and Gregory will have to maintain all
their old form, or they will be pushed out by the
youngsters next season.
* * * *
®y c^n ?y man with a craze for cricket statistics
finds out, m connection with late S.A.-N.S.W. match
that Donnan then completed his 4000 runs for contests
between these two provinces, actually putting together
1069 in 25 finished innings, the average being 42 - 60.
Iredale also reached four figures. Donnan was the first
mother-province rep. to accomplish this feat : his five
biggest efforts were 160, 120, 93, 81, and 72. Noble’s two
centimes are the biggest score ever achieved by any
member of an interprovincial team against S.A.
* * * *
Critics are discussing the policy of inviting a
veteran like Lord Hawke to lead the next English cricket
team to Australia. But the question is not altogether
one of mere capability on the cricket field. This paper
quite expected that most of the next English cricket
team for Australia would come from Woolwich and would
be led by Wolseley, Buller, or “ Bobs.” Kanji and Stod-
dart went Ome with such tales of Australian barracking
and insults that one would have expected the next com*
bination to fetch along a battery of field artillery and
maxun guns in order to bring the crowd to reason at the
beginning of each innings.
• * * *
We don’t hear much of whilom Australian demon
bowler Spoff. lately ; writer thought he had pegged out.
Late files from ’Onie indicate that he is still atop of the
earth and recently, as foreman of a coroner’s jury, gained
much kudos by suggest ing and having it adopted that the
jury s fees for sitting on that particular stiff should he
handed over to the Patriotic Fund.
* • * *
Parthian, at Randwick, on Saturday, further
proved his claim to be considered one of the best three-
year-olds of his year by running away with the Grand
btand Stakes. Report said the colt had not been doing
over well on the training-track, and, as the party did not
support hi:n in the betting, the rumor carried weight
and he started at 7to 1. Voyou started an equal favorite
with Gauleon, but neither showed prominentlv, and Par-
thian won easily from Flodden. Voyou broke‘down, and
has probably run his last race.
* * * *
News that Goldsbrough—Ethel horse Brock-
leigh impaled himself on a fence atTumut (N.S.W.) and
died, brings to memory the sensation he created in
Sydney six years ago. Starting a hot 6to 1 favorite for
Epsom mile, with Jim Gough up and 8.10 in the saddle,
Broc-kleigh easily got first past the post by 3 lengths in
1.403 from a field of 24 ; Joe Abrahams’Little Bernie was
second. Owner of winner raked in three thousand, which
he had to take at a comparatively short price. Things
looked blue for the ring, as. Brockleigh was coupled ?n
doubles with almost everything in the Metrop. One
big punter and patron of Kelso’s stable, now (like
many who preceded and followed him) gone to
the wall, netted a tidy sum straight out and
had the same horse (as the second leg of a double)
going in the mile and a-half event for £6OOO. The night
before the Metrop. he backed Brockleigh for several
thousands more from sixes down to two’s. Ikeys
followed him to his suburban hotel offering 6 to 4 against
the hot pot getting a place, and booked further big
wagers. Most punters who had won over the Epsom
plunged on Brockleigh for the Metrop., until it looked as
if the breaking up of the ring was going to be accom-
plished at last. Brockleigh started, 6 to 4 and 2 to 1
against, and, after being interfered with twice, was
brought down by Pharamond pulling back on to him ;
Little Bemie and Salutation also fell. All sorts of ugly
reports were in circulation regarding the occurrence.
The big hacker referred to was never seen on a racecourse
afterwards. Paris (100 to 3 against) won, bringing much
jubilation and sacks of shekels to the camp of the leather-
lunged.
* » * *
The Westralian Turf Club has suspended for
three months the license of a racing man for attempting
to participate in the prize-money in a Perth “Tatter-
sail’s” sweep. How would that sort of physic suit some
of the blackmailers on the East side?
• * * •
A number of Australian horses are expected to
compete at next big M.L. trotting meeting. Fritz stays
at home.
* • • •
Maoriland trotting authorities were puzzled a
while back when tracing the antecedents of an alleged
“ringer.” They ultimately discovered that after the
moke had won a trot at one town he scored a galloping
race at another, the following week, in his proper name.
General-utilitv horses of tnis description are scarce.
* * * *
The tot.i lisa tor—and let all its advocates stick
to this point -is essentially a democratic institution. It
puts the cunning trickster on the same level with the
simple, honest sport. “ One Man one Price ”in the tote.
It spares the punter the trouble of rushing around from
one noxious bookmaker to another, and the subsequent
anguish of discovering that he didn’t invest his coin at
the best available odds—for not once in a dozen tries does
he get on “ top of the market ” with Ikey Mo. The tote
deals out a fair chance to every player, and devotes the
41 kitty” to the encouragement of honest sport.
• * » •
The story goes that a horsey man who slept next
a bookie, turned in early, but at midnight he suddenly
entered the met.’s. room, told him to book a certain animal
to win £5O, and then cleared out. Horse won, but when
bookie was paying over, the successful punter refused to
receive—denied all knowledge of the bet. Eventually,
however, the cash changed hands. The' backer was a
somnambulist
* • * *
As a rule the turf pigeon stands plucking with-
out a squeal, but an exception has turned up in the
author of a 70-page booklet, entitled “ Australian Turf
Infamies, published in Sydney.' The characters are
easily recognised in the persons of well-known Sydney
horsey men, and the writer at this late day tells a heart-
rending story of alleged turf experiences, which were
common history amongst turfmen during the whole
process of the plucking.
* * * •
Coursing looks like flourishing in N.S.W. On
top of Rooty Hill Plumpton being leased by the N.C.A.,
Sydney C.C. (recently formed) has taken over 260 acres
at Belmore, close to city, where coursing meetings will
probably be run every week as in America. Which re-
minds the writer that Bathurst (N.S.W.) coursing enthu-
siast Charley White has challenged the Yankee champion
ror Freedom ”to a.test with one of his hounds. Char-
lie will take 500. to 200 and pay his own exs. across the
ocean, or will give or take exs. and make a match for
£5OO a side.
* * * *
• ? n J? e a F a ' n as the crack British cavalry corps
m India gone under at polo to the Golcondas, the dusky
crack Mahommedan team of the Nizam’s dominions.
»♦* . ■ «
Crack pigeon-shots Massy and Neel(l (“Locks-
Jj-Y ) have clinched matters for a matoh-£lOO a side and
N.S.W. premiership—to eventuate at Yass (N.S.W.) Jan.
Conditions provide that each shall supply 100 birds,
the lot to be boxed and each to shoot at 100. Sixty
yards boundary and 30 yards rise were also agreed to.
Chud Gorrick, recently beaten bv Massy, wants a go at
the winner for any stake named, and will take Massy on
win or Jose.
* * • *
Interprovincial bruising-match between crack
bantams, Wal. M‘Kay (Vic.) and Bert Weekes (N.S W )
drew upwards of 800 people to Golden Gate Club, Sydney,
Saturday night. Both shaped up in great trim, M’Kay’s
hard chivvy and squat figure contrasting strongly with
Weekes’ boyish face (he is yet in his teens) and lathy,
streaky-built frame. It was the bull-d g and the finely-
drawn terrier. 44 It’s a shame to match ’em,’’ said several
near the writer; “what chance can that boy have
against weather-beaten, battle-worn M‘Kay ?” But they
didn’t know. Wally came the hero of 70 - battles, in not
one of which was he knocked out. Weekes, just on the
threshold of the game, had only two or three little local
affairs as credentials, but he got on so well that his
friends summed him up a champion, and they were
right. Though Weekes (7.9J4) was the lighter hv lUlb.,
he had a couple or three inches to the good in height.
Right from “Time!” Wally rushed viciously and
strongly and appeared like going through his man in
very short order : he hutted, shouldered, bored, roughed,
hung on and hit—in short, resorted to all the dodges of
the ring acquired during years of experience, and still
failed to annihilate the fragile-framed youngster in front
of him. Weekes shook from neck to heel frequently
through the fury of M 4 Kay’s onslaughts, hut never once
did he allow a knock-down punch to reach him. Mao. tried
the famous kidney blow—seen for the first time since
George Dawson left for Yankeedom seven years ago—
with palpable effect, and soon a glaring red blotch
appeared over the spot visited ; still the bov weathered
the gale, and kept jabbing with the left and crossing;
with the right while the crowd shrieked with excitement.
At the close of the twentieth round the referee called the
match a draw, but writer would have given it to Weekes,
whose work was cleverer and fairer. Persistent foul
doings should have taken away considerably from the
other chap’s score.
* • • •
Top-notch heavy-weight png, ink-hued Pete
Felix, lias had hisloud-soundingdefiancecalled down in two
p'aces. Tim Murphy (vi le Bulletin par, 23/12 ’99) offers
extra inducement to the black, while back-number Tut
Ryan ridicules the idea of the elongated colored bruiser
besting him under any conditions, and undertakes to find
a stake of £5O or £lOO. Up to time of writing lathy
Pete’s money has not materialised. Murphy and Ryaii
don't want to tackle Felix both at once either, though it
was announced on behalf of the large colored gent, that
he didn’t mind taking on his foes two at a time—in fact
would almost prefer it that way because it would save
time.
* * * *
News from Honolulu is that erstwhile .Sydney
“Pelican Pet” Martin Denny, who has been globe trot-
ting for eight years, figured in a peculiar affair there re-
cently. He met one Armstrong, and while hashing him
about, and when just on the verge of administering the
quietus, police interference stopped hostilities. Denny
got the verdict, but a charge of collusion in getting- at a
local sport for £l6O, which he wagered on Armstrong,
caused the arrest of both principals, as well as others said
to be implicated.
• • * ,
From the cabled reports of the Jeffries-Sharkey
fight, for the championship it was supposed Jeffries had
knocked Sharkey out in 25 rounds, a battered, broken-
ribbed wreck, but accounts to hand show that at the end
of the 25th round, when the men were ordered to shake
hands. Jack was as good as his master so far as strength
was concerned, and the fight was awarded to Jeffrieson
“ points,” an ever-unsatisfaotory termination to a chnni-
pionship fight. Sharkey posted £lOOO for a return
match, and under the circumstances Jeffries can scarcely
refuse him another meeting.
* * • •
Writer has waded through half-a-dozen different
accounts of the recent Sharkey-Jeffries slaughtering
match for the world's pug. championship, and can arrive
at no other conclusion than that the referee made a big
mistake in giving Jeffries the palm. How anv conscien-
tious man who understood the game could decide that
way is beyond comprehension. Had a draw been
declared the hottest Jeffriesite might not have cavilled.
Sharkey led throughout the first 20 rounds, and, though
they pounded each other unmercifully at times, Jeffries
husbanded his forces and made the pace a cracker for the
last five of the stipulated 25. Sharkey fought back
like a demon, but Jeffries had too much in reserve,
and scored the greater number of points. This
influenced the referee; he forgot all about Sharkey’s
distinct lead during four-fifths of the term and was, like
many others similarly placed, carried away by what
occurred at the end. Had it been a finish fight Sharkey
might have won decisively, as his marvellous powers of
recuperation would have stood to him. It was the most
severe and punishing battle of recent times, and demon-
strated unmistakably that strong-framed, well-trained
men can stand a fearful amount of battering without
suffering serious effects. Worth mentioning that one
wager taken by a Wall-street (N.Y.) broker, who backed
Sharkey, was £5300 to £3OOO.
* • * •
It is supposed that in the old raw-meat, P.R
style Sharkey would beat any pug. now before the
public.
• * * *
“Pro.”: Presence of bookmakers at amateur
athletic meetings looks like causing a big rift in N.S W.
association. Already one enthusiastic supporter has cut
the painter, and others will surely follow. To such a pass
have things come that it is known certain athletes have
been taking it in turn to win by arrangement. T’other
day the executive met, tajked gravely concerning the
trouble, appointed a special committee to investigate
and passed resolutions providing for penalties most
severe if such things were. Truth is, the A.A.A. will not
do anything if it can be avoided. Consequently amateur
athletics have pone from bad to worse for years, until
now a very low ebb has been reached. A glaring
instance of this was the Parramatta Harriers’ case a
little while ago. They wanted to include a race for league
cyclists (professionals) in their programme. The A. A. A.
said it must not be done, otherwise direful measures would
be adopted. Parramatta Harriers took no notice, brought
the event off, and, worse still, one of the A.A.A. council-
lors started it. At its next meeting the executive
solemnly and lengthily discussed the matter, talked
determination and non-consideration of persons, dwelt
upon the duty they had to perform, &c., &c., and wound
up by formulating a resolution “severely ” censuring the
offending club. This was mild enough, but the Parra-
matta delegate kicked. He wouldn’t stand the censure,
and insisted upon it being withdrawn ; whereupon the
obliging and pliant A.A.A. legislators eliminated the
objectionable portion of their remarks and didn’t even
severely censure the Harriers.
» * * *
Percy Beauchamp, who won the Austral at 4 to
1, and started half the grandstand running for home,
and the other half pursuing it, is one of the three
brothers who carried all before them in Tasmanian
rowing a few years back. With the assistance of an out-
sider who was changed several times, the Beauchamp
brothers won the championship of the Flyspeck for the
Tamar club, and retained it by winning over 30 races.
They crossed to the mainland several times, but could do
nothing against Vic. oarsmen, and returned to take up
the more profitable sport of cycling. Percy Beauchamp
is a lank}' six-footer of 23, and has a good cycling record
in his own land. Until winning the Austral, however,
he had never finished first in a race north of the Straits.
In addition to the £3OO stake, the Beauchamps win over
£lOOO on the race.
* * « *
A few smashes on the track play the deuce with
a cyclist’s nerves as a rule. “ Chinny ’’Bill Martin is an
exception, but nobody who knows Sweet William ever
suspects him of having any nerves at all. The average
man after being smashed two or three times gets into a
way of looking for trouble, and scheming to save his neck,
and it is only the man who never recollects his neck who
wins races. The nervous one is said to be “ paced by the
undertaker.”
* * * *
A Vic. cyclist brought down in the second lap
of his heat for a big event the other day was carried off,
and recovered consciousness smin. later in the dressing-
room. “By Jove! I pulled it off all right, Jim,” were
his first words on coming round, and it was with difficult}'
he was convinced that he had not finished and come
in first.
* * * *
Australasian champion natationist Lane still
keeps his end up “down under.” He was the draw at
Edinburgh (Scotland) City Police big gala, Nov. 16, giv-
ing exhibition swims over 220 and 440 vds. courses. In a
100 yds. Invitation Handicap Lane displayed great form ;
conceding starts up to 14 sec,., he won and was clocked to
do 1 min. 2 3-5 sec. At Manchester (Eng.), Nov. 15,
British ex-amateur champion Tyers essayed the task of
eclipsing Lane’s 3 min. 47 sec. for 300 yds.. but finished
9 2-5 sec. outside. The “pub.’’ business is evidently
doing the whilom English wonder no good.
» * • «
In Frank Gailey Q. has a comer who’ll be
heard of among the top-notch swimmers of the provinces
ere along ; he already ranks with the best of the sprint-
ing division bar “Mud” Bishop (Sydney). At Q.
Swimming Association Carnival in Brisbane t’other day,
young Gailey got away with the li oyds. supremacy of
Bananaland, in lmin. s|seo., beating previous holder,
Hogan, bv 2yds. Prior to that he secured the champion-
ship of Valley Club, over same distance, in lmin. 4 4-ssec.
More than likely that Gailey will represent the Northern
province in Australasian Premiership, at Sydney, next
month.
* * • *
Charge emanating from N.S.W. Public Schools
A.A.A. makes status of Australian amateur-champion
swimmers and world’s record-holder- “ Mud ” Bishop and
Fred Lane look very shaky. Said that thev each
accepted a fiver for swimming their match at All-Schools’
Carnival in Sutherland Dock, Cockatoo Island, last
season. Governing body of natation will probe the
matter this week. Question suggests itself—if the crack
swimmers are brought under the ban, where do the pro-
fessedly amateur officials who winked at, in fact were
parties to, this breach of the amateur laws come in ?
THE TRIPLE FORK crown affords all necessary
strength at a vital point, and is a distinctive feature
of the MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE, which imparts
added value and security to the machine.
i I
Factories—Toronto. Canada. Nevr South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Art Catalogue posted free on application.
By assenting to the monstrous doctrine
that Australia has to assise, without enquiry, in
any war which Britain chooses to wage, the Aus-
tralian Governments have degraded our hitherto
Responsible Parliaments into mere courts of record
and endorsement. Australia «as once a self-
governing community.
The widow of the Crown Prince of Austria
is about to make a love-match with a Hungarian
count, whose devotion is largely due, no doubt, to
the lady’s exquisite figure. Princess Stephanie is
the eldest daughter of the King of the Belgians,
the monarch who conferred the honor of knight-
hood upon the patentee of P.D. corsets. Born
and bred within the first sphere of P.D. influence,
so to speak, the Princess’s figure has been trained
on P.D. lines, and is famous for its beauty.*
Are you taking up photography as .a
hobby? Harrington & Co., King-street, Sydney,
will fit you with a very useful, complete, and
modern instrument for 255. Or, if you prefer to
go a little higher, you can have an 'elegant little
camera—light, compact, portable, and taking 12
pictures without change of plates—for £3 10s.
Again, if you want to take seriously to the art,
and thus combine education and recreation,
Harrington’s can fix you up at 3,4, 5, 7 or 8
guineas—or, to take the extreme range at once,
your purse and predilections can be suited at from
255. to 25 guineas.*
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH^BALSAM
WILL CUKE YOUR
iQfkieQza CoOgl).
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
...0n...
Mr. Frank Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
The CRIMSON BICYCLE.
Every Crinjsorj W/jee/ is either a RED BIRD ,
Or else it is endeavouring to sleigh ride on Red Bird refutation a*™- i • 4- 1
fX'p,r an was- ss®?r
■ar.S&i&rjas S‘;s rw Th ’ s
P . and Guaranteed by Che 6oold Bicycle Co*, Ctd.
r,6S Brantford, Canada. Aust “ Branohes : vTc" Aus ™ u "
Hfient*—everywhere. Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-Bt., Wellington, N.Z.
A CbristipaS gift
that will be an hourly and perpetual reminder of the donor is a
Bicycle.
—Call and see our 1900 Model “ Bed Birds.”


Mat Reid’s win at Enoggera tallies three
bye-elections recently gained by Q. Labor Party—
Turley, at S. Brisbane, and Bowman at Warrego,
won the other two. Enoggera is the constituency
Drake resigned ; and the Labor majority shows
plainly what Drake’s old supporters think of his
treachery.
When an Adelaide broker received a cable,
the other day gravely reporting that Buller had
walked into Ladysmith and captured 6000 Boers,
each and several of the local brokers started out
to smash in each other’s hat, and an extra
humorous dealer employed a German Band to play
patriotic airs. The Mayor stayed up until mid-
night ready to ring the Town Hall bells directly
the joyful news was confirmed, but even the
reliable daily papers failed to come up for once.
The only people who have not been kicking them-
selves ever since are the German Band.
Australia is still laboring heavily over
getting its second Transvaal contingent together,
and already there is.talk about a third one. Also,
it is proposed to keep the rejected men together
in case the country may have used up its available
supply of the best physical material, and may he
darned glad to send the cripples and weeds next
time. And already the tired N.S. W. Government
is weakening on its valiant resolve to pay the bill
out of current revenue, and all manner of strange
military items are appearing in the loan estimates.
Even the military ardour of this country goes on
credit, and future generations are to pay for this
generation’s “glory.”
Military advertising-expert Lieut. -Colonel
Jawbone Neild dished his brother officers by
arranging a special parade of his (7th) regiment
at Sydney Town Hall last Sunday, when Arch-
bishop Smith and War-Minister See made
speeches. The Archbishop’s was about the
“strongest” religious utterance since Bishop
Stanton, at Newcastle, remarked that the local
streets were “consecrated” when a Transvaal
contingent tramped over them. The Bul-
letin’s exalted brother in the Lord reasoned in so
many words that because Christ was the Prince
of Peace Australians should go to Africa to fight
Boers. And this was his climax
There is a poem we have heard a good deal of lately.
Its refrain is “ For your credit’s sake, pay, pay, pay !"
But I say to you, for Christ’s sake, pay, pay, pay !
Christ is put to many remarkable uses nowadays,
but it has been reserved for an Australian Arch-
bishop to make him play second fiddle to Kipling.
“Then the collection was taken up. Weird
creatures, these religionists!
The cable-fakir of Sydney Daily Tele-
graph is an important personage just now. When
a brief message conies through like Three
hundred British surrendered," his duty is to
smooth over things by inserting “overwhelming
numbers of Boers ” (the Boers are always in over-
whelming numbers even though they haven t got
tnem), or “sanguinary struggles,” or “heroicde-
fence.” The fake-matter is mixed up with the
genuine news, so that ninety-nine people in a hun-
dred don’t know the difference. For example, in
regard to Buller’s defeat at Tugela, the D.l.
declares—
The infantry made heroic, but vain efforts, in support
of the artillery. All accounts agree in stating that the
British soldiers fought like lions, but the Boers (who ap-
peared to have crossed the river, under protection of
their heavy puns) surrounded their enemies in over-
whelming numbers and captured the survivors after a
sanguinary struggle. .
Judging by a comparison made with S.M. Herald
account (which, as a rule, sticks creditably close
to the cables), the words in italics were seemingly
about all that were actually oabled. Ihe re-
mainder. or most of it, was apparently embroidery
by the D.T. cable-fakir.
A sidelight on the efficacy-of-prayer dis-
cussion is thrown by the cable which states that a
lyddite shell fell into a Boer prayer-meeting and
killed 20 persons.
Leeds (England) Mercury reports an in-
terview with a returned Englishman long resident
in Johannesburg -
Is it not a fact (asked the interviewer) that Englishmen
have been subjected continuously to insults from the
Boers ?
That all depends upon what you call an insult.
Would you call spitting in a man’s face, for instance,
an insult ?
Certainly. I never heard of that being done, though it
is quite possible. But there are vulgar brutes amongst
all communities. Nobody in Johannesburg ever thought,
however, of going out in a morning with a handkerchief
round his physiognomy. I remember being in a bar par-
lor, and bearing a Dutchman singing out that he could
fight ten Rooineks. A mate of mine just stepped out and
tapped him on the chin, sending him sprawling. And
there’s plenty of Englishmen who’ve been on this sort of
bragging tack—many of them puny creatures who
couldn’t fight a pussy cat—and they’ve had their faces
scraped by the Boers in consequence.
What about the grievances of the Outlanders ?
I didn’t know I had any really serious grievance till I
started taking the newspapers. The Star said I had
some, and the Lkader told me the same so often that I
came to the conclusion I must have a lot which I hadn’t
noticed.
Then you think now you had serious grievances ?
I must have had. I don’t know exactly what they
were, but now I shan’t be happy till they’re righted.
But the taxes were very heavy ?
If I had been in England during the time I have been
out there, I should have paid to the benevolent British
Government nearly £5 in tobacco and whisky duties.
While I have been in the Transvaal, Oom Paul’s crowd
have collected 18s. 4d. a vear from me for poll-tax ; I gave
them 10s. for a special tax for small-pox expenses, and
they vaccinated me for another 2s. 6d.
The houses are heavily taxed ?
I believe they are, but if the householders were paying
twice as much as in any other country, they earned twice
as much.
But the courts of justice are corrupt?
Well, if an Englishman, s iy, got run in for breaking
china and killing a dog, they’d bail him out for about a
sovereign, and he would hear no more about it. If a man
got six months, before the expiration of the time the
governor would generally happen to walk round, and,
hearing the nature of the prisoner’s wickedness, would
say, “ Oh, get you out of this; you have been here too
long already.” They did not do their time often, unless
the'eorporation had plenty of work on hand.
Life, I believe, has not been too secure ?
Well, if a gun happened to go off by accident, and
killed any one, they never troubled much about it. They
have never, I believe, hanged a white man in the Trans-
vaal. Oom Paul, I believe, has a pious objection to it.
Guns have “accidentally” gone off rather often, have
they not?
No ; it is one of the quietest places in the world, com-
paratively speaking. They have often gone off accidentally
and killed niggers, but nothing much has been thought
about that. The dead nigger has just been allowed to lie
where he dropped till carried off by the officials, and no
inquiry has been made. I am speaking of the niggers
that go around at night time and tackle you.
“Every Swing of the Pendulum”
m
v
j
ADDS TO THB
REPUTATION OR
Derb\)
TOBACCO.
SWEET,
FRESH,
FRAGRANT,
PUT THIS IN YOUR PIPE AND SMOKE IT.
liaison’s . . .
Acme Camera
The Finest Stock in Australis
OF
HIGHEST CLASS
photographic Cameras^
LENSES
AND
APPARATUS
IS KEPT BY
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE
Send for Descriptive Price List. (and LONDON).
An indispensable adjunct to the toilet
arsenal of beauty is Scrubb’s Fluid Ammonia. It
is an invaluable softener of “ hard ” water ; a
half- teaspoon fill in the wash hand basin, or two
tablespoonfuls in the bath, gives the water a feel-
ing of softness and a capacity for removing dust
and perspiration from the skin that are at once
refreshing and important. The same makers
supply a good “Antiseptic” toilet soap to use
with the ammonia, or as a solid substitute.*
Mr. Harry Franks, of Vickery’s Buildings,
82 Pitt-street, Sydney, is now advertising liisnew
wares that he secured the sole agency of in his
last travels round the world. He is still repre-
senting the wonder of this century—viz., the
linotype machine, which has had a wonderful sale
in the Australian provinces in proportion to their
population. His new labor-saving and checking
machine is the “Hey Register,” for checking
the time of employes going in or out of the em-
ployer’s warehouses or workshops. This is a
most ingenious contrivance, and no employer of
fifty hands and upwards should be without one of
these machines. They range from checking 50
employes to 200, there being four different sizes
of machines, and there is no degradation to the
employes in this system of check. Mr. Franks
also wishes to draw the attention of the Australian
public to his “ Hamilton Casli Register,” which
is a clever checking-machine for all cash taken
over the counter in all classes of business. It is
of the very best make, and as good as any other
machine of the kind on the market ; and it has
this in its favor: he can sell it very much cheaper
than any opponents can sell at in ■' * market.
He has other patents to show, and is n .■> position
to supply any printer, newspaper-proprietor,
or those in the allied trades, with all classes of
machinery, sundries and requisites in connection
with these trades.*
§
TTTTsJ
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
TTAS NO SUPERIOR,
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRINK (SRIMLEY
Sole PistribGtiog AgeQt
for ACi&tralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials
263-265 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY-
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutne.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.30.
MATINEES EVERY WED. AND SAT., AT 2
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
i lie Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
little red riding hood,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. VW PRICES—Ss., 3s„ 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
a Powerful Romantic Play by Freeman Wills, entitled
THe Only Way,
Or, A Tale of Two Cities.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
IRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
AND EVERY EVENING AT 8,
A TALE OF the TRANSVA AL,
Founded on that Famous Novel “ Jess,” depicting
thrilling and realistic events now taking place
in the Transvaal.
PRICES : 3s, 2s, Is. 1 lan at Nicholson’s.
Business Manager and Treasurer, Ilarne Skinner.
Lr cE' U M TiIEA T R E, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45
MK. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his POPULAR DRAMATIC COMPANY in the
Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
A PLAY OF REMARKABLE ATTRIBUTES.
\N UNPARALLELED DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENT.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
SYDNEY.
PALACE THEAT It E.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Marvellous Russian
Vocalists and Dancers,
8 THE NEWSKY FAMILY. 8
EVERY EVENING !
PROFESSOR DAVY’S MARIONETTES,
te - appearance of G. W. HUNTER, Raconteur, Little
fanny Powers, Howard Chambers, and a host of others.
J lan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
MJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
> Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION OF
Mao carte Sisters.
te-appearance of TOM COSTELLO, LITTLE ALMA
JRAY, SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace King, Elsie Gold-
n«' Lulu Zeseh, Will Whitburn, Chas. W. Cogill,
° and a host of others.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
rIIEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING;
SENSATIONAL HOLIDAY SUCCESS.
GREAT XMAS ATTRACTION!
roHN F. SHERIDAN as THE SECOND MRS. BLOCK
—lN—
“Little Christopher Columbus.”
MISS GRACIE WHITEFORD.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
j,.j ces —3s., -25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ALEXANDRA
Lessees
TH EATRE, M ELBOURNE.
The Victorian Operatic Society.
THE SUCCESS OF THE SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
The Victorian Operatic Society in Planquette’s
Masterpiece,
‘ Les Cloches de Corneville.”
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILVIE, Hon. Sec.
I OWN
HALL,
MELBOURNE.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
UNPARALLELED HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. O. M. M'ADOO’S
JUBILEE SIICTQvKJBeS-
In connection with which is the
PASSION PLAY of OBER AMMERGAU,
By Edison’s Latest and Most Modern Machine,
The KINETOSCOPE.
3000 Feet of Movinsr Pictures, Illustrating the Life of Our
Saviour from His Birth to the Resum ction.
PR KIES.— 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
//; , FRED. DAWSON, Agent.
Business Announcements.
Rochester Lodged™
inr Supsrior Boarding E'-tatlishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters arjd telegrams promptly attended to.
iPavini Mnilavota Mrs. M’CLELLAND
Terms Moderate. („„ BOUJEB).
FOR
Duck Shootiug*
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried—Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES, \
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Rackham’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS-
MEII BUGS. * lltt. ttl
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
FOR 1900.
Every Lady should commence the New X,
Century well by keeping a Diary.
IF you send ns Sevenpence in Stamps
we will send you a
Dice tittle Handy Diary,
CONTAINING THE
Calendar for 1900,
In Ruby binding, neat for bag or pocket,
with Memoranda Pages for year—36s
spaces—for reminder Notes and General
Diary Entries. Showing the Moonlight
Nights. Also Cash Summary Pages, very
useful when out shopping. Beautifully
ruled with lovely faint lines of blue.
Altogether a very nice book, and will save
you a lot of thinking.
All for 7d.
(No lady can do without it).
Address as follows :
Hordern Brothers,
The well-known Drapers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
SEND SEVENPENCE.
n
•-x ".Igßg
teiiniminfi®
mmiTrri
,>lffiiaiTrrL
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is-
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ Kins:-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KINQ STREET, and near the General Poet
Office.
Proprietor • - GEO W. ELLIS.


and
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS # J» .e J* ENDLESS VARIETY J» Jt UNEQUALLED VALUE
No. E6797.—New Elegant Design, 9c. Gold
Brooch, Set Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire, 14s 6d.
No. E 7364. —New Lucky Bean Fin Charm,
9c. Gold, 4s 6d.
No. 111. —New Bar Brooch, Amethyst,
and 9c. Gold, 10s. 6d.
No. E 7364. —New Lucky Bell Pin Charm,
90. Gold, 4s 6d.
No 512.—Heart and Lovers’ Knot Brooch,
Artistic Design,
Amethyst and 9c. Gold, 18s 6d.
No. 184 a
18c. Gold, JEI 7s 6d.
No. 162.—3 Fine
Diamonds, 18e. Gold.
£4 17a 6d.
No. 165.—2 Rubies, 1
Diamond, 15c. Gold,
£1 ss.
No. 183. —Elegant
Carved Keeper, 18c.
Gold, £2.
No. 172.—Fine White Diamond,
£4 10s. Larger, £5 10s.
<• No. 176 a or
Gent’s 18e. Gold Band
Ring, £1 is, £1 10s, £2.
No. 171.-18 c. Gold
9 Diamonds, 3
Sapphires, £3 10s.
No. 160.—1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2.
No. 178.—Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold, £1 lb.
So. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
£4 7s 6d.
No. 208.—15 a Gold
Heart, 10s 6d.
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 139.— 50. Gold Bracelet, Buby Centre, jgl 2a 6d.
No. 217.—15 c. Gold
Heart, Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 ss.
No. 134. —16c. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
8 Sapphires, 417 10s.
No. 153 a Brooch, 8 Pine Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £4 17s 6d.
No. 125.—15 c. Gold Brooch, 4 Diamonds,
S Rubies, £2 15s.
No. 115 a. Gold Two. Bar Brooch,
Amethyst Centre and Heart, £1 ss.
No. 117. —Pretty 15c. Gold Bar Brooch
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 157. —Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 130.—15 c. Gold Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 108. —The “ Little Pet’s ’’ Bracelet,
Bc. Gold, 15s. 6d.
No. 148.—Solid Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds,
4 Bubies, £4 4s.
No. 756. —The New Lucky Bells. Latest London Novelty
9c. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, £llos. Ditto, 3-Bell, £1 ss.
No. 201. —Set Links,
oc. Gold £1 Is ; 15c. Gold £2.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 194 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, £1 ss; 15c. Gold,
£2 10s. Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 124A.—16ct. Gold and Amethyst Brooch,
Special Value, £1 7s 6d.
No. 193 A Links.
9c. Gold, 128 6d; 15a
Gold, £1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 120.—15 c. Gold, Diamond, and Ruby
Brooch, £2.
No. 130.—Set Heavy 18c. Gold
Links, Set with Fine Diamonds,
£8 10s.
9c. Gold, 18s 6d; 15c. Gold,
£ll7s Gd ; Silver, 5s Gd.
No. 242.—15 c. and Pearl Wish-Bone, 10s fid.
—l6c. Heart, Key and Diamond, £1 12s 6d.
No. 283.—16 c., set Pearls, 16s 6d.
No. 240.— Double Shoe, set Pearls, £lss.
No. 286. —Elegant Photo. Frame, Solid
Silver, Cabinet size, 16s 6d.
Plain Silver, Midget size, 4s.
No. BXl.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6Jin. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
Other Designs, £1 10s.
iSr
No. 26SA.—Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Nail File,
Scissors, and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. 316. —Solid Silver Sweet Dish,
3£in. long, 12s 6d.
Others, 18s 6d and £1 Is.
No. 298.—Solid Silver Serviette King,6s6d.
Best Silver Plate, 3s 6d and 4s.
v,
No. 246. —Telescopic Pencil, very Special Value, Finest Finish. 9-c. Gold, FI 15s.
Sterling Silver, 10s 6cL
%
m-
No. 246.—Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s. Heavy 9c. gold, £1 15s.
Uo. 290.—Silver Mounted
Toilet Salts Bottle, 2iin.
high, 6s Cd.
Larger, 7s 6d and 10s 6d.
No. 297. Solid Silver
Thimble, Steel lined, 3s 6d.
Others, Is and Is 6d.
No. £8 I'iix s' Cut,
Glas:, Sih er Mounted
Sul s Bottle, His 6d.
Size lurjj'er, 18s (id.
Sm..d sizes 3s (id A: 4s 6(1
TOOK?;
V.OWOH
nwn , rmwn r^, —S-fwi
No. SOM. Two Solid Silver Gent.’s Hair
Brushes, in Case, 13 3s.
E
No. 253. Solid Silver Match-Box,
LOs Od. l'lain, 8s 6d.
Ho. 282. —Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s 6d.
Shoe Lift to Match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
The “Triumph '' Watch for Gentlemen or Youths is a
Gigantic Triumph over any other low-priced Watch
already in the market. Polished Nickel- Keyless, Short
Wind, 18s (id.
No. 284. —Cut-Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, Sin. high, £1 Is.
Heavy Solid Silver Clasps, New and
Elegant Designs, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, £1 is.
(drawn half-size).
No. E 7121. —Best Silver-plated
SMOKER’S COMPANION,
comprising Tray, Cigar Holder, and 2 Ash
Holders, £1 10s.
No. 321.—Silver Glove Stretcher, 6jin.
Shoe Lift, and Hutton Hooks, in Morocco Case,
LI 10s.
NOTE. —Tile various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct.
be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance.
1 1 ill" ;lSf “ rs U!a J r re ly on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will
F SPECIALITIES (80 pages), POST FREE.
NEW BOOKLET-OF
STEWART DA
412 George-st- and Strand, Sydney, n.s. w.
London, Melbourne, Auckland, Perth.


Hi r : RaSSn)OSS€i)’S Alfalioc Herbal RenjedieS.
TVTore wia-vvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over l<t Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ot the virtues of the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l {eel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedieshaVe''cu‘recL me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is. two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE 'UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely (bleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and f have never known them to fail,, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
i■ - i Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney:
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
leconmiended the Alfaling Remedies to, a number, my
cohst’ituerits, and U will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. Iw as thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify —Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twent’v-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
* .• • TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
A feth. Murwilluinbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
i Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills atrd Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though trying them! had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
notfe in’the, interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-'
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribkrt,
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 Greorge-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches. '
P o
-ST
■i 11~! 11 n M?f 11UI il In|| ll 11H H' 11 lj till 111 HI miITPTI
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A lfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXBS, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., pos e .
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A uALINE BLOOD pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury, Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALPALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, W|ant of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying’ the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Hasstnussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BO6K,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money. 1/1 P £ FREE
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen, 8 r LL '
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Hliz'aheth-
street Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hkrr Rass-
mussrn’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stouest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed io cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
3s. t 65.,.125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -o Wond r.
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, < ousumption, hron. hi I'm,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialino Hair Restorer and Beautifier— \
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning erey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 0-°.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujuhes-Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier —A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo iderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and G3s. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price .215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., S!JDOby,
* ® x* 1 \ ) AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS ;
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z , WELLINGTON ... 91 Lamb ton Quay


A Melbourne paper sums up new Minister
Salmon : “ A fluent but ineffective debater, who
can be very emphatic about nothing.”
A small schoolboy’s essay on the war, as
reported in Cassell’s Saturday Journal:—
Kruagfr and Rannerbulism is one. He is a man of
bind. air. Chaniberling has wrote to him savin come out
and fite or else give up the blud of the English you have
Tjij-.t. 18 a boar-dutchman and a wicked heethin.
Lord Kitchener has been sent for his goary blud and to
bring back his scandrelus head ded or alive.
A Victorian Leg. Councillor tells this
story. When a young man he was travelling in
Italy, and one night, having a bad cold, be retired
early at his hotel. Feeling chillv he rang the
bell m tendingto ask for another “blanket. The
landlady, a young and good-looking woman, pre-
sented herself. The Australian, not knowing a
word of Italian, relied on pantomime. He struck
his hand on his chest to indicate that he had a
cold, and shook the bedclothes at the side to shew
that he wanted more of them. The landlady
became angry and called for her husband. Her
familiarity with Italian opera led her to believe
that when a man placed his hand on his heart he
was making a declaration of love. Fortunately
the husband spok ze Inglees.
It is now reported by cable that after
General Gatacre’s defeat his guides were “mys-
teriously shot” during the retreat, and certain
perfectly loyal Australian papers assume that the
British Tommy Atkins took it for granted he had
been a victim of treachery, and executed these
persons without trial. If this is true, and the
same sort of thing is going to be taken for granted
frequently, the crop of guides will probably run
short, and Gatacre will have to find the Boers all
by himself.
A Melbourne gallery-hand once made an
extraordinary slip. Reporting Mr. Higinbotham,
then Attorney-General, he made the speaker say
that there was hereditary insanity in the family of
the Governor, Viscount Canterbury. A complaint
came to the newspaper office from Govt. House,
and the offending scribe was ordered to go there
and apologise for the error. H. Ex. good-humor-
edly accepted the amende, and after offering his
crest-fallen visitor a glass of sherry, added : “To
the best of my belief there is no lunacy in my
family, but if the newspapers go on in this way 1
shall soon be a gibbering idiot.”
A Sydney ex-skipper relates how he once
had a literary passenger much given to whisky
and Shakespeare who suddenly developed severe
d.t., and one day darted below muttering ominous
oaths. Two revolver reports sounded from the
cabin, and the skipper rushed down and met
the jim-jammer on the steps with the smoking
pistol in his hand. “ What’s up ?” demanded the
mariner. “ What’s up !—why, I’ve shot Shake-
peare ! ” “Shot whom?” “Shakespeare ; the
—. Bored two holes in his carcass!”
And in the cabin lay a 6-guinea edition of the bard
punctured, by two bullet-holes. Said skipper re-
tains this interesting relic of the tragedy.
A lineal descendant of the Iron Duke
exists in India as a travelling photographer.
Melbourne University law students relate
many a weird yarn of barrister Gregory’s eccen-
tricity. On one occasion he entered the leeture-
room in a stately manner accompanied by his lec-
ture-notes, which he had attached to his wrist by
a chain. Applause freely expressed at his em-
barrassment in detaching the refractory articles
seemed to rankle in his mind, for next day he
carefully laid a brace of revolvers on the lecture-
table and made a neat speech, in which he expressed
a hope that there would be no more stamping on
the floor. There wasn’t. The students slunk
silently away without waiting for the lecture.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
Mee&am’s
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
it softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
»I. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham.
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
New South Welshmen
Queenslanders
South Australians
Westralians
New Zealanders
Tasmanians
Victorians
When visiting MELBOURNE find the
Pala66 Hofei
Co 11 iOS Street, MelboCiroe.
Exactly suited to their requirements.
It is conveniently situated
Being close to Spencer Street Station, the Steamship Wharves, and Centre of City.
Trams pass door to all suburbs.
It has 500 rooms for Visitors to choose from
At prices ranging from 2s. to 10s. per night and 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per week.
There are two Dining Rooms and Cafe .
In the Upper Dining Room Table d’hote Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner at 2s. 6d. In
the Lower Dining Room Breakfast, Lunch or Tea, ala carte, from Is. In the Cafe,
Coffee and Rolls, &c., &c., 6d,
Hoarders 9 Hates are very moderate.
Boarders’ inclusive rates run from ss. per day or 30s. per week, to 12s. 6d. per day or
£3 10s. per week.
Tor Families special quotations
are made, and the manager invites correspondence. There are all classes of rooms at all
prices. Cards of Tariff sent immediately on application.
The numerous Public Rooms are open
for the use of all visitors, and include Reading, Writing, Drawing, Reception, Billiard
and Smoking Rooms, &c.
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
GUNS! 6PNS! GUNS!
To Sportsmen and others, requiring a really good, SERVICEABLE GUN. Note our
REDUCED Prices. An Immense Stock to choose from.
12G.D.8.8.L. FATVTMEB, GUNS.
No 95—Top lever, pistol grip, steel barrels, by J. Tholet and Co £2 10 0
No. 9*72—Top lever, plain stock, extended rib, by Ancion j£3 0 0
No. 21B—Bar lock, top lever, left choke, doll’s head extension, by W. Coates !" 0 0
No. 23X—Bar locks. Greener bolt. Damascus barrels, by Cashmore £5 0 0
No. 24X—Bar locks, top lever, Greener bolt, half pistol stock, by Cashmore !" *” £Q 10 0
No. 860—Top action, extended rib, left choke, right cylinder, by J. Hollis and Sons ”. .£4 10 0
No. 862 A—Top lever, extended rib, Greener bolt, Hammers below line of sight. by
«T. Hollis and Sons
No. 864—Top lever, extended rib, Greener bolt, tested for nitro powders, neatly finished,
by J. Hollis and Sons
Top action, plain rib, Damascus barrels, by W. and C. Scott ..
No. 80— 30in. Damascus barrels, left choke, right cylinder, Greener bolt, by Cashmore
No. 31GXB—Greener bolt, Damascus barrels, best finish, by Cashmore
.£6 0 0
£7 0 0
19 0 0
£8 10 0
.£l3 10 0
We have in stock a few of Caskmore s Best Quality D.8.8.E. Hammer Guns, 12 G., which we offer at great reductions, viz. :
319 A/6009—32in. Whitworth barrels, file cut rib, side clips, treble wedge fast, in case— Reduced from .£4O to .£3O.
No. 6 plain 30in. Damascus barrels, Westley head, pistol grip—Reduced from .£3O to .£22 10s.
6 XB 30in. Damascus barrels, extended file cut rib, Greener bolt—Reduced from £25 to £lB 10s
Cartridges, 8.C., from 10s 6d to 13s per 100. Cartridges, Amberite, from 10s 6d to 16s. per 100.
Cartridges, Black Powders, from 7s to 10s 6d.
We can load up at shortest notice Cartridges filled with any of the following powders : —E.C., Amherite, Schultz, &c.
EDISON’S GENUINE PHONOGRAPH
With Three splendid Records.
Price, £3. Suitable for Christmas Presents, New Year Gifts.
Wedding Presents.
James McEwan & Co., Ltd.,
119-125 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE


Easiness Announcements.
fjellular “flertex”
For Ease,
Health and
Comfort.
TTnderwear.
m- DURING SUMMER. ■»
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk, and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Grentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, eto.
ess- CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents : 73 & 75
Qavid graham $ C°-. Ki “syL y
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLE and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary ** Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
notasked <
•to spend j
any money to test whether my j
remedy does or does not cure!
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, J
&c. All you are asked to do is to ,
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, BB, Endsleigh Gdas., LON DON.
I Cure Fits
Arnold's Balsam of Herehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
Vf OTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
T’ Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping- cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION. Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper
By post 16 and 2/6, if not obtainable locally.
30 Bays’ Trial.
aar WE GRANT EVERY PURCHASER
of our
Electric Belts
and Appliances
a Trial of 30 days before
payment.
Our
Electric Belts
will
CURE ALL
DISEASES
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to
ROBUST
HEALTH 1
Address :
Electric Appliance Agency,
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Ifes LiqOor Habit.
*N INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
A Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
mm g , will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
NB —Eucrasy is registered by the jN.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
{i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
BALL& WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
PRAPCRS ft FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Flinders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenue, London E.O.
The Life of the System.
UMSPI.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!S!SES
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTHTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
MS
N Effective Cubps
Biightlwiawh) EyejMim
Weak Eyes dimness ET?
CHHSI
SSI GEORGE ST
'ONE
■W1859 HI
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ——-
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
I —B——BW—
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sundy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Cldttu.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc«
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
0 bo
V 5
M 3
mumm
H>l 11TOP
N/s
2 -
When
writing
please
mention
The
Billetin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRIC AG APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
■ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
|DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
‘ LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt, relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency-to every function,
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments .. ..330
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
. Aerated Waters.
No skilled labour required. Anyone can learn to operate
the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co. .
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is
perfect. Thb Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the
best speculation I have entered into since I joined the
LicbnsedVictuallers. —Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan
HiH." . . .
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “'lt is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Hotelkeeper, Coolgardie,W.A., says:
saved by making my own supplies of Aerated
Waters with the Machine purchased from.you, pay the
rent of my Hotel.” , ;
Mr. Lewis, of Old England Hotel, Heidelberg, says :
“ I have now had one of your Aerated Water Machines in
use for three years, and have made thousands of dozens
of the best Aerated Waters with it, and it has not
required sixpence worth of repairs. No Hotelkeeper
should be without one of these Machines.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Hotelkeeper, Yalgoo, W.A., says : —“ My
Aerated Water account was formerly £3O per month.
Since getting one of your Machines, and making my own
soft stuff, I have saved the price of the Machine ten times
over.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many
small centres of population, where a deeply-felt w'ant
exists for a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe
the profits. Call and see these Machines, or write for
Circular describing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co.
407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
TO LADIES..
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6/6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 TySy e St "
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. I*,
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicatoi
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non** Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
MEDICATOR.


earne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
Those .ho have Wt e„ u • , HAS SALE ° F ANY m’eDiSnE IN »
ess in the Chest, experience delightful andlmmSiate I relief mflue , nce - Suff ? rers f «>m any form of Bronchitis, Cougli, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
? m allaying irritation in the throat and *“f to th ? s . e who . are s . ub J ect to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a twSK K
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and mfluonc - Su . fferer,s form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the wll ° af e subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with t 0 bOCO ™ O chro » ic > nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
is certain. F 1 y Wlcn tms mecllcme - JNo house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Jbllji’yiT-A I—g ~FS ~m —rI —« a
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS IT3 COMMENCEMENT. AND EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the proprietor,
,„ ' V HEARAE, Chemist, Geelona:, Victoria.
ize, s 6d; Large, 4 S 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. 1M by Post fPdy Address when not obtained 2 Locally.
“DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
by royal warrant
THE
QUEEN."
OF APPOINTMENT TO
Ask for
Whisky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
Braody ai)d
Scbwcppe’
SODAWATER,
PPLTED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
(LIMITED),
(Lcik© Illawarra),
ae ar SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OP
fine silver.
mmm
>
makers op
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARB A”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
urchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
highest prices paid for ores.
LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS ”
For ,11 ...formation regarding R.tee, e,o„ apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelti
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
ng Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
6
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized"'
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
t AND
The aced.
EVERYTHING FAILS EXCEPT
CLEMENTS
Another Unbounded Proof,
POSITIVE IE n IIS^<3-IEJIE : l-IE > OST , FOR OTIEIIEjIR
TONIC.
y
%
SUFFERERS
The Case of
RHODA McGUIRE.
(Reported for the “Star.”)
Miss Rhoda McGuire resides at 123
Bourk e-street, Darlinghurst. A reporter
was despatched to see her, and he was
fortunate in finding the lady at home. In
answer to an interrogation as to the
truth of a report that had reached him
from Nyngan “ That she, Miss McGuire,
was one of the lucky many who had been
saved from fearful pain and continued
suffering by the timely use of Clements
Tonic,” Miss McGuire said:—“That is
quite true. I have unbounded proof of the
value of Clements Tonic, for when I was ill
1 tried I do not know how many so-called
remedies, and nothing did any lasting
good but Clements Tonic.”
“ Would you please tell me how your
llness began ? ” enquired the reporter.
“ I have never been very strong,”
answered Miss McGuire, “and four years
ago I received a most serious nervous shock,
-so serious that it appeared to upset my
'-‘"tire nervous system and derange the
normal-functions of my body. I became so
agitated and shaken with unknown fears
that I was frightened to leave the house
"ven in the day time. ' A feeling of
mysterious trouble continually oppressed
me. A sudden noise would make me start !
with trembling fear and nearly drive me i
mad. ft Solitude was unbearable ; I would 1
nBt have stopped alone even in my own I
Jbome on atfy consideration ; I dare not. |
All the brightness in my life seemed
darkened, my mind passing unceasingly
from one dismal thought to another; and,
finally, I reached that point of despair that
life did not seem to me worth living, and I
truly believe that had it not been for my
religious training and my fear of the world
to come, I should have committed suicide.
Frequently I was a victim to fits of hysteria ;
at other times I would sit crying over my
work for half the day together. Joined
with, this mental collapse were agonising
physical pains. My head was a delirium
and full of screeching noises, and when I
went to bed or tried to resb it would be
awful. I had sharp, frequent neuralgic
pains darting about my face. They would
commence on the right cheek-bone, and from
there spread upwards and downwards to
the forehead and the neck. My nerves
would throb so and I became so terribly
agitated that at times I could not put a foot
to the ground. I noticed that the faceache
increased in intensity at night time and
during the hot weather, and these attacks
would endure from three days to as long a
time as six weeks. Then I had intermittent,
stabbing pains in the back, under the left
shoulder; and after my meals I suffered
from distressing indigestion, a feeling of
weight, oppression, and tightness across the
chest, and often the food would rise in my
throat or be brought up again. This want
of nourishment further helped to weaken
my debilitated system. I was a burden to
myself, fit for nothing. In the latter days
of my sickness my heart began to trouble
me by loud palpitation.” _ - -
“Surely, Miss McGuire,” enquired the
reporter, “ you did not let yourself get so
bad by neglect ? ”
No, I tried all sorts of pills and prepara-
tions, and all without benefit. I had lost all
hope, and was sure I should never get better,
when a friend of mine strongly advised me
to take Clements Tonic, because she had
herself seen its wonderful curative power in
her own family. So strongly did she
persuade me that I agreed to try it. The
chemist was very reluctant to give me what
I asked for, enquiring my symptoms, and
then assuring me that a nerve tonic of his
own compounding would be far better and
more suited to my case ; but I remembered
my friend’s assurance, and would have
nothing else but Clements Tonic—[Wise
girl! he only wanted to sell you something
on which he got more profit—therefore
cheaper—therefore inferior.— Ed.]— and it
was well for me that I did. For even that
first bottle did me a world of. good. It
seemed to act like a concentrated food, and
to nourish my debilitated system. At the
same time it gave strength to my disordered
nerves, and built and braced me up all over.
My fits of hysteria were banished, the fear-
ful depression and melancholy mind passed
away. I was no longer afraid to go out or
to be left alone. The neuralgic pains in the
face and the screeching noises in head
troubled me no more. My digestion
steadily improved, my meals remained in
my stomach, and were not followed by the
heavy, oppressive feeling in the chest. The
pains under the left shoulder ceased to
trouble me, and in all my general
health took a wondrous turn for the better.
I was in every sense a new woman. ' And I
am quite sure that this revolution in my :
deplorable plight was all owing to Clements
lonic. X never weary of telling every one
so and trying to persuade others who are
sick to try it. You are at liberty to publish
what I say in any way you like if you think
it will be of use; but it seems to me s -
many persons have tried and proved the
undoubted value of Clements Tonic
what I have said must be merely an echo c
an oft repeated tale.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Rhoda McGuire, of 123 Bourke St., Darlinghurst,
near Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully-
read the annexed document, consisting of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to-
four, and that it contains and is a true and faith-
ful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish
the same in any way; and I make this solemn
declaration, voluntarily and without receiving anv
payment, conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the ninth vear of the reign of
her present .Majesty, intituled ‘'An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
&
Declared at Darlinghurst, this seventh day of Jui--
one thousand eignt hundred and ninety-nine, before
“•* - - - - M. HUGHES, J.P.


The Story of the Oracle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We young fellows,” said “ Sympathy Joe ” to
Mitchell, after tea, in their first camp west the
liver—“ and you and I are young fellows, com-
paratively think we know the world. There are
plenty of young chaps knocking round in this
country who reckon they’ve been through it all
before they’re 30. I’ve met cynics and men-o -
the-world aged 21 or thereabouts, who’ve never
been further than a trip to Sydney. They talk
about ‘ this world ’ as if they’d knocked around in
half-a-dozen other worlds before they came across
here—and they are just as off-hand about it as
older Australians are when they talk about this
colony as compared with the others. They say :
‘My oath !—same here.’ ‘ I’ve been there.’ ‘My
oath ! —you’re right.’ ‘ Take it from me ! ’ and all
that sort of thing. They understand women, and
have a contempt for ’em ; and chaps that don’t
talk as they talk, or do as they do, or see as they
see, are either ‘soft’ or ‘ratty.’ A good many
reckon that ‘ life ain’t blanky well worth livin’ ’;
sometimes they feel so blanky somehow that they
wouldn’t give a hang whether they chucked it
or not; but that sort never ‘chuck it.’ It’s
mostly the quiet men that do that, and if they’ve
got any complaints to make against the world
they make ’em at the head-station. Why, I’ve
known healthy single young fellows under 25
who drank to drown their troubles —some because
they reckoned the world didn’t understand or
appreciate them—as if it could l ”
“If the world don’t understand or appreciate
you,” said Mitchell solemnly, as he reached for a
burning stick to light his pipe—“ make it! ”
“To drown their troubles!” continued -Toe.
“The Oracle must be well on towards the sixties ;
he can take his glass with any man, but you never
saw him drunk.”
“ What’s the Oracle to do with it ? ”
“ Did you ever hear his history ? ”
“ No. Do you know it ? ”
“Yes ; though I don’t think he has any idea that
I do. Now, we were talking about the Oracle a
little while ago. We know he’s an old ass ; a good
many outsiders consider that he’s a bit ‘soft’or
‘ratty’; and, as We’re likely to be mates together
for some time on that fencing contract, if we get
it, you might as well know what sort of a man he
is and was, so’s you won’t get uneasy about him if
he gets deaf for awhile when you’re talking, or
does funny things with his pipe or pint-pot, or
walks up and down by himself for an hour or so
after tea, or sits on a log with his head in his
hands, or leans on the fence in the gloaming and
keeps looking in a blank sort of way, straight
ahead, across the clearing. Eor he’s gazing at
something a thousand miles across country, south-
east, and about 20 years back into the past, and
no doubt he sees himself (as a young man) and a
Gippsland girl, spooning under the stars along
between the hop-gardens and the Mitchell River.
And, if you get licit of a fiddle or a concertina,
don’t rasp or swank too much on old tunes, when
he’s round, for the Oracle can’t stand it. Play
something lively. He’ll be down there at that
surveyor’s camp yarning till all hours, so we’ll
have plenty of time for the story —but don’t you
ever give him a hint that you know.
“My people knew him well; I got most of the
story from them—mostly from Uncle Bob, who
knew him better than any. The rest leaked out
through the women—you know how things leak
out amongst women ? ”
Mitchell dropped his head and scratched the
back of it. He knew.
“It was on the Cudgegong River. My Uncle
Bob was mates with him on one of those ‘ rushes ’
along there—the ‘Pipeclay,’ I think it was, or the
‘ Log Paddock.’ The Oracle was a young man
then, of course, and so was Uncle Bob (he was a
match for most men). You see the Oracle now,
and you can imagine what he was when he was a
young mail. Over six feet, and as straight as a
sapling, Uncle Bob said ; clean-limbed, and as
fresh as they made men in those days ; carried his
hands behind him, as he does now, when he hasn’t
got the swag —but his shoulders were back in
those days. Of course, he wasn’t the Oracle then,
he was young Tom Marshall but that doesn’t
matter. Everybody liked him—especially women
and children. He was a bit happy-go-lucky and
careless, but he didn’t know anything about ‘this
world,’ and didn’t bother about it; he hadn’t
‘been there.’ ‘And his heart was as good as
gold,’ my aunt used to say. He didn’t understand
women as we young fellows do nowadays, and
therefore he hadn't any contempt for ’em.
Perhaps he understood, and understands, them
better than any of us, without knowing it. Any-
way, you know, he’s always gentle and kind where
a woman or child is concerned, and doesn’t like to
hear us talk about women as we do sometimes.
“ There was a girl on the goldfields ; a fine lump
of a blonde, and pretty gay. She came from
Sydney, I think, with her people, who kept
shanties on the fields. She had a splendid voice,
and used to sing ‘ Madeline.’ There might have
been one or two bad women before that, in the
Oracle’s world, but no cold-blooded, designing
ones. He calls the bad ones ‘ unfortunate.’
“ Perhaps it was Tom’s looks, or his freshness,
or his innocence, or softness —or all together—
that attracted her. Anyway, he' got mixed up
with her before the goldfield petered out.
“No doubt it took a long while for the fact to
work into Tom’s head that a girl might sing like
she did and yet be thoroughly unprincipled. The
Oracle was always slow at coming to a decision,
but when he does it’s generally the right one.
Anyway, you can take that for granted, for you
won’t move him.
“ I don’t know whether he found out that she
wasn’t all that she pretended to be to him, or
whether they quarrelled, or whether she chucked
him over for a lucky digger. Tonynever had any
luck on the goldfields. Anyway, he left and went
over to the Victorian side, where his people were,
and went up Gippsland way. It was there for
the first time in his life that he got what you
would call ‘ properly gone on a girl ’; he got hard
hit—he met his fate.
“ Her name was Ruth Wilson, I remember.
Aunt Bob saw her afterwards. Aunt Bob used to
say that she was ‘ a girl as God made her ’ a
good, true, womanly girl—one of those sort of
girls that only love once. Tom got on with her
father, who was packing horses through the
ranges to the new goldfields—it was rough country
and there were no roads ; they had to pack every-
thing there in those days, and there was money in
it. The girl’s father took to Tom —as almost
everybody else did —and, as far as the girl was
concerned, I think it was a case of love at first
sight. They only knew each other for about six
months and were only ‘courting’ (as they called
it then) for three or four jnonths altogether, but
she was that sort of girl ’that can love a man for
six weeks, and lose him for ever, and yet go on
loving him to the end of her life —and die with
his name on her lips.
“ Well, things were brightening up every way
for Tom, and he and his sweetheart were begin-
fling to talk about their own little home in future,
when there came a letter from the ‘Madeline’
girl in N.S. W.
“She was in terrible trouble. Her baby was to
be born in a month. Her people had kicked her
out and she was in danger of starving. She
begged and prayed of him to come back and marry
her if only for his child’s sake. He could go then,
and he free ; she would never trouble him any
more—onlv come and marry her for the child s
sake. '
“ The Oracle doesn’t know where he lost that
letter, but I do. It was burnt afterwards by a
woman who was more than a mother to him in his
trouble—Aunt Bob. She thought he might carry
it round with the rest of his papers, in his swag,
for years, and come across it unexpectedly when
he was camped by himself in the bush and feeling
dull. It wouldn’t have done him any good then.
“He must have fought the hardest fight in his
life when he got that letter. No doubt he walked
to and fro, to and fro, all night, with his hands
behind him, and his eyes on the ground, as he does
now sometimes. Walking up and down helps you
to fight a thing out.
“ No doubt he thought of things pretty well as
he thinks now : the poor girl’s shame on every
tongue, and belled round the district by every hag
in the township ; and she looked upon by women
as being as bad as any man who ever went to
Bathurst in the old days, handcuffed between two
troopers. There is sympathy, a pipe and tobacco,
a cheering word, and, maybe, a whisky now and
then, for the criminal on his journey ; but there
is no mercy, at least as far as women are con-
cerned, for the poor foolish girl who has to sneak
out the back Way and round by back streets and
lanes after dark, with a cloak on to hide her
figure.
“ Tom sent what money he thought he could
spare, and next day he went to the girl he loved
and who loved him, and told her the truth, and
showed her the letter. She was only a girl—but
the sort of girl you could go to in a crisis like
that. He had made up his mind to do the right
thing, nd she loved him all the more for it. And
so they parted.
“ When Tom reached ‘ Pipeclay,’ the girl’s re-
lations, that she was stopping with, had a parson
readied up, and they were married the same day.
“And what happened after that?” asked Mit-
cbe ]]
“ Nothing happened for three or four months;
then the child was born. It wasn’t his ! ”
Mitchell stood up, with an oath.
“The girl was thoroughly bad. She’d been
carrying on with God knows how many men, both
before and after she trapped Tom.”
“ And what did he do then ? ”
“ Well, you know how the Oracle argues over
things, and I suppose he was as big an old fool
then as he is now. He thinks that, as most men
would deceive women if they could, when one
man gets caught, he’s got no call to squeal about
it; he’s bound, because of the sins of men in
general against women, to make the best of it.
What is one man’s wrong counted against the
wrongs of hundreds of unfortunate girls.”
“ It’s an uncommon way of arguing—like most
of the Oracle’s ideas—but it seems to look all
right at first sight.”
“Perhaps he” thought she’d go straight; per-
haps she convinced him that he was the cause of
her first fall; anyway he stuck to her for more
than a year, and intended to take her away from
that place as soon as he’d soraped enough money
together. It might have gone on up till now, i
the father of the child—a big reel mm
named Redmond—hadn’t come sneaking >ac <
the end of a year. He—well, lie came hanging
round Mrs. Marshall w .lpl e Urf Tom^was
work—and she encouraged h i.
forced to see it.
“Tom wanted to fight out his own battle w
out interference, blit the chaps wouldn tie 11111
they reckoned that he’d stand very little s >o\
againsi -dinond, who was a very rough cus oine
and a lighting man. My uncle Bob, who was
there still, fixed it up this way :1 he Oracle was
to fight Redmond, and if the Oracle got lie u
Uncle Bob was to take Redmond on. 1 ?
rnond whipped Uncle Bob, that was to sett e l ,
but if Uncle Bob thrashed Redmond, then lie via
also to fight Redmond s mate, another big, 1 o l ig
Paddy named Duingan. Then the affair won e
finished—no matter which way the last bou
went. You see, Uncle Bob was reckoned more o
a match for Redmond than the Oracle was, so i
thing looked fair enough at first sight,
“ Redmond had his mate, Duingan, and one or
two others of the rough gang that used to ter-
rorise the fields round there in the roaring days of
Gulgong. The Oracle had Uncle Boh, of couise,
and long Dave Regan, the drover a good-near et,
sawny kind of chap that d break the devil s own
buck-jumper, or smash him, or get smasher nn-
self—and little Jimmy Nowlett, the bullocky, anc
one or two of the old, better-class diggers tna
were left on the field.
“There’s a clear space among the saplings m
Specimen Gully, where they used to pitch cir-
cuses, and here, in the cool of a summer evening,
the two men stood face to face. Redmond was a
rough, roaring, foul-mouthed man ; he stripped to
his shirt, and roared like a bull, and swore, and
sneered, and wanted to take the whole of loms
crowd while he was at it, and make one clean job
of 'em. Couldu. t waste time fighting them a
one after the other, because he wanted to get away
to the new rush at Cattle Creek next day. ine
fool had been drinking shanty-whisky,
“Tom stood up in his clean white moles and
white flannel shirt—one of those sort with no
sleeves, that give the arms play. He had a sort
of set expression and a look in his eyes that Uncle
Bob—nor none of them had ever seen there
before. ‘ Give us plenty of room . roared
Redmond, ‘one of us is going to hell, now . ah is
is going to be a fight to a finish, and a
short one ! ’ And it was ! ”
“Go on,” said Mitchell “go on .
Joe drew a long breath.
“ The Oracle never got a mark! He was top-
dog right from the start. Perhaps it was his
strength that Redmond had underrated, or his
want of science that puzzled him, or the awful
silence of the man that frightened him (it made
even Uncle Bob uneasy). Or, perhaps, it was
Providence (it was a glorious chance for
Providence), but, anyway, as I say, the
Oracle never got a mark, except on his knuckles,
After a few rounds Redmond funked and wanted
to give in, but the chaps wouldn’t let him, not
even his own mates—except Duingan. I’hey made
him take it as long as he could stand on his feet.
He even shammed to be knocked-out, and roared
out something about having broken his —— ankle
—hut it was n 0 use - And the Oracle ! The chaps
that knew thought that he’d refuse to fight, and
never hit a man that had given in. But he did.
He just stood there with that quiet look in his
eyes and waited, and, when he did hit, there
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the W^orld
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SfERJBLIQI
fRAM^K
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Far is Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
“VITADATIO
PP
P
XJRES
The Great
HERBAL
Remedy,
CONSUMPTION, HYDATIDS, ANAEMIA, GALL
STONES, JAUNDICE, ECZEMA, BRIGHT’S
DISEASE, BLADDER TROUBLES, LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLE, AND ALL DISEASES of
the BLOOD.
“ CATARRH OF THE LUNGS ” CURED.
SIX BOTTLES OF VITADATIO EFFECT THE CUBE.
WHY SUFFER WHEN THE CURE IS WITHIN
YOUR REACH ?
“ Y.M.C.A., Queen Street, Brisbane.
“4th November, 1899.
“ Mr. PALMER, Agent for Webber’s Vitadatio.
“Dear Sir, —About eleven months ago I took a long bicycle journey, and when camping out
caught a severe cold, resulting in a painful cough. I got worse, and ultimately became unable to
work. I consulted a noted doctor, who thoroughly examined me, and then sent for my parents (I
am 20 years of age). He told me that I had serious catarrh of the right lung, and that if I did not
at once cease work, and take the greatest care, I would not live longer than three months. I took
his medicine, but it did me no good, as I could not go away. I saw several other noted doctors
(all their names are available). Webber’s Vitadatio was just then attracting great attention
through its extraordinary cures, and I was induced by a friend to try it, although I must confess
that it took him a long time to persuade me, as I had tried many things without benefit. I took
six bottles altogether." The first bottle made me feel worse, but after that I made rapid progress
towards recovery. After the fourth bottle I resumed work as usual, and EVER SINCE COM-
PLETING MY SIXTH BOTTLE I HAVE BEEN QUITE WELL—the catarrh all gone, and
my breathing perfect. Vitadatio must be very good to have done in so short a time what it has
done for me—built me up and made me strong and happy. _ It is about three months since I took
my last dose. lam town traveller for a well-known firm in Brisbane, and am well known here
myself. It is always a pleasure to me to induce others to try Vitadatio, and I voluntarily offer
this testimonial for publication or to be used in any way you please. Refer any ‘doubting
Thomas ’ to me, and I will remove his doubts.
“Yours faithfully and gratefully,
“FREDRIC MILLER,
“ Hon. Secretary Brisbane Y.M.C.A. Cricket Club.”
Price of Vitadatio ... ss. 6d. and 3s. 6d
Institutes at
MELBOURNE, Vic.—Head Institute, 47 Bourke-street E.
SYDNEY, N.5.W.—184 Pitt-street.
BRISBANE, Q. —116 Queen-street. ADELAIDE, 5.A.—238 Rundle-street. .
PERTH, W. A. —481 Hay-street. WELLINGTON, N.Z.—39 Manners-st.
S. A. PALMER
SOLE AGENT:


wasn’t any necessity for Redmond to pretend to
be knocked down. You’ll see a glint of that old
light in the Oracle’s eyes even now, once in a
while; and when you do it’s a sign that you or
some one are going too far and had better pull up,
for it’s a red light on the line, old as he is.
“Now, Jimmy Nowlett was a nuggety little
fellow, hard as cast-iron, good-hearted but very
excitable ; and when the bashed Redmond was
being carted off (poor Uncle Bob was always
pretty high-strung, and was sitting on a log sob-
bing like a great child from the reaction), Duingan
made some sneering remark that only Jimmy
Nowlett caught, and in an instant he was up and
at him!
“Perhaps Duingan was demoralised by his
mate’s defeat, or by the suddenness of the attack ;
but, at all events, he got a hiding, too. Uncle
Bob used to say that it was the funniest thing he
ever saw in his life. Jimmy kept yelling: ‘ Let
me get at him ! By the Lord, let me get at him ! ’
And nobody was attempting to stop him, he was
getting at him all the time —and properly, too ;
and, when he’d knocked Duingan down, he’d dance
round him and call on him to get up ; and every
time he jumped or bounced, he d squeak like an
india-rubber ball, Uncle Bob said, and he would
nearly burst his boiler trying to lug the big man
on to his feet so’s he could knock him down again.
It took two of Jimmy’s mates all their time to
lamb him down into a comparatively reasonable
state of mind after the fight was over.
“The Oracle left for Sydney next day, and
Uncle Bob went with him. He stayed at Uncle
Bob’s place for some time. He got very quiet,
they said, and gentle ; he used to play with the
children, and they got mighty fond of him. The
old folks thought his heart was broken, but it
went through a deeper sorrow still, after that,
and it ain’t broken yet. It takes a lot to break
the heart of a man.”
“And his wife,” asked Mitchell—“what became
of her ? ”
“I don’t think he ever saw her again. She
dropped down pretty low after he left her—l’ve
heard she’s living somewhere quietly. _ The
Oracle’s been sending someone money ever since I
knew him, and I know it’s a woman. I suppose
it’s she. He isn’t the sort of a man to see a woman
starve —especially a woman he had ever had any-
thing to do with.”
“And the Gippsland girl?” asked Mitchell.
“That’s the worst part of it all, I think. The
Oracle went up North somewhere. In the course
of a year or two his affair got over Gippsland way
through a mate of his who lived over there, and
at last the story got to the ears of this girl, Ruth
Wilson. She must have written a dozen letters
to him, Aunt Bob said. She knew what was in
’em, but, of course, she’d never tell us. The
Oracle only wrote one in reply. Then, what
must the girl do but clear out from home and
make her way over to Sydney—to Aunt Bob’s
place, looking for Tom. She never got any
further. She took ill—brain-fever, or broken-
heart, or something of that sort. All the time
she was down her cry was —‘I want to see him !
I want to find Tom. I only want to see Tom ! ’
“When they saw. she was dying, Aunt Bob
wired to the Oracle to come—and he came. When
the girl saw it was Tom sitting by the bed, she
just gave one long look in his face, put her arms
round his neck, and laid her head on his shoulder
—and died. . . Here comes the Oracle now.”
Mitohell lifted the tea-billy on to the coals.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Psalm of Labor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Riding into Town,
In the morning early,
Gazing blithely down
On the hurly-burly,
Throned upon a ’bus,
Big as a two-roomer,
Life is glorious—
When you catch its humor.
Witticisms fly—
Borak, slang, and guyver—
What a wag am I !
What a wit the driver 1
“ Hi! you corpses, Hey 1 ”
With a yell uncanny,
Thus we clear the way
For the “Gentle Annie.
Plunge and lurch along,
Grind, and roll, and rattle,
She is going strong—
See her smoking c ittle !
Driver with a whip
Them to speed importunes;
They, upon this trip,
Bear me and my fortunes.
Here above the dust,
Sitting like a god, I,
With a gaze august,
All the passing squad eye :
Mournful seems that squad ;
I,' uplifted, lonely,
Am indeed a god—
This size—twopence only.
Other gods there are,
Some of them abusive —
This triumphal car
Is not too exclusive.
So we travel on,
While the road is rolled up,
Like a Pantheon
Going to be sold up.
Like a rope outfrayed
Winds a long procession ;
Folk of ev’ry trade,
Calling and profession :
Some with dull and dim
Eyes that know not laughter ;
Some with features grim—
Features of the Grafter.
In this caravan,
Stern and sad, of Labor,
Hardly any man
Speaks unto his neighbor.
Hirers and the hired
All their thought of pence is—
Lord 1 They make me tired,
Ere my work commences 1
In parenthesis
I may make the statement —
I was not for this
Sort of thing by Fate meant.
Sumptuously to shirk
Work was I intended,
Yet, you see, to work
I have condescended.
Lo, my country called —
Wonderful her nerve is ! —
Me to be installed
In her Civil Service,
At the call I went,
Just as if for pleasure;
Now the Government
Owns, indeed, a Treasure.
But by some weird plan
I was placed, with sniggers,
Like a waxworks man,
Midst a maze of figures !
Still I did not let
Figures make me solemn—
See me pirouette
Up and down a column !
See me flout with ease
All their tricks—good Heavens !
Fives that looked like threes,
Nines disguised as sevens!
See me ohase a nought—
Soon is it outwitted,
On my pen-point caught
Like a partridge spitted !
On they now may come
One, or all together,
Every blessed sum
Underneath the weather
They will find the same
Party very willing :—
Now I know the game,
It is simply thrilling.
Take it now from me,
All you melancholy
Persons, sour to see,
Work is simply jolly—
So, for God’s sake, smile
On your toiling neighbor;
In a little while
Done will be your Labor.
CBEEVE ROE.
The Mussel-Hawker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His dress was not “respectable,” and be gathered
in his rounds the dust of highways and byways,
which the sweat of the dog-days drifted into all
his corners, or washed into long ridges along his
bony jaws and down his tough, leathery neck.
He was small but wiry, and the common constable
and equally-intelligent reporter would have had
no difficulty in immediately classifying him.
Niok was of the larrikin type. Besides, Nick
pushed a barrow, and amongst a numerous class
of fat and fairly-influential gentlemen who never
push anything, to push a barrow is to accept the
moral responsibility of all acts of small burglary
and minor assault recently committed in the
neighborhood in which the barrow circulates.
More: it is held that pushing a barrow, however
loaded, is a mere insolent deceit on the part of a
born loafer.
Mussels were Nick’s speciality. Somewhere
and at some time in the dim hours of early morn-
ing, the “ lad ” gathered many loads of shellfish
off the pier-piles and the sea.rocks, and through-
out the rest of the day and well on into the night
he hawked them with desperate energy in all the
poor quarters of two dozen suburbs. There were
other mussel-men, but Nick was at the head of his
profession, and had come to that proud eminence
by a quality of industry that was deserving of the
respectful emulation of great statesmen, just then
doing much less for the people than the indurated
“ peb ” who carried cheap shellfish to impoverished
families in unpleasant back streets.
I met him everywhere, plugging along, head
down, through driving dust, pelting rain, or
withering heat, rattling a sort of devil’s tattoo on
an old kerosene-tin, and uttering his particular
cry, his exclusive right in which was preserved by
an unwritten law of the profession.
Nick covered amazing distances, and appealed
to a wide circle. It had to be done when mussels
were commanding only a “ thrum ” a bucket, and
I saw him but once when he was not nobly sus-
taining my belief in him as the worthiest hustler
on a whole continent.
When I entered the Court, the Bench, repre-
sented by a stout man, with a blotched face and
purple neck, was saying, in the manner of a
Methody parson :
“ This Court does not believe your story, sir.
You cannot deceive this Court. We know your
sort, and we have every confidence in our police.
You belong to a class that is a disgrace to this
colony ; a worthless class ; a class of loafers and
wasters, who despise honest toil, and prey upon
the respectable and industrious portion of the com-
munity. Sixty shillings or fourteen days 1 ”
“ I’ll take it out, mister,” said the prisoner,
wearily.
The prisoner was Niok, the mussel man.
E. DYSON.
“Yang Anyut” to “Constance 0.”
(8., 7/10/’99). The practice still obtains with cer-
tain Chinese missions of making a man’s screw
dependent on his virility. One show used, in my
time, to pay a man $125, with $5O for his wife
$lO extra for each child. Rough on wife appar-
ently, but judging by size of most missionaries’
families, the women-folk fell in with the arrange*
meat all right.
RELIABLE FURNITURE!
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AM) BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for .£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rad, and Cane Chair, .£6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Set Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S'.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
HOMOCEA
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PART.
For all Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCBA
EMBROCATION. Soir- in Collapsible Tubes.
Of all Storekeepers, General T)ealers, and Chemists.
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Walking Stick Broocn, io od.
With Paris Diamonds, 2s 6d.
Gold-Cased Bar Brooch (any name),
Is 6d and 2s 6d.
Sterling Silver Watches
(Lady’s or Gent.’s),
18s 6d to £2 10s.
Gold - Cased Watches,
17s 6d.
Boiled Gold Watches,
equal in appearance
to best 18ct. Gold, 10
years’ guarantee,
£2 10s to £3 15s.
Chain Bracelets, 10
years’ guarantee, 15s
to :20s.
Nickel Watch and Chain,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Sterling Silver Chains,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Boiled Gold Chains, 5 to
10 years’ guarantee,
10s 6d to 20s.
Wishbone Brooch, with Paris
Diamonds, 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2s 6d.
Post free in N.S.W.
Mention The Bulletin . . .
Thousands of other Designs. Write To-day.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
All the Rage I
Twin Swallow
- Brooch,
with Bell or Stone
Pendant, 2s 6d.
. £ : i l■■ -•
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2a 6d.
J. C. O’BRIEN & CO.,
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
‘THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.’
General Gordon.
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
&
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour
ness of Stomach, &e., &e.Use
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
i. INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in faet,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.-See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Flesh,
Physicians Could Giveno Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
X
X
x
A
* f Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
d was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
[ became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
.11 that I would have to go into a neighbor’s house until I was fit to walk again.
[ cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
'or months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
:ry a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another, and still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
ike a Trojan.”
This is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
;rait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“ Ayer’s ”is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
The
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
r% I bl I W That “Cures.
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KM BRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in cohsulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public, speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is Bd.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted. '
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book; over 300 latest sones
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is Od posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR , 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
yAfVs
RLL.L.S
9
I
- •
*=«
IN gREBT REQUEST.
Head from the Bed. —You’ve been a long time bringing those
„ BEECHAM’S PILLS, you beauty !
Snowball. —Yes Sah ! thank you kindly, they are oV
BEECHAM’S PILLS this morn ng, and I alwa
ladies first.
We are the Sole Agents!
Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
St-
THim? EASE
FIRFUWE
•NOONcrt
hoodni
S) sag-sag
WAUMLZ TO
L SDMRS & SPEAKERS
fet
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO XJEJFy COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Oidy of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
l E|ut Brewery, SYDNEY.
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
Bonnington’s
lrish Mos
Instant Relief - - - Speedy Ctr.


SIDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhkad Road.
City Officb :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co, Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
| MANUFACTURERS
> CONTRACTORS,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
33 Queen Street, Melbourne; \
Brockman’s Building, Adelaide.
the: most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL
ge and
et-Sts.
oard or Apartments at Option.
The lost Powerful Driving Belt in the World.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, amid in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & 5. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
<^GZASGOW.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria Sb.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation Sb.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert Sb.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville Sb.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wspmirr beets
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guar ante
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents:
Wm. Adams & Co,, Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
4
PUMPS „ TANGYES
A For Irrigating, Sinking, Boiler-Feeding, Cyanide.
Represented by BENNIE, TEARE & CO. —•
Mining and Engineering Furnishers.
Stocks
carried in
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD •& ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
J" II Ext •• • pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to kne'® that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
tthat their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, aiid it not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
pit any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company. H
«*!
*
&
THE VERY FACT THAT
23,500 Rees bumi
** Have been made and sold by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
800 at the Anaconda Mines, Butte, Mont. 80 at the Homes take Lead, Sonth Dakota.
14 by Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J.
Mew Ingersoll
is the embodiment of all that there is good in
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
DRILLS
AIR COMPR
Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads.
12 Standard Types and
many Special Patterns.
Sole
Agents:
PARKE & LACY CO. LIMITED
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers.
60 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
HL P. GREGORY & CO.,
engineers' and ——«»«*. QYnNFY & MFI RHSIRNF
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS, OIUNLI <X iIILLDUIiniML.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BOILER FEED PUMP.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping- Engine Co.
YVOj
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
