

’S ALE
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
m FRY’S MALTED COCOA
€a-~Q'.A.Fe.A.Txr , X*EE3X3 IE^TJ - :E=«.:E3 COCOA. _A.3Xru extract of malt.
R. C 3-. WATKINS «to CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney, 7
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Twining Requisites,
. EXT ! 'VES, BUILDERS' amp GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 24 Jv rs oOiUandat work
WINE !
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
t3T Send for Price Pitt
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & (jo, Limited,
263 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
GIBSON,
& C° ■’Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
BROADBENT’S
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Di
the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPi
i and full particulars.
Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar»
PARTS STOCKED. Send for
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE JbADIJES,
W_ O. ELDRIZDGE & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 \Z OK li ST 111.,*., l’, %S YI > 13 Y
lOpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post hum ail tile colonies promptly
attended to.
FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent/ less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
27S Georire-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
ECOBARX.
Hadley’s Qrient Rotel
mm
H ***v
«*»>*
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM I*ol - I'.’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Bay, or 2 Guineas'per Week.
df&, <ai, Ij/al/CeAb
oo
860,1X2 Bottles Sold in One Month-
CHEAPEST *wn the hebt
BELTING
The Leading 1 Belt oX Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. VV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most WHiolesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
£• diswan - Lamp.
S 5
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE" RELIA-
BILITY. j
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TBS im l SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-stroet,
WYMYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTSj-
Plummer Love & 00.
Georye Street, SYDXICT.
The Bulletin
Voi 2(|—So. 1036. j
[Saturday, December 23, 1899.
Postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The iulleiin Publications.
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, ?s.
Tales of the Convict System :
By Price Wabung.” Paper covers,
193 pp. ; 6d.
The Last of Six :
bales of the Australian Tropics. By
Ernest E avenc. Paper covers, 141 pp,; 6a.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition,
oilk cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp.:
4s. 6d.
The Hidden Tide :
A Selection of Verses by Roderic Quinn.
Ao. 1. of The Bulletin Booklets. Out
of -print. A few large paper copies remain,
price 10s. 6d.
The Ways of Many Waters :
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; ss.
Maoriland, and Other Verses s
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, edit
top j ss. ’ 6
Hits, Skits, and Jingles :
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 6d.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). Cloth
extra, illustrated, 6s.
In the Press.
Castro’s Last Sacrament, and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dobrington (“ Alba Dorion”).
Paper, 3s. 6d. ; Cloth, 4s. 6d.
Others to Follow.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or Post-free
for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of any Austra-
lasian province, from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co-, Ltd-,
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agent*; Edward* DuDlop and G«., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure.
A
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Tra’chka or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tube* of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lunge.
Invaluable
ta
Svngers and
JPublie
Sj/( alters.
A -
SUITABLE EOB OU>
AND YOUNG
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain AO roc line or other poisonous (l rut/ ... W
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor-G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
|U eerislaud, for Posture Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT- S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 m ue , u ' s place.
THE RED PAGE.
[These vigorous lines were printed in Tub BuLUßTiir
some ten years ago, and are reprinted in compliance with
many requests. The author, William Winter, is an
American journalist, now in his middle-age and resident at
New York, where he has a high reputation as dramatic
critic. He has published several volumes of verse, never
seen on this side: his collected essays—“ Shakespeare’s
England,” “Grey Days and Gold,” etc.—form some of
the most readable volumes in the miniature library of
American writers published by David Douglas, of Edin-
burgh, and can sometimes be obtained in local book-
shops. Winter’s prose is vivid and interesting
perhaps a little too flamboyant and rhetorical : his verse
is often clever, but he does not seem elsewhere to have
attained the strength and intensity shown in “Orgia."]
WILLIAM WINTER.
O gia.
(A SONG OF RUIN)
WHO cares for nothing alone is free.
Sit down, good fellow, and drink wi
me!
With a careless heart and a merry eye,
He will laugh at the world as the world goes by.
He laughs at power, and wealth, and fame ;
He laughs at virtue, he laughs at shame;
He laughs at hope, and he laughs at fear,
And at memory’s dead leaves crisp and sere:
He laughs at the future, cold and dim, —
Nor earth, nor heaven, is dear to him.
O that is the comrade fit for me:
He cares for nothing, his soul is free,
Free as the soul of the fragrant wine :
Sit down, good fellow—my heart is thine.
For I heed not custom, creed, nor law ;
I care for nothing that ever I saw.
In every city my cups I quaff,
And 6ver my liquor I riot and laugh.
I laugh like the cruel and turbulent wave;
I laugh at the church, and I laugh at the grave.
I laugh at joy, and well I know
That I merrily, merrily laugh at woe.
I terribly laugh, with an oath and a sneer,
When I think that the hour of death draws near.
For I know that Death is a guest Divine,
Who shali drink my blood as I drink this wine.
And he cares for nothing 1 A king is he !
Gome on, old fellow, and drink with me !
With you I will drink to the solemn Past,
Though the cup I drain should be my last.
I will drink to the phantoms of love and truth ;
To ruined manhood and wasted youth.
I will drink to the woman who wrought my woe,
In the diamond morning of Long Ago;
To a heavenly face, in sweet repose;
To the lily’s snow and the blood of the rose ;
To the splendour, caught from orient skies,
That thrilled in the dark of her hazel eyes,—•
Her large eyes wild with the fire of the south,
And the dewy wine of her warm red mouth.
I will drink to the warmth of a better time;
To innocence, gone like a death-bell chime.
I will drink to the shadow of coming doom ;
To the phantoms that wait in my lonely tomb.
I will drink to my soul in its terrible mood,
Dimly and solemnly understood.
And, last of all, to the Monarch of Sin,
Who has conquered that fortress and reigns with-
in.
My sight is fading,— it dies away,—
I cannot tell, —is it night or day ?
My heart is burnt and blackened with pain,
And a horrible darkness crushes my brain.
I cannot see you. The end is nigh,
But—we’ll laugh together before I die.
Through awful chasms I plunge and fall;
Your hand, good fellow ! I die,—that’s all.
William Winter.
Bookfellows and Tobacco.
YOU can’t dogmatise on a subject so
variously and supremely important as
Tobacco. Here, also, one man’s food may
prove to be another’s poison. And you
must not attempt to frame arbitrary rules for
Poets. Indeed, I doubt whether poets can be
seriously considered as smokers; I have always
felt that pipe of Tennyson’s was more or less
of an affectation, a mere effort at harmony with
the hair and cloak and general Tennysonian man-
ner. And as for your busk-poet—l can only
imagine him, in this great connection, as sitting
half-disconsolately on a stockyard fence (I.suppose
Tas.
the thing has a fence), frittering furtively with a
damp cigarette, what time he gently woos to
counsel a cynical wisp of moon. Bush-poets, if
they would attain to perfection—the sounding
note, the virile ring—should come into the city,
and live our hard, free, athletic life for a year or
two. No decent poet can afford to coddle himself.
But for mere ordinary persons, like myself.
Here is the One Mixture—discovered, too, by my-
self, after many desolate years of harrowing ex-
periment : Eight ounces of “medium” Capstan
(this is the backbone of the Mixture, so to speak,
and if you go beyond “medium,” you ruin the
whole thing, infallibly); 2oz. of Pioneer (this
lends a saving fragrance to the after-taste); loz.
of Latakia (adds delicacy to the conception, sub-
tilty, distinction); and loz. of first-quality, first-
strength Negrohead (adds grip and actuality); rub
all well together, and keep close in a cool jar for a
fortnight before sampling. This is the only mix-
ture worth considering, and the bookfellow who
does not yield it all his fealty, once tried, ought to
give up his fellowship and take to cricket, or some
other form of crime. For this is not a mixture, in
the ordinary sense ; it’s an institution.
But pipe-smoking is an ordinary, respectable,
work-a-day business, when all is said. I affirm
that the pipe only opens up a minor form of
tobacco enjoyment. This is heresy, of course ;
but I don t care. One’s pipe is one’s companion ;
one s solace when all things else turn dog on one,
and one is naturally very fond of one’s pipe ;
but, admitting all that, it is surely ridiculous to
talk of ones pipe in purple periods, attributing to
its influence more than lies within its scope and
function. The pipe, in short, soothes, cheers,
steadies, and companions one; but it does nof in-
spire. When Barrie wrote “My Lady Nicotine,”
it was the genius of Tobacco he worshipped, and
only the pipe incidentally because the pipe was
his familiar at that time; the Presbyterian con-
science which is a thing very great and terrible,
has still a sub-current of idea that cigars are un-
go.ily; and B i rrie is far too sensible a man to smoke
cigarettes. Lhe kingdom of the Cigarette is, in-
deed, of all things most inexplicable to the serious
smoker. Ihe provoking thing has no substance,
and only the thinnest of. savours ; it probably
injures one’s health, and (which is a greatly more
serious matter) it certainly makes the deuce of a
mess of one’s fingers. One can imagine a modern
woman finding a certain charm in a cigarette;
because one knows that every woman who smokes
whatever her grade, flies consciously in the face of
her conventions. But the cigarette has no
such element of allurement for man. Nowa-
days all men smoke; it is becoming disre-
putable not to smoke. But the cigarette
is a foolish thing, as I was saying. Mind you, I
do not deny that it has occasionally its uses, acci-
dentally even its charms. It can never generate
the filmiest shred of emotion ; but now and then
it may chance to spice an -emotion very prettily.
I bus tin re are two things, amongst others, that
add appreciably to the delight of a hot bath (start
at llodeg. and warm-up by delicate gradations
till your blood thickens) : these two being a
Turkish cigarette and a novel of Marcel Prevost
(Mem. : There is a good deal to be said for the hot
bath as a form of pure enjoyment, in face of the
fact that we moderns have taken to cold showers
and other barbarous indulgences.)
No! to get tobacco in its best form—to know
the full sweetness and the full stimulus of it —you
must still turn to the cigar. Other forms are
tobaccoish ; the cigar is tobacco. The stronger
the cigar the better: the ripe maduro, compact of
old world fragrance and the sun, rich with the
separated essence of the finest flavours of
Gargantuan sms, but bright as the eye 3 of Hebe,
crisp and tonic as the morning sunlight of a
winter’s day. Myself, I like the Indian weeds,
with their penetrating perfume and their curious
nitric snap ; and the cheap but savourous Burma
cheroot ... do you remember how daintily the
nut-brown damsels of Rangoon roll the moist
pungent leaf on the naked plumpnesses of their
thighs, bared daily for that purpose ? Or there is
the twisted cigar of Manila, the glory of the
Philippines. Sent out in twists of three, each cigar
is made like a corkscrew in shape ; and as for the
quality of inspiration (if you get them strong
enough), these ugly customers run at the rate of
an epic to the inch. And there is the little
Cocanadas cheroot, much favoured in Bengal,
pregnant of odorous suggestions of celestial song]
of unexploited situations in pure comedy.
Mind you, you must keep your nerves well-
strung and your senses quick, if you would rise on
wings of pink-shot azure to the full joys of a cigar.
You can’t even enjoy my mixture, if you are
cursed with Philistine prejudices and a cheap
pipe. (My own pipe has passed through many
fares .and become spiritualised. When I smoke it,
it sings a courtly message to the stars ; and my
present chief of staff, who is a delicate man, says
things that almost hurt me.) If you have the
nerves of a mud-turtle and the perceptions of an
ass, such delicate things are wasted on you ; and
if you must smoke at all, you had better look for
a shop where they will sell you colonial Derby at
threepence the ounce.
Frank Morton.
New Books.
HAVE you seen the last publishers’ lists—
yards and yards of announcements?
■ Such alluring books, too; such pressing
invitations ! At first I was happy, say-
ing : “This I will read, and this.” But as I went
on and on, as each choice was discounted by a
better, as each vista fell away in a longer perspec-
tive, I grew dizzy and rebellious. Why this
annual Fair of new books ? Why this combined
assault of the publishers on the reading Ego, and
on all the precious loyalties of one’s bookshelves ?
For it comes to that: one cannot read old books
and new when the new come in myriads and all
stepping together. It were useless to complain :
this seasonal way of publishing and reading books
is fixed among us ; nor will I presume to lecture
those who go to the Fair. Igo myself. There is
no resisting the blaze and the din.
I go, but one feels the disproportion between
the huge output of even one season and the little
heap of books that will keep a man happy all his
life. Books ! —why even a few phrases, even tags
and snatches of glorious verse which a man may
write in his pocket-book, or carry in his head, are,
if they have passed into the blood, wealth beyond
the dreams of librarians. There was a boy at my
old school who used to approach me in the dormi-
tory with an intense gaze, and deliver himself, in
a whisper, of the words—“ Black Auster l ” I
thought him mad, until he grew more liberal and
took me by the throat with Macaulay’s verse
The furies of thy brother
With me and mine abide,
If one of your accursed house
Upon black Auster ride 1
A few years later we were roasting chestnuts in •
garret, with London at our feet, and with Horace
Francis s Horace (with all the first lines in
Latin) to savour our young pessimism. I hear
him rolling out the last verse of the Ode to
Postumus:
Then shall your worthier heir discharge
And set th’ imprison’d casks at large.
And dye the floor with wine,
So rich and precious, not the feast*
Of holy pontiffs cheer their guests
With liquor more divine.
It cheered us immensely to talk of “Old Faler-
nian, and drink weak tea, in those days. Well
—my fnend is the truest reader and lover of books
that 1 know, and yet I should not meagrely sum
up his past and present reading if I named only
six writers : Macaulay (the Laps), Horace (the
Odes}, Herrick, Malory, Scott, and Thackeray.
I o him the current publishing season is scarcely
more than the wind that stirs the trees in his gar-
den, ‘ and they do make no noise.” Yet new
books reach him, and he can praise a hopeful
writer or damn a “boomster ” on as good grounds
as you shall desire. Few mistakes are made in
that house—m that house of wise prejudice.
_ It is becoming rare to meet the man of one
book Yet I knew a bank clerk, who confided to
me that his only poet was—Shenstone. And I
knew a tea traveller who, when you lured him from
politics, would kindle and confess that he had read
Lara disc Lost many times ; but I could not find that
he remembered more than five words of the poem.
I hey were m the Sixth Book, in the passage
where the Father surveys the doubtful battle of
the angelic hosts, and commands the Son to end
the cournot “ since none, but Thou can end it.” I
can see H leaning forward in his armchair, all
the man tendered and aflame, shaking a monitory
finger as he cited the tremendous injunction;
Bring forth all my Wab.
Then, triumphing and fatigued, he would sink
back, waving a hand, putting you at a distance,
and .7 a , rnin # y° u > as it were, not to say “ How
grand ! ’ since even to agree with him were a
kind of levity ! And onoe I supped with a poet
who said tome: “There are two passages in all
poetry which I find sovran for a black mood ”
Kepeat them. ” ‘‘ The first is from ‘ Othello ’:
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Nor all the drowsy Syrups of the world,
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
Which thou owedst yesterday.”
“ And the second ? ” “ The second is from Milton
you know the lines—Coin us is recommending his
cup to the Lady—none so potent, he tells her to
stir up joy,
Not that Nepenthes, which the wife of Thone
In Egypt gave to Jove-born Helena.”
What is all the hurly-burly of the Book-Mart to
such in aments and such preferences !
Preferences!—we need the word. Our critics
hie up and down, saying, “Lo, here ! ” and “Lo,
there ! ” —but the man who only reads what he
will, and loves what lie reads, is apt to prove a
good bookman. I looked into Chadwick’s Life of
Defoe, the other day—a fantastic book —and was
reminded of Lamb’s indictment of Defoe’s Com-
plete English Tradesman, which he said he could
burn for its tendency “to narrow and degrade the
heart. Not so Mr. Chadwick : after enumerating
all Defoe s works, not omitting the Journal of the
Plague and Robinson Crusoe, he pronounces the
Complete English Tradesman to be Defoe’s master-
piece, and second to no work in the English lan-
guage. Foolish ! Well, but that is the way to
love books, and all such solitary choosing’s and
loyalties have a charm. Their genuineness is above
suspicion That is a sweet story that HazJitt
tells of Mr. learns, the tiger-hunter, who “was
buried in the woods of Indostan.’’ He took a
whim, and wrote a metaphysical book, and put it
in his boat, and said, as he floated down the
Ganges : “If I live, this will live : if I die, it will
not be heard of.” When the book was printed it
fell dead from the Press ;no one wanted it, But
to the end of his life (he was buried in the woods of
Indostan) Mr. Fearns used to say, “ There was a
sensible writer in the Monthly Review who saw the
matter in its proper light. ”
That man is best fitted to buy new books in a
crowd who roads old ones in his room. His judg-
ment is encased by an atmosphere of memories
and preferences through which only books of real
pretension can win their way. Unhappy the man
who goes into the book-mart without prejudices
derived from a few good old books, long loved
and often read. With suc-h tests and touchstones
about us we may welcome the biggest “Publish-
ing Season.”
Z. in The Academy.
Verses for Women.
LOVE’S GEOGRAPHY.
My kingdom is my sweetheart’s face,
And these the boundaries I trace ;
Northward—a forehead fair,
Beyond—a wilderness of golden hair;
A pretty cheek to east and west,
Her little mouth the sunny south.
It is the south that I love best.
Her eyes two sparkling lakes,
Held by the stars at night—the sun by day.
The dimples in her cheek and chin
Are snares which Love has set,
And I have fallen in.
J. A. WYETH.
ONE NIGHT.
The night she died the sky was bright
With eves of stars, and all the mooa
Seemed shimmering in golden light
Pilched from the heart of afternoon.
And through the curtains one long ray
Pell like a sword across the bed
Where marble cold and still she lay.
My beautiful, dear dead.
Tall.candles flamed about her head
In silent glory, six by six ;
Distorted on the wall was spread
The shadow of the crucifix ;
The crucifix she held so tight,
I thought the rigid hand must ache,
And Christ’s contracted brow of blight
Seemed sadder for my sake,
The night she died.
Jean Gvkkan, in The Criterion,
DE PROFUNDIS.
Ijord, I lie in this noisome pit,
Deep in Thy hell of the Outer Dark,
Ashes my bed, for robe this snake,
Clinging and dank and stark.
Yet I am Thine, a priest of God,
Anointed and blessed by bishops three ;
Great as Thou art, Thou oanst not, Lord,
Take back their gifts to me.
Bed her lips as the wounds of Christ,
Hot as a coal from Thine Altar flung:
Little white teeth that hit — that bite,
Little red stinging tongue.
White her face as she came by night,
(i With the bait of her body’s shining lure,
Kill me this mail ! ” she whispered low,
“ And my Jove is thine while the stars endure.”
1 poisoned for him the Holy Host;
Dead he lay—and she came to see.
I prayed the price of my soul—and lo !
ohe jeered at the dead and me.
White her bosom as Mary's robe,
Sweeter than Sharon's rose. L wis;
Strong little' hands to clasp and hold ,
Little white feet to kiss.
Lord, thou seest the pit is strait ;
Yet is there place for twain that cling,
Yoked in the love that stings like hate,
Crooning a song that the devils sing.
Give her to me for Thy Vengeance’ sake ;
Grant she may know till Thy Judgment Morn,
he Power of the priest whose soul she slew—
Ihe scorn that .is born of scorn.
Hard her heart as the riven rock,
- Deep her eyes as the cruel sea,
Spread is b<ur couch in the living flame—
Give her, O Lord, to me !
CHA LONER LYON in The Butterfly.


KEEP YOUR HAIR OH
By using’ our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/6 and 21J- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEN,
6BO GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
SfAin Wkea4e<s.
&9leu) Wkcodery
§/• a
cLu/mottiene.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
EOZEMA in all its forms.
B A RCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AETER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Oastleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Maly on,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema-
Kindly send me another box of it-—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says :
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malvon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRYMALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7s. 6cl. lE3sa,csla..
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney :
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD _
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLOROPyNE.
'sm
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIAREHGEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthe constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/« has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
THE BEST GHRISTMAS GIFT
/
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONART
A Library in itself.— Besides the Dictionary
proper it also gives the often desired information con-
cerning eminent persons; facts concerning the countries,
cities, towns, and natural features of the globe; particu-
lars concerning noted fictitious persons and places;
translation of foreign quotations, words and pro-
verbs, etc., and a valuable Australasian supplement.
This Work is Invaluable m the household, and to
th.o teacher, scholar, professional man, and self-educator.
Send for Free prospectus and Specimen Pages.
& C;MerriamCo., Publishers, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
\
INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes—Centhal Wharf.
SOI.E CHARGE 3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
nSK FOR
COMBINES
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
£
0^
TN€R€ IS ONLY ON€
Migrion Piano. there is only one
KTanon Piano. there is only one
HFt.o:o.lsolx Piano. there is only one
Bechstein Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
jar” Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
fc CO.
PERTH.
MOIR’S
POTTED MEATS.
(Assorted kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SOI, laIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
MEMORY
v \tANE4yyr
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
BASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. 0. Hall, Student, St. Kilda, Vie. : "To those learn-
ing languages it is invaluable, for the whole dictionary
may be mastered by it in a remarkably short time.”
Rev. W. H. Beck, Nelson, New Zealand : “ . . . It is
easy, simple, complete, and reliable. The ease and
rapidity with which dates, names, &0., can be memorised
is astonishing, and these come to me with the utmost
certainty. . . ."
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS, ,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.’*
THE
DEAF
HEAB
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from ail the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
f RANGES,
tfetumf Curly, from S/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
long, 6/a. all real lufr.
CUTTINGS A OOMBU.ua
ortced up, i/6pa,oz. ■
we are die cneapAttin Aa»
trona for all Hair Wort
Bend Color of Hair.
W. N.Wigz«ll,
HOWilliau Street,
eoroer of Palmer-street.
- v SYDNEY.
C»Me Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List-”'
Prompt attention given to Conntry Order*
WHEN YOU BUY.. ; .
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
VST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £§F" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street. London, they are
spurious.
[iTrlfS;
A
-
■■
'
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN. ,
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE >
HIGH-CRAPE FARM IMPLEMENTS A N E^MACHINErT
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Falir
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
—ON-
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
PIANOFORTE g
Grand and Upright.
Descripti- Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
Post Pree.
The
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
Sol?
Agei)ts-
W. H. GLEN & CO.,
359 Cteorg-e Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins St., Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Brighton P. (Tasmania). January 1.
25,000 Suloscrilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Anniversary H. January 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 6.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me —_ ..shares in the above.
Name
Address.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name _
Address.
Geelong C. January 17.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Launceston 0. February 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
JS
Address
Newmarket H. March 3.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame.
Address
r
Newmarket H. (Special) Drawn Morning of Race
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ATX,
in the above.
Please allot me
Name .
Address
shares
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


HAIR
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction is
secondary to
it.
If your hair
is too thin or losing its luster,
get—
Growth
becomes
vigorous
and all
dandruff is
removed.
It always restores color to
gray or faded hair. Retain
your youth; don’t look old
before your time.
Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mms., U. S. A.
mxs
H&ir
visor
*
(
oo
The
Authoress of
“ BOOTLE’S
BABY,’
says .
“ Most
decidedly ,
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
i happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS GO.. LTD..
16, Beyis Marks, London, England. 5
Tb< B. aod N.Treatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying 1 to
the efficaev of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack *’ remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care bv an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
GrO TO HEX.I.-
IGOI-ANI) (or Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendt o
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
CECUREa Share of tbc Profits
Of THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by effecting
a Policj- with that Office before the close of the year. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the year
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1899 (all bonuses vest
immediately on policies attaining-a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among the
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direct or through the
Society's Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman 1
A. W. Meeks, Esq. ; Joseph Abbott, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, A-4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, VO/- per Set.
63T Send for Price List. 1S&
H. HIIiIiIEKi, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
& PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
fVIFI I IN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OE aEE DEALERS.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND
Timepiece, Parlor Games, Musical box and Alarm
ALL IN ONE (Patented).
vrs
N
w
ft k
m
ssmmm
H.POTI ER * «•
a cents for AUSTRALASIA
24 ffoyAL Arcade
?. SYDNEr
This Clock is a combination of four different tWngß, rte..
Time, Games, Music, and Alarm. The case is Solid Nickel
Silver with Chased Brass Mounts, Swing Brass Door, and
Glass Sides. Each clock is timed to closest accuracy, so
will always tell you the correct time. It’«nU pUj^cho: ice
selections the whole day or as desired. It has tw ° “°®"
enjoyable Parlor Games which can be played any tame 01
day by any number of people. There is also an alarm that
will awaken you at any hour
Can be had in Three following styles:
«« The Derby.” Time, Alarm, Musical, and
Two Race Games (Sandown and Cup
Handicaps)
PRICE, ONE POUND.
«« The Gipsy.” Time, Alarm, Musical, Character
Reader and Fortune Teller
PRICE, ONE POUND.
««The Opera.” Time, Musical, and Alarm*
Price, 15/-
Oarriage Paid, N.S.W., 1/2 Extra. Other Colonies a/a.
Each Clock is Guaranteed Perfect, and sent on
approval. If returned within 14 days money
refunded.
Xmas Gift Parcel!—A Monster Gold Mine!!
„. . , Tiinotm tpfl Catalogue to obtain New Customers, and make ourselves talked about, we
mO introduce 1 p arce l which contains all of the following articles and a free gift for 55.; carriage
. anvother colony Sa IW. Money refunded if not more than satisfied : r 3O Good
paid in N.S.W 6s. Bd. , any “ 10 ' Beautifully Embossed Stationery, 4 Handsome Motto Pictures (2
Xmas N®w Year Cards,l Cabinet 01 kto the Scientific Game of Draughts, 1 Bottle of good
large and 2 small), 1 Set of Draughts m «°*>^ ake (< Flea „ the gize of a Fly/ . 1 Good Mou th Organ in
French Scent, 1 Magnifying R t Meteors and Fire Balls as they ascend, 6 Sheets of Good Transfer
Case, 4 Meteor Balloons c h d imlvßTgant and colored Crayon Pencils in Case, 1 Patent
Pictures for decorating Walls, M » > t ,j anybody > 8 fortune), X Miniature Book on Queen Victoria’s
Pencil ! Amateur Eortune TeHer Queensland .. Tick » (very amusing,
Record Reign 1 Golden Egg fi and " ur New P illustrated Catalogue, which contains 4 pages of Up-to-date
his antics cause roars of laig ), T , War prick : also as a Free Gift to all our new as well as old
Tricks and Puzzles, incluc g half-a-dozen good quality Cambric Handkerchiefs. Carriage paid in N.S.W.,
Colon es s In return for tbe Wonderful Value we give we certainly expect you to show
vour^fiends thewhole lot, introduce our Catalogue, and give our name and address. Mention Bulletin.
K UPOI-liBIEI. & CO., IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
*HE
- plum
PLU
THB
‘ Plum ’
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
lx trial. This razor is superior to any other, it is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use tor a number
of vears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Tivo Yean
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle" in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Price
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
KT.S.W. Carriage & SaddLlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can." They oannot do so, and you pay 16 per
sent more for your requirements.
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
1
mm
d
j* :
IteHTered at nnjr Wharf er
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballade of Tight Places.
When you're called to face the music, feeling
deadly out of trim,
While the glib world sneers and sniggers at your
evident distress ;
When your prospects all are dreary and your life’s
devoid of vim,
As you hunt the nimble shilling with prodigious
unsuccess; —
You may whimper puling protest, or more sturdily
express
Your conviction that there’s something very wrong
with Nature’s plan,
You may ape the martyr-spirit to deliberate
excess—
But it’s best to grin and bear it, with your mouth
shut, like a man !
When Boy Cupid’s got you spitted, and your
fairest hopes are slim,
When the girl you woo is fickle, saying neither
No nor Yes,
When you half believe it’s you she likes, and
quite believe it’s Him,
When your love grows, hourly greater and your
chances hourly less ;
You may buttonhole your neighbor and your
secret woe confess ;
You may glad the fatted cynic as the love-lorn
only can;
You may weep in public places o’er the crimes of
Kate or Bess—
But it’s best to grin and bear it, with your mouth
shut, like a man !
When you’re in the clutch of illness and your
brain is all aswim,
And your weakness brings grey fears to light your
weakness can’t repress;
When grim Death lurks in the shadows as the
lamp of Life grows dim,
And your sins troop forth to mock you in a very
lurid dress; —
You may whine in smug self-pity, you may curse
your gods or bless,
You may sing the hymns that comfort (and so
very lamely scan),
You may jibe in cheap bravado of the Decorated
Guess;
But it’s best to grin and bear it, with your mouth
shut, like a man !
Mate l we're in the same boat. Granted that th is
life's a tangled mess
Of blood-red pains and penalties, and pleasures few
and wan ;
Still, life's the best there is for us, for all Us storm
and stress,
And it’s best to grin and bear it, with your mouth
shut, like a mam!
T.
FRANK MORTON.
The Dream Child.
The stirrings other women feel
Beneath the heart begin to steal,
I felt within my soul for thee,
My little child that is to be.
Yes, thou wert born in heaven to-day,
And for thy advent here I pray.
I pray. Long lonely years may glide
Before I clasp thee to my side.
I toil. My inmost soul is stirred
A nest to fashion for my bird.
And yet my heart can now be gay,
I wished for thee : Thou’rt born to-day.
If all my burning hopes are vain,
And lone I yield to death’s last pain,
If, tired of toil and waiting, born
Into the other world some morn,
I find myself laid close to thee—
Wilt thou be mother unto me?
N.S.W.
CONSTANOE CLYDE.
Deposed.
Last night, at tryst of yore
We met—ah me, that meeting—
Beneath the white-limb’d tree.
Not as of old, you came—
Breathless, with red lips clinging,
Hot with upwelling love ;
But came with laggard feet,
And cold your greeting scanty,
Protesting still your love.
The night-wind spent her soul
Moaning in the withered tree.
A shudder palpable
Moved us a pace apart.
Your lips framed cold reproaches.
But to my heart truth came,
As when the north wind comes
In summer —hot and furious—
That love had fled afar.
Cloud-shadows from the moon
Rolled rapidly between us.
The curlew called his mate.
I wait alone to-night—
Await love’s slow returning
Beneath the white-limb’d tree.
W.A.
PHOSPECT GOOD.


IMPORTANT.
.1. £ si’± rf** of ;t e m r«. *> ®
doors. The best endorsement is W - + cheaper than Iron is already at our
are b, e CoSSi£Si^*SfU‘ e »S^‘ e ”' ,uri ” g properties
ri a Sr»“to g . i ‘lS n t a^e r ” ,S °' ““ C “ Sto ™ HoPse ' P-st Office, oa the
p - & B. RUBEROID ROOFING
and it is successfully Laid over Galvanised Wire Netting.
E. RICH & CO. LTD. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Fitt Street, Sydney. w. j. Adams, Manager.
What Visitors say of this Hotel
Tariff: 10s. per Day.
JE3 per Week.
“ Jlverything is new; and
everything is of the best,
We cannot suggest an
improvement.”
800^ E ®
THE BOOMERANG.—The Best, Finest,
Loudest, and Strongest Mouth Organ
ever invented. Price, 2s. 6d. Post Free.
The special process of the alloy the Reeds are made of,
as well as their shape, gives that wonderful tonality to
the instrument. J
albert & sow,
118 King Street, Sydney,
Manufacturers of the famous Boomerang Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
CATALOGUES of Violins, Cornets. Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Polyphone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH& COB 3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
STieK T©
CIGARETTES
NOBEL-6LASSOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
£
a
ml
RADEMA
5?
mm
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine..
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
fey
MOISTURE.
a
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over £2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurlinv-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over JJIOOO more than any other powder. —VideF ield, June 24, ’99.
9 2 " ln P h S Po r ting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
onooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria,
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland , Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
One Million lbs. Tobaeeo
450 TONS.
DIXSON & SONS Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 901 Tons above any other manufacturer.
DOODLE.
Dixson’s Great Leading 1 Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
CHAHRION “■ - - ;• The choicest of Gold Eeaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
CONQUEROR ~ The workmans favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
BONANZA CIGARS - • Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra oovered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 20.—N0. 1036.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1899.
Prick 6d.
A SUMMER OUTISTG.
“When the colonial contingents arrive the will probably be over, and the affair will partake somewhat of the nature of a paper two months ago.
COLONIAL SWADDY : “ Say, Mister, can you tell me where the picnic is?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. M
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable 5n Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... £1 0 0
naif-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and,all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers,
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
TnE Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White,
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin jan be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
dc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Ufaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to TnE Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— lja. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office , a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland .
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1899.
A Certain Political Spectre.
During the period of the Transvaal Con-
tingent insanity a certain political spectre
stirred in his grave a little and surprised his
damp-footed mate, the worm, by his
unlooked-for restlessness. Imperial Federa-
tion began to be talked of again after years of
forgetfulness and deadness. Politicians like
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, commenced
to orate once more about the necessity of
“tightening the bonds” which connect
Australasia with the mother-country. Poli-
ticians like Lyne and Barton and Turner
began to say large hazy things about this
country s readiness to bear a hand in all
Britain’s wars and ask no questions about
their justice or injustice; and as it can
hardly be intended that Australasia will
always bear a hand in Britain’s wars without
some semblance of a voice in the making of
these wars it is presumable that Barton and
Turner and Lyne were also dreaming about
some permanent form of legislative union.
For a little while Imperial Federation
was again “in the air ” more or less • there
was a rush on Kipling’s poetry—es-
pecially the poetry in which he kinnles
about the solidity of the British
dominions ; there was a yearning to get
hod of this eud of “the bonds” and
pull hard, and the old, large, hazy talk about
Imperia union and the old, large, hazy want
or detail again came to the surface. And
inasmuch as it appears that the Imperial
Federation idea isn’t quite so dead as it
ought to be The Bulletin has conceived
the idea of drafting a scheme of Imperial
Federation—the only feasible one it can
think of—just to see how it looks. It does
this because none of the advocates of the
Imperial dream have ever done so ; they
have merely dreamed, and kippled, and
talked large eloquent froth at banquets, and
shaken a paralytic knife and fork of objurga-
fcion at whosoev failed to see the practica
bility of their dream.
* * * *
If Imperial Federation ever seines off,
there will necessarily be & central Parlia-
ment, consisting of representatives from
the different sections of the empire. Pro-
bably, subordinate Legislatures would be
created to do the purely local work of the
United Kingdom, and the present Imperial
Houses would attend to purely ImpetiAl
concerns. In fact, there is no other Visible
out. It would be impossible to abolish
all the local legislatures of the empire, and
expect the WCary, heart-broken Parliament
at Westminster to be responsible for every-
thing down to a culvert at Thargomindah,
and the alleged misconduct of a policeman on
the road to Klondyke, and the wrongful
decision of a magistrate in the case of a
nigger who was convicted on insuffieicilfc
evidence of melun-stealing in Barba'does.
And if the Imperial Parliament still looked
after the purely local affairs of Great Britain
while leaving the “ Colonial ” Legislatures in
existence, then there would be the absurd
and impossible spectacle of England's small
local concerns being decided" in a great
measure by men from Australia, Canada', the
West Indies, the Falkland Islands, and all
manner of out-of-the-Way places, While the
local concerns of these places were left to
management of their Owli inhabitants,
and England had tto control over them what-
soever. It Would be impossible to com-
promise by letting the representatives of
Greater Britain sit in the Commons or the
Lords only while Imperial matters were
being discussed, and firing them out to
sit on the step whenever a purely
English or Scotch or Irish question
arose. Matters local and Imperial are
S ° mixed , fchafc the deliberations
would be broken all to pieces by the constant
rushing out and rushing in again of the
members for Greater Britain. There is no
legislature on earth that fires out half its
members every half-hour, and the only
Visible way out is to turn the present
.British Parliament into a purely Imperial
concern and let England, Scotland, Ireland,
and Wales have their own local parliaments,
as Queensland and N.S.W. and Tasmania
have theirs. And presumably the British
hereditary Peerage, if it wanted to retain its
hereditary legislative privileges, would have
to shift into these purely local parliameiitS,
and be run out of Imperial politics alto-
gether—for reasons which will appear in the
next paragraph,
* * *
Almost every successful Federation in this
worfd is based on the principle of a bi-
cameral Federal Parliament, with representa-
tion according to population it! the Lower
House and equal State representation, or
something approaching thereto, in the Upper
House. It is dead certain that the
colonial jingo, even in his maddest
moments, would never dream of representa-
tion according to population in both Houses.
Ihe result would be that Greater Britain
would get so little representation that only
about once in a dozen years would it be able
to influence a decision ; in fact, to almost
every intent and purpose, it might as well
federate without any representation at all.
ihe only Federa! principle that has stood
the test of time is that in which each pro-
vince has equal, or nearly equal, representa-
!° n JJ 1 . ® Upper Chamber. Assuming that
the United Kingdom formed one province
for Federal purposes, then Australasia
might form another, British Africa a third,
? dl w and T C^ lon a fourfcll > Canada a fifth,
the West Indies and some sundries a sixth,
while some very small and scattered posses-
sions might come in as half and quarter
provinces, or as fractions or decimals. The
United Kingdom is now represented in the
Upper House by some 600 peers, and it is
dead certain that 3000 or 4000 more peers
couldn t be created to represent the other
federated divisions of the empire—a House
of from 3600 to 4600 peers would be too
wdd a joke. It is also certain that the non-
Jtmtish divisions of the empire would refuse
flatly to be represented, in the only House
where their representation would be worth
having, by 3000 British hereditary nominee
peers, permanently resident in Britain, who
would presently cease to have any know-
edge of the places they were supposed to
represent.
* * * *
Apparently, the only way by which a
workable scheme of Imperial Federation
could be drawn up would be by electing
the House of Lords bodily. The peers
might go and do duty as Upper Houses in
purely local Legislatures, but they wouldn’t
ht into the Imperial Federation scheme
anywhere. Apparently, an elective Upper
House would have to be created, composed
of, say 50 or 100 members from each of the
great divisions of the empire. How Britain
would stand the shock it is difficult to say,
but there must be some kind of shock if any
really practical “tightening of the bonds’’
is ever to be attempted. The elective Upper
House would necessarily be a much more
powerful and aggressive body than the
present hereditary affair. Being elective it
would have the same rights and the same
status as the elective House of Commons.
Ihis would also stand the British Constitu-
tion on its head very considerably. And when
two Houses have practically equal powers
some machinery for the remedy of dead-
locks becomes absolutely necessary.
* * • .
Something definite would have to be
arranged Abtffifc the nigger elements of the
Ehipire. The population of the British
dominions is five-sixths nigger, If thte biafek
man is ever to have a, votd. in ap ttopfcrial
Federal Farliahient, tftelfi lie will Almost run
the whole shO# by Virtiie of his 'enormous
majority, arid Britahi will eiid lip M A digger
feitipire With its hea'doiiatt'efrs m India, and
brown ila ,tne outlying provinces.
As it impossible to discriminate between
diggers, it is evident that the only possible
process would be to break it as gently as pos-
sible to the nigger that he bad to be an in-
ferior and unrepresented animal for ever and
ever. Mow he would take the neWs it is
difficult to say—perhaps it Would be found
advisable to point a gun at him btefoVo com-
mencing the texplaitatiori,. iti India the
nigger doesn’t kibfc much at his want of Par-
liamentary representation, because there is
ho such thing—the white man hasn’t got it
either. If the white man had it, and the
nigger understood that he .neVfit fc'dul'd hav'e
it, there would, be trouble just As SOoh as the
nigger was sufficiently educated—and lie is
being edubated all the time—to appre-
ciate the situation. The same difficulty
Would arise in .Africa arid tfre . West
Indies. Yet if, smdia, Africa, and the
West Indies Were left out there would be no
Federation worth mentioning. And if an
attempt was made to prevent the nigger
understanding the situation by ordering that
he should receive no education whatever,
then the earth would start back on the road
to complete savagery. Bfcill it is evideht the
nigger would haVe to be,shut Odib; the only
bop© is that lie Would take it kindly. Yet
shutting the nigger out, and reckoning white
population only in the distribution of Parlia-
mentary representation, brings about another
anomaly ; British India has only about
100,000 white inhabitants, and to give them
equal representation, or anything resembling
it, in the Upper House with the five millions
of Canada and four and a-half millions of
Australasia would be an absurdity. There
is the same trouble is the West Indies—and
Northern and Western and Central Africa^.
* * * *
None of the advocates of Imperial Federa-
tion have ever offered any definite suggestion
as to Whether the federated empire should
take over and consolidate all the empire’s
debts as ohe movement in the direction of
Unity, As Australasia owes about £55 per
inhabitant and its debt is steadily growing
larger, while the United Kingdom owes
about £l2 per inhabitant and its debt has
been constantly growing Smaller, a consolida-
tion with no questions asked would be an
eminently comforting arrangement to this
Oountiy. In fact, it is about the only possible
feature of the case which is ever likely
to arouse any permanent enthusiasm here.
Certainly it is difficult to understand how
there could be any Imperial Federation
unless the different parts of the empire left
off taxing each other’s products, and with the
loss of the customs revenue derived from
duties on British products, and the extra
expense involved in taking over our share of
the army and navy and war expenditure, it
appears dead certain that this country would
go broke unless the empire’s debts were
consolidated. Consolidation, in this case, is
only another name for Britain taking over
about three-fourths of the liability. It
would presumably be understood (not that
that matters much, for the fact would be
there whether it was officially recognised or
not) that some day, by virtue merely of their
greater spaciousness, both Australasia and
Canada must greatly outnumber the British
Isles in population, and when that time
came there would necessarily be a struggle
to decide whether the seat of Empire should
be shifted to Kamloops or Thargomindah,
and which country should supply the
Governor who would run things in
London, and whether the Heir-Apparent
would thenceforth be known as Prince
of Labrador or Duke of Kalgoorlie. But
these are mere side-issues. Of course, by
virtue of the impossibility of handing over
the entire control of the Empire to the black
and brown and yellow men of Africa and
Asia, it would have to be understood
that the boasted right and privilege of
no taxation without representation is a lie
and a sham, as it always has been. Like-
wise, it would have to be understood that
every white part of the Empire would have
the largest possible powers of rejecting nigo-er
immigrants from the black parts thereof, and
that the rights of man were only a fraud and
a figure of speech.
* * * .
Imperial Federation would blight so many
comforting hypocrisies, in fact, that it is
doubtful if the federated Briton would ever
hold up his head properly again. Also, it
would pull down so many of the moss-grown
pillars and traditions of the British Consti-
tution, and put up something so raw and
new in place thereof, that the Briton
would probably feel very sorry he
hadn t left the thing alone. Any-
how, The Bulletin offers these few
remarks on general principles. It has
never desired to enter a great nigger or
ejected-nigger Federation, but as so many
politicians have lately commenced to moan
at the sixpenny-bar about the necessity for
“closer union with the empire,” without
the least attempt to plan out details, this
paper thought, in an idle moment, that it
would plan out a few details itself. And it
offers them in a disrespectful spirit to the
loyal crowd whose own contributions to
the question have been mostly beer-froth
and loose enthusiasm, and promiscuous
flappings of the banner of eloquence.
The Disgraceful Transvaal War.
BBirfa&i Colonial-Secretary de-
fence of his conduct iff t)fe House, of Commons
is called, “a, brilliant, effpft ” oir “a pitiful
jexhjbiVlpß ”, by London critics —according to
th’eir Tory or Liberal politics. The Australian
daily Press, still mostly directed by English*
men, has adopted the splendid exculpation ”
view. In reality, it was a clever use of
oratorical rhetoric tb cover up some very dirty
tracks. There is Hob the slightest doubt that
Chamberlain was over heck hhd heels iti
Jameson’s Raid—that is; while A hiembet
of thfe British Cabinet, he abetted and
ehc'OUraged a, freeboo'ting ekpeditioh against
a. friendly State, thereby involving Britain
Iti shameful national disgrace. If the
raid had succeeded, he would have taken the
spoil for Britain ; as it failed, he was obliged to
disavow complicity, and lie like—a diplomatist,
But W. T* S'tfEAth affiong others who have
been intilttafc'e With CEcft, Rhodes and the ihil-
lionaires of the Chartered Company, declare
that Rhodes, that Hawksley (the Chartered
Co.’s solicitor), that half-a-dozen others, made
bo secret of Chamberlain’s partnership vvifjl
them. More, there are iti existence docu-
ments— lettpbs and telegrams between Cham-
berlain and Hawksley and Rhodes—
which prove the partnership. And when,
at the House of Commons enquiry, Hawksley
was called upon to produce these documents,
and was about to do so, the honest enquirers
(having learnt how far they incriminated Cham-
berlain) promptly shut him up, and refused to
allow the gliilty letters to be read. Now, when
ChAWblerlain is dared to let the letters see
light, he refuses—with the bluff that lie will
show them to the heads of the Liberal party if
they ask for them—as if the heads of the
Liberal party (who know' the contents) would
in war-time take the risk of publicly dragging
the bad name of Britain further through the
mire! It is Hush! Hush! for the honor of
England— the honor of England !
* * * *
The Blatter is one that concerns Britain, It
Only concerns Australia in so fat as it provfeS
conclusively that CHAmßErlaln, as a mtetnhei-
of the Cabinet, had determined fonr years ago
to destroy the independence of the Ti aUsVaftl;
and that, JajißsOn’s Raid having failed; he re-
solved to attain his end By throwing Britaiii
into Wat—With A Sbcking-Napolfeobic disregard
Of tight and justice and the lives of then —mere
counters in the high diplomatic game !—pro-
vided that the British empire in Africa could
be consolidated and extended. So he took the
first excuse that came to hand ; advertised the
Outlanders’ chiefly-bogus grievances : and when
the Transvaal was yielding—when it had pro-
mised large concessions—when there was only
a question of the difference between a five-
years and a seven-years’ franchise in dispute—
he massed troops on the Transvaal and Free
State frontiers, broke his diplomatic pledges,
revived the quibble of the suzerainty which
Lord Derby had expressly killed, and deliber-
ately drove the Transvaal into making war in
self-defence—unless it wished to wait till war
was. made still more hopeless by the
continual accumulation of British troops. Now
the British are massing 100,000 men to destroy
two little republics which Cecil Rhodes him-
self says can only provide 25,000 fighting men
at most; and presumably the end is merely a
matter of time. Anyone who wishes a clear
view.of the ridiculous grounds upon which
Britain has made war; of the treachery, and
arrogance, and diplomatic villainy which have
marked the whole course of her dealings with
the Transvaal—always excepting Gladstone’s
peace is referred to the detailed and dated
account in Nov. Review of Reviews.
* * » .
So wholly without concern for Australia is
the Transvaal war—seeing that Britain is in no
need whatever of assistance to crush a foe so
very small—-that, even if the war were made on
just grounds instead of being a war of plunder
and imperial aggrandisement, we would have
no excuse for embarking in it. The first duty
of Australians is to Australia. To needlessly
waste men and money in foreign war, and in
about the worst possible cause, is nothing less
than a national crime; and the militia-
officers and politicians who committed
Australia to war would be promptly impeached
for treason in any country where existed an
honest and intelligent public spirit. The more
you reflect on it, the more unthinkable it is that
Australia should send Australians to shoot and
be shot by Boers in Africa with whom they
have no quarrel. What have we to do with
the schemes of Rhodes and his co-millionaires
to syndicate the newly-discovered and un-
developed portion of the Rand gold -mines as
they have syndicated the Kimberley diamond-
mines (diplomatically stolen from the Orange
Free State, as the Rand mines are to be stolen
by war)? What will it profit us if British
dominion extends from north to south
of Africa ? Will we be one whit safer,
one whit better off? Does not every in-
crease .of the too-vast British Empire bring
with it the seed of decay ? hasten the time
when the unwieldy mass will fali asunder by its
own mere weight? Why, when men and money
are so badly needed here to develop Australia,
should we pile up debts for our children to pay,
or risk the lives of men who should be rearing
Australian families ? Here, in Australia—not
in Africa or Britain—is and remains the profit
of Australia ; and now is the time to secure it,
while peaceful development is possible to us,
and the country is crying out for the men and
money we are shamefully wasting in foreign
lands.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Lost Opportunity.
The usual unemployed difficulty rose up the
other day like an unkempt and dispirited lion
in the path of the N.S.W. Premier. It was
the old, old story that has been going on in
N.S.W. since the year GoD-knows-when a.d. :
a new and allegedly rich country—the blessings
of Freetrade—no more sign of employment than
there is of hair on an egg—no money—no boots


—no hope. And Premier Lyne gave to the
anxious deputation the usual perfunctory cold
comfort. He was going to hustle round and
scrape up a few temporary jobs that would
keep a few of them going in a small way for a
few weeks—and then the old hopelessness and
gloom w'ould settle down again. Yet Lyne
had a great chance, if he could only have seen
it. N.S.W. has sent one contingent to the
Transvaal and is proposing to send another —
the contingent business, in fact, repre-
sents the only good solid work that Lyne
is giving away just now'. Under such
conditions the obvious thing to do was to send
the unemployed—2ooo of them, if as many
would go, or even 5000. If N.S.W. is going
into the Contingent business to help the mother
country it might be as well to help the mother
country properly ; if it is going into it for advt.,
a big advt. is at least bigger than a small advt.
The unemployed want the pay a vast amount
worse than most of the men who have gone—or
their w'ives and families do. Also, if they are
killed their wives and families want the sym-
pathy and subscriptions and insurance money a
great deal more than many of the families that
will get it under present arrangements. The
unemployed are short of clothes, and a good
kit and a uniform would suit them admirably.
They badly want a sea-voyage for the good of
their health, also three square meals a day.
Some of them have lost heart and hope through
long idleness, and are sinking into confirmed
loaferdom, and a steady job with good food,
clothes and discipline would save them from
themselves and restore their energy and self-
respect. They could learu something of drill
and get to know which is the business end of
a rifle on the way over. If the Imperial
authorities said hard tilings of them—well,
thej’ are used to that when applying for aid to
the Ladies Benevolent Old Cat Society. If
some of them were killed it is no worse for a
social failure to be killed than a social success.
They might be bad shots, but probably 5000
bad shots would hit the enemy as often as 500
good ones ; and though many of them would he
unfit for long marches there are plenty of them
who know more about marching (in search of a
job) than any of the gaudy crowd that has been
sent to Africa. Certainly it requires very little
logic to see that if there is a large job available,
and a lot of men much in want of a job, it is
much better to offer it to them than to people
who have jobs already. Yet even that simple
preliminary fact escaped the wise rulers of
Australia.
♦
Short Hours v. Early Closing 1 .
Even at this late hour, when the subject
might be supposed to be talked to death, the
S.M. Herald puts in its little complaint about
the alleged suburban shopkeeper who will be
ruined by early-closing. This oppressed indi-
vidual keeps open now till a late hour, and
many of his customers have got into the habit
of buying clothes or boots or food from him at a
late hour because he is open, and it is sapiently
assumed that when he is compelled to shut
at six his customers will do without the
clothes or hoots or food they used to buy
after that hour, and while they go about hungry
and in the nude the shopkeeper will be ruined.
And the Herald asks once more why the
desired end shouldn’t be achieved by limiting
the hours of shop-assistants and letting the boss
keep open as long as he likes, provided he hires
relays of workers. In theory there is no reason
why the State shouldn’t be content with limiting
the assistant’s hours. So long as he isn’t over-
worked there is no objection that this paper
sees to his boss hiring three relays and keeping
open all the 24 hours. The trouble is that,
while an early-closing law can be easily
enforced, a short-hours law can only be enforced
in part, at great expense, and with enormous
difficulty. Even the dullest policeman can tell
when a shop is open after legal hours. But the
most brilliant policeman, if he goes into
a warehouse at 8 p.m., can’t tell by look-
ing at the employes whether they have
been worked beyond the maximum day
fixed by law. The boss will assure him that
they haven’t. And if the employes don’t also
assure him that they haven’t they will probably
“get the run” next day as a matter of cer-
tainty. It would be practically impossible to get
a conviction against a sweating employer under
a short-hours law without the evidence of the
employe, and as he would lose his billet unless
he swore that he hadn’t been worked beyond
legal limits, convictions would be very few.
Under an early-closing law the sweating-boss
can be convicted on the evidence of his own
shop-door, and, even if he breaks it up with an
axe next day and gets a new door, the new
door will he ready to convict him as remorse-
lessly and at as short notice as the old one. It
would take 500 inspectors to administer a short-
hours law as effectually as 10 of the dullest
policemen could an early - closing statute.
It is a notable fact that a very large proportion
of the Tory class has always gone strongly for
the reform measure that it is next to impossible
to enforce, while it has constantly denounced
the one that can he easily enforced as a grievous
interference with the liberty of the subject. The
value of a great idea can often be best gauged
by considering the kind of people who are
against it.
John’s Letter.
The most thrilling amateur writer whom the
war has inspired up to date is one John
Berqan, of Granville (N.S.W.), a very old-
established daily-newspaper correspondent.
These are some extracts from John’s letter to
the Australian Star :
It is to be hoped that the Transvaal war will lead to a
general European war. That good old book, the Bible,
teaches that the millennium can only come after the
greatest of all wars, the war of Armageddon. The only
safe cure for bad trade and commerce is war, and war on
a big scale. American trade, within the nation itself, has
vastly improved since America’s late war with Spain,
which was, after all, but a comparatively small affair.
Nevertheless, the influence of that war has been felt, and
favorably, even in Great Britain. There are just now far
too many people in all parts of the civilised world. This
is why they have all been having such a bad time. The
unemployed problem will never be satisfactorily solved
in any country until after the nations have terribly
butchered one another. The death rate of the human
family by natural and accidental causes is not, of
itself, sufficient to keep pace with the processes of pro-
°reation. Therefore is a great war, say every quarter of
a century, essenlial to the world-wide commercial and
industrial prosperity. Talk about the “ immorality ”of
war! Bosh ! Holy Writ itself is full of war accounts.
And some of those wars were conducted under the aegis
of the Almighty. The very fact of man’s mental consti-
tution comprising, as it does, the organ of destructive-
n( ss, implies that God designed man to exert
that faculty against his brother; not in an isolated,
but a wholesale fashion. The prayers of the pulpit
for “ peace and good-will ” among men, for the time
when war shall “cease to he,” have never been an-
swered ; and it will be a sorry day for humanity if ever
they are. The imperative duty of kings, queens, em-
perors, and presidents—aye, even of Parliaments, when
the national conditions of existence have become intoler-
able—is to set the people subject .to their authority at
each other's throats on the field of battle. The greater
the massacre the better for those who survive the conflict,
whether they actually took part in it or not. Without
periodic war on a grand scale industrial and commercial
progress is an impossibility, whilst beggary and starva-
tion must be rampant.
The theory looks good at first sight, yet there
is something wrong about it. War is ruinous ;
it often costs nowadays <£looo for every man
killed. It clumsily maims a lot of people
instead of killing them, and it wipes out the
wrong people—the sound, healthy ones who
should be preserved. What is wanted is exe-
cution of all the aged, infirm and diseased with
a cheap axe. One vigorous wood-chopper,
w'ith two assistants to bring in the victims and
hold them down, could thin out the population
as much in two days as was done by two u'hole
armies at Magersfontein and Colenso, and the
whole cost, including refreshments, needn’t
exceed .£lO.
A Great Fiasco.
Victoria’s Closer Settlement Act is now ad-
mitted to be a dire failure, and, as usual, the
Legislative Council is mostly responsible. The
remainder of the responsibility rests on the
people who stand that awful Council, and on
the deep-rooted Australian custom of benevo-
lently tinkering with things and never doing
the whole reform at once, lest, through cutting
out all the cancer in one act, the patient may
feel lonely for want of it. Victoria has long
been in want of a system whereby the Govern-
ment can resume large estates for sub-division
into small farms. It is a small province. The
western end of it is drought and Old Man
Plain ; the eastern end is precipice. And in the
centre, and right at the back-door of Mel-
bourne, the good part of the country is still
largely taken up by a few huge estates devoted
mostly to pastoral purposes, where the casual
sheep roams over country that is urgently
required for human beings. If this land
was all cut up into small farms the
great increase of population round about the
capital would make Melbourne prosper as it
hasn’t prospered for many years, but the undis-
criminating Fat Men of the city have never
been able to notice this abvious fact. Maoriland
has got over the difficulty of the big landowner
who blocks settlement by two beautifully
simple devices. There is a land-tax on all land,
very small allotments only excepted, and the
tax grows larger and larger as the estate
increases in size; consequently there is a
natural tendency to cut up big estates, for the
sufficient reason that the larger the estate the
less per cent, it yields on the money invested’
And every landholder values his own land for
taxation purposes, with the reservation that if
the Government thinks the valuation too low it
may take over the property at the owner’s
valuation, with a small fixed percentage added
for disturbance. Nobody values his land much
too low lest the Government should take it over
at his own estimate, therefore the revenue isn’t
swindled to any great extent; and nobody
values it too high because he doesn’t
want to pay undue taxation, therefore the
State, when it resumes land for closer
settlement, usually contrives to make a
fair profit on the transaction. The Victorian
Government saw that the system was a success,
so it adopted the land-resumption idea without
a single item of the machinery or a single one
of the safeguards which made it work so well
in Maoriland. Victoria’s land-tax is not gradu-
ated according to the size of the property to
discourage the holding of big estates. The
province has no system by which the holder
values his own land. It didn’t provide that
the Government might compulsorily resume
large estates at any fixed percentage over the
State or municipal tax-valuation. It didn’t
even provide that the State could compulsorily
resume anything. And it provided that every
separate transaction must be separately sanc-
tioned by Parliament, so that, if the State did
get a chance to buy up a large property that
was blocking settlement at a figure not abso-
lutely ruinous, the process of negotiation was
so pitiably slow that a private buyer could
always get there first. As a matter of fact, the
State never got a chance to buy anything.
Having no powers of compulsory resumption
it could only baggie with the owner like any
private buyer. And the owner always re-
garded the State as a valuable milch cow, and
thought the business was a resurrection of the
grand old Dunky Gillies railway land-pur-
chase policy ; and so he invariably asked for
his property from two up to eight times its fair
selling value. So the Closer Settlement law
had to be either a swindle or a dead letter—
and the Turner Government decided to let it
be a dead letter. It was the only thing it
could do. As usual, the House of 48 Rich
Landlords, which refused to give powers of
compulsory purchase, is the main cause of the
failure. The Government certainly ought to
make another fight with its gruesome House of
Snags for the adoption of the compulsory-pur-
chase principle at a certain fixed percentage
above the State or municipal tax valuation,
but there is no news of any such movement at
present.
♦ .
That Alleged Simple Outrage.
“F.C.” writes on the other side of the matter ;
“Cockney,” in championing: cash-coupons, seems to
have taken most of his facts for granted and his figures
from his own head. In the first place, seeing that the
Coupon Abolition Bill hadn’t then come before the As-
sembly, that body could hardly have been nobbled to any
extent—at least, there is no evidence to that effect. If
“Cockney” had taken the trouble to read the evidence
given before the Leg. Council’s Committee he would have
learnt that the coupon-system does not increase cash
trading by a brass farthing a year. It simply enables the
trader who has the monopoly of coupon-giving in his
street or district to draw trade from his couponless busi-
ness rivals. The ultimate result of the system must be
that many other coupon companies will spring up and
that every shopkeeper will ultimately be compelled to
give coupons ; which simply means that the customers
and the employes will both’ be sweated to keep another
horde of unprofitable middlemen. Admitting, as ” Cock-
ney ” t.akesforgran ted, that the system is clean and honest,
where does the profit come in? Somebody has to pay
for the keep of this extra and entirely unnecessary gang
of agents. Further, “ Cockney ” remarks that “Parlia-
mentarians have no right to poke their mean provincial
noses (the sneer has the dear, delightful odour of the
Whitechapel slums) into an ordinary transaction. They
have no more right to interfere with the sale of goods to
an ordinary purchaser than they have to pass a Bill for
the suppression of ‘ clearing sales ’ and ‘ alarming sacri-
fices.’ ” It may be news to the native of the “little
village” that Germany for some years now has so inter-
fered, that if the Berlin draper advertises that he is
selling his goods at an “ alarming sacrifice” and at “ less
than cost ” the German Law sees that he does so sell
them. And in any case Parliament has just as much
right to interfere in commercial transactions between
shopkeeper and retail customer as it has to enact
that a man shall only walk down the right side of the
street if there is a good and sufficient reason why he
shouldn’t walk on the left. And the good and
sufficient reason is that the whole system is
sweating pure and simple, and Parliament has
just as much right to suppress this variety of the
noxious animal as any other swindler, robber, or spieler.
If the trader is so exceedingly anxious to encourage cash
trading, let him give discounts for cash ; at present his
choicest consideration is mostly reserved for the credit
customer. But it isn’t cash trading the shopkeeper
hankers after; it is the custom of his business rivals.
And Parliament has just as much right to interfere to
prevent him ruining his neighbor-trader as it has to pre-
vent him picking his pocket,
4.
The Dirtiness of Dives.
Hobart had a municipal election the other day;
that is, to elect three of the nine aldermen the
citizens were asked to go to the same trouble as
they would if the whole batch was elected at
one pop. As Hobart boasts a truly awful
municipal franchise—seven-vote maximum,
and the landlord has a vote for each of
his houses so that the tenant’s vote may be
rendered toothless —the election wasn’t violent-
ly exciting, and the three retiring fossils were
re-elected. Also, the Mayor, who isn’t elected
by popular vote as in Westraliaand Maoriland,
is the same old Mayor over again, and holds
office for the fifth lime. Under these depress-
ing circumstances it isn’t a matter for surprise
that Hobart, though it seeks to get its living as
a health-resort, confesses to more typhoid than
any city of its size and temperature in the
world ; that its principal sewer is an open
drain which slowly stinks its way through the
most crowded portion of the city ; and
that its water supply is wholly inadequate.
Nor is it any wonder that the inhabitants of
this dreary capital are still compelled to store-
up in their back-yards for a week or more
matter which would be a lot better somewhere
else. Certainly, a grand scheme of metro-
politan drainage is under consideration, and
the property-owning citizens are shortly to be
asked to accept it—for their health’s sake.
But, as the water-supply aforesaid is not to be
rendered any less inadequate than at present,
and as no proper estimate of the water required
and available has been made, the drainage
scheme, for all the fossilised aldermen know to
the contrary, may have to be run on the dry-
pipe system instead of on the present antedi-
luvian method. There are some splendid
instances of the dirtiness of Dives in civic
matters throughout Australia; but Hobart,
the city that has most to gain from
cleanliness and attractiveness to summer
visitors, is absolutely the dirtiest and
most unattractive instance of the lot. The
Bulletin loves the Tasmanian climate with the
grateful love of a sun-dried Australian for a cool
spot; it also has a tender regard for the easy-
going Hobart people. But it objects to typhoid,
bad smells and a scarcity of water ; and in a
friendly manner suggests that the citizens take
a day off to seriously contemplate municipal
matters, especially the awful seven-fold fran-
chise, and the dirtiness of Dives.
♦ ±
A Warning !
“I HAD only one glass of liquor, and I don’t
know what happened afterwards.” This state-
ment, so often made in courts of justice, may
pass muster well enough where the subject’s
subsequent condition has been one of actual in-
sensibility, but is received with incredulity, if
not with open derision, when it is known that
the person had, on the occasion in question,
retained apparent possession of all ordinary
faculties. There can be little doubt, however,
that there is often practised an infinitely more
dangerous kind of hocussing, which, while per-
mitting a man to walk and talk and apparently
to take ordinary care of himself, leaves his
memory afterwards a more or less complete
blank as to the period covered by the action of
the deleterious agent. The present writer,
indeed, had his scepticism on the point removed
by a very remarkable personal experience, and
the following statement (sent to The Bulletin
as a caution to the public) speaks for itself :
I was the other day in the inner bar of a prominent
Sydney hotel with a friend, and, as I was seated some
distance from the counter, on which my liquor was stand-
ing, my glass was for a long time concealed from my view
by other persons standing about. I connect this circum-
stance with the fact that when I afterwards drank some
of the liquor I becan immediately' to feel dazed and
dreamy. According to my friend’s account—for here my
memory becomes a blank—he advised me to ’bus it to the
boat as I was voing across the water. This it appears I
did—apparently without anything in my demeanor to
attract special attention ; and having reached the other
side, I found myself seated on a wharf-bench gazing
vacantly about me. Gradually my faculties revived,
nevertheless, without knowing why, I took the next boat
back to Sydney, where I found I had been robbed of
about £2, though the empty purse had been restored
to my pocket. I had probably been followed
by the drugger and robbed on the way ; and
since then I have on two occasions happened, in the
street, across persons (one of them a friend) who, having
been in the same hotel, had come away dazed and had
been relieved of their money—retaining afterwards no
recollection of what happened for some time after taking
a single drink. My' advice to frequenters of city inside-
bars is—never lose sight of your glass !
“ B.B.” to The Bulletin :
Re your remarks on Lambert’s picture, “ Across the
Black-soil Plains,” and its reproduction by an iron-
monger's paper. “ Across the Black-soil Plains ” isil’t a
“great” picture—it’s only a good picture, clever and
faulty. No mere transcript-picture, devoid of imagina-
tion, was ever “great,” in the highest sense; and this
isn’t depreciation, for I admire Lambert's picture in its
way and to its degree, and wish N.S.IV. Gallerv had more
like it. Again, if Lambert had only sold his picture for
IOOd. instead of £lOO he would still have no commercial
right to complain that the purchaser reproduces it. When
you sell all rights, you sell—all rights. Lambert would
have a craftsman’s right to object to the reproduction if
it was an inferior reproduction, and misrepresented! his
picture. As the picture is photographically reproduced
about as well as can be done in Sydney, what is he grpwl-
ing about? The “ ironmonger's” paper ? Well, if I were
Shakespeare, I would be quite content to be given away
with a pound of tea. Shakespeare would improve the
tea; and the tea wouldn’t hurt Shakespeare. There’s
nothing degrading in being an ironmonger : an honest
ironmonger is as good in his way as an honest artist, ; As
Lambert’s work is Australian, and good, the artist should
be glad to let it be known everywhere. Why shouldn’t
the common bush person enjoy it in reproduction if he
can’t see it in original ? “ Ironmonger's puff! ” If j?HE
Bulletin had issued the picture as a journalist’s puff,
would Lambert have howled? How is a journalist better
than an ironmonger, abstractly ? Would the Gallery'; let
a fishing firm reproduce “The Sons of Clovis”? Cer-
tainly, if the Gallery knows its business of disseminating
art and cultivating artistic instincts, and if the reproduc-
tion fairly represents the picture. Better artists than
Lambert draw for advertising-posters.
[Bulletin still thinks Lambert’s grievance a
substantial one. Association counts for a great
deal, and, if Lambert objects to his picture
being introduced to the public per ironmonger’s
advt., his objection is perfectly reasonable.-
Ed. B.]
4.
Dear Bulletin. —The cable last week told us
that the Boer General Burger was much in-
spirited by the arrival at Colenso of six big
guns with German artillery officers to direct
the firing of them. Does it not strike you that
Kaiser William’s recent politeness to Great
Britain—so strangely at variance with his pro-
fessions of love for Kruger at the time of
the Jameson Raid—is intended to soothe
British irritation re the discovery of a strong
German element in this so-called Boer invasion
of British territory ? The full strength of the
German and Hollander forces in Boerland hits
yet to be discovered, also Britain has yet to
learn by what means Kruger became possessed
of all the mighty war material concerning
which his chief disciples have dropped
mysterious hints, and indulged in derisive
smiles at the Outlanders’ expense for some time
past. As far as the war has proceeded up to
now it has been a very German conflict on tlife
so-called Boer side. The first prisoners captured
by Gen. White were German, and in every little
battle fought since Elands Laagte affair, the
presence of German artillerymen has been more
or less apparent. Under the circumstances
England would do well, I’m thinking, to feel
very unfriendly towards the Germans with a
view to a prompt seizure of their youth African
colony as soon as the beaten Boers (if the Boers
ever get beaten) begin to trek thither. Ger-
many, to all intents and purposes, is Great
Britain’s foe in South Africa, and Australia has
sent a Contingent to get slaughtered by Ger-
man-Boers, when she might have done a really
useful stroke, for herself in particular and thei
blessed Hempire at large, by helping to fire the
Germans out of New Guinea and Samoa. When
the history of German intrigue with Kruger
comes to be laid bare, John Bull will look ai
particular fool in having allowed Emperor
William to pose as the friend of Great Britain
for the purpose of pocketing Samoa. And
Australia will look a bigger fool for having par-
ticipated in this Himperial foolishness.—
Jingo. [Latest mail-accounts set down the
Boers’ artillerists as being all Transvaal-born ;
some of them trained in Europe.— Ed. B.]
The N.S.W. newspaper free-postage dodge
is being worked for all it is worth by a “Tem-
perance” paper which turns'out. big editions for
the pill and other medicine men. The advertisers
pay the printer’s bill, and pay the “newspaper ’’
owners a small consideration for the use of their
medium.
Red-Handed.
Lord God, forgive—although our hands be red,
We did but heed the ancient cave-man’s call;
Not here and now, nor on our children’s head,
Let Thy just judgment fall.
This war was England’s war for ill or good,
For loot and plunder, or for human weal,
But we f—what vulture-lust for Burgher blood
Unsheathed our stainless steel?
Was guiltless fame a thing of small account,
That we should give it for such guilty gain ?
This worse than convict-cell and felon-fount,
This worse than cradle-stain.
“ Blood England’s Pups! share shame and victor-
leaf !
The seamless robe of Empire keep apiece ! ”
Should not long leagues, far goals have made us
deaf
To shallow cries like these ?
Share shame and fame—and to the winds with
Truth !
Let Love and Peace in one whirled chaos seethe ;
Blood England’s Pups—aye, spoil them in their
youth,
And edge their unfleshed teeth.
We had a dream—it seems but yesterday—
That dream is dashed—to direst darkness hurled ;
For where our Commonwealth, a virgin lay,
A Wanton fronts the world.
Think what we lost—the forward March of Man,
The ranks of Progress portioned us a place,
Not last, not last, but foremost in the van
With sun-illumined face.
Think what we lost. A music on the wind
Comes fitfully from shining hosts withdrawn.
We might have joined the Heroes of the Mind
And marched elate to Dawn.
Were there no wrongs, no bitter deeds of night
About our Land to keep our hands atoii,
That we must rob poor farmers of their right,
And filch their hard-won soil ?
The arms that yearn to slay might stay to save,
A nobler purpose keep the feet that roam :
For daily bread our kennel-children crave,
Nor know the sweets of home.
That we may miss the doom we have decreed,
Reap not the whirlwind where we sowed the wind,
Our destiny with surer eyesight read
And with saner mind,
Should be our prayer ; and thus another birth
Might make ns worthy of another fame ;
For, truth to tell, the fairest land on earth
Groans under foulest shame.
R.


The impending supersession of Buller,
Methuen, Gataere and Co. in the Transvaal, and
their replacement by Roberts, Kitchener and Co.,
is a nasty knock for the Wolseley gang, and
points towards the disappearance of its head from
the Imperial comm and-in-chief.
The art of compiling a popular music book
is evidently understood by music-sellers Allan
and Co., Melbourne. The magazine issued for
Christmas contains popular and patriotic songs
and pieces such as “Remember Majuba,”“The
Old Tarpaulin Jacket,” “ Sons of the Sea,” for the
piano. You show me your slate,” and mimer-
ous other good items. Published at the low price
of one shilling, it should be secured by everyone.*
thee KTEW POLICY CE>_ET"
Tb? Mot6al Lif« li)SOraix? Co. of NcwYork
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance. UI
For further information apply to Z. C. BENNIE, General Manager for Australasia
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Bakers Rouse
Proprietary
Ltd
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
260 Co ins-st., Melbourne.
. . . THE CELEBRATED . . .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
375 George-street, Sydney.
81 Quekn-st., Brisbane. .65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
The Clyde Engineering Co. ttd.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
BN G-XIST JESS
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Little Red Riding Hood.”
f OYAI ' “The Only Way."
Lyceum «< The Power and the Glory.”
Criterion “ A Tale of the Transvaal.”
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Little Christopher Columbus.”
Alexandra “ Les Cloches de Corneville.”
“ IJOU Rickards’Variety Co.
, semi-military drama of “Current
Cash ’’ is filling in a week at Sydney Criterion till
it is tune to put on the Christmas show. One of
the Sydney dailies remarks that “Current Cash ”
always re appears in time of war, but to The
Bulletin the present re-appearance seems to have
some woefully inopportune features. The trouble
begins in a fort in Afghanistan where the hero, a
captain with £lO,OOO a year of his own, is under
sentence of death on a mistaken charge of coward-
ice. In his last moments he gets his impecunious
major to draw up a will leaving everything to his
wife, and the major, knowing that his client is in
a hurry to keep an appointment with the execu-
tioners and won’t have time to read the document
over carefully before signing, puts himself in as heir,
shortly after the shooting of the captain can be
heard in the wings. Nevertheless that victim
turns up again later on to raise Cain when he
finds that the major has his ,£lO,OOO a year and
that his own wife and daughter are earning a
precarious crust and glass of water by needlework ;
and when the major has seen the captain’s
apparition oftener than his nerves can stand he
blows his brains out. But Afghanistan isn’t a
place that any Briton wants to hear about just
now• ithe things that happened there were too like
the things that are happening at present in Boer-
land —only worse. When the country has as much
as it can think about in the matter of Joubert and
Cronje and Schalk Burger it doesn’t want to be
reminded of Ackbar Khan on top of its other
troubles. Moreover, this isn’t the time for any
drama which casts aspersions on British marks-
manship, and the marksmen in “ Current Cash,”
who failed to execute the captain at 12 paces, must
have been several different kinds of awful. Any
manager who, at a great military crisis, puts on a
drama which represents the British soldier as not
able to hit his own captain at 12 paces is a person
lacking in patriotism and devoid of the noble in-
stincts which make the true hero rush headlong at
kopjes and other real property.
#* # *
“ A Tale of the Transvaal,” which is still
another version of Rider Haggard’s “Jess,” is to
be the Christmas attraction at the Criterion.
Considering that “ Jess ” is rather aged now, and
that it is also an ill-timed digging-up of unpleasant
memories, the management’s judgment seems
doubtful in this matter. When the British are
having a rather rough time on the Drakenberg
ranges in ’99, and a manager proceeds to brighten
up the cheery Christmas season by reminding
them that they had another bad time there in ’Bl,
it seems like needlessly rubbing it in.
** * *
J. C. Williamson, who is now the Firm All
by himself, will have two shows in Sydney for the
Christmas season, and will therefore he the chief
contributor to the gaiety of the city at this
period. The Theatre Royal, greatly altered and
improved, re-opens under his management on
Saturday with “The Only Way,” which is
Dickens’s “ Tale of Two Cities ’’ fitted with a new
and not too prepossessing title. Her Majesty’s
re-opening is fixed for Boxing Night, when “ Red'
Riding Hood " is to blaze forth in a glory that ;
will make her memorable among pantomimes. By
thus judiciously distributing himself, \\ iiliamson
will have two great first nights instead of one ;
and if all the reports of the lavish expenditure .on
“Red Riding Hood” are true, lie wants all the
first-night he can get to bring hack the money
he has laid out.
** * *
»linny Sheridan’s Lyceum season has
closed, and that affable little man goes on to
Melbourne for Christmas. Holloway’s other
company, including these two favorites, John
Saunders and Miss Dora Winton, comes back to
Sydney in its place. It is due on Saturday (23rd)
when it proposes to play “The Power and the
Glory,” a production which has earned many large
and confused opinions in the Victorian capital,
and caused many critics to go away full of admira-
tion or something. Anyhow, they were very full of
the thing whatever it was. “ The P. and the G.”
is described as a “ production of gigantic magni-
tude,” and it is by the author of “ When London
Sleeps,” which should be a guarantee that the
magnitude is all right.
** * *
The most pleasant features at Sydney
Palace just now are the “Broken Playthings”
and “ Old Turnkey ” songs by Wallace King and
Arthur Hahn respectively. They are altogether
delightful, and the tired Tivolian can lean back
and, closing his eyes, ignore the beautiful hat of
the lady in front and have his pleasure just the
same. The first appearance of “ Zenda’s King,”
Mr. Harry C. Cashman, was peculiar. A tall,
clean-shaven Irishman stalked on to the stage and
ignored the people. One fully expected him to
exclaim “I am Nero Caesar,” or make some other
dramatic remark. Instead of which he opened
his mouth without warning and fired off a coon
song abou t a man who certainly was good to him.
Then he vanished amid a dead, heavy silence that
would have broken the back of an elephant.
Reappearing l as suddenly he opened fire with
a song about a man who had hit him
* n ? n ? behind with a brick, and declared the
caitiff must have been an Irishman, and that
b e wanted that man. When he ceased and
walked off, one person „ clapped loudly, but
rrH himself badly supported he collapsed.
Ihe Zenda King’s ” songs were not badly sung,
but they were chestnuts, and the Roman style of
• 6 i ,Paralysed the audience. Two little
girls billed as the Smith Sisters —one of them is a
very tiny little girl—are good items. Tom Cos-
tello is in his last week; also Spry and Austin,
Alma Grey and several others. On Saturday
the JXewsky Family of allegedly Russian per-
formers will make their first apnearance, and con-
tmue for the Xmas season.
** * *
The outbreak of small shows in old dead-
and-gone Sydney theatres and halls, which usuallv
accompanies the holiday season, looks like being
less virulent than usual this year. Miss Maud
MacCarthy gives a farewell violin recital at the
Centenary Hall on the 27th. But, then, Maud
isn t one of the hack shows of Christmas time, so
sne shouldn t have been in this paragraph.
Charles I aning proposes to hang out his burnt-
cork banner at the Temperance Hall of all
places in the world, and some kind of war
spectacle is threatening at the old Opera House.
Concerning, some other alleged theatres and a
hall, the writer is glad to say that he hasn’t heard
ot any intended Xmas occupants up to date, and
he devoutly trusts things will remain so. The
annual uprising of Poverty Point, and its brief
annual struggle to pay the gas-bill, and to look
again as it did when it last played “Hamlet”
4o years ago, are heart-breaking circumstances,
an ia 1 ver * ; y Point could be accommodated with
an uid Age Pension all round, and the mouldered
theatres where it usually breaks out at Christmas
time could be unanimously burnt down, it would
be advantageous for all parties.
The last Saturday night of the old Firm’s
reign at Melbourne Princess’s was suitably cele-
brated by a huge, fashionable benefit for the Dis-
tressed Actors' r und, concluding with a presen ta-
tioh ot silver goods to manager Williamson and a
mud outbreak of “God Save the Queen.” It was
one memorable occasions when the weary
pressman who provides the insatiable actor with a
is cabled upon to pay ten shillings for
his trouble and two “bob” for the programme,
and goes away feeling that it was a blue-letter
night in ms career. The benefit-show that ended
ie old r inn s connection with the Princess’s
1 heatre didn t appeal to the hearts of the theatre’s
old patrons. First item on the bill was the
belated arrival of Lord Brassev, after which
came a selection of scenes from “The Chris-
tian for the first time in Melbourne^—a mere
advt. performance, wherein Miss Henrietta
Wa.tson let down her back-hair and simulated a
desire for the kiss of a crazy hot-gospeller.
r'* 1 ®h r ess circle, in particular, was carried away
by Miss Watson’s superficial fury ; also the new-
comer, Thos. Kingston, got profuse approbation
tor a not very striking performance of the name-
part, it seemed to the present scribe that the
actor hadn t enough personality for the character,
l he Brough eo. gave the third act of “The Liars,”
after which came “Kerry,” with J. C. Williamson
to the fore as the aged Hibernian, and Miss
Watson, Cecil Ward, and bright Miss Rose Mus-
ln,t le mi ddle distance. Williamson had been
on the stage for eight years, and his playing was
certainly not up to his best form ; all the same he
scored a good octogenarian Kerry, of the hard,
creaky type. When the disguised manager had
gathered in some laurel tributes and gone away to
wash his face, the stage was invaded by the
Mayor and other representative cits., who partook
o, free prinks in sight of the audience, whilst
1 Darry Rickards and Whitburn warbled as of yore.
Also Barker sang “Soldiers of the Queen,” but a
■deadly rumor re Bulier’s forces had found its way
around the house, and the chorus was awfully
deficient in true British pluck.
3** * *
Melbourne Royal will have lost the run of
_our Guardian Angel” ere this, consequently The
Bulletin- is not bound to pass an opinion oh that
short-lived horror. “ 0.G.A.” turned out to be a
rather nautical drama with some light brown
m? veB .,?'- deep blu ? oc, ean in the proceedings,
lhe villain was captain of a vessel for a time, and
AhvT°n? ht fc ? kill cal, in boy by permitting J. P
®l 11 J *° SUl §^ S , onsof the Sea <” but the child
didn t die, and if there were any casualties among
the audience it served them right for not hoistin®
a nag of truce before the songster fired off his
second verse.
* * * *
On Saturday (23rd) “ Little Christopher
Columbus will shake up the situation at Melb
Royal. The return of John F. Sheridan to his
old haunt has always been a cheerful event and
the promise of a larger chorus and a ballet to sup-
port him in the present instance, is hailed with a
certain amount of joy. Melbourne is not taking
much joy this Xmas. °
** * *
The Bijou bill is to be largely recon-
structed for the festive season. G. W. Hunter
little Fanny Powers, and several other items are
disappearing this week, also the first part is to
get a new background. The Macarte Sisters
however, will maintain their plump perpendiculars
on the slack wire until further notice.
** * *
As already notified, the irrepressible Yic.
Operatic Society has formed a conspiracy for pro
during “Cloches de Comeville ” at the Alexandra
on Boxing Night and a dozen nights thereafter.
Ihe co. includes the names of several people who
can sing sweetly enough and hold themselves
together m the hour of need. Conductor Han-
stein is a capable enthusiast, and the chorus will
march into action GO strong ; therefore with the
lor j °T^^ () * v J r l? nce and t^le Patronage of John
Madden, R.C.M.G., the time-worn opera ought to
fall in its time comfortably.
** * *
Melbourne Princess’s for the last few
weeks was the subject of a new rutnot every day
and none of the rumors seems to have had ahy
solid foundation in fact. Australia’s champion
theatre will be closed during the Xmas holidays,
for aught that The Bulletin knows to the con-
trary, Louis Lohr has secured a short lease of it
tor a Charles Arnold season beginning on Easter
Saturday or Monday, when “What Happened to
Jones will be staged. J. C. Williamson is said
to have been m treaty for an Easter lease, with a
production of “ The Christian ” in view, no doubt.
Probably he will stage “The Christian” at the
old Royal, by arrangement with Holloway and
Spired 00 ’ ° r a^er and A * ’ s curren t lease has
** * *
Melbourne’s musical critics had the im-
pudence to snort at the local populace for staying
away from Maud MacCarthy’s concerts. The
truth of the matter was that the critics got a pain
m their yamt.y when they discovered that all their
U MauadM. s really excellent performances
couldn t persuade the public to take her seriously.
Melbourne had been “had” by the same critics
over Amy Castles singing, and Melbourne (like
oydney) mode up its mind that she couldn’t fiddle
any more miraculously than little Amy could
h t/ T 1 fc J e lucl s that fell to the lot of the
boosted Bendigo damsel, seven months ago, Maud
Macarthy would have earned £lO,OOO by an Aus-
tralian tour. As it was, she suffered for the
fraudulency of the Castles Boom, and she goes
uac n bted”H J Z“pSi Ull ° f 0< ”““" Pt '° r
ii/r Th i e newspapers state that
16 wf ai< ? - Weet thmgs abont Am y Castles’s
1 r VhICI It anyway > < t uite a different thing
from believing that the new pupil has all the quali-
fications essential to brilliant success in the future,
it Miss Amy joins the Marehesi school, she will
be singing within earshot of several other Aus-
tralian girls, who have no idea of taking to the
operatic stage, and their reports on her progress
hence be W ° rth collsldoration —twelve months
Recommended to the consideration of Rev.
r“7 ne Dunstan ’ , the : Rabbi, and other flat-
footed parsons who We come out in warpaint
over the contingent: May-not the British reverses
lice bY the ° f Battles of the J«B-
-tme of the Boer cause? The Boers prayed for
success for their side, and Dunstan and the Rabbi
and the rest of them, prayed for success for the
b / I1 P e . r ' al I s,de ’ Wlth tl ‘e betting at about stol on
that the latter would be successful anyhow—with
prayers or without. And, contrary to all reason-
able expectations, the British side has not so far
been successful. The scattering of the Armada
and the easy landing of William 111. are
freely attributed by English historians to Divine
interposition, while the Rabbi must remember
a lot of instances which the present writer has
forgotten, in which miracles occurred in the
interests of his own people. Have the English
and the Jews a monopoly of Heaven’s favors, as
well As of money to invest on good security, or has
an outcast Boer a show? If he has then the
theological accomplices in the South African steal,
having prayed for victory, are in this hole.
( ar Praying was an empty ceremony out
of which they didn't think anything would come,
tn ill t 7 f' r r f a y c th ', n p d was a serious appeal
to the Just Judge of all the World, then, as it has
been answered against them, they stand con-
demned on their own showing, of participating
W a rob lt ry condemned by the Most High
Whether these gentlemanly accessories before the
tact are hypocrites, or only freebooters upon the
higher scale, it is for them to say.
It is a thing to be rejoiced over from one
standpoint that there were no Australian troops
engaged at Magersfontein or the Tugela, or that if
they were all reference to their doings has been
ruthlessly suppressed in favor of the official dis-
patch. The irrelevant blather about the accident
to Troop-sergeant Kennedy’s horse has conse-
quently been cut right off, and the stern details
of the battles stand forth in all their naked im-
pressiveness. The British generals are owning up
where they are defeated, like men, and when the
war-correspondent is rigorously held down the
supply of plam-and-fancy lying which has orna-
mented this war all along, and which is usually
held especially necessary to explain away defeat,
drops right off. Strange that the functions of
the public and the private newsmonger should
be thus oddly interchanged ; that the truth
should come from official sources, and the indis-
criminate perjury from the free-lances. It is so
however, and in these two battles there has been
a complete absence of the spicy details which gave
such a relish to earlier ones—no Boer “ treachery ”
no display of white flags, no firing on hospitals,
and no brutality to prisoners. On the con-
trary one General—Methuen—goes out of his
way to declare that they are “most kind ” to the
wounded. Perhaps after this temporary failure
of the outside producers, local purveyors of war
lies will give this particular branch of their indus-
try a good long rest. It needs it.
At Poverty Point.
London critics Speak well of Charles Donaldson, who
lately pave a series Of Shakespeare and Dickens recitals
at the torty Steimvay Hall. Said “ Donaldson ”is Dr
C. D. Law, Son of the pen era I manager of the Bank of
Victoria. As a boy of lft, he won a first prize for recitin»
at the Melb. Juvenile Exhibition (that was in ’B7), but in
his medical student days young Law let his histrionic
talent life fallow. For the last year or two he has prac-
tised as a doctor at Inverness, and seems to have mean-
while worked tip a reputation in the Locke Richardson
line of entertamment. Anyway, a syndicate of admirers
ran Charles Donaldson ”at the Steimvay Hall, other-
wise the modest amateur wouldn’t have ventured to five
a one-man show that lasts hours.
Miss Frances Ross, a pretty and talented woman, with
the best-fitting and most consistent.ly-beautiful feminine
clothes on the Australian stage, has become leading lady
in Bland Holt’s co. It isn’t so very long since Miss Ross
by reason of the cheap, red awfulness of the dramas with
which she was connected, was known in Maorilandbv the
name of “ Frantic Rot.” This is mentioned not bv wav
of being disrespectful to an unprotected female, but only
to show that she has climbed a considerable distance
since then.
‘‘ Yarra ” : Pinero soaked himself in Dickens to produce
Trelavvney of the Wells.” The pesky old Vice-Chan-
cellor of the second act is simply Scrooge, in his unre;
generate days, and Brough was never more successful in
giving the exterior and bones and bowels of a character
The same party in the later acts is Scrooge converted bV
bad dreams, and filled to the chin with “ Crishmish ” and
goodwill to men. Tom Wrench is Nicholas Nicklebv and
the rest of the theatrical folk used by Pinero were asso-
ciated with Nickleby in the famous company that pos-
sessed the infant prodigy and the immortal puhib The
comedy is ruined by a last act so inconsequential that
one carries away recollections of a pale curate rising un
among the ruins of post-picnic buns and pastry and
inviting everything- to terminate with prayer. ’
University man’s idea of proportion : Alma Mates
(Melb, alleged literary organ) oil “ lolanthe “The sing-
mg in “ lolanthe ” is a contrast to that of the “ Geisha ”
to the disadvantage of the former. The fault dofes not lie
with the compose!-, but we miss the freedom of swing and
If® the want of rhythm which so charmed in the
Geisha. The Alma Mater critic would probably com-
pare a solo from “Faust,” with “ O, the Circus Girl I
m liccadilly”! to the advantage of the latter,
nothing in “Faust" can compare with Tom Costello’s
tunes for freedom of swing."
Haresfoot, ’ M. Huret’s Life of Sarah Bernhardt, states
that Sarah was the eleventh child of fourteen bv the
same parents Mrs. Kendal was the twenty-fourth, and
youngest child of the same parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Robertson. Such facts upset theories about the
superiority of elder children.
The recent-deceased H. N. Abbott, of Auckland, was at
one time the Maoriland “ Tattersall,” and built Auckland
Opera House out of bis sweep profits. He will be missed
by many barn storming managers and tragedians, for he
was ever ready to advance passages to any co. which had
the ghost of a show of success; said advance, however
being always religiously deducted from first takings.
Carlyle Smythe is recovering slowly from the bad acci-
dent by which he burned both hands, through a benzine
explosion some months ago. He has lost the joints of
his thumbs, and has had to have skin grafted on to his
arms and hands, but is otherwise in grood Health.
Clara Butt, the only rival of our Ada Crossley as acon-
tralto in England, evidently hug a sense of huinor. Ben
Davies, the fat tenor, has a photograph of heron which
she has written : “ To the broadest of his kind, from the
longest of her sex.” Clara Butt stands nearly six foot
high.
When Mr. Billy Elton, comedian, was last in Australia
ne borrowed £l7O from Miss Lilian Kelso, described as an
Australian lady of the theatrical profession.” She drew
the money out of her little hoard in Sydney Savings
Bank. Elton did not pay her back, and she had to sue
him in the English Court. She ?ot a verdict. The
case is reported in London Daily News of Nov. 10. Elton
came out on that occasion with the hapless Arthur Dacre
and his wife. It was a disastrous tour for evervone con-
cerned. J
Dear Bulletin. -Re late “Dante the Great,” your
recent par. erred in stating that he was a Mormon. He
did not hold Mormon beliefs, though he was a native of
Salt Lake City.—G.
The manager^ l bushwhacker is passing hence together
with his little bit of faded scenery and the old battered
hat-box. Williamson and Musgrove began to hustle the
old-time travelling company that invariably went nap on
East Lynne,” by taking “The Sign of the Cross,”
Royal Divorce,” and “Piisoner of Zenda ” into the
provincial towns. Now Harry Plimmer and George
P. Carey, both of them well - known and popular
actors, are going to hustle the peripatetic Thespian
still further out of joint by taking out “The Village
Priest ” “Niobe,” and “The Second Mrs. Tanquerav,”
with the assistance and approval of Robert Brough, who
not only handed over these pieces, but supervised the
cast of characters and the rehearsing. Carey will play
the Abbfe in “The Village Priest”; Plimmer, Armand
D Arcay ; Miss Florence Seymour, the Comtesse ; Mrs.
Walter Hill, the blind Madame D’Arcav; ami J. Ashton
King, Jean Torquenie. In “Niobe,” Miss Seymour will
be the Statue, and Carey the Peter Amos Dunn Miss
Seymour will, by request of Brough himself, plav Paula,
and Plimmer Aubrey Tanqueray, whilst Carev will be the
Cayle Drummle (Boucicault’s pet part); Miss Therese
Lindahl, Ellean ; and Miss Josephine Thvnne, Lady
Orreyed. When “The Village Priest” and'“Mrs. Taii-
queray get into the backblocks, old “ East Lynne” will
crawl through the first hedge and die.
THE BOER WAR.
Old England rules the bounding waves ;
Her sons—the bold and free—
Their naval strength still show on land,
By proving “all at sea.’’


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Oem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
p or Prices S. ZOELNETt,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
q Smoke the Latest $>
kjksi VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR I/-
£2
C /GAJ%&
Partnership offered in well-established mining
and metallurgical business. Good opening for a com-
petent man with a moderate capital. Apply bv letter to
\V. R. Vale, Solicitor, St. James’ Buildings, William-st.,
Melbourne.*
• • * *
Scottish Critic, September, 1899 : “Tim most
striking feature noticeable in the accounts of the Colonial
Mutual"for the past few years, and especially for the past
twelve months, is the degree of stability which has been
attained by the Society.”#
* * * *
The Wilfley Concentrator, lately introduced to
Australia by the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., is
meeting with much success, users describing it as by far
the best machine of the day, and the co. it kept, busily en-
gaged in turning out machines to keep pace with orders.
The range of adjustment to suit various classes of ores is
such that the machines are being successfully used on tin,
copper, silver and gold ores, and the machines are now
working in all the colonies. The Central Silver Mine,
Broken Hill, after consideration of all existing plants and
careful experiments, have finally adopted them, and are
now putting them in.*
* • * *
The contract entered into last year by Mephan
Ferguson for the supply of his patent rivetless or locking-
bar pipes to ..the South Australian Government having
been completed, Mr. Ferguson is now removing portion
of the Adelaide machinery to Western Australia, m order
to increase the output of pipes for his Coolgardie Water
Supply contract. He is at present delivering about 400
tons of pipes per week, but expects to more than double
this quantity when the additional plant is started. Mr.
Ferguson has just left for London by the Orient steamer
Oruba to arrange with the manufacturers for larger de-
liveries of plates and bars.*
* • * *
The Oonah Silver Mine, Zeehan, is once more
on the dividend list. During the past 12 months 1616 tons
of marketable ore and concentrates have been sold to the
Hamburg Metal Company realising £20,900. This mine
possesses a “ Luhrig” dressing plant which does excellent
work and enables ore of low grade to become a valuable
marketable product. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 506
Little Collins-street, Melbourne, agents for the Luhrig
appliances, were the
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; a’ so
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be.subjeet to inspection.*
* * * *
Brookman’s Donnybrook and Peak Hill Devel-
opment, W.A. “Am certain Ponnvbrook’s another
Hannan’s. Jackson’s latest development shows better
stone than met with at shallow levels Boulder and Lake
View.” You don’t sav ! They are only 350 miles apart.
Who says this, by the way? Surely not Captain Oats.
If so, it had better be taken with a little chaff. Writer
remembers some leases in the Lefroy district owned by a
Brookman Exploration Co. being all compared with the
Boulder. They have long since been abandoned and the
co. gone to the devil or the liquidator.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
m
E/tONT SECTION.
Saves one-third of the coal, and does 25 per cent, more of
better work. Protected by patents everywhere. Write
o W. DEWHIRST, Broughton Lane, Sydney, Mr par*
iculara and list of agents.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Premier Lyne presented, along with his
financial statement a document signed by the Auditor-
General in which that independent financial authority—
the last court of appeal on N.S.W. public finance —
certified that the Reid Government’s revenue from 31st
December, 1894, to 30th June, 1899, was £43,490,367 ; its
expenditure £44,256,822 ; and its deficit £766,455. Con-
sidering how Reid has always bragged about his alleged
surpluses, this is about the worst case of getting the lie
direct that could be imagined. Probably the greatest
part of the difference between this and Reid’s own
accounts lies in that cheap dodger’s great device for fak-
ing the interest on the public debt. A large amount has
to be paid in interest on Ist July. It has to be deposited
with the Bank of England about the middle of June, so
N.S.W. pays away the money in June, and a considerable
time before the end of the financial year which closes on
June 30. Also, the money is interest for the half-year
from January to June, so it is all due before the financial
year closes. But Reid struck the brilliant idea of not
charging himself with the amount till July so as to put
it into next financial year. Of course that made the
alleged cash on hand when the year closed on 30th June
much larger than it really was —also, that alleged cash
was a swindle, for a great part of it wasn’t on hand but
had passed out of the Treasurer’s custody altogether, and
was held in trust by the Bank of England for the public
creditor. But a little thing like that didn’t trouble the
great N.S.W. financier.
* * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania closed its half-
year on 30th November, 1899, with earnings of £4578,
which is the best return since 1894, as shown by the
following list of profits :
November, 1892 .. £5382 November, 1896 .. £3534
May, 1893 .. 4776 May, 1897 .. 4012
November, 1893 .. 4701 November, 1897 .. 4127
May, 1894 .. 4618 May, 1898 ~ 4129
November, 1894 .. 4695 November, 1898 .. 4516
May, 1595 .. 3959 May, 1899 .. 4459
November, 1895 .. 4136 November, 1899 .. 4578
May, 1896 .. 4299
A dividend at 5 per cent, per annum (£3801) and
dividend tax (£190) absorb £3991. The other £587 added
to £2863 from last year, leaves £3450 to carry forward.
The earnings are equal to £5 4s. lid. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £152,040; reserve,
£22,500), and the figures look prosperous enough; the
only' visible weak points about the National Bank of
Tasmania are its miserably small reserve, and the fact that
the management has no apparent ambition to make it
any larger. It ought at all events to transfer £3OOO of
the profit balance to reserve, lest a sudden desire to get
back to the old 8 per cent, dividend should seize upon it,
and it should “ blew ” that little accumulation accord-
ingly’. The business shows an improvement in every
department, and the available cash (£141,559) is equal to
29 per cent, of all liabilities to the public. The National
has no second line of defence in the shape of a holding of
State securities ; if it had such a reserve to the extent of
£30,000 or so it could safely keep its pile of unprofitable
coin a good deal lower than this.
* . m m *
Dalgety and Co. —almost the only big pastoral
concern which proved impervious to the bad times—closed
its financial year on 30th June, 1899, with slightly 7 in-
creased profits and the usual dividend. The condensed
record of the last eight years has been as follows :
Profit. Dividend.
1892 .. £80,979 .. 8 per cent. = £BO,OOO
1893 .. . 79,553 .. „ = 80,000
1894 .. 80,9! 3 .. „ = 80,000
1895 .. 83,896 .. „ = 80,000
1896 .. 83,672 .. „ = 80,000
1897 .. 83.002 .. „ = 80,000
1898 .. 83,571 .. „ = 80,000
1899 .. 85,538 .. „ = 80,000
£661,124 £640,000
Dalget.y and Co. have therefore improved £21,124 in eight
years. Of course, it is impossible to imagine that the
earnings really maintain such a deadly sameness in good
years and bad, dry years and wet, years of high
wool prices and years when wool was low; presum-
ably' depreciation is being- provided for, when there is
a decent balance over and above the dividend. Dalgety’s
isn’t so topheavy in the matter of balancing a very big
debt on a very small capital as other concerns in the
same line, thou rh its borrowings are tolerably extensive.
Shareholders’ funds are ! 1,155,976 (paid-up capital
£1,000,000 ; reserve 1 130,000, and profit balance £25,976) ;
while money borrowed on debentures is £2,535,035, and
other liabilities are about £1,328,000. The debenture
debt is being reduced ; still, if the shareholders were
content with 6 percent, and devoted the fraction thus
saved to a further reduction of the debenture liability, it
would probably be very much better for the concern in
the long run. On paper, at all events, hardly- any further
provision is being made for the future, and most com-
panies have a future. Also, there are more had futures
than good ones. When Dalgety and Co.’s reserve, is
£1,000,000 instead of £130,000 then the policy of paying
awav practically all the profits will be justifiable.
+ * * *
The Derwent and Tamar Fire, Life and Marine
Assurance Co., of Hobart (Tasmania), presents its 61st
annual balance-sheet for the year ended 31st October,
1899. It is the oldest assurance concern in Australasia
and one of the soundest, but its early career is mostly a
mystery. For 57 years it followed the ancient English
custom of keeping its accounts strictly dark from the
public, and it is only about four years ago that it began
to expose the amount of its profits to the ribald ey-e of
.criticism. The results for these four years are :
Profit. Dividend and Div.-tax.
Blst October, 1896 £8175 15 per cent. = £7875
„ 1897 £8482 7£ „ = £3937
Loss.
„ 1898 £10,780 6 „ £2625
Profit.
„ 1899 £8259 10 „ = £5260
£14,136 £19,687
Owing to the great Melbourne fire of some time ago the
last four years haven’t been very profitable in the aggre-
gate. and dividends have exceeded profits by £6551. It
will take a good while to make this good, especially as the
management has put up the dividend again in such haste
to 10 per cent. The Derwent and Tamar has £50,000
paid-up capital, £50,000 reserve fund, and £BBOB profit
balance —total shareholders’ funds, £lOB,BOB ; and all this
for the better security of a business which, after 61 years,
onl.v producesapremium income of £20,373. The old Hobart
co. has never rushed after business in a hot, undignified
way, or tried to spread itself all over the earth—hence its
prosperity. Its funds are carefully invested, and are
overhauled and depreciation written off annually.
Whether the Derwent and Tamar ever did any life busi-
ness the writer can’t find out, but it calls itself a life co.,
among other things. And it is the only insurance co. in
Australasia which puts “E. & 0.E.” on its balance-sheet —
whereby it shows a refreshing desire to stick to the truth
quite unknown on the mainland.
* * * *
That great and unfortunate concern, the Kauri
Timber Co. (Melbourne), has at last resumed dividends in
a small way. Some of its recent doings have been :
1892 .. Loss £7070 1896 .. Profit £22,972
1893 .. „ 16,403 1897 .. „ 27,247
1894 .. „ 28,353 1898 .. „ 30,327
1895 .. „ 3,603 1899 .. „ 30,804
In 1895 the accumulated trading losses were £63,824. In
1897 the loss was reduced to £13,605, and just about here
the co. got tired and wrote this balance and a lot of depre-
ciation and bad debts off capital. The total sum written-
off was £210,000, reducing the paid-up capital from
£795,000 to £585,000. In 1898 and 1599 the co. built up
an accumulated trading profit, on paper, of £61,131. A
2j per cent, dividend for 1899 (which isn’t much of a divi-
dend after such long waiting) absorbs £14,625 of this, and
the balance of £46,506 is carried forward. These figures
wouldn’t be hopelessly bad if the profit was all real, but it
isn’t quite half real. In the first place, the co. has among
its alleged assets £252,294 which are purely paper, and to
put things on an absolutely sound basis these (equal to
nearly half the remaining capital) need to be written off.
“ Debenture expenses account, £23,375,” is the smallest
part of the trouble; the rest is “ accumulated assets
depreciation, being for timber cut off company’s land since
formation of co. and consequently not represented by
assets, £'228,919.” The co.’s largest asset is its forests,
but as it cuts them down the asset depreciates, and no
allow r ance is made out of profits for the ever-growing bald
spot. This item of depreciation has increased by £31,417
in the past two years, and it should certainly have been
w'ritten off the alleged profits of these years, thus reduc-
ing them 'from £61,131 to £29,714 —equal to just about
2£ per cent, per annum on the reduced capital. The real
profits for 1898 were only £15,128, and for 1899 £14,586,
and there were similar discrepancies in previous years.
As matters stand, the co. is to a very large extent
living on its capital and calling it profit; and
it has been doing- so till a huge proportion of
the shareholders’ funds are lost. The wisest course
now would be to write off the £46,506 nominally remaining
at credit of profit and loss after paying the wholly un-
justifiable dividend, the £55,336 insurance funds, and
£150,452 more capital, and thus provide for the iosses
and paper assets : then start new insurance funds and
write off future depreciation as the co. goes along—if it
does go along. The present situa*ion is anomalous.
• • * *
The Swan Brewery Co. (Perth, W.A.) still
shows excellent profits, but the glory of the boom has de-
parted to a great extent. It isn’t a diamond mine now-
only a good, solid, respectable brewery. Some recent
profits are as follows :
September, 1896 £7564 September, 1898 £13,171
March, 1897 . £22,038 March, 1899 .. £17,709
September, 1897 £15,784 September, 1899 £9762
March, 1898 .. £24,048
A dividend at the rate of 16 per cent, per annum absorbs
£6087, and as it is found necessary to tranfer £5OOO to the
fund for depreciation and trade losses in order to make
up for amounts written off during the half-year the
balance at credit of profit and loss is reduced from
£13,438 to £12,113. As a ' matter. of strict fact
the Swan Brewery Co. didn’t earn its 16 per cent,
dividend, and had no right to pay any such
figure. The trade profits were £9762, and the losses
written off depreciation account during the half-year
were £4717, so (he actual net, earnings were only £5045,
or a little over 13 per cent. The: Swan Brejvery Co. has
been a somewhat reckless concern at times in the matter
of dividends, and such things as 34 per cent, were quite
common with it in its best days. Still, it has done
remarkablv well. No less than £31,703 of. its paid-up
capital (£76,087) is capitalised profits, it has various
reserves amounting to over £45,000, and even on its
reduced profits it is prospering. The only visible danger
is that there may be another reduction of profits, like
the last. Another such reduction would leave no profits
at all.
» * * *
According to the last-issued monthly list of
share prices, the 8.11. Water Supply gives a higher rate
of interest than any other investment stock quoted in
Sydney; it paid Hi per cent, on then current prices. Even
the Siiverton Tram pays only S\ per cent. But the Water
Supply has a comparatively short life ahead of it; it
must yield up its works without compensation in about
17 years. Besides, there are serious doubts whether ex-
tremely heavy calls will not be made upon the co. within
the next few years for removing silt from the dam and
replacing eaten out mains. The local (Broken . Hill)
Municipal Council has just sent off its Mayor empowered
to raise i 300,900, if he can, for the purchase of the co.’s
business; and, if the Mayor can get the Govt, to
guar intee the loan, the co. is not like 1 v to put any lions
in the path leading to the completion of the bargain. The
co. has 186,500 shares issued, and at p es nt market price
these are worth just under £250,000. The Govt., how-
ever, is not likely to guarantee even that much without,
making a more careful examination of the works than the
local Council has so far thought necessary - in fact, it has
not thought any examination at all necessary.
• • • •
Despite the much-reduced minting charges in
Westralia, local co.s and banks continue to send their
bullion either to London or to Melbourne. In August the
new’Perth Mint received 42,3220 z of the total yield of
145,3970 z. ;in September, 28,9980 z. out of 167,0000 z. ; and
in October (during part of which the reductions were
operating), 26,7160 z. out of 205,0000 z. The machinery is
capable of minting 275,C000z. a month. A strong crowd
in the Assembly—almost, if not quite a majority—is will-
ing to squeeze the banks and foreign co.s into using the
local elephant by means of an export tax of 2s, 6d. per oz.,
and the Govt.’ has been by resolution rtf the House
instructed to “take steps.” The fact ik, ’Groperdom
wants to make a profit out of the minting, whereas the
London Mint does the work for nothing, and even the
Melbourne Mint wmrks at a loss. J. Bull makes up his
little shortage by the highly-profitahle silver and bronze
minting ; but he keeps that strictly as his own perks—
the crimson thread isn’t so elastic as to allow him to
share perks.
r * * * »
The Junction is the champion in-and-out goer
of Broken Hill. After half-a-dozen spurts under half-a-
dozen managers, Capt. Joel Phillips took charge nine
vears ago. The pav-sheet had got down to £3O a week.
Later on Phillips and the “assistant manager” manned
the mine. There came a crisis, w'hen the problem before
the directors w’as—Shall we sell the horse and dray?
Something desperate had to be done. They got into a
bulge of ore, however, and the horse and dray were
saved, and in a couple of years the mine paid £BO,OOO or
so in divs. Next, the collapse came—and the directors
had to borrow £lO,OOO to help them out of the mess.
With the ending of the disastrous agreement for the sup-
ply of ore to a S. Australian co. (the last shipment vvas;
made some weeks ago) the co. at. last gets its head
out of the mess. The pay-sheet now is over £2OOO a week.
Capt. Phillips left the mine at of Nov.
The reports of the British Broken-hill for the
half-year to June 30 are only just out—and there is not
much that is new in them. As long ago cabled, the profit
and loss account showed for the six months a profit of
£28,430 ; this is after making an allowance of £lB6l for
depreciation. At the end of the half-year the co. had
liquid assets worth £44,028 (including £13,232 cash and
£14,344 sundry debtors), and it owed £6892 ; its surplus
w’as thus £38,136. Its lead output contained in concen-
trates is about 950 tons a month, of which probably 85 per
cent, is recoverable; and last half an average of 650 tons
of carbonate of lead ore was sent away monthly—say 150
tons more lead. As lead has jumped up £3 per ton during
the last few months the co.’s profits ought now to be
£l4OO or 60 a week. There are 300,000 shares —240,000
ordinaries and 60,000 privileged, both now fully paid and
ranking equally for divs.
* * * *
Mt. Drysdale, N.S.W. : Manager wired last
week that another sensational development had taken
place ; spoke of lumps of metallic gold showing in the
face, that assays taken during 24 hours averaged lOOoz. to
the ton exclusive of said lumps of gold. Shares rose from
6s. to 10s. What they would have gone to but for the
old experience of the mine can be imagined. Stated that
the directors have been out from Cobar and have con-
firmed all the good things said by the manager, so the
shares may reasonably be expected to reach par as soon
as some reasonable tonnage has been exposed.
* . * .
Cobar-Chesney : Provis, formerly of Dry Creek
Smelting Works, and for the last three or four years man-
ager of the Western Silver-Lead concentrating mine,
Zeehan, has taken ihe management at a big salary. By
the cheap, effective concentration of Western low-grade
silver-lead ores, Provis, without a call, paid £lOO,OOO in
divs. He now takes hold of a mine with an enormous
lode of 3 and 4 per cent, copper, and if concentration can
be done without appreciable loss, he will make another
name for himself. If copper maintains its present price,
the mine, on present appearances, should become a con-
sistent div.-payer.
♦ * * *
Gilgunnia, N.S.W.—The Day Dream has
crushed 85 tons for 603 oz. gold, and the camp “ has re-
ceived a great impetus.” It is long since Gilgunnia got
any impetus.
Garibaldi, N.S.W., is to the fore again after a
long silence. The discovery of an antimony lode sft.
thick carrying 60 per cent, of antimony is reported.
Experience at Hillgrove and elsewhere has shown that
when an antimony lode is sft. thick it is soon as many
inches. Nothing in the world more irregular than anti-
mony lodes.
* * » *
Hillgrove, N.S.W. Another effort made to run
the batteries by electric power generated miles away.
An intermittent water-supply caused failure some years
ago. This has been overcome by building a big dam.
Wood being s-a -ce and dear the scheme may now pay,
but the Hillgrove mines are too poor to hope for any sen-
sational success.
* » * *
Wentworth Mines, N.S.W. The striking of a
bonanza containing £lO,OOO worth of gold near the
boundary of the D’Arcy mine was lately reported. Where
so many bonanzas have been found it is reasonable to
assume that a few at any rate remain, but in the deep
levels the chances are that it will take the gold of two
bonanzas to find one.
* * * *
Young Australia, Cobar, N.S.W. Though this
is a public co. with a 15-head mill and a fairly large
cyanide plant, winding plant, etc., and supposed to be
running all the time, writer has waited for three months
and has heard nothing about the mine. Seems a common
practice at Cobar either to tell lies about the working of
a mine or conceal the truth by silence. It would be
interesting to know what course of management the
Young Australian is pursuing; whatever it is Sydney
shareholders are disgusted.
* * * »
Mi'.burn Creek, N.S.W. The good crowd
handling this mine are providing £30,000 working capital.
Probably, it will all be wanted. It takes big money to
open and equip copper mines wherever they are.
Developments are said to be pleasing ; the average of the
ore so far exploited, 10 per cent, copper with some gold.
If the owners think the distance covered by the old
abandoned shafts is traversed by one continuous lode of
good-grade ore they will probably find themselves much
mistaken.
•* * * •
An adroit mining puff: “The Yamble Gold
and Diamond Dredging Co., Cudgegong River (N.S.W),
now being formed, should make a big splash. This is on
the ancient Two-Mile Flat diggings. The dredge starts
in the old swimming hole—about 12ft. of water. The
Two-Mile bathers used to have diving tournaments for
handfuls of sand, and every handful contained gold.
Writer saw a Mudgee man some years ago bring up a
Jdwt. speck in his handful. Good gold, too—£4 an oz.”
v * * •
During November mineral exports from Tas-
mania totalled £161,250 —an increase of £53,900 over
Nov., ’9B. Increase for the 11 months of the year,
£539,000. Some items for this November : Wolfram, 2k
tons, value £79 ; asbestos, 100 tons, 1300 ; blister copper,
£87,404 ; gold, £15,622 ; silver ore, £29,645 ; tin, £420 ;
silver-lead bullion, £15,595.
* • * *
Tas. battery returns for Nov. : Tasmania,
1600 tons, 2284J0z. ; New Golden Gatr 1 50 tons,
14350 z. Divs.-: Tasmania, Is., £3OOO ; 4isch ff, 15s,
£9010; Briseis, Is., £3000; Lvell Tharsis, 1.»., £6150;
Golden Gate, Is. 6d., £2400. Total, £23,550.
* * * •
Mt. Lyell, Tas., sent away 3222 tons of blister
copper during last month. Total production to date,
17,427 tons.
* * * »
Briseis tin-float: A. E. Langford has cabled
the names of directors of the London board, and writer
can imagine his long-tailed coat wriggling with pride
when he wrote it. They are a very choice lot of guinea-
pigs : “ the Right Hon. the Earl of Chesterfield, chair-
man (chairman of the Simmer and Jack mine, Johannes-
burg); Thomas Pyke, director of the Mt. Lyell and
Broken Hill mines in London ; Bristow, director of the
Waihi mine, Maoriland ; F. S. E. Drury, director of the
Stratton’s Independence mine, Colorado.”
* » » •
Emu Bay Railway, Tas., seems to be looking
rooky, owing to the opposition it must suffer by the Mt.
Lyell and North Lyell lines railways. It was a brilliant
float last year, but the shares to-day do not realise more
than half the amount paid on them.
* * * •
Mt. Garnet Freehold has sunk the main shaft
west of the lode and is about opening out at time of
writing. Ail the winzes looking better—average of ore
proved hy all recent developments, 5 per cent, copper and
7oz. silver.
* * * »
The announcement that a high legal authority
declares the lease of the Barron Falls given by Q. Govt, to
the Chillagoe Jt. and M. Co. is illegal, has given the co.’s
shares a further knock. Sales at 255. 3d.
• * * •
Lease 15 (the Queenslander) of the Chillagoe R.
and M. seems to be growing into a great mine. Shaft
down 73ft. in grey sulphide copper and galena. No. 1
tunnel on same mine has proved a body of silicious iron-
stone 62ft. wide without striking hanging wall—a winze
down 50ft. from tunnel floor—driven north and south on
the tunnel level 130 ft. in carbonates. The total workings
show a copper value of 5 per cent, throughout. In lease
37 (P.P. A.) all the cross-cuts are in garnet rock carrying
good grade carbonates, and in the Otho (lease 36) the
drives and crosscuts from the bottom level of the No. 1
shaft are in dense sulphide ore, which the garnet rock is
carrying down strong. And the reports from the other
leases of the co. are extremely good.
* * ♦
Gabled that Modest Maryanski has left Perth
for London on account of some mines at Donnvbrook,
which field he thinks “ will have a wonderful future.”
Donnybrook certainly looks like being a big field. It
appears to have the gold; it has abundant timber and
water, and cheap transport; and ounce dirt under such
circumstances is equal to 3oz. stone at, say, Norseman or
Leonora.
* • * *
Lake View Consols and Associated Gold Mines
of W.A. are responsible for the biggest market collapse
that Australia has seen for years. No wonder, when we
look at the “ fax.” Lake View October output was over
30,0000 z., which was only the average of several months
before. That of Nov., 11,5330 z., a difference of nearly
three-quarters of a ton of gold. It is difficult to get at
the exact falling-off of the Associated output, but it is ire-
ported to he upwards of 10,OOOoz. Newspapers which
have been the playthings of these two mines, instead of
apologising begin to say nasty things about, the mines
and managers. “ The sudden drop in the yield of these
two mines has caused a lot of comment locally. No
further change in the management of local mines has
been announced since Mr. Hewitson took over the Lake
View Consols from Mr. Callahan.” As if one at least was
anticipated. “It is expected that as soon as market
‘bearing’ operations are complete the working of both
sulphide and oxidised mills will go on at their fullest
capacity again, and this will largely increase the output
of the Associated, which last month fell very low in mys-
terious sympathy' with the bad yield of Lake View Con-
sols.” Then we are told that Mr. Hewitson has already
started to do big things, and that he has always been
known to be opposed to shipping away ore at a cost of fcp
and t'7 per ton. No reference whatever as to what
is going to happen if shipping stops, or to the fact
that a large part of last month’s return came from
this source. A few weeks ago two Sydney papers
declared that there was no reason whatever why
L.V. Consols could not double their then value,
over 23 per share. Now that they have depreciated to
the extent of over two millions of money, not the slightest
apology is given for this blundering tip, on which, no
doubt, some Sydney market-mining fools acted. In the
face of such an awfukcollapse, that terrible mining oracle,
the Sabbath tipster, says that even 11,OOOoz. is a good
yield, and that these mines are highly-payable concerns.
What lovely consolation for people who have the pleasure
of losing £lO per share on them ! While the newspapers
were declaring in Australia and London that the L:V.C.
30,0000 z. monthly production could be maintained, and,
if desired, doubled for a month or two, it was palpable to
men working in the mine, and there are hundreds of
them, as well as all watching it, that these phenomenal
yields were made up by picking the eyes out of wonderful
bonanzas, which must have either been exhausted, or have
been left alone during November, the latter very unlikely.
These mines are passing through the same experience as
the world’s few other great gold mines. Mt. Morgan
shares once went to £18; they have never seen it since,
and are not likely to. Lake Views touched £2B one day,
representing a value of seven millions ; the chances are
they will never see it again. No explanation is forth-
coming from the Lake View management. The general
manager of the Associated wired: “No unfavorable
development, except that I cannot maintain the
grade of shipping ore. Will be able to double the
quantity' of sulphides treated as soon as the new
feeders are on the furnaces ; ore grade as usual,
but not so good as last month.” Whittaker
Wright, the great Panjandum of the L.V. Conssols, said
at a recent meeting in London, that the then small col-
lapse (as compared with the present) was brought about
by a “bear” operation, and in announcing Callahans
arrival, remarked “ the two-edged sword of Truth that
he will be able t,o wield will make it very uncomfortable
for the ‘bear’ party in that security.” It would be
somewhat interesting to know the present thoughts and
expressions of the same WAV. in the face of the 2-nulhon
fall, for after Callahan wielded that mighty sword he left
for America, and in his absence Lake View Consols fell
from £22 to £l4. They have started to move upwards at
a mighty slow rate compared to that at which they fell.


d
i
NEW
DEPARTURI
J)n Orient Suit to measure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS Go
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to ,I,V.
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is m.uh'
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE EIT and EXTRA FINISH than tl
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING Ifron.L rLt
ORMR e TOYm tO S ‘ Vethe hi ‘ her pric “ ot th “
R-il-y Station or Sea-
DAVID' JOMES & COIIPANIT,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
The Gift of To-day !
Can^ra
Modern
Fashionable
HARRINGTON aod CO., Ltd.
lull Stock of All Grades and Sizes from 255. to £25.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd., 66 King St., Sydney (Near George-st.
Society
That was a mournful picture conjured up
a week or two ago by the cableman, of the octo-
genarian Queen Victoria weeping over the losses
of her soldiers. If the venerable lady wept then
she will weep doubly now, for the hideous
slaughter among her favorite Highland brigade,
ever placed in the forefront of battle, must touch
the Queen in an especially tender spot. Seven
on/lft 6 ?-o n jl thr , ee fine fellows out of less than
killed and wounded within a few hours,
in the mere interests of Moses and Co., of London
? , Exchange !In the beginning, a Jew died
for the Gentiles. Now, Gentiles die in stacks for
the Jew.
* * • •
Tj® N.S.W. military authorities have
decided after enquiry that such of the N.S.W.
Lancers as deliberately elected not to go to the
I tansvaal to shoot Boer farmers “ were guilty of
no military offence and were well within their
UNDOUBTEDLY.
HER : “So many tail women marry little men.”
HIM: “ Yes! It is frequently their sole claim to
be considered the better HALF.”
rights in deciding not to land at Capetown.” The
bulletin hereby pinches the garrulous General
-trench this gentleman’s eternal cackle to the
reporters has become a stock joke-for stale news.
a pity that none of the men, seeing the
attitude covertly assumed in the matter by the
dingo press and local military clique, did not tell
tne latter to mind its own business, and absolutely
decline to 1 answer questions which the court of
enquiry had no right to put. For instance, the
court had no more right to ask any man why he
didnt volunteer than it would have to ask him
why his wife hadn’t a mole on her left shoulder.
Whafc are the Boers going to do with their
multitude of British prisoners ?
At the recent rate of surrender the cap-
tives may be expected to outnumber the whole
Boer forces ere General Buller (if not himself cap-
tured in the meantime) gets any guns near to Pre-
toria, and Kruger’s .commissariat department runs
short of tucker. If the Boers are to live, the
-tsritish devourers of Boer provisions must be re-
duced to skin and bone on humanitarian princi-
ples. Kruger will soon be unable to give his cap-
tives two full meals a day without practically de-
livering Pretoria into the hands of the enemy.
Ihe thought of a possible ten or fifteen thousand
fat and lusty British troops in the custody of
Kiugers hungry town-guards is screamingly
comic. Also it has a tragic side to it.
* * * *
. ‘‘ Military Inquiry ” now proeeed-
,, ® Paltry bickerings >of the absurd
officers of tIieN.S.W. so-called 7th Regiment,
Bieut.-C°l. Neild ventured the opinion that
the inquiry rvoiild last for some months yet.”
Isnt it high time that this sickening rabble of
drapery-warriors was sponged off the slate, and
something in the way of a real soldier placed at
the head of each regiment? Militarism is bad
enough, but if the taxpayer pays for soldiers, let
him get soldiers, and not squealing Mary-Annes.
The following blunderation in a recent
circular of Vic. “Discharged Prisoners’ Aid
boeiety is far too lovely to be lost:
„ n f' ld should -Y ou have any left-off clothing, it will not
only be appreciated by the Executive, but will be the
at a tfmn K evei^ lng crime b -V giving them a fresh start
?helr n«i- mOSt need Uto hel P them to redeem
society 6 repufcatlona > and become useful members of
* * * *
The Dannevirke (M.L.) paper has ideas of
its own about South Afri-
can history. It explains
that Britain annexed the
Transvaal in ’77 because
the Orange Tree State
asked it to do so —which
is about as good logic as
it would be if France
annexed Britain because
Greece asked it to do so.
The annexation, it is al-
leged, was done because
the Zulus (with whom the
Transvaal wasn’t then at
war, and whom the Boers
had beaten in every war
when the two races had
met) “threatened the
Boers with extermina-
tion ” —which is also about
as brilliant an idea as if
Britain annexed France
to save the people from
being annihilated by Den-
mark. Also, the Danne-
virke editorial horror is
strong on the gratitude
which the Transvaal owes
Britain for “ discharging
its heavy debt.” The lat-
ter howl is especially good
seeing that the country
was charged with the ex-
penses of annexation, and
the temporary British
ownership left it with a
larger debt than it ever
possessed before. This
yarn about the nation
which is making such a
sdlendid fight against the
greatest and best-armed
empire in the world having
been hopelessly at the
mercy of a decaying king-
dom of black spearmen
(tor the mushroom Zulu
otate was only created in
the early part of this
century, and started to
fade as soon as its foun-
der, Chaka, died) is a
pitiably ridiculous affair.
Ihe most reliable history
of South Africa (Theal’s)
refuses all credit to the
foolish yarn about the
,y^ ansvaa^s helplessness in
.® n M ® lb - Cu P day a man who had got wet
inside and out, sat down under a tree at the bank
Sle2 S hS ,T"f (Mel , b -> »»“"* f* tte
c ear He fell adeep, long and soundly. Some-
thing licked his face and he woke. It was d°!slc
and he could see a huge brute standing over him
with big staring eyes. With a yell he was up and
off, the great brute after him. He roared and
rushed on to Royal Park Railway Station, dropped
in thearmsof the station-master, crying “Save me
the lion, the lion ! ” and fell all of a heap. Those
present roared to see a great St. Bernard dog- fol-
lowing. It turned out that the dog was lost and
had pal d m with the sleeper or— more likely— was
going-for some food he had in his pocket. The
brute was advertised for and returned
*** * *
A curio was the matron who in a Syd-
ney libel action t’other day deposed that she
was 55 years of age and mother of 10 children
the youngest of whom was now 10 months old. ” ’
An ex-N.S.W. M.P., lately dead, en route
to address a hostile meeting of miners at a new
camp, was met outside by his
faithful chief supporter.
Asked what arrangements
he had made for the lneet-
ing, the faithful one said
he had borrowed a wire
meat cover and an aerated-
water bottler’s mask—the
M.P. could have Ins
choice. Half an-hour af-
terwards the chief sup-
porter got on the stump
(at least it was a form
outside the pub) to an-
nounce that he had just
reeei ved word to the effect
that theiresteerned friend
(cg&l— yes, their es-
teemed member—(more
e KK and satirical laugh-
ter)- had met with an
accident on the—(here
he adjourned, and re-ap-
peared wearing the mask)
had met with an acci-
dent on the track, and
would be unable (the boys
began to use up their eggs)
—would be unable to ad-
dress the meeting. When
the last egg was exhausted
the member turned up in
person and started his
address.
Police des-
cription of Chris-
topher Little-
john, who lately
escaped from
Hbart Gaol:—
Aged 27 years,
height sft. sJin.,
medium build, dark
complexion, dark-
brown hair, hazel
eyes, two roses and
fuschia on chest,
bust of female with
hat trimmed with
red and black on
outside of left bi-
ceps, female figure
in corsets (arms,
breast, and shoul-
ders bare), arid fan
on outside of left
arm, rosebud and
leaves on inside
left forearm, two
small sears over risjht knee.
Littiejohn was sentenced to 15 years for rape in
DvJt'tv ' wea ’ cness 18 women ” seems
pretty evident from the tattoo-marks. The
sex I m-una I is 8 19 bed el 7 gaol authorit ies for
bex mania is 12 months in irons !
• * * •
“Britisher” writes to Melb. ’Erald re
Melb ri Turn V to the Boers " at the
picr ic Wh,tT f em o, ( m Jrman , Atllletlc Club)
u , • , wou!d like to know is, would a
British subject be allowed to express himself in
sue , . Germany, and, !i not, howl it
nenden™v"“T ° ar \ d ° T- in a British “de-
" ln n eply to tlus truculent enquiry
the Bulletin will now proceed to sing Rule
Britkruger, Australians rule their Ger-
mans, never, never, will be slaves Also God
Save the Boer and frustrate Old Hingland’s’fix.
Scott, of Footscray (Vic.), on the
iHSpgSS-SS
sSfsiSls=?K
isaiSsiSii
peace, not ten tor.v, liberty, nota^.-and^emenV' 1 IC6 '
Curious how difficult it is for the bloodthirstv
parson to speak the solid truth. The figures were
pretty even when the war began. So efrylnen
Sin. "to H,V lt ElimdS P aagte ’ for instance,"
according to the correspondents’ account was
fought with heavy odds in favor of the BrithT
And now the Dutch farmers are facing twice their
number of trained soldiers. When natm £
150,000 human beings faces an empire of 340 OOfDKH)
it takes pretty hard assurance and a pretty hard
clergyman to describe the former as having over
whelming odds in its favor. s
Almost the first day that the Queensland
some good will have come out of evil.
thm h f be ' St i th - ng that can be said f( >r war is
that it is a glorious mcentive to polygamy.
. Should fc he M‘Lean-Shiels Govt get a fair
innings (which it probably will not ill!!
™p o Watt f S oughfc r p ( ,( scorß heavily f s a Y y;'f
V®- The utter foolishness of the
ousted Duffys postal service administration has
pubHc en Under long ' sufferin S Melbourne
puDUc. Under the new system which Duffv
introduced a few months back suburban let£
HER TROUBLES!
HUSBAND (glancing at war-cables in morning
paper): “Good Lord!—a thousand men
killed and wounded in one engagement! ”
WIFE (placidly): “ Yes, dear — ANOTHER CUP OF
TEA? "
carriers spent three hours a day in travelling to
and fro the disorganised head office. The two-
posts-a-day “reform” in the suburbs prevented
inter-suburban communication by letter for 20
hours at a stretch— i.e., a letter posted at St.
Kulcia shortly after mid-day could not be received
m South Yana until past 8 a.m. next day. Times
for collection, as stated on the pillar-boxes, were
mostly a delusion and a snare, seeing that letters
posted at 1 oclock p.m. were delivered no earlier
than those posted at midnight. If an English
mad arrival happened to clash with the interpro-
vincial mails a letter despatched by the Sydney
express on a say, Wednesday, would not be
delivered in a Melbourne suburb before Friday
morning. Duffy’s reforms amounted to an outrage
u? e public that has to pay 2d. for sending a
half-ounce letter half-a-milo by post.
* * * *
N.S.W. Minister for Education Perry is
the next to wrestle with that intolerable night-
mare, Lusk s School History of Australia.” He
18 the fi fth Education Minister whose office
°. bil s® s hm* to turn over the much-mended pages.
As the MS. left Lusk it was at least intelligible •
now, after a score of revisions it is fit only for the
fare Perry ought to put it there and be done
with it. Lusk was paid £450 for the work : but
the revisions ordered by every Minister have
carried the cost to over £lOOO. A little before
Minister Hogue left office the cost stood at .8995
but Mr. J. Finney’s charge for revising (£26 55.)
was not then met. Mr. Perry should end the
farce, or Lusks unpublished History will over-
shadow the next century. Mr. Hogue’s latest
pronouncement was that he could not promise
that the work would ever be published.
* * * ,
“Alia ” propounds a problem :
. Apropos the recent shower of cantatrices from Bendigo
is there any connection between mining and music’ Did
you ever notice the frequency with which the brass-bands
from mining townships score well at contests’ The
winners of a recent competition in Sydney hailed from
Zeehan (Tas.), while first-prize at Bathurst this year goes
Hdlgrove Probably the best band in the p'rovince-
that of the 4th Infantry Regiment at Newcastle—is com-
posed ot miners from surrounding coal districts Tike
also the Eistedfodds, glee-clubs, and church choirs That
f? . IP. these m mmg centres, and you will not meet with
their like among any other class of the community Is
it accounted for by the strong Celtic strain that
abounds m mining communities with their predominance
of Northumbrian Geordies, Cousin Jacks, and John
Joneses from Wales ?-or is it the result of that enthu-
siasm and espri t de corps which characterises the miner—
that makes his strikes so stubborn-that makes him col-
lectively or individually a good friend or a bad enemV
and makes him put such a vim, a soul, a feeling into his
work, his recreation, his politics—and his language?


Nature’s remedy for Nature’s ills —ZETZ
SPA WATER, compounded in Nature’s lah"tM-
tory. Nothing to equal it.*
wm
£RS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
and at BRISBANE.
Goldsnjitbs, J?w«ll«rs, Silv«rsnjitbs apd Opticians.
OUR LARGE
SHIPMENTS OF
NEW GOODS NOW
OPENED.
* » * •
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED LIST OF
XMAS NOVELTIES.
CLOSED
□ PEN
NEW PENCIL CASES, with outside sheath enamelled blue, for wearing- attached
to the long MUFF Chains. Gold, 40s. ; Silver, 15s.
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLB
CONDV’S
Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is Magical.
All Substitutes are Inferior.
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.”
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
**• LASIA, Limite d,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are how prepared to enter imo
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMIN'ANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... £1 fi o
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,.
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
SEEKING FOR STRENGTH.
WIFE : “ W [?] . you wretch ! — you’ve been drink-
ing? And you told me yen were going to a
prayer-meeting.”
HUSBAND : “ Yesh, m’ dear, tha’s orright. Wash
delayed at prayer-meetin’, an’ ash I (hie)
knew you’d make fuss ’bout comin’ home
s’ late, I —I braced m’shelf up for she (hie)
ordeal!”
The inquiry into the case of Cresswell,
the lunatio who is alleged to be Tichborne, is pro-
gressing in a desultory sort of way. Most of the
witnesses are solid on one point—that there was
always “ something mysterious ’’ about Cresswell
and that an atmosphere of romance pervaded him,
but nothing much has been done beyond this.
These discoveries suggest to the writer the strange
sudden idea that the real Tichborne may be
William Shiels, Treasurer of Victoria. There has
always been something mysterious about Shiels
—a cheap lurkiness, so to speak, a habit of getting
to his Ministerial office up a back stair, a back-
ward look over his shoulder, a habit of
floating public loans unaccountably, and a
tendency to look like a man who has stolen two
large elephants and hidden them away, and who
wouldn’t for all the world tell where they were
concealed. Shiels is the sort of man who would
disguise himself when he went to have a chop,
and hire another man who looked exactly like him
to personate him at the office in his absence lest
the country might find out that he .was haying a
chop, and the interests of this rising nation be
suddenly undermined by the discovery that he
wasn’t having steak. If Roger Tichborne was a
man with “ something mysterious ” about him
Shiels fills the bill admirably.
Another attempt is being made in N.S.W.
Parliament to deal with unqualified dentists, and
prevent any but capable practitioners fooling with
the public’s molar. But as usual it is too tender
of “vested interests.” Every new dentist is to
prove himself qualified before practising, but all
the existing dentists who have been six months in
the business prior to the passing of the Act are to
be regarded as qualified and licensed. The
government license is only of value as a guarantee
that the holder is a capable person to whom the
public can safely entrust its tooth, and it is
deliberately proposed to give it to the qualified
and unqualified alike provided they have been six
months on the job. If a sham dentist has
swindled the public for six months by pretending
to be what he isn’t, the Government proposes, as
a reward, to give him a diploma saying that he is
what he isn’t.
* * * *
A dentist remarks to The Bulletin that—
N S. Wales is now about the only country under the
sun in which the free practice of dentistry is permitted
to all and sundry, irrespective of any qualification there-
for with the inevitable consequence that the province
abounds with so-called “dentists” who are merely im-
postors or bunglers—or both. Throughout Europe and
America, and in all the other Australasian provinces, the
practice of dentistry is prohibited to all who have not
been through a curriculum of three years and upwards,
including hospital-practice; whereas in Sydney we
have now practising as dentists men who were until
recently carpenters, cab-drivers, upholsterers, butchers,
and so on. Of course, if the publio knew this, it could
safeguard itself by simply avoiding such impostors, but,
as things are, qualified practitioners are continually
meeting with complications and diseases that would not
have arisen had the patient been treated by a competent
man in the first place. This is another case in which
supposed “cheapness” means in reality dearness in the
long run, and I have seen numbers of cases of loss of part
of the jaw directly attributable to malpractice which
even a very elementary training, would have obviated.
The Bill upon the subject (which never seems to get any
further) will soon become a mere farce, as in the mean-
time these impostors are becoming entitled to registra-
tion, and thus the evil will be continued for at least
another generation.— Molticdspid.
One of Melbourne’s oldest wooden
buildings (baptised Noah’s Ark Hotel;
sign still fairly visible), stands in Leices-
ter-street, Carlton. In the ’4o’s and ’so's
this was a favorite halting place for the
thirsty teamster, after making his way
through the savage-infested forests of
Hotham and Carlton; and,
after nightfall, many a beery
traveller left the “Ark” to
get bushed in “ Sydney
Road,” now an extremely
fine street, or boule-
vard.
In Ta s-
maniathe small
shopkeeper who
chalks the price of
butter on the pavement is promptly
fined, and yet machinery - manufacturers are
allowed to advertise their wares on the walls
of the State-schools by means of pictures of their
machines, so placed under pretence of furnishing
“ object-lessons ” to the pupils.
* * * *
“E.D.” on the cash-coupon business:—
“Cockney” on coupons is somewhat fierce, but he misses
the gist of the objection in imagining that the giving or
taking of coupons is merely a voluntary matter between
“ company and shopkeeper and shopkeeper and cus-
tomer.” To be sure the customer need not take coupons,
but she pays for them whether she takes them or not,
since many tradesmen—grocers particularly—in cheap
suburbs where cutting businesses are carried on have
been compelled to make up what the coupons cost them.
Some tradesmen take it out of their employees, some out
of their customers, and in 90 cases out of 100 the latter
have practically paid 15s. for coupons in return for
which they receive a paltry article worth perhaps 7s.
Every housewife I have heard discuss the matter
admitted the article given her by the coupon people
could be bought for less than half the money represented
by her “ book.”
• * • •
One Thomas Avis, who recently died in
Melbourne, was particular about the disposal of
bis remains. He directed, in his will, that he
should be deposited in a polished-oak coffin and
conveyed to his last resting-place in a hearse
drawn by four horses, and that four mourning-
coaches, each drawn by two horses, should come
behind his dust. Also, all 12 horses were to have
feathers. And yet some good men have gone to
the sepulchre in a wheelbarrow, and got there all
right in the long run.
ANAWKWABD KIND OF RELATIONSHIP.
KOHN : “ You don't seem pleased at the birth of
your sister's leedle boy."
LEAFY: “ Pleased, be tam! Von’t he grow up
undt call me ‘ uncle’ to mine face.”
Extract from S.M. Herald’s new story :
“Kings and Queens are not, as a rule, interesting
people,” I said. “The monarchs I have met have not
impressed me very much. They look much more regal
in the illustrated papers than they are in real life.
And this after Granny’s recent knighthood ! She
must surely have got a white ticket.
Melbourne’s latest tragedy-farce concerns
the eternal than and woman problem. She had
kept house for him, and had resigned the unpro-
fitable billet owing to his cruelty. He followed
her from Sydney to N. Melbourne, and, discover-
ing her whereabouts, provided himself. with a
loaded revolver, two razors, and a butcher s knife.
Then, on Saturday afternoon, he proceeded care-
fully and methodically to the work of slaughter.
But the intended victim had perceived his ap-
proach and locked the doors. Which proved a
very paltry precaution, for he vaulted a back
fence, pushed up a window, and jumped inside.
The woman picked up her child and ran, slamming
the door behind her. But the rejected lover, being
in a violent hurry and determined to make an
end of the matter without delay, rushed through
all obstructions, scattering glass and door-panels
promiscuously, and caught his ex-lover in the
street. He was proceeding to rebuke her with the
butcher’s knife aforesaid when a constable inter-
vened and persuaded him to calm his ire in a coo
watch-house cell. And all these careful prepara-
tions and this ungovernable fury only resulted in
a few cuts on the lady’s arm. What a satisfying ,
tragedy was lost to the morning and evening
dailies !
It is manifestly intended by Providence that
the lady aforesaid shall die peacefully in her bed,
in the odour of sanctity, with weeping friends
adjacent, and the undertaker waiting patiently at
the gate. When in Sydney in 1884 with her husband
(a gentleman who is supposed to have been mur-
dered at Albury in ’9l) that excitable person took
out a revolver and aimed at a man across the
street, who, he averred, owed him money. The
wife tried to wrench the “shooter” from him,
and, as a result, received a bullet in her head
about an inch behind the right eye, and there it
remains, being plainly discernible and only re-
tained by a light covering of skin.
• • * •
Recently the Sydney German band, which
on several occasions has been badly walloped by
Queen Victoria’s sailors, was playing in
Bridge-street, when an intoxicated “son
of the sea,” armed with a bunch of carrots,
advanced, aud stopping in front of a
stodgy-looking musician, yelled : “ What
yer makin’ all the noise about, yer blanky
Boer?” Then the mariner rammed a
carrot into the Deutseher’s bassoon and
challenged the whole band to mortal com-
bat. Whereupon Schwillensaufengerman-
sausagestein calmly put down his load of
brass, and exhibiting an unexpectedly
“ dirty left,” made mince-meat of the bel-
licose tar in short order. Even the German
will turn !
* • * •
“How these Christians love one
another! ” remarked a lawyer, when it
came out in Melb. divorce-court the other
day that a clergyman, who had himself
seduced a girl, had married her to a man
who was a perfect stranger to him and
quite ignorant of the fact that his bride
was almost immediately to become a
mother.
• • * •
“C.M.G.”: I am satisfied that
women are poor judges of beauty in women,
but I cannot discover what constitutes
loveliness in a woman according to the
other woman. Pen-women all over the
place have for months past been indus-
triously and ecstatically paragraphing one
young Melbourne matron, insisting on her
amazing good looks and her capacity for
making beautiful pictures and things, and
the mere man seeks in vain for the occa-
sion of the excitement. The reason is
not obvious on the face of the lady ;
although it is a pleasant enough face Melbourne
has many fairer, and it is far from being as pretty
as it is painted. But this endeavor to put a good
face on her neighbor is a curious trait in the pen-
woman —her idea of originality, perhaps.
By the time N.S.W. Parliament gets
through its legislation for the domestic
biddy there will probably be no domes-
tic biddy to legislate for. In Croy-
don licensed victuallers are
threatening to put up the
shutters, as far as boarders
are concerned, because
Mary Jane is not. When
Mary Jane repudiates hotel
work, brightened with
from 12s. to 20s. a week,
plus the little atten-
tions of the commercial
traveller, then things
are in a bad way. It is
said that Erin is to be
exploited for a sup-
ply of the plate-dry-
ing machines.
The irony of Thirst.
One day last week a boy
went into a Sydney vic-
tuallers’ shop with a note
from a customer. Evidently
the customer in his thirst had
taken the first piece of paper
that came handy. So it read :
PLEDGE.
I promise to abstain from all intoxicating drinks as
beverages.
Mr. J. Johnston.—Sir, —Please give bearer one bottle of
rum. —Yours, J. Jackson.
* * * *
N.S.W. Government, which has been
made abundantly aware, Ist, that the prevailing
adulterant of cheap jam is glucose, and, 2nd. that
sa : d glucose is excessively injurious to health —
has nevertheless, a bill already drafted to provide
special concessions in the way of drawbacks to
such manufacturers as desire to use glucose in
jams made for export! Only for export. Damn
the other fellow’s stomach !
Argus advt., Dec. 9 : ,
“ Wednesday, December 13, at odr r ", 52 Bartd U
Queen-street, at 11 o’clock. Unreserved auction of^tur^
niture and personal effects in the estate
Zox, M.L. A, deceased. By order of theexeou
<M. Cohen and Mr. Joel Fox. J- Lj° „u ovei
received instructions to sell the persona d other
comprising 2 first-class office f j esl f s > „ • an( j Go.),
chairs, Vienna suite, fireproof safe scion-
carpets, linoleums, copying-press, 500 • trophy,
two! and ounos^W^,^,
invitation-card from H.R.H. £ rl,, c® mon „ fripnds and
365 white vests, hats, &c. N.8.-The many friends ana
admirers of the late Mr. Zox are rem Australia’s
the only opportunity of securing relics of Australia
philanthropist. Every line for unreserved sale.
Three-hundred-and-sixty-five white waistcoats
Was it a laborious joke?
* * * •
Quaint birth notice in Lyttleton Times
(Maoriland), 10th Nov. :
QAUNDERS.— Nov. 9, at Lincoln Road, Mrs. o.
Saunders, of a son (by adoption).
* * * *
Melbourne telegraphic-operatorsand postal
■ clerks, doing work for which other men are paid
from .£2OO to .£2BO a year, are agitatmg for an
increase of their present miserable dole of 16s. xa.
a week. The men entered as boys and as tele-
graphic messengers worked up to the maximum ,
and, despite their alleged chance of being
moted, have never been able to get classed a
operators or clerks. Many have passed all the
necessary examinations and one and all na
records of from Bto 10 years’ service. 1 hey are
from 27 to 30 years of age, and some have wives
and families, yet, as one pathetically put it, we
have the humiliation of still looking to our parents
for support.”
• “ • *
The traditional “good boy* whose one
aim is to become a scholar and get onin the world,
has turned up at Bourke, N.S. W. He annexed a
£1 note in the sure and certain hope that ne
would be sent to a “government institution where
r? g! r? o^/i
i
he would deceive an education.” He was sent to
the Sobraon, where he will, no doubt, get what he
wants, and perhaps more. Curious that, in a
country that spends so much on “ public instruc-
tion,” it should be credibly reported that a boy
has to get into prison to get educated.
The Kipling Yell—an Australian
Version.
Tommy Atkins, you’re a Pauper—you have nothing but
your blood
To expend—and we can buy the same all right.
You have left your wife behind you and she hasn’t got a
dud,
But we know we’U have to keep her while you fight.
You are fearfully immoral—you are lower than a beast—
As a fighting beast we keep you and we bind you—
And to make a publio object of your wife’s the very
least
We will do to help the girl you left behind you.
Cook’s son, Duke’s son, son of a belted Earl,
Son of the devil or who-knows-who—it’s all the game
to-day—
Each of you doing your country’s work—and we’ll look
.after the girl—
Spill your blood for the syndicates, who prey, prey,
prey.
There are families by thousands—so the Jingo poet says—
Whose House-fathers fight upon the Empire’s bounds,
Wives and children who will fatten, while in blood the
Father pays.
And will creep to heel for charity like hounds.
He’s an absent-minded beggar, and he heard his country’s
call,
And he went to smash the homes of strangers—blind
him 1
He might chuck his bleeding country if the chance
should come at all
As he chucked the home and wife he left behind him.
Dog’s job, hog’s job, job of an idiot horde
Gov’ment-sent or fired for rent, or simply hired for
pay,
Doing the work of a Robber Crew who gasp at the sight
of a sword—
Filled with lead for the syndicates who prey, prey,
prey.
C. R.


The accompanying illustration is merely used as
a simile for Blackness.
-v> • ■ ' .70-fv t- V - * t ’ . • ’. . ..
MARK FOY
has no connection with the Prince of Darkness,
beyond the fact that the deuce is in it if Foy’S
Hosiery is not as Black as Beelzebub, although
there are those who protest that his Satanic
Majesty is not of an extra inky or murky hue.
Be that as it may , Mark Foy’S Hosiery
is of the BEST BLACK DESCRIPTION.
SEAMLESS, sure,
aod LONS LASTING.
For your Bedstead,
try
All Drapers Everywhere.
It annihilates
THEM.
Country readers would do well to try the
“Albatross Lamp Wick.’’ “It requires no trimming;,”
saves oil, has no smell whatever, and it is almost impos-
sible to have an explosion of a lamp in which they are
used. Messrs. Chambers and Seymour, of Collins-street,
have one window entirely devoted to the Co.’s goods.*
WATERS’
RE-BUILDING
SALE-..
Come direct to us for
XMAS REQUISITES
In our Line,
and avoid the Fancy Xmas Prices.
W- T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ L Children’s Outfitters,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
GLOBE TEAS have N 0 EqnaL
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December ID, 1800.
My Deab Myee,—•
Lord Beauchamp seems to be working as hard
as ever for his living. No light task to entertain
a thousand lynx-eyed public-school fifth-class
pupils* and send them all home satisfied, for the
fifth-class is a terrible period, don’t you think ? A
place where they know the way the world ought
to run, where they parse and analyse your
conversation as it falls from your lips." I love
school'-girls and adore school-boys, but, really, I
can’t imagine anything more terrifying than to
play host to one thousand top-class public school
infants of the precocious “colonial ” brand.
Just to prove these tremors are not groundless I
can tell of two different accounts of Lord Beau-
champ s party that have been poured into my ear
Both are. from school -a iris. One set forth that
His Ex. gave them nothing to eat but stale buns
handed round in little paper bags, and languid
ginger beer. This historian warmed to her tale
and declared that the girls were so insulted that
they left their bags of buns under the trees so that
the Governor would see what they thought of
buns at seventeen. That’s one version. Another,
from a pupil-teacher, declares that they were
treated to the most delicious afternoon tea imagin-
able-strawberries, ices, and all sorts of cakes,
just as if they had been at a grown-up garden-
party.
Which is the authentic version? Oh, well,
pupil-teachers are not often cursed with imagina-
tions, are they ?
His Ex.’s energy is becoming a byword. He
spends his whole time jolting about from one
baokblock town to another. \Ve have never had
a Governor yet who ate up-country banquets so
persistently and accumulated complimentary bou-
quets at the high-pressure rate of this youthful
Earl. At Newcastle, last week, he went into
raptures over the presentation address (the work
of a public-school teacher), asked to be introduced,
and complimented the illuminator warmly. I
have seen some of Mr. Anderson’s wonderful
decorative work, and don’t wonder that His Ex.,
who is always keen on bookbinding and illumi-
nating, enthused over this.
Last Friday saw the “ three nice clean English-
men ” driving to the railway-station for the last
time, taking His Ex. up to Moss Vale for a
spell. Mr. Victor Corkran leaves to-morrow, by
the train, to join Lord Cadogan’s staff, at Dubliii
Castle. So far, there is no news of any fresh
aides, but I have heard it whispered that Lord
Richard Nevill may fill the billet.
Captain Sloane Stanley’s friends in Australia
were rather puzzled at the thought of that tiny,
fair, little man going out to help stem the tide of
battle. The ex-aide was so small, and trim, and
neat that he never even brushed shoulders with
the fighting ladies of Sydney society. However,
it turns out now that his work is at the signal-
station, sending messages that Buller has gone to
have his tea, and soon. Captain Ferguson, whose
display of vice-regal marriage—the Monkey-brand
wedding—will never, never be forgotten in Sydney,
is another ex-aide at the Cape, leaving behind him
two (there are two now) little Ferguson children.
The news of Dr. Scot-Skirving’s volunteering
made a sensation on Sunday. The big, hand-
somely-ugly doctor (erstwhile, I believe, in the
navy) is one of the most fashionable of local
medicos, and his family-circle is ever so pictur-
esque. His wife is one of the prettiest women in
Sydney, with a flower-like complexion and red-
pold hair, and his two curly-headed sons were the
idols of the recent Press Bazaar, where they
served as cooks at their mother’s household stall.
The youngest boy is called “Soldier,” which may
indicate old yearnings on his father’s part for
scenes of warfare. Dr. M'Cormick, who also
volunteers, is perhaps less known personally in the
city, but his professional fame is widespread.
There is no Sydney doctor, even among his rivals,
who will not sing the praises of the University’s
ex-demonstrator of anatomy as an operating
surgeon. To a man in such practice, his South
African expedition must mean an immediate loss
of thousands of poundl.
Everyone is sorry to lose jolly “ Charlie ” Ken-
ningham, the heart and soul and legs and voice of
the Comic Opera Company. His round, good-
tempered face, sweet tenor voice, and highly
artistic interpretations will be much missed.
Pauli and the Perry sisters are going over to
Maoriland to play in Pollard’s “ Geisha ” com-
pany. Miss Perry’s voice is rather badly in need
of a rest. One, hot night lately she uttered the
most extraordinary note I ever heard. I can’t
describe it, but the audience received it in dead
silence, a,nd it evidently rather astonished Miss
Perry herself.
By the way, nobody knows how the report
started that Dorothy Vane had thrown up her
part in “ Little Red Riding Hood. ” there’s not
an atom of truth in the rumor, anyway.
Miss Edith Kihninster is the latest young
pianiste to return to her native town with a
German finish to her piano-playing. By the way,
what becomes of all the hundreds of other musical
girls who go home to get polished into stars, and
are never seen again, even as rushlights ? What
has happened to Mrs. Blank, who left for London
eleven years ago, furnished with, a small port-
manteau, a farewell concert, and a voice, and has
never been heard of since? Or Miss Dash, who
five years ago went to learn piano-pummelling of
the best German piano-grounders, and has never
broken a single piano in her native land (publicly)
yet? Many of them slip; back silently, and
dwindle away into the cold obscurity of teaching
in the suburbs; one out of a hundred makes a
hying abroad ; the rest —what becomes of the rest?
Year after year you inquire of relatives, and hear
that *• Rosetta is petting on splendidly, Herr Stix
is delighted,” until the fact that Rosetta is “get-
tmg_ on ” compels you, out of pity, to drop en-
quiries.
To return to Miss Kilminster, she gave a con-
cert at the Centenary Hall last Friday that was
fairly well filled. The neat little German-looking
pianiste, in a white frock with her fair hair tied
up twice with white ribbon, showed herself a
careful student, with a particularly clean touch,
but her playing didn’t emit thrills it was well-
trained, academic, but cold and self-contained.
Which, after all, is a good style for anyone who
intends to teach. The tOo-soulful pianiste who
has to bring her longings down to three guineas a
quarter generally spends the lesson-hour in rhap-
sodising on the piano, while the pupil stands by
gloating, because there won’t be time now for her
to gallop through Chopin’s “ Funeral March ” to-
day.
I he Xmas Shops !—What shall be said of their
allurements ? Toys, ribbons, laces, what a glamour
Xmas time throws over these very ordinary
things. A toy-private at this time of the year
turns into a General-in-Chief ! half-a-dozen
handkerchiefs suddenly become mysteriously
romantic; and when is a doll not a doll? or a
manicure set not a nianicure set? of a photograph
frame not a photograph frame? You would think
these things could never be anything else. But
they can. _ They transform at Xmas, when the
power of imagination turns them all into some-
thing moi'o beautiful, and infinitely to be desired
and sought and bought as if the world depended
on the buying.
Hordern Bros, in Pitt-street come out strong m
toys this year. Many of the playthings are
made in England,” as one glance at the toy
so.iiers suggests. Heavens ! What a blood-
thirsty lot!. Thousands of little black, and blue,
and red, and yellow men on horseback. Every-
thing here is a soldier. The toys have got it bad
—very bad. The warlike spirit is red-hot. In
fact, real war is almost contemptible beside the
tactics of these toy generals, as you will agree
when you see a little play soldier, lying on his
play stomach, firing a play gun into a play fort.
Who would believe it ! That’s a money-box.
You put the money into the gun, and you fire it
into the fort, which' closes up and keeps your
money fast in an iron grip. More martial ardour
m the shape of half-guinea suits of tin armour for
small boys, with shiny tin helmets, bugles,
trumpets, flags, guns, and a great, unceasing sale
for all of them. After all this gorgeous, blood-
thirsty array, the doll family looks very quiet and
retiring, although Hordern’s dolls have a few
words to say when pulled. There are some
lovely, irresistible creatures here; all kinds,
from rag to life-sized. Looking at the round pink
curved cheeks, sweet red lips (made with distinct
“impression ” this year),[big brown and blue eyes,
and ever-curly hair, I am struck with wonder
why it is that little boys who are going to grow up
into big men always despise these adorable beings.
I looked in at David Jones’, and found the
children’s things again a speciality, and every-
thing marked very reasonably. The lovely lace
pinafores alone are worth -going after, and some
specially pretty low-necked frocks for little girls
are here. Everything is white, but blue and pink
pongee slips areall ready for mammas who like ,to
keep to the old theory about dressing little black
eyes in pink, and little blue eyes in blue. Down-
stairs, I fell in, love with the Devonshire potterv,
in lovely blues and greens and all sorts of aesthetic
shapes, with the engaging little dress fripperi s,
fringed scarves—the “very latest’’—hemstitched
linen collars, lace ties and collars and collarettes,
which things always reach high-water mark at
“Joneses.”’
Waters’, in King-street, and Webb’s, also in
King-street, are stocked with , delicate pretty
things—veils, ribbons, gloves. Webb’s muslins,
veils, and real laces, will delight your aesthetic
soul. Waters’ gloves, Irish linen goods, and
great window full of “charms” made of Irish
bog oak are specially suitable for Xmas presents.
Then there are the wonderful cheap shops—
Mark Foy’s in Oxford-street and Hatte’s in New-
town. What did we do before the cheap shops
started ? The best tribute to Yfark Foy’s prices
is that the shop-girls from the other drapers go up
there at night to do their shopping. To the bar-
gain-hunter, a visit to Foy’s is like a trip to Para-
dise; she can turn the things over at her own
sweet, will, and nobody .worries her with “What
can we do for you, madame ? ” a boon to a bargain-
hunter, who would otherwise, have to reply, “I
don’t want anything in particular, only I must
ha\e it cheap. “Lines ” that are being wildly
rushed _at Foy’s are ready-made blouses and
under-linen under-linen at Foy’s is always a
dream of cheapness and beauty—toys, ribbons,
and artificial flowers. Hatte Bros., at Newtown’
run oil much the sa’me lines. , E.verythingthere is
a sacrifice. In particular, there is a wonderful
lot of bat's alone worth journeying ouc to look at.
.Paling & Cq. send their Musical Annual, decor-
ated with a picture of our Governor’s Australian
home. I his picture shows Govt. House front-door,
and a good straight-standing lamp-post in the fore-
ground, and no indications -whatever of any sort
of V.R. orgies within, such as a Musical Medlev
Album might lead an imaginative mind to expect.
The - inside is full of hoary old favorites, and a
sprinkling of giddy new ones (the inside of the
album.l mean, of course)—“Come into the Garden,
Maud,” “Federation Waltz,” “Three Fishers”
and of course a “ Pardon That Came too Late!”
Any Xinas Annual that allowed Itself to come out
without a “Ship that Never Returned” or a
“Pardon That Came Too Late” would be un-
worthy of the name musical. I think Paling’s
Annual is quite up to the Xmas mark this year.
Nicholson & Co. send along their Annual also.
When I looked at the contents I found it was first
cousin to Paling’s, only dressed in a much smarter
cover, with a deep blue Soutar woman looking
unutterable things at a bile-green sea, of at
“ Price One Shilling ’’printed across the bile-green
sea. The Album also contains “ Come into the
Garden, Maud,” “ Three Fishers,” and “Barney
O’Hea,” but the rest is quite different, and a
Jingo song by Kenneth Maekay and Walter
Cranleigh “ We’ll fight for the Pride of Place, ” is
just the stirring song for a lot of people standing
round a bush piano to make the gum-trees shiver
to. The rest of the Album is Balfe, Schumann,
Hatton, and others who have climbed beyond
comment.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At the Brough Farewell (Dec. 15) Mrs.
Brough and Misses Temple and Noble got flowers,
while clever Miss Bessie Thompson, very far from
the least deserving, went empty away.
t *' A snug houseful looked its last pro. tem. on
The Village Priest.’ Apropos of the Abbe’s
bullying housekeeper (Ada Rochefort) there are
worse^ billets, come to think of it, than fairy of a
priest’s lone fireside, where no Missus chivvies,
nor husband-hunters break through to jump the
claim. Their Reverences, I mean the plump
1 athers ’ with presbyteries of their own, would
not be exacting task-masters, while the lean,
worrying, brainy enthusiasts usually herd together
in colleges, etc. Scribe formerly knew a seventy-
year-old Italian Abbe, chubbiest and kindest of
men. This genial ancient set great store by his
housekeeper, whom, in his own words, he ‘rever-
enced like a blessed mother ! ’ A bit of harmless
vanity on the Padre’s part, for the widow in ques-
tion, good worthy soul, must have been his junior
by ten years at least. The same spirit makes
women of 55 ostentatiously cosset ‘ dear old ladies’
of sixty.
“Mrs. Brough’s good-bye aspect as the re-
pentant Marquise was marred by her white-soled
shoes, which looked as if the wearer were too
remorseful to bother with boot-gloss, or else had
been hanging round a lime-kiln with suicidal
intentions. Mr. Brough’s straight-out speech
attributed his recent boom to increase of persons
appreciative of his style of play. Maybe yes,
perhaps no ! A year ago, a Brough season in
Melbourne was a failure, owing, I shouldn’t
wonder, to Bland Holt’s gaudy counter-attrac-
tions. Holloway’s productions,' less gorgeous
than Bland Holt’s, and just as deliriously im-
probable, have been less formidable rivals.
“ The Princess farewell charity entertainment
(Dec. 16th) hung fire half-way. Glory Quayle, in
all-red, drove rude yawns away for a bit, so did
the ‘Liars.’ Nothing else euchred ‘that tired
feeling,’ not excepting the club-scene. It might
be different if Bohemians, geniuses, maniacs,
anarchists, and other ‘ queer-sticks,’ were in the
habit of frequenting clubs and for one evening
only were exposed to the glare of the populace.
But the fact that a number of smug, well-groomed
identities are prosperous enough to join expensive
clubs doesn’t seem to shed haloes round their sleek
heads to such an extent as to render them exciting
peep-sliowers.
“Fair-haired Mrs. George Chimsile, in red,
was the bright particular star of her 14-guinea
box. Tall, dark Mrs. Gilbert Wilson came in a
picturesque pelisse of claret and gold brocade.
Miss May Harper had long scarves of silk-muslin
falling from the .throat of„ her white-silk cape.
Mrs. M‘Culloeh wore black and white. The
daughters of a fashionable dancing-teacher, Miss
Barbara Sisley, and others more or less intimately
connected with stageland, pushed the sale of pro-
grammes.
“ In the new Holloway production, ‘ Our Guar-
dian Angel,’ Ethel Appleton airs a smart frock or
two, notably that cream fish-net polonaise over
flounced green-silk skirt. Pretty Miss Dora de
Winton evidently holds fast to the theory ‘ beauty
unadorned, adorned the most! ’ Considering
that she’s frequently billed as an heiress, she
might do worse than show an audience for once
in a way, how she looks ‘with ’em all on.’ Frances
Ross, of the Bland Holt eo., is a stage-beauty
who likes to ‘knock ’ onlookers by dint of finery
as well as loveliness, and De Winton, aforesaid,
might do worse than follow suit. Altogether,
John Saunders and his creamy bride are slightly
monotonous. When hubby bares his milk-white
arm, preparatory to knocking down some ‘un-
British ’ bully, he gloats reflectively over its
smooth fairness before he gets to business. When
he takes wifie’s tiny hand, he scans it in the same
slow, ghoulish manner till one doesn’t know
whether to compare him to a manicurist or a
cannibal. His pretty one, for her part, bares her
round throat, airs her shapely arms through trans-
parent sleeves, gets a nice gloss on her ‘ hair so
brown,’ and for the rest stands round, apparently
thanking Heaven she has done her duty.
“ If only there were room for a lawn and conse-
quent clothes-parade, Melbourne Cricket Ground
gatherings would surpass Elemington’s from a
spectacular point of view. Last day of the Wheel
Race (Dec. Kith) pretty dress girls were common
as grass-seed. I liked a soft greeny muslin, with
pale blue silk sailor-collar, transparent Jack-Tar
vest and neck-band. The tall graceful wearer’s
Tuscan hat was crested with pale green hoops and
blue hydrangeas, and shaded a, face pretty and
saucy enough for Hebe’s. On the track, W. L.
Park, in white bediamonded with brown, looked
cooler and fresher than most.
“At present the air throbs with the echoes of
school concerts. A really creditable recital was
given by Madame Summerhayes and pupils
in the Upper Athenaeum Hall (Dee. 13). Among
the young pianists and fiddlers, one noticed darlf-
eved keen-nosed scions of the Brainy People.
Those who know, deny the existence of an “un-
grateful Jew” and an Israelite dunce seems no
less of a rarity.
“Miss Lewis, a Summerhayes vocal student,
sang in simple, fresh, girlish tones, quite refresh-
ing in these days of prodigies when a warbler’s
voice, deportment and ankles often seem years
older than her skirts and coiffure. At the recital,
Lady Brassey’s one ewe lamb and the Madden
baby occupied the ‘Seats of the Mighty’in the
absence of their respective mothers. The latter, a
plump, placid juvenile, with a skin like snow,
wore black velvet frock and lace collar, and pre-
sented an amusing contrast to her all-alive junior,
in grown-up grey coat and skirt. The Brassey
midget hung breathlessly on the doings of the
1 littlest ’ performers, demanded the verdict of her
peaceful comrade on the flavor of every caramel
consumed, and when the sweets capsized on the
floor, goggled her blue eyes and buttoned her
mouth apprehensively in anticipation of reprisals
from the concert-promoters.
“Conservatorium students’ operatic perform-
ance (Dec. 12) filled the Alexandra. It was an
enjoyable entertainment, too. Those jumpy,
energetic ways affected by the Conservatorium
crowd sink peacefully in the sea of histrionic de-
monstration. ‘ Margarethe ’ (Marguerite Hender-
son) always seems unduly elated by these paltry
trinkets. Nowadays nothing short of diamonds
would turn a young person’s head, and the extra-
pure Margarethe shouldn’t succumb to spar,
paste, etc.
“The concert was a veritable flower-show.
On one occasion when two girls were sing-
ing together, seventeen different arrangements
of flowers were handed up, twelve for one girl and
five for the other. Each performer got flowers,
but one sceptical male in the audience declared
that the same beautiful arrangement of carnations
went up in turn to each performer. This is
possible, but even so, such a number of presenta-
tions is almost unparalleled in the history of
Melbourne concerts.
“ The dowager of Cliveden had three gallants to
conduct her to her carriage at the Australian Club
ball. At concerts, theatres, all the shows—there
are dozens of all ages and sizes struggling to cart
her capes and salts about.
“Little Celia Dam pier, the child violiniste from
Maoriland, who received benefit concerts in both
Sydney and Melbourne, has fallen on her feet in
London. Kruse, originally a Melbournite and
now one of Joachim’s quartette, has been so
impressed with the child’s playing, that he has
offered to undertake her musical education him-
self. The fact that his ordinary fee is three
guineas a lesson, shows the standing of Herr
Kruse in the musical world.
“Captain (now Major) Victor Sellheim, the.
young Bananalander who swam the Modder River
under fire and helped to rescue comrades from
drowning, is a son of the recently-deceased 6.
Mines Under-Secretary of that name. Sellheim,
pbre, an Austrian of distinguished lineage, for
many years served the Queensland Government in
various capacities. He belonged to the dying type
of old-school police magistrates and commissioners.
His sons are old Brisbane Grammar School boys
and extremely handsome fellows.
“ Baden-Powell probably voted Lady Sarah
Wilson a nuisance when she blundered into
captivity, thereby necessitating the exchange of a
Boer lady, who no doubt rejoined her people,
primed with valuable data re the invested garrison.
■The blue-blooded ‘ Innocent Abroad ’had presum-
ably counted on her rank to extricate her from
possible complications. But in Boer surroundings,
the password ‘ Lady Sarah Wilson, don’tcherknow,’
didn’t work the open sesame trick. Judging by
her twaddling newspaper letters, the ‘copy’
privileges piled upon a beleaguered outpost are
wasted upon this short-siarhted scribe. The
correspondent who, in such a position, dilates
upon the, cookery and catering at Mafeking hotels,
would be quite capable of starting to describe a
human holocaust with the remark - every woman
onlooker,got her fringe singed.’
ours afiectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-hearted,
lazy,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enousrh to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post. Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
Lor Inter’s
Compound St/rup of TTypophosphitea.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Sole Aornt for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly, /
%3f“ A Revolution In Sterilisers.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No I.— The Baker.
Mr. T. Streater writes: “I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. lam a baker by
trade, which, as you know, is very hard work, but
I am pleased to say than when I am done of a
night I go home and have a cup of your Cocoa,
and feel quite fresh again, and then I go and
enjoy myself. But before I took to Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa I used to mess about indoors as tired as
could be.”
Vi-Cocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted dietetic
value, Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is at once digestive
and refreshing, nutritious and invigorating. This
is the secret of its phenomenal success. It seems
so far as we can gather, to agree with everybody’
and everybody is agreed in giving it a good name!
Apparently it is the accepted beverage of a people
who have recognised and appreciated its remark-
able health-giving properties. And certainly in
this age of rush and worry, wear and tear, when
the energies of mind and body are so severely
taxed, it is an ideal food.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from l)r. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 200 George-street, Sydney.
As an unpaialleled test of merit, a dainty sample
tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be sent free on
application to any address, if when writing (a
postcard will do) the reader will name Tub
Bulletin. *
Have Zetz Spa Water with your Xmas
dinner—positively prevents indigestion. Doctors
pronounce ZETZ incomparable."
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Ticket o
Europe, New Zealand, Tasman-aor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
An Ominous name : Sir Revers’d Buller.
Only one letter transposed.
Reid says Wise is “a graceful merry-go-
round.” But Reid is a most disgraceful merry-
go-round.
Seven Scotchmen in M‘Lean’s Vie. Minis-
try-three of ’em Maes. It is politically at sixes
and sevens, and is known socially as “The Scotch
Mixture.”
A prize mixed metaphor is that delivered
by the late Premier Francis in Vic. Leg. Assem-
bly : “He fell, Mr. Speaker, like Lucifer, and —
and—went out.’’
One Rev. Dmvie, of New York (evidently,
from his language, Sydney’s dear old fat friend,
Jolin Alexander Howie), now runs at Chicago, the
ungodly city allegedly “damned” by G. Republican
Dihbs, a “religious” publication called “Leaves
OF Healing : a Week'll Jht/ier for the Exten-
sion of the Kikiidom of Ood.” It is
thw of tlin “ Christian Catliolio
Church and Divine Healing Mis-
sion,” under Rev. Dowie as “ Gene-
ral Overseer,” who says that he
has a church of 25,000 members,
and is receiving 80 members a
day. Leaves of Hkai.ing reports
the discourses of “Dr.” Dowie.
Addressing the representatives of
the press, he says: “Where are
your reporters, you vile generation
of vipers, who manufacture lies ?
Where are you, skunks and
thieves and liars? How shall ye
escape the damnation of hell ?”
Of druggists he says: “ They are
a mass of organised murderers.
The Scripture calls them sorcerers,
pharmakoi , and says they will all
go to hell. . . . Tell every pharma-
cist in Chicago that unless Reve-
lation xxi. 8 is a lie, lie is going
to hell.” A verbal missile repeatedly
hurled by this pulpiteer at his adversa-
ries is “stink-pot.” But the maledictory
discourse is closed- with a prayer for “cleans-
ing from every impurity of spirit, soul, and
body.” Dowie. boasts of marvellous healing
powers, and his subj -cts testify to cures of cancer,
consumption, &c. His “Zion Tabernacle” lias
its outer courts in a “Zion City Bank,” and a
“Zion Land and Investment Association,” for
the building up of a “Zion City.” A “Zion Col-
lege,” “Zion Divine Healing Home,’’and various
“ Zion Missions ” at home and abroad are among
its branches. Talk of faith being dead !
“The British blue-jackets of General
Methuen’s column, which is advancing to the
relief of Kimberley, have christened their naval
gun ‘ Joe Chamberlain.”’ Which is most appro-
priate : in Australia “gun” is slang for a plausible
and respectably-dressed thief.
Holder’s Ministry beats all S.A. records
for pious associations. The Premier is a local-
preacher, Works-Minister Foster is an ex-parson
and Education-Minister Batchelor occasionally
takes the pulpit. Even Attorney-General Gordon
is the son of a Bible Christian minister.
Perhaps the oldest Victorian working
journalist died last week, aged 80 years—Mr. J.
W. Banfield, proprietor of the Ararat Adver-
tiser. He arrived in 1852, and was connected
with newspapers without interval ever since. He
founded the Ararat Advertiser in 1857.
Mr. Gregson, a former member of the
Tas. Lower House, once delivered himself of a
phrase which was considered a fine example of
“colonial” Parliamentary rhetoric. He ex-
plained, replying to an opponent: “ The hon.
member is too contemptible even for my con-
tempt.’
Should Vic. ex-Attorney-General Isaacs,
who is going ’Ome with a brief for the Melb.
Tramway Co., get a favorable introduction to the
“ best ” Jews he might pitch his family tent in the
Big Smoke presently. For professional reasons
Isaacs possibly regrets that he declined the
offer of a jubilee knighthood.
The new S.A. Ministry hasn’t a greybeard in
it. “ Johnny ” Gordon, who could pass anywhere
for a chirpy youngster, and Premier Holder are
both just under 50. Greeley Jenkins, the member
for M'urka, is a year younger; he was born in ’5l.
The infant is Labor-leader Batchelor—-34. Holder,
like his long-time leader Kingston, is S.A.-born.
Philp makes the 15th Queensland Pre-
mier. The most persistent holder of the office
was Griffith with a record of 7i years; the
shortest term was Dawson’s (sworn in at
noon, thrown out at 4 same day. Dawson made
the 4th Australian-born Premier, and Philp
makes the sth Scotch-born. The others ran—one
Irish, four English, and one Welsh.
The late John Hancock, Vic. M.L.A.,
ooinbined a devotion to horse-racing and a love of
a little flutter with strict Sabbatarianism, and
half-a-dozen Sunday-schools mourned his loss.
John was fiercely opposed to opening libraries
and picture-galleries on Sundays. “ The workless
Sunday is a democratic institution,” he said. “If
you can’t keep it wholly, keep as much of it as
you can.”
Premier Schreiner and Olive Schreiner
have a brother named Theoplnlus, who is a tem-
perance crank and an Imperialistic Jingo. He
declares “ that God, who was on the side of the
Transvaal in the late war because it had ri.ht on
its side, will now be on the side of England, be-
couse he must view with abhorrence any plotting
and scheming to overthrow her power and position
in South Africa, which have been ordained by
Him.” Schreiners, like Slatterys, evidently run
in all shapes.
N’.S.W. ex-Minister Tom Slattery, although
one wouldn’t think of it to look at him, is rather
handy with his fists, having graduated under
master-puncher Larry Foley. “ How did you
come to have Mr. Slattery for a pupil?’’Foley
was asked one day. “ Well, you see it was
this way,” replied Larry, “he used to teach me
catechism at Sunday-school and one good turn
deserved another.”
Nearly every member of Par-
liament, when writing to the papers, tacks the
“M.H.A on to his signature and demands that
it be printed. Tiib Bulletin once saw a N.S. W.
legislator’s name written like that at the foot of a
BORN TO COMMAND.
DOOLRY (bringing in the baby): “ He was stand-
ing up by the cradle cryin', Mary Ann, and
tryin’ ter rock himself to slape.”
letter to the paper. He was one of the first batch
of Labor men, so might have been excused. But
his colleagues chaffed unmercifully, and the in-
discretion was not repeated.
Holder, the long lean politician who is
now S.A. Premier, has only been in politics a
little over 10 years, but in that time he has been
in four Ministries (of two of them he was Pre-
mier), and has had nearly eight years of office.
Holder was originally a poorly-paid State peda-
gogue, and after being the still-hungrier proprie-
tor of a country newspaper, became a politician.
When he wants to get weighed he goes to a
chemist.
Premier Lyne is a native of Glamorgan,
East Coast of Tasmania, where the Lynes are
numerous as potatoes. W. J.’s father sat in the
Assembly for years, and at the recent election a
brother of the N.S.W. Premier stood, but retired
before nomination, seeing he had no show against
Shaw, brother of the Hobart P.M. W. J. L. was
clerk of the bench at his native place years ago,
before lie went to Bananaland and finally settled
in N.S.W.
Patrick M‘Mahon Glynn, S.A.’s Attorney-
General in the Ministry of Sudden Solomon, is a
curious blend of Radical and Tory. Years ago
Glynn, when a young man, founded a society at
Kapunda (S.A.) to preach the Georgian doctrine,
and one of his earliest converts was Coles, now
Assembly Speaker. Glynn then edited Kapunda
Herald, and an ardent band of Liberals ran
him successfully for S.A. Assembly. Like his
convert, Coles, Glynn has dropped land-tax re-
form and has latterly voted more with the Tories
than the Liberals. He is one of the finest orators
in S.A., although handicapped by a brogue.
De Rougemont, now in South Africa for
his health, says he is finally going to settle down
in Sydney. He says (or lies) that he has received
numerous offers of marriage ; and may accept one
from a lady owning a castle in France. This
despite his wife in Sydney ! The Wide World’s
liar relates that at a dinner .given in his honor it
was agreed that each one present should tell a
yarn. When Rougemont had finished his, St.
Stead, who was present, and is said to hold the
belt for awful crammers, leaned across the table
and said to Rougemont, “ I feel that I must now
hand you the belt.” Rougemont replied, “You
may keep it; you only hold the belt for England,
I want it for the whole world ! ”
fTreas. Shiels, when Premier of Victoria,
was the masher of the Leg. Assembly. He
delivered his famous Casterton speech in full
evening dress, and spoke for four and a-half hours
with great satisfaction to himself. But he did
not capture the Age, which obliged him to take
Graham Berry into his Ministry and drop the
Casterton programme. Mr. Shiels acquired great
unpopularity with the reporters when in office.
He wore a fresh suit of clothes every day, and a
pink shirt on one day of each week. When the
colored rag was flaunted his liver was very bad
indeed, and “ pink-shirt days ” came to be known
by enquiring pressmen as days of trial. Emo-
tional William is the Claud Melnotte of Austra-
lian politics.
Be Dr. Philson, recently-deceased Auck-
land physician. Twenty-eight years ago, when
writer was about to justify the legend “ Welcome
Little Stranger” (written in pins on a new pin-
cushion trimmed with baby ribbon), a messenger
dispatched for Dr. Philson tracked him to a
cottage hospital near Auckland domain. “Where
shall I find the doctor?” panted the messenger to
a man who, kneeling on a mat and wearing a bag
■ apron, was enthusiastically scrubbing a ward.
“You have found him,” rejoined the scrubber.
‘‘Just push that piece of soap here, will you.
This place is terribly undermanned under-
nurse-d rather. The poor girls have more than
they can manage (scrub, scrub, scrub) and I’m
just giving them a helping brush.”
The Melb. auction-sale of poor old Ephraim
Zox’s personal effects looked a contemptible busi-
ness in all its“ bearings. Paltry prices were
realised for the defunct punster's “togs”—his
eleven “ famous ” white vests went at a shilling or
thirteenpence apiece—and even tins neat silver
inkstand presented to him by boon companion
Dick Speight didn’t move the local Jewish com-
munity to a better bid than fifteen shillings. The
most nauseous feature of the jeersome sale was a
“spirited competition” for a worthless bit of
pasteboard. An invitation card went for twelve
shillings, not because it bore Zox’s name on the
face, but because it had ostensibly been issued by
his Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales. The
groveller who invested twelve “bob” in this
precious souvenir might have bought Zox’s favorite
arm-chair for only a shilling more.
Colonel Malcolm M. Macdonald, who died
last week, aged 80, and was buried on Sunday at
St. Thomas’, North Sydney, with military honors,
was a well-known figure in athletic circles 20
years ago. With sword, single-stick, or gloves he
had few compeers. When the swordsman, Pro-
fessor Parker—the original of Charles Dickens’
Sergeant George in “ Bleak House ’’ —visited Aus-
tralia the stalwart Capt. Macdonald (as he then
was) accepted his challenge aud beat the professor
at almost all his own arts. In boxing-contests
the Colonel was usually chosen referee, and no
one quarrelled with his decisions. For one inci-
dent in which he figured he afterwards expressed
much regret. In a fit of passion at the publica-
tion of remarks in the Empikk upon something in
his domestic life, Captain Macdonald horse-
whipped Rev. Dr. Lang in Hunter-street. Court
proceedings followed, and at the Quarter Session
the. Captain pleaded guilty and was fined .£5.
The later years of the Captain’s life have been
mentally clouded. Captain Macdonald, who
looked an ideal cavalryman, saw service half-a-
century ago in India, and was the original pro-
moter of the cavalry-movement in N.S.W.
Ex-Victorian Govt.-Astronomer Ellery,
aged 72 years (of which 48 have been lived in
Melbourne), has a rich store of anecdotes, which
he ought tojiut on paper. When, in 18(10, Penal-
Inspector Price was murdered by convicts at
Williamstown, Ellery had charge of a little ob-
servatory in that maritime suburb, and, being a
surgeon by profession, was called to see Price,
whom he found to be quite dead. Price’s body
was carried up from the quarries by the very
men who were afterwards hanged for his mur-
der. In ’7l Ellery went with a scientific
party and a loi of ex-con victs—3o all told
—to Cape York, N.Q., to witness a total
eclipe of the sun. One of the Clare-
mont Islands, 60 or 70 miles south of
Cape York, selected for the observa-
tions, was found to be alive with rats,
before which the first men sent ashore
had fairly to beat a retreat. In ’54,
Ellery received his dismissal from Gov.
Hotham, an autocrat of the old navy-
captain brand—to whom Ellery had
not long before been discoursing of the
strides science was making in America
—“ Because,” said Hotham, “I won’t
have any damned Yankees in the ser-
vice here.” But a young official named
Drummond, remembering that
Hotham was from Yorkshire, said,
“ Why, Sir Charles, Ellery’s a York-
shireman!” The curious result was
that next day Ellery got t\vo letters
under the same cover, one informing
him that he was dismissed, and the
other that his salary was increased.
And the joke was that Ellery was
born in Surrey.
A very old colonist died last week at
Bondi—Mrs. Elizabeth Mackenzie, aged 89 years.
She was a daughter of T. F. Hawkins, of Black-
down, Bathurst, and brother to one of the earliest
gold commissioners of theTuron. She arrived in
N.S.W. in 1822, and, with her mother and grand-
mother, made one of the first party of ladies who
crossed the Blue Mountains, a journey of three
weeks in carts and bullock-drays. In 1827 she
married John Piper Mackenzie, at one time an
official assignee, the pair celebrating their golden
wedding in 1877. Apropos, there is a police-
constable still doing duty in Bathurst, who has
marched from Bourke to Mount Victoria (then
the terminus of the railway) with prisoners, camp-
ing out at night and chaining the prisoners to
trees.
W. J. Napier, one of the newly-elected
members for Auckland (M.L.) is a dapper little
duo deoimo of a man still on the right side of
forty. Left a friendless orphan at an early age,
he earned his own education, eventually qualified
for the law, and is now a leader of the local bar.
His biggest legal success was in the Samoan
cause celebre, Cornwall v. McArthur & Co., which
cost defendants over .£75,000. Hori Grey had a
great liking for Napier, and predicted for him a
brilliant career as a politician, and it was believed
twelve years ago that the rising young lawyer was
in the running to lie Grey’s “talented young
friend” vice Joseph Augustus Tolo, who had
offended the Knight of Kawau through taking
office in the Stout-Vogel Administration. “ Poor
I ole ! ’ said Grey, with an inimitable accent of
the deepest commiseration, and from that day
Tola petered out politically
J. H. Graves, M.L. A. (Vic.), who brought
the charges against Minister Best, is cousin of
Percival Graves, author of “Father O'Flynn”
and other humorous ballads. J.H.G.’s school-
master in Dublin was one Dr. Flynn, and Rev.
11. B. Macartney, afterwards for nearly 50 years
Lean of Melbourne, used to give religious instruc-
tion to the boys. At Trinity College, Dublin,
Graves had for fellow-students the present Chief-
Justice Darley, of N.S.W., the late George Higin
bot.ham, afterwards Chief Justice of Victoria,
Nick I itzgerald, the Castlomaino brewer,
Bryan O Loghlen, Q.C., and Canon Potter, of St.
Kilda. He married a daughter of Lieut. Harvey,
who shut the gates of the chateau of I lougouinonb
against the French at Waterloo, and turned the
tide of ill-luck against Napoleon. When Grave
first went up for Delatite he was told at Stratb
bogie that 60 of the 90 men on the roll were on the
committee of his opponent, who had spent -£2OO
in the place. When the numbers were up, Graves
found that 71 of the 90 at Stratlibogie had voted
for him—after getting “ the other fellow’s ” £2OO.
Graves’ brother was Warden Harry Graves, the
Sydney stock-salesman.
A certain Australian legal luminary was
accounted exceptionally green in his salad days.
Going to England as a youngster of 22, he was
pursued on the ship by a handsome married
coquette whose husband had been left at home.
At length the lady’s attentions became so marked
and persistent that the youthful law-student
found the position a too embarrassing one, and
appealed to the captain for advice. “ Don’t dis-
tress yourself, Mr. Leges, I'll soon set that all
right,” was the skipper’s off-hand reply. The
hero of the adventure used to wind up the story to
his shore friends as follows: “Mrs. Blank never
came near me again, but a most unaccountable
thing happened—during the remainder of the
voyage she and the captain were as thick as
thieves ! ”
Rev. Shirley Baker, cocoanut and yam
parson, has started anew as religious teacln r in
Tongatabu, the old home of his political and sec-
tarian triumphs. He was Wesleyan pope there
in days of yore, now he is Church of England
rector, and claims authority from Primate Cowie,
of Auckland. But the young king, unlike King
George, declines his counsel, spiritual and tem-
poral, so that the ascendancy to which High Com-
missioner Thurston dealt the death-blow stands
no prospect of reappearing. Baker blames Thurs-
ton more than any other hostile influence for the
miscarriage of his schemes in Tonga. On the day
Thurston’s death was announced, the exiled Baker
packed-up at Auckland and steamed back to
Tonga, believing his hour had come. But the
king was dumb, the vVesleyans unresponsive, and
the semi-comedy of Baker as a C.E. rector is the
net result to date.
Dr. G. E. Smith, whose appointment as
Demonstrator of Anatomy at Cambridge Uni-
versity was recently cabled, is a graduate of
Sydney University, and was the first person
whose training had been entirely received at the
institution to take the M.D. degree there, which
he did in ’95. (Most local medicos are content
with the M. 8., which qualifies them for registra-
tion). As Demonstrator of Anatomy at Sydney
he was very popular with his students, and his
researches into out-of-the-way problems of brain-
structure brought his name into note in the
scientific world. Awarded in ’96 a two years’
travelling scholarship by the University, he went
to England, and soon attracted attention by
papers read at medical congresses in Dublin and
Birmingham. Just as the Sydney scholarship was
expiring, he was awarded one of equal value by
the British Medical Association for more brain-
research, and now this has come to an end a
Cambridge fellowship and his position as
demonstrator will provide him with further
opportunities of scientific study.
ANOTHER PATRIOTIC HERO.
“Widower. wealthy, wishes to settle down. Desires
to meet middlc-ayed lady with view to matri-
mony. No objection to reasonable encum-
brances.”
There is much jealousy in Yic. military-
circles about Col. Hoad being put in command of
the Australian troops in South Africa, but those
who know him think that General Methuen made
a wise choice. Hoad is a type of the scholar sol-
dier, beloved of Wolseley and Evelyn Wood.
Methuen met him in England.in 1807, and evi-
dently formed a high opinion of his quality.


WOLFE’S
sichitdflm^tonwfkjid
* SUPCAUTIVI
TONIC.OIUAfTtI.ANTia
u
tfufiTlfr
INVIGORATING COR!
m*-
o
•v fe
m
txdtw
o*nc£
THE
PUBLIC
IS
SPECIALLY
REQUESTED
to
ASK FOB.
and
Make Sure
of
GETTING
WOLFE’S
Which is
the
Real
Original
SoLtnappg,
The Favorite and Best Summer Drink is ~ «i
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Look for
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/0 per Day, n
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance
For a Christmas stay
The Australia has charming attractions without
number. In the hottest summer day, the hand-
some drawing and dining rooms are as cool as
early spring. The telegraph office is inside the
hotel. The attendance is unsurpassable in
London or New York. The hotel ie situated on
a hill site, so that it catches every evening breeze
in summer, thus ensuring visitors perfect night’s
rest. The hotel is perfectly fire-proof, and its
table has made Australia famous. Sara Bern-
hardt wrote—“ May I always be as happy as I
was at The Australia.”
11, EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
He was an American citizen, voyaging
from Wellington to Nelson, M.L. An enthusias
tie Maorilander took him to the fo'c’sle to give
him a good view of “ Pelorus Jack,” the strange
white fish which gambols round and rubs itself
against the bows of steamers going through the
French Pass; a fish which is protected by an
order of Governor-in-Oouncil, which has been
photographed, and is, in fact, quite a local iden-
tity. But that day “ Jack ” did not put in an
BEK
“ I guess you drink bad spirits in this country.”
“Why so?” said the Maorilander. “I’ll tell
you,” said the Yankee. “In Amurrika, whar I
come from, we drink spirits—and sometimes we
see flies, town we sometimes see snakes. But,
stranger, we never s co fish / ”
• * » *
“Rick”: While I was waiting at a
woman-in-charge station on the S. East line, Via,
a cookie’s son, aged about 24, came in to take
TWO BLACKS DON’T MAKE A WHITE.
MR. CHARCOAL ( reviewing pale offspring): “ Wha’
for?”
away a bag of oats sent by train. He asked if he
was supposed to bullock it out himself, whereupon
the station-mistress clasped the bag in her arms,
carried it outside station-limits, and planked it
on the cart. “ Tell yer father to send a man next
time —not a boy,” she said as he drove off looking
silly. Two days afterwards she added to the
population and the event went off quite satis-
factorily.
* * * *
“The only pirate I struck,” said Bulger,
“ was on the Clyde River. We were puntin’
hard wood logs then for a saw-mill —three of us; and
this morning we had on eight spotted gums—just
as much as the old craft could stagger under. The
water was gettin’ over her decks, and we thought
she might dip any minute. Well, we were dodgin’
THE THINGS WE RIDE BEHIND.
Specimens of the Sydney cab and ’bus horse —past and passing.
down as close in as we could get, when a fellow on
the bank hailed us. Wanted tucker, and we
slung him some tea and sugar and ‘salt horse.’
‘ Any terbaeker ? ’ We threw him a bit. ‘ Any
more terbaeker ? ’ Passed him another bit. ‘Give
us all the terbaeker yer have,’ says he, ‘or I’ll
board yer.’ Told him to be d d ! and he gave
a lep an’ landed among us an’ the logs, and that’s
the last we saw of ’em. When we got ashore the
bloke had to fight us all—one after the other, and
then all together—and we gave him the mother of
a hidin’. But we got the ‘ run ’ for losin’ the logs
and punt.”
“A.G.” : At a*bush “bachelors’ ball,” I
noted seated on . gin-oase, the poster and .
local belle, and they were talking bull. Dis-
cussed the merits of her father’s bull, and his
prospects of getting “ the blue ” at the coming
show. She was inclined to think Murphy’s bull
would win, but the postmaster couldn’t see it.
They had just started to go over the points of her
pa’s animal when the music got well again and
started. Love’s young dream !
* * * *
“G. A.P.” : Had a gamecock once that
used to call the chickens to partake of something
that had no existence, save in his own depraved
imagination, and would then ruthlessly slaughter
his own flesh and blood. After he had slain six
in one day we put him on trial, and, mainly- on
the evidence of the youngest girl who averred she
“ sor im,” sentenced him to death. That night,
as the moon shone dimly through the cracks of
the fowl-house, I stole in armed with a heavy boot.
The culprit stirred uneasily on the roost as if con-
scious of his impending doom; then, with one
fell blow, he lay kicking at my feet. I picked
him up, and—l had slain the prize Orpington
cockerel 1
J ack Sheridan could shear
with the best of ’em; but he
had awful luck. Making for
Simpson’s station once, after
a shed, he met a man in a
blue jumper, and they got
talking. Jack asked after
“ old .Simpson’s
daughter,” and signified his
intention of “ sticking-up ” to
her. The other fellow asked
if he could shear. “Shear 1 ”
said Jack; “ I could shear a
pig ! ” Then they parted, Jack
keeping to the road, and the
other man cutting across pad-
docks. Arrived at the home-
stead, Jack hunted up Mr.
Simpson and asked for a
“pen.” Simpson quite a
“ toff ” —took him up the yard
and, pointing to a big pig,
said, “Shear that fellow!”
“What are you givin’ us?”
asked Jack. Then the old
fellow told him he had a good-
looking daughter and couldn’t
think ofputting him on, as he
“might be sticking-up to
her.” Jack took a long, long look. It was the
man of the jumper.
* * * *
The celebration of the birth of the first
pure Chow infant in a N.Q. town was attended
by the editor and reporter of a local paper. The
scribes enjoyed themselves hugely, but next day
appeared the results of too much joy in a para-
graph which read (verbatim et litteratim) :
The church was nicety decorated with Chinese lanterns,
etc, the congregation appreciated the baby, who is a
sturdy little chow ; the rev. gentleman spoke for some
length, and proposed the health of Mr. Sing Lee’s heir,
which was responded to in flowing bumpers, the very im-
pressive sermon was brought to a close by the benedic-
tion and more whiskey.
» » * *
“B.S.’’: I know a loco, engine-driver
who, through “ rolling back ” too speedily, made
a smash unavoidable. Snatching his hand-
hammer, he broke the gauge-glass, and dodged
punishment by pleading temporary blindness
through the steam from the “burst glass.” Also
a shunter who, through careless switching, caused
a smash, broke the points-lever off at the socket by
wrenching it sideways, and so “saved his bacon.”
But a cooler hand still was the boss of a thresher,
who, in crossing to relieve the feeder, fell face-
forward on the slanting “ board,” both edges of
which he grasped. His legs hung over the
“ drum,” and the “ beaters ” whirred on his boot-
nails. The least slip meant death, yet w hen we
rushed to lift him, he said in ordinary “ knock-off,
men,” tones, “ Keep yer claws away, an’ signal
the driver to shut-off.”
* * • »
A S.A. country police court is being held
in the spare room of a pub. Present aßJayspee:
the local miller, coatless and floury; and the
butcher, aproned and greasy. Prisoner charged
with “lifting” the knives, forks and spoons
belonging to a young squatter lately out from
’Ome. Prosecutor (in midst of case): “ Hi, con-
stable ! it’s damned hot in heah ; bwing the
pwisoner in a whisky-split 1 ” Constable whispers
to the bench, and the tallowy meat man snorts :
“ Certainly I —contempt of court 1 The sittin’ is
adjourned for five minutes. Bring the prisoner,
and the bench three whiskies, and ’ave a pint
SARCASTIC.
BLACK-AND-WHITE ARTIST: “Hullo, old chap, how's things?"
BLUE- AND-YELLOW (not appreciated): “Oh! I think I’ll have to
chuck up ART and go in for Black-and-white, like you.”
yerself at the prosecutor’s expense.’’ It is done ;
and prisoner afterwards gets three months hard.
Dear Bulletin. —Was it “Snake”
M'Cooey who, some 12 years ago, discovered that
the long-necked tortoise, when digging a hole in
hard ground in which to deposit its eggs, carried
water long distances from the river (as much as
10 chains) and discharged or vomited this water
in the hole to soften the ground ? In what volume
of the “ Proceedings of the Linnsean Society ”
did Mac. publish this truly wonderful discovery,
and where is that volume obtainable ?—D. J.O,
Curious Jetters rece
by a Big Scrub doctor :
Mr. Jam i in.—l senden see
wether let have somethin”-. Mr.
Cedar come home not well, he
seen laid up 2 dys dyrear he
cant Eat lost his Happetight.
after he dos eat enj thing he
dreadful! (hurstey. he fallen
away dreadfull he wants some-
thing make Eat he no earen for
enything. low you 3s. 6d, i
call pay all in few days. —G.
Ckdar.
Strang-what makes so thirsty
drink water he not uset to it.
he never Eats Salt Beef.
Mr. Jamtin.— Mr. Cedar had
axedent too days, he took son e
ringworm sarve what left over
by misstake cured him dierear
ail gon. no panes left side lie
allrieht now coni] Fatly.—G.
Crdar.
“ Natu ” : Once saw a
battle between a big taran-
tula and a hornet. The
hornet buzzed about and
made a feinting dart in
front, but being met by the
spider—which reared up on
its hind legs and swiped
round wildly with the rest
of them the big wasp
wheeled, jabbed his foe in
the back, and retreated,
This kind of tiling went on
for quite five minutes, the
tarantula getting drowsier
and drowsier after each
sting, until he curled up
belp’ess, and his conqueror
half dragged and half flew
off with him.
* *
“A.E.G.”: Not gene-
rally known that dingo pups
are not born blind, like those
of the rest of the canine family. At all events, I
have found them, less than a day old, with eyes wide
open.
r * * * *
“F.G.”: Bad ruin and worse “ bacca ”
are responsible for the failing power of the Aus-
tralian aboriginal as a tracker. There is at
Daviesville (N.S.W.) a Q. aboriginal youth of 15,
who possessed a young leveret as a pet. The
animal, which was decorated with a red woollen
collar, escaped from its box one night, and next
day the little nig. found his pet asleep under a
log after having tracked it over half-a-mile across
a ploughed paddock.
THE LATE MR. SYDNEY BURDEKIN.
Photo, by J. Hubert Neuman, Sydney.
“A.A.A.”: Re “A.L.E.’s” par. (8.,
21/10/’99), Mr. R. H. Matthews, of Parramatta,
saw the Kamlurien tribe perform it at Tyson’s
Goondoobline station (N.S.W.) in ’94, and subse-
quently described the proceedings before the
Royal Society of Vio. He has also described the
“burbury” of the New England tribes, the
“bora” of the Wiradjuri speaking tribes (whose
dialect prevailed from Murrumbidgee to Namoi),
the “ bunnan ” or “ man-making ” of the N.S.W.
south coast tribes ; and the ditto of the Darknung
tribes, whose territory extended from Campbell-
town (N.S.W.) to hear Singleton. Murrell men-
tions the man-making ceremony of the tribe he
dwelt amongst, but as he did not go through the
ceremony, and women seem to have been present,
he most probably saw only that portion which a
white would be allowed to view at any time.
MALCOLM O’DILLON McSCREW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve chased a hard crust never heeding the ills of the rest
of the race,
And I’ve looked with the heart of a stoic in grimmest
adversity’s face,
And I thought that no sort of misfortune could sympathy
touch in my breast,
Till I started a sort of clerk for a storekeeper in the North
West.
I used to think cookies had comforts and luxuries out on
the land,
But I found that their comforts were mostly doled out of
the storekeeper’s hand ;
And I’ve stifled a tear at their struggles—rny boss in the
toils holds a few—
And the devil’s directing the juggles of Malcolm O’Dillon
McScrevv.
There’s a mortgage on Sandy Macgregor, a “ lien ” upon
Bareaker’s hay,
And the bank it has just handed over the “ titles” of
Terence O’Day.
The agents have written that markets are firm and fore-
shadow a rise,
And I’m writing the “ pay or pounce” letters that scatter
despair and surprise.
They’ll stave off the imminent trouble—poor devils
“ involved to the neck ”
By sending in grain and he'll double his money on every
peck.
I know in the middleman’s calling man’s mission is mostly
a “ do,”
But misery mints the gold falling to Malcolm O’Dillon
McScrew.
Long grace before meals he will offer in silvery, unctuous
tone,
And gets rid of it all, for his victims get none howsoever
they groan.
Trade tramples on troublesome feelings that will not con-
vert into gold,
Yet a soft place mayhap be encountered in hearts seeming
callous and cold.
But parcel out Malcolm’s whole nature and section by
section explore—
And you’ll find not a kindly emotion, he’s black to the
very heart’s core.
But who may his character tarnish—to system and law he
is true,
And aware of the value of varnish is Malcolm O’Dillon
McScrew.
He is sold out and gone—to the devil, and nobody’s sorry
for that—
Though his head was uncommonly level, he managed to
“ fall in the fat ” ;
Burst up by his business distension, and blasted by
hunger for gold,
As Empires explode by extension and swallowing more
than they’ll hold.
Though he suddenly sold up his victims, his loss was
extensive and sore,
For many had cleverly tricked him—the banks had a
mortgage before.
He is gone, and with never a farewell; though many his
roguery rue,
The absence they’ll probably bear well of Malcolm
O’Dillon McScrew.
Vio.
BEN SUN.


3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Plying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Plting J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Watc!)€S_—.
In reliable qualities, we stock in every shape and
style of case.
London Prices !
Plain Figure Marks !
... A Thoroughly Reliable ISct. HUNTING LEVER ( Lady's Size ) is £6 6s. ...
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS, Vice-Regal Jewellers,
HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 JBourke-
Btreet E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
“ Above all, to thine own self be true,” and for
all affections of the eye use an infallible remedy. Hick-
son’s Celebrated Ete Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to any address,
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S.W. Agents wanted.*
The New Zealand Eire and Marine Insurance
00.. whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt.-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£400,000 is invested in the colonies. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese ” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk bTRiPit
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forma on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
“ L.L.” : Be cham-
pion mean men. I
know a man—a farmer
—who adds to his in-
come by ’possum shoot-
ing. He is squint-
eyed, and so cannot use
the gun himself, but
finds many young fel-
lows content to do the
shooting for fun. 'Hie
old chap, however, at-
tends religiously to the
loading of the gun, and
doesn’t fill her up until
the ’possum is found.
Then he regulates the
charge according to the
height of the victim.
’Possums atop of tall
trees are passed. The
same man keeps half-a-
dozen mongrel dogs for
rabbiting. When the
dog-tax man makes li is
annual visit the ancient
flatly refuses to part.
“ You’ll have to shoot
them, then,” says the
collector. “Waste shot
an’ powder on them,
is it!” replies the old
fellow—“No, I’ll hang
them.” And he does,
in the collector’s pre-
sence. Within a week
he has rounded up an-
other half-dozen mon-
grels, and is safe for a
year, when the process
is repeated.
♦ * *
When some Illa-
warra dairy farmers
were boasting about
their cows, the other day, the man who took
the bun asserted that when he had milked the
near-side teats of a cow of his the weight of the
milk on the other side would cant her right over.
“Dominie” (8., 25/11/’99)
must surely have “ rats ” when he states that the
bush pedagogue has no cause for complaint. Why,
the average teacher has to drink the milk of
imagination, as most wayback cookies are too
poverty-stricken or too indolent to keep a cow.
The teacher occasionally pays exorbitant prices
for well-watered milk or a few pounds of axle-
grease (“ butter ”) in the nearest town. He in-
variably suffers from indigestion, due to enforced
consumption of half-cooked bread, vile slabs of
corn-junk, with an occasional sodden “doughboy 1
patronisingly chucked in. Once a week, in the
fashionable Moss Yale district, I used to be
accosted on my way home by the cocky’s hopeful
six-year old, breathless and panting, with, “ Hey,
mister, we ’ave a pumpkin-pudden for tea !
Great Heavens ! I blush when I think of the
martyrdom-1 have endured as a bush pedagogue.
At times the companion of rats and mice on a
musty chaff bed in a dirty low attic; at others
sharing the filthy bunk with a sweat-stained,
greasy shearer, or being driven almost insane by
swarms of bugs and fleas. Have almost heaved
my soul out when I found my landlady bathing
her grimy feet in my washing-basin, which was
then used to cleanse cabbage in. For suoh blisi
you pay about 14s. per week. Imagine what kind
of flash Sydney trips one can enjoy out of the re-
mainder of his munificent allowance at Easter,
Midwinter and Christmas vacations. The typical
bush-teacher mounts his 30-shilling steed and rides
home for the midsummer month, while he spends
the remaining vacations ’possum-shooting or kan-
garoo-hunting to earn the annual subscriptions to
the local cricket and tennis clubs, or to take far-
mer Jones’s buxom daughter to the Timbuctoo
darnce.
* * * *
“8.5.” : “There’s a cockatoo’s nest in
it,” he explained, as he threw a weighted rope-end
across a branch that leaued over the lagoon. I
hauled him up, and as he chopped out the nest,
the rope slipped off the branch. When he’d got
the birds I tried to sling up the rope again, but
missed many times. At last he grasped at the
flying rope-end, overbalanced and fell plunk into
the lagoon. He swam out, laid the drowned
cockatoos on the grass, and observed, “ You
think of going to fight the Boers, don’t you ? ”
“Yes.” “Well, kindly wait till I get this shirt
off, and I’ll give you an object-lesson.” I didn’t.
* • * *
From the way-back :
About “ Hop’s ” sorry pareels-post horse and his load-
ing in Xmas Bulletin. I didn’t notice any corned beef
among the parcels. That was a mistake. Our driver
tells us he nearly corned beef to carry. The
cruellest part of the business (I’m looking at it from the
point of view of the horses, and not of the way-out store-
keeper) is that the worse the tracks the heavier theloads.
For a few months lately hardly anything went by p.p.;
the tracks were all open—plenty grass and water every-
where. Now, again, when water has to be carted in
some places 20 miles for the coach-horses, the coaches
are filled—boot, inside, and rack. What isn’t parcels
post is chaff for the staves farther on. Last time I went
by coaoh they had a coffin on board. But it didn’t mean
so much waste space, after all: the driyer filled it with
assorted luggage—and then made a seat of it for the
inevitable Chinaman on top.
* * » »
“ A.E.G.” : Was once in an outback town
when the only parson went mad. Curse ! I had
never heard the like, and I’ve knocked about a
bit. He was sent to an asylum, where he even-
tually recovered. When told of the “tall”
language, his town friends waxed indignant.
“ Where,” asked they, ingenuously, “could he—
poor fellow — learn to curse ? ”
HIS ONLY FRIEND.
Photo, by William Johnson, Sydney.
Mr. Sydney Burdekin, erstwhile Mayor ol
Sydney, and long a member of N.S. W. Legislative
Assembly, is dead, in his 60th year. He inherited
great wealth from his father, an old colonist, and
was one of Sydney’s biggest and most popular
landlords. Mr. Burdekin was a man of genial
disposition, who, however, would have been quite
obscure had he not been rich. And he was not so
rich as has been generally supposed.
“ Royal Engineer ” writes :
Editor Bulletin. —Somebody (B. 16,'12/’99) makes the
-tacement that the explosion of a lyddite shell will not
only poison the air but all food and water within a radius
of 75 to 100 yards from the bursting spot. Now a 4'7in.
shell cannot contain more than 19 cubic in. of burster,
which would certainly not generate more than 2500
times its own volume of gas (less than 28 cubic feet).
WiLhin a radius of 75yds. from any given spot there are
Dearly 61,000 cubic feet of air. Also, seeing that picric-
aoid-fumes are not poisonous, but simply non-respirable,
like nitrogen, which is so large a constituent of air, it
would be interesting to learn how the addition of one
part in 1840 of another non-respirable gas could possibly
hurt anybody. The fact is lyddite is still in the experi-
mental stage, lb was used for the first time at Omdur-
man where it proved very destructive to slightly-con-
structed buildings. No doubt it will breach 4-foot
earthen musketry parapets just as easily; but,
on the whole, it looks very like a failure for
general use. The shell bursts on impact, and there-
fore would not breach the six-foot-thick masonry
retaining walls of a permanent fortress ; nor would it do
much harm to a 30ft.-thick earth m rampart, or to 3()in.
iron embrasure shield, or gun cupola. It would simply
strike and burst without penetrating. If the people who
A FULL EXPLANATION.
“ I've been reading about a cove been
called to the bar in his 27th year.
What does that mean?”
“ It means that he teas 27 years old before anyone shouted for him.”
raise these ridiculous sentimental outcries would let the
fighting men kill each other if they can and reserve their
sympathy for the civil population who are between the
hammer and the anvil, they would show a lot more
wisdom.
A witness in the Kugelman-Norton libel-
case, at Sydney, testified that some time he had
been under the treatment of “Scotch Mary,”
who included amongst her herbal remedies ruin-
and-milk in the morning. Well, there arc
“grog-blossoms.” Also rum-shrub.
THE NEW ENGLISH CHRISTMAS CAROL.
“ Peace on earth ! ” —so said the Son ;
With your dum-dum bullets and Maxim gun.
“ Peace on earth 1 Good will to men 1 ”
But the sword is mightier than the pen.
“ Love thine enemy 1 love him well ! ”
“Charge with bayonets 1 fight to kill 1”
“ Peaoe on earth ! good will to all!
And a Happy New Year" to—Old Ootn Paul 1
OLIVE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Karori: But then the Americo-Spanish war
was no concern of Australia’s, so we had little
to say about it beyond remarking that it was
generally believed to be the outcome of a
South-African-chartered-co.-like scheme put up by the
big Yankee sugar-trust. Apart from the injustice of
making war at all upon the Transvaal, The Bulletin
objects to Australia’s participation in the thing (1)
Because she had no say (mind you, she wanted no say) in
the events that brought about the struggle ; (2) Because
of the loudly-proclaimed doctrine that when Britain goes
to war Australia must not enquire why, but must simp.y
join in -which utterly destroys Australia’s position as a
self-governing community. You say—“ If you are going
to he strictly logical, for God's sake keep logical. If Aus-
tralia is not part of the British Empire, it is quite right
to hold an enquiry into Britain's quarrels before lending
a hand ; but if she is part of the Empire an enquiry
is out of place”- which makes it clear that you
are quite willing for us white Australians to occupy
in relation to the Empire a position similar to
that of the counLless millions of Indian niggers
W.S. : You say “ hoping to see something funny
about it in your paper.” Something funny in our
paper!! Alas !do we look like the sort of people who put
funny tilings in any paper .... Sour grapes: “Essay on
Adelaide ” came to us from Adelaide. The man who
cursed the place was born there E.A.H. (Brisbane):
Impossible to tell. They''might tell us if we asked them.
More likely they’d lie something “ tremenjous ” ... J.V. :
“ Never speak ill of the dead.” Well, we hope you speak
well of Nero and Judas Iscariot and Cain and the Inquisi-
tion. They’re dead. You also say we are disrespectful
towards the aged. Please be respectful in your own
language about the devil. He is supposed to be pretty
old An Ice Story : Old American railway yarn put on
board ship J.J. : He’s the purely mechanical kind of
humorist—the sort who would surreptitiously spill egg
all over his shirt-front at breakfast, and wait till someone
told him it was there, so that he might get off a brilliant
impromptu like “ egg-zactly,” or “egg-straordinary ”......
Patriot: In a war between civilised races the small nation
is generally in the right. If you are a five-foot draper
you don’t go and hit John L. Sullivan unless under des-
perate provocation. But Johnel needs very little pro-
vocation to make him hit you B. Sayers : So your
authority is Pearson’s Magazine is it! We saw an essay
on the world’s languages in that dreadful mag. lately. It
mentioned “ the n >gro language ” and “ the Brazilian
language among the list. A mag. which thinks there is
a “ Brazilian language” is a very' solid authority
W.N.T. : The Melb. Fire Brigade didn't rush out in strong
force to extinguish a chimney fire ; and you call that evi-
dence of inefficiency ! ... Korero : Why this eternal drip-
drip of small details concerning small newspaper offices
and the small reporters thereat ? Journalism grows
absurdly egotistical. The O’C.D. : Unsuitable. .... M. :
The Bulletin flatly declines to print any sort of direct or
indirect insinuation that Frank Madden considers him6eil
a Liberal. By' the way, who gave y'ou that yarn? S.S. :
But Pinero had written “The Money-Spinner,” “The
Squire,” and “ Sweet Lavender” before Ibsen was known
in England ... Mac. : Max Hirsch is a spouter of no great
importance, any how Female Nobility': The meaning
of your babble is not worth looking for McG. : To
begin with, Chick isn’t an “elderly roue,” but a mere
sun-dried dyspeptic, with intermittent bursts of amorous
frivolity. The girl takes him into the adjoining show-
room or shop, and induces him to make a purchase.
C.W.8.: Rats! The Bulletin gets stacks of American
papers, and doesn’t know one which “heartily sympa-
thises” with the Jingoes over the Transvaal-war except,
perhaps, _N.Y. Tribune, the authorities of which are
incurably' addicted to posing in London “ society.”
E.A.W. : Better pass a light than a heavy sentence on a
sheep-stealer, if the passing of too-heavy sentences is
known to deter juries from convicting at all
W.R.C. : Bulletin does not print paragraphs the only
object whereof is to enable the senders to see their own
names in print A. E. Rice : Jibe received. The
Bulletin humanly enough, likes to be on the winning
side, but it likes far better still to be on the right side.
It has fought and won many battles and it has lost many
others, and it is prouder of the battles it has lost than of
those it has won Ben Sun: “Hives of China” good
verse, but bad prophecy' W.T.H.: Idea' needs much
more dramatic treatment Eunella : Neat enough, but
lacks force ... Pan : Mildly amusing, but too long for the
interest Lyre: “Day Out.” Too much description to
too little incident. “ Close Shave,” same old niek-of-time
yarn Some of’em will go, with some fixing-up Steff
C. : “Demand,” may trim-up and use Asmodeus :
Don’t remember them ; probably unsuitable ... H. J.
Mac: “ Widow-woman ” is not correct, now that instead
of “widow-man” we have “ widower” B.H. : To hand.
.. R.S. : A mere clumsy lie like that has no interest.. .
Paul E. : Not enough in it Owen 0. : A truly fearsome
production . A.J.A. :We daren’t read it even to the
office dog F.A.R. : May lick into shape E.A. : May
use Sydney P. : Same old femme incomprise —but the
excellent style may possibly carry her .. D.Y.N. : Pretty
fair work; may see the light Duffer: Quite sol ...
S.J.W. : Not up Vy. Evelyn M. : Declined.. .
DeS.: Can’t stand “On Track.” Too many insects
crawling through it G.S. : “ Forrest’s Death Iinell”
too long for mere municipal election item .. Jim the
Battler: You say you and Bill are card-players of the
first order. Well, you and Bill might have done a neater
trick than that Paul Errard .... Weak and conven-
tional A.Y.P. : Can’t impute reasons. It was a most
vulgarly sordid thing for any professional man to do, and
the cleric's denunciation served the doctor right
George S. : “ Love that Failed ” consists of 2 minutely-
written pp. fcp. all in one paragraph 1 Banool: Well-
turned verses —but modesty forbids Sulphide : ne
never te11... W.P.G. (S.A.): You evidently don t read
The Bulletin. .. Barkis: We are giving lunacy-stories, a
rest Robert B. (Jordan Diggings): Your letter not in
Bulletin vein L. B.H. : Will print “ Gaudet. ......
Frederick Lane : Can’t say when these timbers came into
use; wasn’t born then. But they won’t damage the
kauri trade Monte Carlo : Will print if you put it
in one-seventh (he space A.R. : V Yarraman ” means
horse W.A.P. : Don’t remember “ Moritun. How
did it begin?... . Edward M. (Tas.): Many thanks .......
F.L.B. : Verses unusable , A.T. (M.L.) : Not up S.P
Not enough force or novelty S.M.S. etc. : Hoot vwy
SID. CAVILL . Champion Professional Swimmer
of Australasia, now OR his way to America.
old and dreary M.C.F. : Mere rhymes F.R. :
“Jock’* moves too slowly—can’t stop to read any-
thing travelling 2in. per annum M.H. : None
usable E.V. : Hardly worth declining The Babe :
Unusable E.R.P. : Ditto—more so G.C. : Write
Gordon and Gotch, Sydney. M.C.T.: Lacks point
Long-Un :To hand The Pelican: Propose that .von
solve the problem by throwing something hard at Lizzie,
who seems a bad lot Rick : Platelayer story originally
told of a mannikin jockey with a big wife G.B. (Q.):
Go, “ youth of 18,” and soak that swollen caput .
E.V.W. : Doesn’t stimulate us ; and the assonant rhyme-
ends spoil it H.W. : Promise invisible .. A.D.8.:
Considering “Clown.” ...Jasper: We provide the wall.
H.I. : Too heavily-elaborate for B W.P.G. : Say
vour prayers in .your bedroom Yamba : You don’t
improve it E.O.H. : Verses would be remarkable any-
where .. Eastern Mail: Too long and dull W.M.F. :
“ Fighters ” not up ; other returned G.G.: Don’t
quite see the apropos F.A.R. : Interesting, but to put
in shape would involve much trouble F.J.C. : Two no
good, and the other unprintable C.E.O. : Probably
only one of these pseudo-scientific canards that occasion-
ally get about. And, anyhow, why should a cross of
Australian aboriginal and Chinaman be bald? Both are
very hairy-headed races Z. : Too common an occur-
rence for notice Nun-plum : No ; not since repeal of
the O.D.A. Artemis: Hardly vigor enough in the
telling W. : Has spirit; may do Jas.F.F.: No
literary gift J.S.O. : Two obscenities and an
inanity 1 Helen I. : Not badly-written, but the self-
deceiving husband is a very back number
Oz. : Verse rocky ; will see what can be done with it
Dawn : Very feeble H.M. : Many faults. “ Door-,” for
instance, is an atrocious rhyme for “haw”; and in the
“Prose Poem” you strike bathos with such a press-
paragraph phrase as “ hail the event with acclamation.”
... J.G. : Too flimsy A.II. : Lacks life and spirit;
6uch dull correctness would kill a much more original
story 7 The Pipe: “Passion” some power, not deftly
enough used Mopoke : You ask for return without
sending your address —to say nothing of stamps.


ANOTHER SACRIFICE TO MOLOCH. MORE AUSTRALIAN TROOPS FOR AFRICA.


I
[Jw
A^s7 Ss \ ,i(w(>o^
•Sir a To /,ND P °ERft
toa'm,.>re i f *** »*«.„
that * G< ’ rman Tn,n V yn,,r lamin „r
;. ought Bom®” G^V-; nitted to 6r v v *•
fwdentlyf * Jitt, e more %l yoat ''f»l g-en^”' B &<*> ay- in
|lga^®ggL
PoA
;'CW rve\
X^JVe-1
?■'
conclusion, I can «„» I
%™ n , mant -"‘ends to lawT that the Go-
T tiff 8 in its Platform and 1° a"' 0 broad
V‘° them - The firat is "S'dly adhere
i progressire leeialntu , Practical and
I gj* Q» *? ,tS ma ’*
tsr?-
tot'on to the administration Tt C,ose At-
ency thorp^o^
1* (jcn y\t) Cifiytj!' €
" J 1
tojjf- 4.0 l|
6rec4»‘si), _s>o efery m
4c 3 oeK 5 $1
qnfs e«7 kvn> vc
w, u*4 <£rW
Ouk v]\X per.
CUrus °f > jfJ 'leun*:-
so !
f :_ -ylri
i jf° u -fey 'fcr-
-3V ‘“j T?* s> u (>erf|ic
U*y*S ta
eOVBBBH© T flo^ e fS B w oi
’ One ton £otir f assorted P M F^'
° D oh oeO pl eccs oi anno V>an anß *'
•onke. 20,0 W v oUle . SOOO uau
WOO P» cK !^ t 10 .000 OottUs o
• ade ’ a fare proved t Bouse '
•ssr-s- - “-'T’ •,. i
y tW» afternoon.
. ltl on of t'"'
An *“ 8 Briga atehTand
T' t l ? s * o ^ l'}'Se «W a n OT P roleSS °rt \
entered tW hotougWy M fulls
I Merged teB
V Jf e r«- tae -
P 7 Tt^
(4 e T^" , s£**‘ r )
\K "Ooijl ■ TOf x
Ik\ 4 7 e C /
/
W\H- >
7® a *
/ 3rH ;
V
lr 1
— — i %
VT olK>cr -% e v
Visile Uef^Vfy
T’ll l,«/e y>"7 00.-To^'t
c
- VWKW'fi
0\
Viet
Sp Licks
/
toW Brassey*s yacht
k-mtmg at the Alfred Oravmg Docs pier
at TVUHamstown, prepaiatory
parture ot his Excellency the Goter
from Victoria- The ship's company will
consist ot about thirty jiouls
will
&r
£«•: 1, jj; • ,jk .-fa
% 9*W*/
J \louy<fp/ic ! *"
r '
MELBOURNIANA


A. SAUNDERS
THE FINEST AND BEST ASSORTED STOCK OF WATCHES, JEWELLERY, AND SILVER PLATE IN AUSTRALIA.
J SEND FOB ILLUSTRATED BOOK. ALL ARTICLES REGISTERED POST FREE. >
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS AND
NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
*. S A.UNDERS.
Strong, Cheap Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, fos ) Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
IQs j Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
yt'V \
£lo.i . liolu Chain, single or Double, £2loa,
•3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10a, £5. 15c. Solid Gold,
£.) 10s, £6, £6 10b, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver,
1 Jb, 12a 6d, 1 js, 20b.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS’ 2-Bird and Heart Brooch,
8a 6d. Special Value.
A. BAUNDERB* Pearl Bet Bird, 8 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ; 150. Gold, 255.
9a. Gold, 2 Lore Birds, Chun and Heart,
10a. Special Value.
ATCH
WHS#
THEK
Z E
mutEi
A. SAUNDEBS.
Gold, 2 Ivy Leaves and Heart Miipah
Brooch, 12s 6d. (Six similar patterns,)
EES
A. SAUNI
Gold Good Luok Broooh, 10s 6d,
15c. Gold, 21s.
16c. Gold, Diamonds and Bubiea, with Ivy
Leaves, 255. Very Cheap.
POST
FREE.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Special-made Gold Waltham, £ Keyless Bever,
20 years' guaranteed, £4 4s ( Ho., ditto. £6 6s (
2 - years' guarantee, extra jewelled, high-grade
™ orks, £6 10s ; Pure Silver, £2 10s, £3, £4. Per-
fect Timekeeuers. Extra strong, Sol d Gold, £8
108, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
POST
FBEE.
A- BAUND
17a <d|
Registered 90. Gold
18c. Gold, 80a | 180. Gold, 88a.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
9c. Gold, Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
8-Bar, Bed Stone Centre, fiOa ; 160. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDBHS.
New Style 2-Bar Diamond-out Amethyst. 92a 6d
160. Gold, Very Strong and Pretty.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Luge Sire 2-Bar Gold Brooch, Diamond-cut
Amethyst, 85a | 180. Gold, £8 6a.
A. SAUNDEBS.
15c. Gold, Bird 8-Bar Ruby and Diamond, 85a.
Send for Illustration.
Gold 8-Bar Diamond-cut Amethyst, 80a 1 lte., £8
A. SAUNDEBS.
BTV at iold Broooh, 801 l and Chain, 18a 6d.
Heart Amethyst, IS* 6d.
©. © © e ©
A. SAUNDEBS.
2-Bar Gold Scroll, Pearl Set, Bed or Blue Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
16e. Solid Gold Pure Diamonds and Sapphires or
Rubies, £l2 10aii all Diamonds, £l5.
A Nice Xmas Present.
Pure Silver-mounted Purses, 16s, 80s, 80s.
Cheap styles, As, Ts fld, 10s.
Gold Heart Locket.
Plain, 8s 6d;
Chased, 10*.
A. SAU N DERS.
Amethyst & Pearls
Heart Charm,
17s 6d )
150. Gold, 255.
A. SATJNDBRB’ Purs Solid
Silver Matchboxes.
Gold-mounted, 10a, IBs,
17s 6d;
Silver, 4s 6d, 0s od, 10s.
Links, 90. Gold, 21s {
Uo. Gold, 86- and £1
SHrer, is Od.
Other stylo, 10s 6d, 12s fld,
16s. 80s.
Silver, 2s Bd, Bs.
HA.T PIN.
Pure Silver, Parisian Dia-
monds, is *4 j Turquoise, Bs.
Any Initial. Latest' style.
Heart and Dumbbell Gold
Links, 10)64) with Initials,
12s 6d ; 160. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c. Gold. 10s 6d; 150. Gold,
25b.
Silver, 2s 6d and Bs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst. 91a ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Bure Double-out
Diamond, £2. Splendid Value.
lift'
A. SAUNDBRS.
Gold Seoiet Brooch, 25a ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £B.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDBRS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Bro&ch, 13 < 6d;
150. Gold, 26s ; Silver, 4g 6d.
A. bAUNDERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17s 6d; 16c. Gold, 80s ; 180. Gold, 86s.
Send for Pattern Book.
New
A. SAUNDEHS.
Name Bracelet. 265. Any name or Initials
160. Gold. £8; narrower. £2 and £2 10s.
Free
.Gold Horseshoe.
Bllyer, 6s i
Locket, 20s end 265.
Bllrer end Gold,
7s 6d and 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
160. Gold 2-Bar Scroll. Diamond* and
Sapphire* or Rubles, £2 10*.
Very Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
lfio. Gold, 4 Diamonds, Ruby, and 4 Pearls,
£3 5s { 5 Diamonds, £4 4*.
SEND FOR PATTERN BOOK OF RINGS.
*■
Y.ft
m
wsmmmm
mm
m
m
a
ip*!
Vi
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlook,
Ms,Bos, 85a, £2 6s, £8;
160., £2 10*, £B, i 4,
U 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
Registered “ Gold 6woid ’’ and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby or Sapphire, and Diamond, 265.
Without Diamond, ‘22a 6d. Latest Ladies’ Rage.
Diamond-cut Amethyst Gold Bangle, 30a.
SEND FOE
OUR
COMPLETE
BOOK
OF
JEWELLERY
A. SANDERS.
9c. Solid Gold Raised Flowers, 6s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
180. Gold, Diamond, 2
Rabies or Bapphires,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made, 18a. solid
Gold, 6 I (pals, £2 10s;
larger, £8 10s.
18c. Gold Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphire,
£2; 8 Diamonds, £3.
JlWt
Pure Diamond Band
Rings, 150., 80s j
180., £2. £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s.
Curb Rings,solid Gold,
IBs, 20s, 258.305, £2.
Price to quality
of Gold
A. SAUNDERS.
180. Gold, pure
Double-out Diamond,
£5;
Larger, £6 Bs, £7 10s,
£9 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Any Name.
90. Gold, 12s bd, IBs;
16c., 80s, Sss;
iBc., 265, 80s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, 3 < 'pals,
Sapphires, or Rubies.
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for size card.
9c. Gold Bins',
Pearls and Red Stone,
10s;
Solid Gold Charm that
oharms, lOg 6d.
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird with Bell, 6s 6d ; with
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDEItsi
Solid Gold, 20s, 25s ;
15c. Gold, 365, £2. Monogram on,
2s 6d extra.
Solid Silver, ss.
9c. Links, 10s 6d and 12s 6d ,
150. Gold, 21s and 265.
Silver, Si 6d and 4s 6d.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
All Guaian'ee
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, €2 10s, £3;
Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless. £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £ , £7, £3, £lO.
All guaranteed.
Fkßk 5:
A. SAUNDERS.
8-Bar, 4 Diamonds and Ruby, 20s.
Very Neat and Pretty.
©TV
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 22s Gd. Bet Pearls
and Rubies, 20s; 15c. Gold, 80s.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and
Rubies, £2.
15c. Gold Wishbone and Forget-me-nots,
only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered),
old Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Goll, Diamonds,
£2 10s and £i. Any Name or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar
A. SAJNDERS.
Gold, 2 L< a.ts and Ivy Leaves Brooch, 12s 65.
I Six similar patterns.)
A. SAUNDERS’ ijUuky Wishbone and Arrow
Gold Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
a. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Ring* and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6a 6d, 7a 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold,
16a ; extra heavr, 26a ; 18c. Gold, 20a; extra
heavy, 30a, 36a, 40s. Send for card.
Quality of Gold and Finish First-claas.
For adze out hole In cardboard.
A.. SAUNDERS’
ROTHERHAMS ! ROTHERHAMS (
STRONG, RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Han3-finished, full-capped English Levers £!>
Oa. Strongest, cheapest, and best timekeepers
ever made. Extra quality, £4. £4 10a. £5, £6 10s,
£6. £7, £B—3, 4,6, and 6 years’ written guarantee.
Silver Hunting Key or Keyless. £2 and £2 10s.
open Face, 26s and 30s. Shortwind Keyless, 7s6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s Extra quality, 20s, guaranteed.
Gold, £4 4s, £6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lo, £l2 P's.
£l5, £2O. Direot Agents for Kotherhams and
Waltham Levers, Send for Price List.
A. SAUNDERS
HIGH-CLASS LEADING JEWELLER & SILVERSMITH.
DISPLAY OF XMAS PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS.
815 GEORGE-ST., nearly opposite Railway Station, Sydney.


The oldest ecclesiastical edifice in Aus-
tralia built by voluntary subscriptions is Ebenezer
Church on the Hawkesbury River. It was opened
in 1808. Contributions consisted of money, labor,
building materials, cattle, sheep and furniture.
Lieut. Bell, a pompous military nero of the day,
constantly on the look-out for conspiring Irish
rebels, entered the church when the little congre-
gation was at prayer one Sunday and placed the
entire party under arrest as conspirators.
“V.K.": Many bushies will rather go
without a feed than a smoke any day of the week,
and various and wonderful are the substitutes
used when the weed has given out. Tea is about
the commonest makeshift, especially after it has
been leached. But the strangest recipe for a
home-made smoke I ever struck was a judicious
mixture of cowdung and currypowder. Didn
sample it myself, but was assured by the dis-
coverer of the virtues of his particular brand.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD-MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing thpy might have wished him was a
cool head, to he obtained by using “ FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
“1 ll Try It
The Only Certain
Mouetaohe Pro-
duver,
Capillarins I
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’i Jre, 10s. fid.
Sole Agents :
V
The Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-632 Gsorge-st,, Sydney
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FA-MIOXJS REIMBIDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
m. , , f„v on medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
,, W ™ , • delightful and immediate relief : and to those who are subject to Golds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soieness in the Chest, experience g strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never^een^knovm 1 ™ exist; 11 where 6 * Roughs 1 ” £ve f een properly treated with this medicine. No hoL should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. - - _ _ _
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a dootor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and 1 various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine 3'ou sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVFD AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
w ith cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
-at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Viol et Town, Viotoria,
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katung'a, Via
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS. _
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has q'uite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERT ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
riothing more he could do for her. So ou the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
« gi r _My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most’distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, {lain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
most respectfully, OROOKETIi
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— Kindly send me one
large bottle ol your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.’’
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago —I have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“ I
am keeping" very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G-. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size 2 S 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. h
RUNS! GUNS! GPWS!
To Sportsmen and others, requiring a really good, SERVICEABLE GUN. Note our
REDUCED Prices. An Immense Stock to choose from.
12G.D.8.8.L. HAMMER GUNS.
M-q 95_Top lever, pistol grip, steel barrels, by J. Tholet and Co
NY) qh72—Top lever, plain stock, extended rib, by Ancion . ... •••
No' 21B—Bar*lock, top lever, left choke, doll’s head extension, by W. Coates ...
tsj ‘ oqy_B a r locks, Greener bolt, Damascus barrels, by Cashmere ...
N‘o4 x Bar locks top lever, Greener bolt, half pistol stock, by Cash more ...
n£: lef-Top action, expended rib, left choke, right cylinder, by J. Holl.s ana Sons
£2 10 0
<£3 0 0
.£4 0 0
ii 0 0
,£6 10 0
<£4 10 0
No. 862 A—Top lever, extended rib, Greener bolt, Hammers below line of sight, by
J. Hollis and Sons , ••• ••• ••• T . , v
No. 864—Top lever, extended rib, Greener bolt, tested for mtro powders, neatly finished,
by J. Hollis and Sons ■ ••• ••• ' ••• •••
Top action, plain rib, Damascus barrels, by W. and G. Scott ... ... ... ...
NoT 80—30 in. Damascus barrels, left choke, right cylinder, Greener bolt, by Cashmere
No. 316X8 Greener bolt, Damascus barrels, best finish, by Cashmore
<£6 0 0
£7 0
<£9 0
<£B 10
.£l3 10
We have in stock a few of Cashmere’s Best Quality D.8.8.L. Hammer Guns, 12 G., which we offer at great reductions, viz. s-
SIS A/6009 32in. Whitworth b.rrel., file o„t rib, »™n 430 to SB 10.. , J( , • _
b plain win. i•’ainast-.ua u J 6 XB 30in. Damascus barrels, extended file cut rib, Greener bolt—Reduced from £2 5 to £IB 10s.
Cartridges E C., from 10s 6d to 13s per 100. Cartridges, Amberite, from 10s 6d to 16s. per 100.
n ’ Cartridges, Black Powders, from 7s to 10s 6d.
We can load up at shortest notice Cartridges filled with any of the following powders v-8.0., Amberite, Schultz, Ac.
10
JAMES McEWAN & CO., Ltd.
IQB vit.ib a ■bw’T'h B’r’tt'Him'i?, Mint.'siotTi
I
T-’RO XT Xt TVT T*s


BLIGHT. BLTGHT.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment —beyond
doubt the best remedy ; over 50 years’ reputation
and still unrivalled. Sold everywhere, in pots 2s.
each. Never be without it.*
Mr. Eustace Bennett, formerly accountant
to the N.S.W. Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., has been
appointed manager, a position held for many
years by the late Mr. Lewis Levy.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large-
bottles Is. everywhere.*
ifiE Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo. Roe&Ct?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER & CO
82 A PITT ST,
SYDNEY.,
ASK
FOR
Ac^wn
6° BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wiue and
Spirit .Men hunts.
DRi/^ovm^
tar
A
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADLEY » CO.,
/* iirnituve and Fine Avt A'uctioneerSf
Auction Room-;, 324 Gsorgs Street, Fydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sal&
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
In the Boer war, Britain may lose
as many men and ns much money as in the
Crimea, and yet, at the ontstart, the thing looked
almost as unimportant as sticking a tame pig.
Law, Hughes, Watson and McGowan, of
N.S.W. Lalior party, confess the intention of
standing for suits in the Federal Parliament.
Others, no doubt, nurse the intention silently.
ON THE PIER.
THE AERIOUS ONE : “ My good man , may I ask —
What are your thoughts? Is your mind
bent OR a hioher sphere. I see you are in
deep medilation: probably you are thinking
of something good?”
SANDHILL HOR: “ Naw! nuthin’ perlicler. I
waz jus’ thinkin' wot a devil of a gorse-
quantity of water there is in the sea!”
The first-Australian-Premier question may
work out like this : N.S. Wales, as senior pro-
vince, probably takes first call, and Lvne, if still
in office, will have the refusal, lie will decline,
and recommend the Governor-General to send for
Barton.
Ex-Premier Turner talks too freely to
Melb. pressmen re the scandalous meanness of the
political combination that turned him out of
office. The public would have thought the more
about it if G.T. had had the dignity to Jiold his
tongue.
Ex-Premier Kingston is generally credited
with the ambition to resign from S. A. Assembly'
and stand against J. L. Stirling, Tory leader in
the Council, whose seat becomes vacant next year.
Kingston has always stood to his pledges, and he
has vowed to remain in S. A. politics until
Househould Suffrage becomes law.
Be the recent Ministerial upset in Banana-
land. Two plots were apparently afoot at the
same time. The outer intrigue aimed ostensibly
at getting rid of the continuous Government; the
inner intrigue aimed (and that successfully) at
depriving Dickson of the Premiership. The
Anti-Pederals were not wholly disappointed of
their vengeance.
Holder, in expounding his Ministry’s
policy in S.A. Assembly, announced that the ulti-
mate goal was Household Suffrage, but Gordon,
leader in the Council, declared that, so far as he
was concerned, there would never be such a
reform from the Holder Govt. SA. politics are
so mixed just now that a Cabinet in absolute
agreement on Council reform is impossible.
Seddon has now so far advanced that he
thinks Maoriland should ask the Commonwealth
to make a customs league and a union for defence
purposes, but he doesn’t think his province should
go in for complete Federation. Seddon doesn’t
want to get into the vehicle with the rest of the
orowd, but he believes in taking bold of the back
part of it and running behind in the mud.
Two more of Chamberlain’s speeches,
uttered before he became an acquaintance of the
Ecksteins, Wolffs, Hoffmans, and other Gerinan-
Jew “financiers” who promoted the gold war:—
This new Imperialism has already infected the minds
and judgments of many of those to whom are delegated
the power of this country in distant lands, and unless
this spirit be either, by Parliament or by the people at
large, severely and sternly repressed, I can see no limit
to the responsibility cast upon this country, and no end
to the dangers and. perhaps, disasters, which may befall
it.— Joseph Chamberlain, House of Commons, March 27.
1879.
The rights of our action under the Convention (Trans-
vaal) are limited to the offering of friendly counsel, in
the rejection of which, if it is not accepted, we must he
quite willing to acquiesce.— Joseph Chamberlain, House
of Commons, February 13, 1896.
Will Premier Lyne afford Minister Crick
time to carry a I’os tage-on-News papers Bill in
next session of N.S.Yv. Parliament? From the
persistent way in which Sydney D.T., in its com-
mercial and leading columns now condemns Reid’s
system of keeping the national accounts —a system
it approved while Reid was in power—a number
of people argue that a quid pro quo is anticipated.
The Bulletin has a vague impression and
a good large hope that Queensland’s Boodledrake
Government will never again be quite its old self.
Andrew Dawson’s Democratic Ministry lasted
only a day, it is true, blit it broke the spell.
When a rather stout trapeze-artist falls on the
hard floor in his old age, no matter how suddenly
he gets up again lie never more cavorts on the
high wire with all his old confidence.
It is a truly solemn thing to hear ex-
Premier George Reid, who talked continuously
for three years about the alleged “ Dibbs deficit,”
whining that I.yne shouldn’t expose his deficits
because it is “ injuring the credit of the colony.”
In other words Held holds that Dyne shouldn’t
put the finances right, for putting them right is
necessarily an admission that they were formerly
wrung, and . that will “ injure the borrowing
powers of N.S. W.’’ The good old doctrine of
Jdiishit-up.
Premier Seddon’s threat that M.L. Govt.
will build and run steamships to the world’s
markets unless the shipping-ling reduces
freights recalls the scare Charles Lilley,
jf O.ut-ensland, gave the A.S.N. Co.,
SO years ago. That co.’s subsidy-de-
mand for carrying Q. mails struck
Lilley as excessive, and, failing an
amicable settlement, he determined
that the Q. Govt, should have its
own steamers. To this end, he or-
dered three to be built at Mort’s
Dock, Sydney. One of them, the
Governor Klackall, well-known after-
wards, was the first ocean - going
steamer completely built and fitted
in Australia. The A.S.N. Co. was
duly scared, and accepted one-third
of its original subsidy-demand, and
was glad to get out of the difficulty
even on these terms.
The Australian who goes Boer
hunting in Africa ought to try and
realise that he is risking his life to en-
able a hungry pack of German and
Polish Jews to cut down white men’s
wages and fatten on cheap nigger labor when the
war is over.
r J' l,e re-organised Q. Ministry is more
Kanakophile than ever. The new Minister for
Lands, W. B. O’Connell, is member for Mulgrave
—a sugar-planting constituency ; Mackay boasts
its two Ministers, though one of them carries
only nominal honors at present; while Premier
Phil p’s loyalty to the planting interest in the
North is notorious. The sugar interest is the
dominant factor in Bananaland Parliament.
The Inebriates’ Bill, which has already
been carried through N.S.W. Leg. Council by its
originator, Dr. Creed, but which has never got
further in the Assembly than a first reading, is
now to be taken up by Colonial Secretary See.
It will thus stand some chance of the attention
fairly due to a measure which seeks to provide for
a more rational treatment of habitual and more or
less irresponsible drunkards than uselessly fining
or gaoling them.
Tasmania’s usually lamentable Council did
a noble thing lately by throwing out a number of
repairs and patches from the new Ministry’s loan
estimates, and demanding that they should be
paid out of revenue. It was a painful surprise to
the new Government. The Lewis-MulCahy crowd
announced that it was going to have no more of
the ancient easy swindle of charging repairs and
renewals to loans, and then to its horror the
Council kept it to its word.
Tas. House of Fossils at latest was sticking
to its principles most manfully. During one
week’syawn it demoralised West Coast Urquhart’s
Wages Attachment Bill, the Distress for Rent
Bill (protecting type-writers, sewing machines,
and other tools of trade from the landlords), and
agreed to a, payment of .£25,000 as compensation
to the original shareholders in a railway-line that
didn’t pay Stated that prominent M’s.P. have
been quietly buvitig up these railway shares for
years in anticipation.
N.S.W. Premier Lyne won’t fill up the
Works’ Committee chairmanship, vacated by
Minister Perry—he’ll make a dozen enemies and
one friend. And so the office is hawked about,
an<3 work is held in abeyance, waiting Lyne’s
courageous moment. You’d never guess the
Labor - party's nominee—Sleatli !! And Cann
has his eye on the Speakership, when sick Abbott
goes. Why riot ? asks the Labor-party. We
have the Hon. Joseph Cook—the Hon. J. Lionel
Fegan ; and, after that, anything is possible.
Sudden Solomon's 5-days S.A. Ministry was,
indeed, a pathetic incident. The Solomon crowd
had been office-hungry for six weary years, and
when the chance came they surrendered every-
thing to keep hold of it. The new Govt, adopted
early closing, workmen’s compensation, and several
other Radical measures, which they had howled
at in Opposition. In less than a week the piebald
combination was ejected, and now local Liberals
are wondering whether Solomon and his Tory
crowd will resume their opposition to their own
policy!
Sufficient justification for the new N.S.W.
Parliamentary Standing Order fathered by Minis-
ter Crick is that under the Orders hitherto exist-
ing a Speaker and Chairman of Committees might
conspire to absent themselves to break up the
Assembly on a particular night. On the last two
occasions the twofold absence was accidental, but
it brought to mind the possibility of a grave evil.
By the House assuming in such circumstances the
right to elect a temporary Speaker from the
members present a sound and necessary principle
is vindicated.
In W.A. the old 'Gropers hang on des-
perately to tlieir huge share of Parliamentary
representation. John Forrest’s great reform
measure gives the mining districts, where the
Outlanders are strong, about one member for
2000 voters. And when Matheson proposed that
the ’Groper constituencies of East and West
Kimberley (235 electors between them) should
have one member instead of two, and that
Greenough and Irwin (2.84 voters between them)
should be similarly consolidated, he couldn’t even
find a seconder !
The Westralian Premier is still under-
stood to be considering what is the best course to
pursue about Federation. Meanwhile, he is
doing nothing, and those who know.him best say
he will continue that way for a long time, and
then continue the same way for as much longer as
he can without losing his billet. John Forrest is
pledged as a man of honour to send the Bill to the
people, though he would much rather put it under
the boiler on washing day, and as the Council has
rejected it he is pledged to do everything in his
power to bring the Council to reason. But it is
important to do the right tiling, and John would
rather think for 25 years ttian do anything rash
or ill-advised.
Drake’s excuses for joining Boodlewraith
are the puniest things seen since the Makin babies.
He is going to impregnate Boodlewraith with the
principles of true democracy, it seems. Bah ! So
l>e drops the popular fight; is shunted to the
Leg. Council ; and settles down on his Ministerial
salary—a typical turncoat ! His party, “the
Remnant,” sits in opposition as usual —they didn’t
know he was ’verting, though Philip is said to
have understood Drake would bring some of them
over as part of the bargain. Drake never was a
very solid democrat ; but lie lias realised for a
long time that democracy doesn’t pay—and his
acceptance of the fat fee of .£1558 in the scanda-
lous Robb arbitration case showed his weak fibre.
Now, having got married, having reached the
cynical age when warm principles look very
hollow things beside cold cash, lie lets himself go
with the tide, like Powers, and swallows his past.
British Minister Balfour made a much-
quoted statement at the beginning of the Trans-
vaal war to the effect that “We shall never more
allow to grow up in our midst communities of our
own creation which would be
able to use the liberties we have
conferred upon them to arm
against us.” There are three
lies in that brief remark. Britain
didn't create either the Trans-
vaal or the Orange Free State.
They didn’t grow tip in “our
midst”—the Dutch farmers went
away far beyond the limits of
British population, but Britain
came and surrounded their States
after they were grown up. And
their liberties weren’t “ con-
ferred on them ” by Britain.
That country tried to takeaway
the liberties of the Orange State
in the late '4o's, arid slaughtered
the farmers at Boomplatz for
objecting ; and it took away the
Transvaal's liberties in '77 ; but
that is hardly the same thing.
And it let the Dutchmen have
their liberties back aarain because
it found the game of aunexing
the two republics and abolishing
their parliamentary institutions
cost more than it was worth.
Reluctantly letting a man have
his own property back isn’t “ con-
ferring” it upon him.
The Tas. Great Western
Gridiron Syndicate, which al-
ready has been presented with
enormous concessions of land—
about one-sixteenth of the total
area of the island recently asked
Parliament for further support in
the shape of a Govt, guarantee
of syndicate debentures. The request was
not complied with, but modified, though not
too modest, demands had better luck. The
Baker-Rymill Palmer people blame Braddon for
narking the pitch ” by his cables to England,
but when it was discovered that the blessed Ade-
laide trinity aforesaid had asked J. Bullion
.£850,000 for its share of the spoils, Braddon went
nearer smiling than he has done for 38 years.
Almost the only time for eight years that
Queensland parties have been unanimous was
when Premier Philp moved that apostate Drake’s
seat should be declared vacant as he was going to
be a salaried Tory in the Upper House. The
enthusiasm with which the Dawson party rose to
second the motion on the ground that Drake
couldn't too soon purify the atmosphere of the
Assembly by his absence was pathetic. There
wasn’t one of Drake’s old associates who wasn’t
ready to second or third or fourth or twenty-fifth
almost anything to get fid of him.
The spectacle of Shiels back in his old
billet at Victoria’s Treasury recalls one of the
most wondrous bits of financing in the province’s
history. When the long, dressy man was
Treasurer some years ago the slump was going
strong, and in a moment of panic he borrowed
£ 1,000,000 for one year in order to avert some-
thing or other. It took about three months of
the year to hump the money out and back again,
and as it was impossible to do anything with it
when it was only available for nine months, it lay
in a bank the rest of the time. Victoria paid
about •£<>(),000 for the joke, and no one knows yet
what Shiels thought he was doing.
The one thing certain for Britain is the
forthcoming conquest of South Africa and sub-
jugation of the Biers. The greater the disasters
to the British army the more complete will be the
eventual destruction of Krugerdom. It is quite
possible that the Russian legions may draw
nearer the Indian Empire whilst Roberts and
Co. are blundering alone: towards Pretoria
but nothing can happen in the East to pre!
vent Roberts and Co. from gaining their end
The South African Republics will have to go
under, come what may. In the meantime Kruger
will enjoy the fulfilment of his prediction that
the cost of Britain’s conquest will “stagger
humanity.”
Aboqt the steepest yarn that even the
remarkable George Reid has told is his statement
in the Review of Reviews:—
Reform of the Upper House was one of my chief ob-
jects, and in the electoral hat lie of ’95 it played an equal
part in the contest with t he (iscal reform on*which the
appeal was made. We tried more than once to get our
reform scheme through , hut the Council would not look
at it.
If the late Reid Government tried even once to
get its reform scheme through, N.S W. is still
blankly ignorant of the circumstance. Will
George the Wobbler kindly give the date when
his Council Reform Hill was introduced and some
particulars about it?
That Shiels is stage-manager of the new
Vic. Ministry has been dear from the day Allan
McLean was sent for by the Governor, but that
he is also the claqueur and promoter will be news
to many. During the* delivery of.the Premier’s
policy (so-called) speech at Bnirnsdaie, Shiels sat
on one chair, and before him on another he had a
copy of McLean's “part” or speech. This he
followed eagerly, running his finger along the
lines. Whenever the speaker paused, a moment
Shiels supplied the wanted word, and at the end
of each subject lie interjected,, so that everyone
in the hall could hear, “ Water Supply,” “ Publio
Instruction,” or “Goal Industry,” as the case
might be. Then when McLean made an alleged
point in favor of his scratch t* am, or against the
old tried one, Shiels led the applause, crying out
“Hear, hear,” and clapping his hands or stamp-
ing his feet. Acting no doubt on the “equal-in-
all-things ticket,” he jumped to his feet on the
first mention of his name at the conclusion of the
Premier’s speech. In a few moments he had
oalled the members of the late Government
“moral cowards ” and “political Cains and Judas
Iscariots.” Those who were crying out against
his inclusion in the M inistrv he likened to “angry
geese hissing their dis ippoiiitment.” With Shiels’
re-appearance, Victorian politics are evidently
going to fizz.
THEY WEREN'T “SHELLBACKS .”
DAD (from. North Coast): “ One and a-’alf single
fares to Nambucca River.”
G.P. OFFICE CLERK : “ This is the General Post
Office. You'Ll get your steamer tickets at the
shipping office at the wharf.”
DAD: “STRAMER be b'owed. Sonny an’ me'[?]
goin’ back by MAIL COACH. No more sea-
viyages fur hus.”
Melb. Age likens the attitude of the
M‘Lean Ministry to that of “ a pyramid standing
on its apex,” by tiie grace of “two dozen Conser-
vatives who have no sympathy with its declared
policy.” Yet these “ impossible ” political situa-
tions have sometimes an Australian way of
becoming acceptable to the ’Ouse. The strength
of M‘Lean lies in his air of sanctimonious enthu-
siasm. His seeming earnestness must always
command more respect than the cold complacency
of a prattling Gillies.
PATRIOTISM.
State patriotism in plain terms, above
Rhetoric fiction anil jingo effront'ry :
“ It is the ardent predatory love
Of someone else’s country.”


PALING’S **
Bl<j<j€ST
BEST
BUSIEST
&
c.*
6
0^
IN
AUSTRALASIA
PIANOS
ORGANS
J*
Sole Agents for
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
LIPP
FEURICH
ECKE
TJEBEL
VICTOR
BELLING
PIANOS
Est«y Organs
EASY TERMS
IF YOU WISH AT
- BALING’S
CORNCTS
And AI»T> BRASS
INSTRUMENTS
Jt & JS
Sole Agents for
BOOSEY
BESSON and
COUESNON.
The Student’s
Model
FOR CATALOGUES and
PRICKS WRITE TO
- PALING’S -
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
BANJOS
J* & Jt Jt
Lyon and Healy of
Chicago
make the BEST.
The BEST is the
“ WASHBURN ”
A “ Washburn ”
once sold
Sells others.
REST VALFE FOR
LEAST MONEY AT
- PA LING'S
VIOLINS
And ALL STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS
We hold the
BEST SELECTED
Stock of
VIOLINS
STRINGS and
FITTINGS in
Australasia.
Our Cheapest Violin
sells at
.10/-
ALWAYS CHEAPER
and BETTER AT
- PALING’S
MOUTH
ORGANS
&
Our
Specialities:
The “ Brass Band ”
The “ Triller ”
The “ Up-to-date ”
The “ Cathedral
Organ.”
EVERY INSTRUMENT
GUARANTEED AT
- PALING’S -
All Catalogues FREE by Post.
W. H- PALING 8t CO., Ltd., 338 Georg$-st., Sydoey,
Brisbane and
Newcastle.
MULTIFLEX
To Ensure
Safe and .
Ccmfortable
Riding . . .
Cyclists
should
specify
When ordering their cycle, and thereby secure freedom
from all tyre troubles.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYKE CO. OF AUS. LTD.
4:86 Kent Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
national Cash Registers.
Storekeepers’ CoOpoi? Register
No. 92.
USERS’ .
OPINIONS
&
“All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“ Sydney.”
%■
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more «e use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q.”
E
BENEFITS
OF USE.
©
•A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFKCTION.
G
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
©
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
• pe Only True $ Ihzlin Coupon System .
Full particulars, prices, etc., v • •
on application to
HNatiooal Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
Mont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MTOINTTKC.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City mutual Cite
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (fccinjrßridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. Jhiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiaii. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED ... 2 50 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
~ ~ 2 Years, 5%
ii ii 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland gmelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SHELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loqcloq St LaocaSbire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
..0F...
Opals, Pearls ® Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VA L l E G 1 VEN.
A. BENJAMIN ai)d SONS
285 a Little Collins St, Melbourne-
| Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE \
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Lfura, Sat., Dec. 23, 12 Noon.
-Konoowarra, Tues., Dec. 26, 5 p.
Tyrian, Sat., Dec. 30, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., December 20, 6 p.tn.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., December 26, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAUERG
Peregrine, Sat., Dec. 23, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Wed., Dec. 27, 6 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Dec. 30, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine Sat., December 23, 2 p.m.
Leura, Sat., December 30, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GEIiALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
. m e^ urn Tlckefs Available for Six Months.
Keturn Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fbc Trustees, CxccOtorS,
AND
Ageocy Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £l5O 000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
„ FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders BGo’,ooo
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4 son non n ft
Paid-up Capital (11 12’99) „ £3,109*571 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors ; John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne,
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishops (/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GIOOIIGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
--THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 P|TT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200,000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LINC.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Jan. 19
Feb. 16
March 9
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Bed Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Lalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
22 Feb.
19 March
cud avauauiß unuu useu, ana aaioon
Passengers can break their journey ab Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Hniuiraith,|l)‘EacharnS|;o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS-
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
; AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Gompany
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
T\7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
v ' Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors: ' f
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neaie Wigg, J. T. Lempriebe.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia .
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
KW MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
„ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDEITEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
J®?J.L Nort h Western Ports
S.S. Bullarra, Friday, Dec. 22
S.S. Harloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, Jan. 2.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
-S.S. Allingu, Friday,
December 22.
tor BRISBANE J-S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Dec. 23.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and 0.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
fcydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best dZ Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
_G-_S : _YUILL & CO., Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE And COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROOKIIAMPTON^Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisitie unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY— Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE —A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE- B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
An« thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAV NY, Agent. No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA -
Queensland Forts and Fort Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co ~ Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHEB LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Keg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 t£> £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at, Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every .assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
B
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut. the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
m.
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASURE
Orders,-accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven -days,- and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.) Note the Address:
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
686 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Publications.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for t 2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereaghstreec, Sjdney.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
265. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES.
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
op RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED
XylTH numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by isrnorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stcpage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.O.; SYDNEY.
ILLUSTRATED
• BOOKLET °Boollf
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G-.P.0., Sydney
FOHEIG-3W STAMPS
WESTERN
GEXMl&iLi
CJETS 4 Soudan (Oamee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gaut.emala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6rl ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg-, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
60 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
... 6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, 5s.
Remit by P.O.O. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free.Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNES, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
iaihond song book.
GOO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
•2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 Gcorge-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for tills
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
“Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d.
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Walking Stick Brooch, Is 6d.
With Paris Diamonds, 2s 6d.
Gold-Cased Bar Brooch (any name),
Is 6d and 2s 6d.
Sterling Silver Watches
(Larly’s or Gent.'s),
18s 6d to £2 10s.
Gold - Cased Watches,
17s 6d.
Rolled Gold Watches,
equal in appearance
to best 18ct. Gold, 10
years’ guarantee,
£2 10s to £3 15s.
Chain Bracelets, 10
years’ guarantee, 15s
to 208.
Nickel Watch and Chain,
4s Gd to 10s 6(1.
Sterling Silver Chains,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Soiled Gold Chains, 5 to
10 years’ guarantee,
10s 6d to 20s.
Wishbone Brooch, with Paris
Diamonds, 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2s 6d.
All the Rage 1
Twin Swallow
Brooch,
with .dell or Stone
Pendant, 2s 6d.
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2s 6d.
wrv; Post free in N.S.W.
Mention The Bulletin . . .
Thousands of other Designs. Write To-day.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
. C. O’BRIEN & CO
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
M
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cinemato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and Ml acces-
sories.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EPlSON ELECTRIC COMPANY
W. tT. y. OldersJiaw, Manager.
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure*
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most grentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
w
Sold Throughout the World.
DIN NR FORD’S MAGNESIA,
To (arazors a t)d
Woolgrow^rs.
GENTLEMEN,—
You can’t afford to be without one of
these
Sqftattgr’s Conjnjcrcial
Piarics for 1900.
This book is a foot square, thick, useful
binding - (last a year), can be carried on
horseback, useful for Sheep and Cattle
Tallies, Station Accounts, &c. It contains
365 Daily Numbered, Dated, Ruled Cash
Columns, &c., Entry Spaces, with Blot
Leaves for convenience ; also Calendar for
the Year and Memoranda Pages, Cash
Summaries, &e.
HORDERN’S will send you one for
1/6, delivered FREE of CARRIAGE
to any Post Office in New South Wales.
Send eigbteenpence in Stamps to their
address:—
Hordern Brothers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
And you will get one by return of mail.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING- ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
m
3,
V
m
•JV Ui
mm.
Thom
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
y.B. Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF A DEi:M
THROUGHOUT .THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & 00-» Ld-, London
J- -A-. WILBZIMSOKT’a
COOL ALTA VINEYARDS
Offices : 374 G-eorge Street, Sydney.
■w
MSTS. st
—London Medical Record.
*n,c THIRD IN TH* SERIES OF
Foods jrolHg*™'
«ST*a»cask=gfl tusau
&ME«StSSS
flet hr luwUd*. C««nW““’
tt» - ~.
Alien & Henburys un«
WAM _!zr -
NEW STYLE.
p
‘JUlcnburgs Foods.
i Succession of Poods vhich affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive posters from birth npwarda.
<5(5
Tlj© Alle^lwys 99 jp@©4 H© o II
d< JAlleiq)lbyFy s99 F®©4 N@>o Z
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing: the
addition of hot
water only. *'
Tbe “Alleoburys" A\alted Food N o.j
hitherto known as "Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food," is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also beenjound of great value to CONVALESCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.


THE TRIPLE FORK crown affords all necessary
sti ength at a vital point, and is a distinctive feature
of the MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE, which imparts
added value and security to the machine. \ 4
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wale* Headauarters— Svdnev
* Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin Brisbane Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
*
Apparently one of the most cold-blooded
and deliberate of murders was the recent shooting
of a solitary old miner at Rats Castle, N.S.W.
Appearances indicate that the slayer had knocked
at the door, and then, as the victim was opening
it, tired a charge of No. 2 shot into his chest,
riddling his lungs and heart.
“ Lillipilli ” to The Bulletin •: —
There are certain reasons existing now for allowing the
return of the “satisfactory” and “unsatisfactory”
N.S.YV. Lancers to drop into (he- limbo of forgotten
-things. But, one last word ought to be said. Splendidly
-as'Colonel Burns stuck to his men, there were one or two
points of cowardice about the way the military authorities
sneered at a portion of the returning men. The bravest,
of all the latter, the man who had the nerve and honesty
it© give one of the two true reasons that brought home
full 20 out of the 27—viz., lack of confidence in “ the
lead”—was of course silently black-listed. Men who
never volunteered hut came home because of the news of
sickness—ln cases, very great trouble- —in the homes they
had left were also black-listed. The men silent ly damned
'compare very.favorably with those officially white-washed.
But if mo more injustice is to be wrought let the matter
■drop.
Britain, *o far, is getting a very bad advt.
•out of tbe Transvaal war. The spectacle of the
biggest empire on earth scraping up almost its
last available trained man and all its choicest
generals against the peasant soldiery of two little
nations which, both put together, wouldn’t make
a good second-rate city, doesn’t inspire respect
abroad. About Britain’s resolve to win and about
its ultimate winning there is no doubt at all. But
it speaks of military disorganisation or weakness
or bad generalship when Britain has to grit its
teeth so hard over such a small job. The talk of
sending out Roberts and Kitchener and 50,000
more men looks like getting down to real tough
labor.
A shrieking anti-climax of the Transvaal
■war was the passage of N.S.W. local military
■estimates without debate by the Assembly—“as
a mark of sympathy for Great Britain ” in her
trouble at Magersfontein. The Assembly might
.just as well build Sydney city railway as a mark
■of sympathy with an eclipse of the moon. If the
local military estimates are wrong, or excessive,
■how can it do Britain good to injure N.S. Wales
by passing them? To pass the Transvaal vote
without discussion— that might have been a logical
mark of sympathy ; the other is simply a mark of
the lack of N.S.W. legislative brains. Naturally,
the suggestion was—Brunker’s.
Dr. I.A.W’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQfkiCQza CoOgb-
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
IS PATRONAGE^
...0n...
Mr. Fraok SeQior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Chemist.
Still on the road to knighthood :
A telegram from Mr. M. D. M'Eaoharn, Mayor of Mel-
bourne, to the Premier of Queensland, reads : —“ 1 shall
be pleased to present the Government with the pick of
700 horses on Consuelo station, for troops up to 250, tf
suitable horses to that number be available ; if accepted,
you to take delivery on the station of all suitable.”
After the Turner Ministry had been
thrown out through the sudden defection of some
old followers this significant notice was hung up
by parties unknown in the lobby of Melbourne
Parliament House:
Any member of the Liberal party who left the ranks on
Ist inst. under a misapprehension can return and no
questions will be asked.
Acetylene gas search-lights for amoured
trains have been completed to submit to the War
Office by Messrs. Brandt Bros., lamp manufac-
turers, of Sydney and Melbourne. They are
making a new kind of generator for lighting up
public buildings and dwellings, and also make
acetylene table, carriage, bicycle,' and hand la’mps.
Handice-makingmachines,sos.; ice-cream freezers
15s. ; butter-coolers and cool meat-safes worked by
capillary action of water, from 3s. 6d. to 15s. #
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
“A colossal jewel-casket ” is the best way
of describing the magnificent Christmas window-
display of the. Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’
Alliance, 90 King-street, Sydney, which claims
to have got together, through its expert London,
Continental, and American buyers, the largest
and most exquisite collection of novelties suitable
for Xmas and New Year gifts ever presented to
the Australasian public. So vast and brilliant is
the show that particularisation, in the space, is
out of the question ; though reference cannot en-
tirely be omitted to the selection of silver and
enamelled souvenirs of Sydney, in the form of
brooches, hat-pins, belt-clasps, and what-not.
And, as the South African war is in everybody’s
mouth, it will further be quite in order to mention
that the consequent “ rise in diamonds ’’ has not
been allowed to affect the thermometer of price
for those gems at the Goldsmiths’ and Silver-
smiths’Alliance, 90 King-street, Sydney.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Attention is called to the advertisement of
Webber’s “Vitadatio,” a purely herbal curative
now before the people, as a remedy for many of
the “ ills that flesh is heir to.” It has already
achieved wonderful success, and thousands have
every reason to thank the investigator for his
remarkable discovery. Mr. S. A. Palmer, the
General Agent for Australia, is himself a living
example of its efficacy. For about fourteen years
he was under medical treatment, but never
received any benefit. He went to Tasmania to
recoup his health when given up as incurable by
the doctors, and found salvation and good health
in the “ Vitadatio ” he is now introducing to his
suffering brethren. Mr. Palmer tells his story in
a public address deli vered by him in Launceston,
Tasmania, on 2nd March, 1897, and this has been
issued in pamphlet form and will he gladly posted
free to any address in the colonies on application
to the head office. The medicine is said to be
absolutely pure and free from poisonous drugs.
Write for pamphlet and particulars.*
The result of the FEDERATION of the
products of the best distilleries in Scotland
is the popular D.C.L. WHISKY, undoubtedly
the finest Whisky Scotland p, oduces.
for D.C.L. black bottle.
Germany adopts a Labour-Party attitude
in regard to the Trans vaal war : Support in return
for concessions. The first concession was Samoa;
and blow the “loyal” Seddon crowd! Others
are maturing, and Emperor Bill, spoiling for a
fight, has reluctantly permitted himself to be
squared. The agony of that young middle-aged
man, itching to try his beautiful war-machine,
and watching the years slip by in peace so far as
he is concerned, is something terrible. If Kaiser
Wilhelm only had a big navy !
HISTORY REPEATS
ANOTHER
MASSEY-HARRIS AUSTRAL.
.£5OO AUSTRAL WHEEL RACE.
Ist. Percv Beauch imp. 4th. W. Hickey
.£l6O COMMONWEALTH STAKES.
2nd. W. C. Jackson.
£BO M. B. C. PLATE.
Ist. Frank Beauchamp from scratch.
£75 10-MILE INTERNATIONAL SCRATCH
Ist. Frank Beauchamp.
£4O VICTORIA MILE.
Ist. W. Wedd.
£55 5-MILE INTERNATIONAL SCRATCH
Ist. Jackson. 3rd. Beauchamp. 4th. Body.
In last year’s Austral Meeting- Massey-Harris Riders won
First and Second in the great Austral Wheel Race,
and three out of the five classic International Scratch
Races. This year the Massey-Harris Boys won three
out of the four great Austral Handicaps including the
Austral Wheel Race, and two out of four of the Aus-
tral International Scratch Events, 5 out of 8 Firsts
1 Second, 1 Third, and 2 Fourths is the proud Massey-
Harris Record in the World’s Greatest Bicycle
Meeting.
RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS AND KEEP IN FRONT.
N.S.W. Branch: 385 George-st.
/nnn Strnnr? Arr*nr?o\ 0
K
*
t
K
i-
kC^LM:
Red Bird Crank Bracket.
Found only or
1900 Model
Red Birds.
As illustrated, the complete bearin'? is in a steel barrel, which holds the cups
in perfect alignment. Thus the bottom bracket bolts cannot distort the beiring
cups and cause them to run tight. The cups are designed so the axis of the balls
and axle are parallel, and the balls run in a continuous oil bath.
The cranks are secured to axle by means of a hexagon taper, which is further
secured by means of a cap screw.
The cranks cannot possibly work loose as with other forms of attachment.
This is another part where the Eed Bird is years in advance.
anL by CbC ©OOld Bicycle Co., Etd.,
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Australasian Blanches !
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office it
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vig.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington N.Z.
Australia,
WE WILL TAKE YOUR OLD MACHINE AT A LIBERAL VALUATION IN EXCHANGE. Call and Examine,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
At Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) last week sea-
men Owens (H.M.S. Mohawk) and'Hempstead (H.M.S.
Royal Arthur) contended for pug. supremacy of the Aus-
trail an fleet. lhe principals had been preparing for
some time, and the fiy’ht was to have occurred this week
but the Royal Arthur under sailing orders precipi-
tated matters. Hempstead scaled about 10.7, and Owens
perhaps 12st. Spectators numbered probably 500—
chiefly naval officers, sailors, and marines from various
war-vessels in port. “ Paddy’s Market ” rules prevailed.
Hempstead had all the style, Owens the force ; and force
was on top—worrying, wrestling, wrenching and clawing,
until almost iridway through round 4, when style lay on
the boards apparently dead to the world with every atom
of life squeezed out. It was at once the most amusing
and exciting go imaginable. Tars yelled encouragement
in all manner of phrases, while high above the din could
be heard from hundreds of throats “Go it, Ginger! ’’—
an appellation which Owens’ pronounced carrots had
won for him. “Ginger” certainly did go it—he bore
down upon his man with a full head of steam on and
swept him to the ropes or off his feet time after time :
but Owens had no idea of hitting—couldn’t have marked
a child, in fact. Hempstead got home frequently, leav-
ing palpable traces of his visitations, but they had little
or no effect upon “Ginger's” rushes. So the mauling
progressed. Often when referee M'Donald tried to
separate the struggling pair he went within an ace of get-
ting knocked out by one of the stray punches that were
flying round. Ultimately, as already stated, Hempstead
lay on the broad of his back, limp as a wet rag and
utterly incapable of moving a limb, such a °ruelling did
the big fellow give him. There are apparently no em-
bryo Sharkeys in the fleet if a line may be taken bv the
champion. J
• * • .
Re the death of Captain Macdonald. In the
days when a set-to meant flying skin and hair the Cap-
tain s residence was a great “trying-out’’ ground for
new aspirants for fistic fame. Larry Foley was then a
green youngster of the slogging order, arid if a likelv
young mi turned up the Captain would send to where
Foley was working, and Larry would throw down his
° f , tnwe and have a tf o for Pare love of the game.
Writer has Seen some rare mills at the Captain’s between
® u< ? h "]?"«* L atry Foley, Dave Ingram, Johnny Sullivan,
Toby Williams, Captain Martin, Martin Quirk’ Mr Dun-
can Anderson, and Mr. “ Jack ’’ Jones. “ Jack ’’ Jones
an uncle of Sammy Jones, the cricketer, was the best
amateur writer ever saw, barring George Seale, and,
strange to say, both those men stood right hand in front. ~
Jones took to the game in a peculiar manner. He dis-
located his left elbow, and the joint becoming stiff after
setting, the doctor advised hin'i to take to some athletic
exercise with the hope of making it supple. Jones
who was a 13st. man of very fine physique, fixed upon
boxing, and became a top-sawyer at the game but the
joint never became,flexible, and when Jones crossed with
that terrible left it landed like an iron bar and the victim
went down. Captain Macdonald had himself a reputa-
tion as no end of a good boxer, hut it must be remem-
bered it was to the interests of the “ profession ” to
humor such a liberal patron, and hence the Cap. built
u P.. a . re P u t&tion with the mittens far above his actual
abilities. As a swordsman, however, his fame was well-
founded.
* * * »
• new Australian top-notch beavy-
weight, Peter Felix, has a “ manager’’—Billy MClai’n,
of the M Adoos,-to wit—and Billy, after the manner of
his class m America, is making himself felt; also he is
not a lowing long Peter to hide his big light under a
bushel. High-falutin challenges have appeared in the
papers lately telling open-mouthed readers what a fistic
mai\ el billy has-unearthed in his protdgA whom we’ve all
known for mahy. years and, strange to say, never had a
very exalted opinion of. Manager M’Clain says Peter
will box any two Australian heavy-weights in one ring
also that he will do many other ouit-of-the-wav things*
while consequences most dire are likely to be 10st. 91b!
Tim Murphy s lot for having had the temerity to throw
down the gage to “ Peter the Great.” Side-wagers of
nfti69 and ininclrccis arc talktdl as if they gprow on trees
but, oddly enough, no money materialises. Finally as a
sort of “wind-up,” manager Billy tells us that he is going
to take that “ wonder ” to Yankeedoni for the purpose of
matching him against worldis-ehampion, Jeffries. Now
how does all this fit im with the fact that Felix, after
whipping Doherty, mode-a match with Mick Dooley and
later, backed out of it on the plea that he had accepted
an engagement with the M’Adoos? Mr. Frank Neale
(Fremantle, W.A.) incurred a lot of expense advertising
and arranging for the fight, while Dooley was out of
pocket considerably for training expenses. Warrants
under the Absconding Debtors Act were taken out andl
elix brought hack, but the magistrates decided that they
could not interfere.
* * * ,
The battle for the middle-weight bruising
supremacy of the Continent between Tim Murphy (M L )
and Jack Dunne (W.A.), at Broken Hill (N.S.W.), was
won by Tim, who, after letting his man lead most of the
journey, saw an opening, sent the right across, and
scored a clean knock-out. Murphy took a chance in this;
Out of condition altogether, he accepted a fort-
night s notice, half of which was expended in getting
from Sydney to “ the Hill.” Also, only four days before
the convincing date, Tim sprained his ankle but the
other side wouldn’t hear of a postponement. There was
a big house. The same two are to meet again January
10. Murphy is wild at Felix’s manager’s blither and
bluff about what the elongated black will do, and:
announces that he has £5O to say the present “ champion;
of Australia ” (what, a falling-off after Foley, Jackson and:
Slavin) cannot stop him (a light middle-weight) in 10’
rounds, for the whole of the “gate.” The writer would
be glad to bet a fiver that Felix and his colored mentor
will not be taking any ; although Tim also offers to supply
lathy Peter with a tenner for ex’s.
* * * ,
Recent fight at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) for Aus-
tralasian pug. supremacy between Peter Felix and Bill
Doherty was fierce and rjesperate from the word go. The
black (Felix’s) advantages in height, weight (13.5 against
12.6) and reach were very noticeable. An enormous
crowd—the biggest ever seen on the fields—provided a
£5OO house of which the winner took 60 per cent, and the
loser the balance. Every round bristled with exciting
situations. Cheering was incessant and deafening. They
slogged each other determinedly and effectively through-
out the seventh three minutes amid wild excitement. At
the close Doherty’s seconds skied the rag, explaining that
both his hands had been badly disabled. Though be
won, and won well, Felix didn’t evidence any world-beat-
ing capabilities ; yet there’s talk of him visiting ’Murka,
Australian bruising material is not by any means A 1 now,
but writer thinks there are a couple’ hereabouts capable
of asking the colored heavy weight a tough question if he
feels inclined for the test.
• * •» •• ' *
Fistic marvel Griffo has been restored to th©
pug world. News from Yankeeland is to the effect that
late in Oct. he was liberated from, Dunning Lunatic
Asylum, at the instance of his fellow Australians, George
Dawson and Bob Fitzsimmons, as sane a, man as could be,
after 10 months’ incarceration. That wonderful vitality
which enabled hint to jump into,the ring hog-fat and fend
the attacks of thoroughly trained champions till either he
won or > a draw was declared, stuck to the Sydney
/ .Hock," phenomenon throughout a period during four-
fifths of which it was “ touch and go ’’ frequently. Three
times medical men gave out. that a week or a fortnight
would see the end, and when about the close of Sept.,
N.S.W. vet. and trainer “Billy” Miller, accompanied by
Dawson, visited Griff, he was so emaciated, and seemed
so far gone mentally, that they came away fully con-
vinced there was not a spark of hope and marvelling at
his having survived as long as he did. Their visit; wrought
a change—Griff had seen no friends for months pre-
viously ; four weeks later he sent for Dawson and his
release was the result. He professed to have been weaned
of all inclination to drink, and those who had him in
hand expected he would figure in a 6-rounds go this
month. Griff is 28 years of age.
* * * *
From start to finish of the Austral race Percy
Beauchamp looked to be winning. When he had to make
his own pace the dashing Tasmanian made no trouble
about it, and his eye wals steadfastly fixed on the prize
money what time brother Frank (who started a better
favorite than Percy in some quarters) was getting badly
beaten at the tail end of the field. The win was popular,
inasmuch as the Beauchamps were generally understood
, *L e °£ C L IS ™ ° f , the h '« hah grade, with the berlud
ot the JN.S. W. Governor in their ancestry, but even
a popular win doesn’t provoke much noise from
an Austral crowd nowadays. Thirty thousand people,
mostly girls, gathered round the M.C.C. oval on Satur-
day, and about 15 per cent, of the attendance took a
lively interest in the racing. The others had gone (here
from habit, or to look at one another, or for any reason
except the “ sport.” A bike meeting is a prettv sad
entertainment when the minor events go as many as
eleven and thirteen “heats” to one “final,” and Bill
Martin doesn t take a trick, and VValne is disqualified pro.
tewi. A sad, sad entertainment. The dav’s takings were
£1142 ; for the: two days. t 2371. Matthews (170yds.),
second, shaped wonderfully well ; while Thorn (200yds.),
third, a,nd Hickey (260yds.) performed excellently.
Mutton (Bathurst., N.S. VV.) and Farley made bold bids,
r ust lap was thrown behind in 30 4-osecs., and the full
distance (2 miles) in 4min. 28 4-ssecs.-a record for the
Austral. Big books were open on the race. Winner
started at 6 to 1, and it is said 1 that he and 'his friends
netted £3OOO, but writer doubts it.
'* * * »
Cyclist Richardson, doing the Australian coast,
reached Sydney on Sunday in A 1 trim, and was to have
left for,Melbourne on Tuesday. He has been six months
on the journey now, and computes the distance covered
at something over 8000 miles. Perth (W A ) where
Richardson expects to be at the end of January, will wind
up a self-imposed task which called for grit and stamina
of a rare order.
* * * i
Evidence of how N.S.W. swimming is going
ahead. Inter-club handicap (100yds.) at Randwick and
Coogee gala last Saturday induced over 100 entrants
necessitating 15 preliminary heats, 3 semi-finals, and, of
course, the final. Sixty and eighty competitors in these
events are common. Entrance-fees almost invariably
leave a balance over and above cost of prizes.
* * ♦ ♦
N.S.W. plunging championship was contested
at Coogee Aquarium baths (Sydney) last Saturday. Con-
ditions were exceptionally favorable; still water and
“ take-off ’ about Ift. high. W. B. Coates won with 61ft.
61m., with R. Sharp (60ft.) second, J, Mason (58fr 7 in >
third, Andrews (56ft. Oiin.) fourth. All named qualified,
for standard certificates, having exceeded limit (55ft )
Last, year’s champion, Kelly (Kiama), competed, but had
no hope. For purposes of comparison, it mndit he men- -
tioned that Peate’s 60ft. lOJin., at Sydney Natatorium,.
Jan. 16, ’96, is the Australasian best,'but he had Hinin.
time-limit, whereas Coates had to get. as far as he could
inside 60sec. Taylor put up 78-9, under same conditions
at Bootle (Enj>.), Sept., last year. Crack plungers are 1
almost 1 n\ariably burly men ; witness our premiers of the'
past—“ Tom” Maloney, Harry Mulcah-v, i and Pierre
Stapleton—everyone in the neighborhood of I6st. or 17st.
Bulk supplies floating power and weight gives impetus.
* * • .
Water-polo,.as played in Sydney, has afforded
writer much amusement. Teams put no. heart into the
game and know little about the rules. Balmain has held
supremacy for years and won every championship tourney
promoted by N.S. W.A.S.A. They'll win, and win easily,
this season too, and for no other reason than that they
practice a lot together; other clubs rarely do. The
whole thing is a farce and a really good game is being
dragged through the mire. The Association should drop
it altogether.
* * * *
At Dundee (Scotland), early last month, Aus-
tralasian champion Fred. Lane swam an exhibition
100yds. in ltnin. 3 3-ssec., and, later, competed in a one-
furlong scratch-event, meeting Baillie (100yds. champion
of Scotland), and Edwards (quarter-mile champion of
Scotland). A great race resulted in Lane getting home
by the touch. Time, 2min. 40sec.
* * * *
Latest anent Hunter River (N.S.W.) Towns,
who has been at ’Ome some time, is that he was not
likely to compete in the Xmas Handicap this year—a
lively recollection of foul play on the last occasion stand-
ing in the way. George expected to figure in a big event
on the Thames, beginning January 2. Same communi-
cation tells that Wray is still at Boston (U.S.A.), and
likely to stay. Charlie Stephenson runs a pub. at Stock-
ton-on-Tees, and is in affluence for the time being. He
was on the verge of making a match with Emmett, and
the whole thing may be clinched by now. Good news is
that Towns has got clear of all effects of the accident
which shut him out of the game so long—hence there’s
every probability of his bearding lion Gaudaur in his
•den in Canada early next year, with the object ofarrang-
ing a tussle for the world's championship. Towns will
probably consent to row the French-Canuck at Rat-
Portage, or in any other “ rat-trap,” as Wray puts it.
* * * *
“Bow.” (Dunedin): Definition that Victoria
Tucked against in ’96 governs. A special clause would'
have to be inserted to let M.L. in.
**/ * *
The wiping out of the S.A. team on Saturday
for 155 killed all interest in the N.S.W.-S.A. mateh con-
sequently there won’t be much trouble in reckoning up
that 2-thirds and 1-third divvy. When stumps were
drawn on Monday the mother province had 4 wickets
down for 446. The big scores were Trumper, 165 (out
l.b.vv. to Giffen); Donnan, 72 (b. Giffen); and Noble, 134
'(not out), still going strong—which indicates that M A is
as Rood form as ever. Worth mentioning now that
Noble has previously hit up seven centuries in represen-
tative cncket, irrespective of his; 152 for Sydney Colts
against Stoddart’s first team. Six of the seven hundreds
were notched during the present year. Here are the lot •
Victoria (Sydney) January’97, 153 ; S.A. (Sydney), Janu-
ary 99, 101; Victoria (Sydney), same month, 100 ; “ Rest
of Australia ” (Sydney), March, 111; South of England
(Crystal Palace), May, 116; Oxford University (Oxford)
May, 100 and Derbyshire (Derby), June, 156. ’
••* » .
Hopkins, Farquhar and Bowden, of N.S.W. team
against S.A., have never previously been' opposed'to. the
latter province or to Victoria. , Hopkins hails from North
•Sydney, and is a son of the late N.S.W. Comptroller-
General of Stores. He played three times for the mother
province in N.S. W.-Q. matches, scoring 10, 35 and 48
respectively. Last year he totted up 619 for 10 innings—
an average of 77.37. Hopkins is a good change-bowler,
too. f arquhar has to his credit, for N.S.W. against M. L.,
110 and against Q., 57 and 85. He bats with nearly as
much style as Vic. Trumper, who was considered at ’Ome
to be “ quite the thing, don’tcherknow.”
* • • •
, still prays for a wicketkeeper. Last season
M Kenzie was dropped for Jarvis, but eccentricities on
the part of the latter brought about his exclusion in the
match against Victoria last month. A new man, New-
land, was tried with moderate success, but he gives way
again to the ex-Australian Eleven man.
• * * •
The Brighton (Syd.) .£4O trot did not draw the
entries that were expected. Winner turned up in Mr.
Bob Beckett’s old time pony Satan, who started favorite,
but got home by a bit of luck, as Trilbv, if differently
handled, should have won all the way. Satan, who is by
Bocaooio, stands under 14 hands, and in his day was the
best pony of his inches N.S.W. has seen.
* * * *
• J ;V : ’orse you mention is a third-rate
animal, that “ wins at a nice price,” for the reason that
it is never warmly fancied. The paragraph misled you.
* • • •
Maoriland’s three-year-old champion, Seahorse,
will tilt for the coming Australian Cup. Owner, Major
Ceorge, lost this race years ago owing to his horse Nel-
son s fhirned jock losing his whip and Jetting Trident up
on the post. The Major has long waited for revenge, and
bas at last got a show. Seahorse, like most good ’uns, is
. ' s f a T ky or P rett /> hut is fast and a genuine stayer,
ms Zj-imle Australasian record has set Merriwee and co.
something to beat.
* * • *
Seahorse and Explosion are far ahead of any-
thing in Maoriland this spring. The latter improved
vastly after the M.L. Cup function, and with weiter-
wmghts walked off with two big handicaps. Explosion is
by the big Musket horse,, Cuirassier, who was once
backed for a pot to win Melb. Cup, but he was too un-
wieldy to train.
* * • *
In last year’s Austral Meeting the Massey-
Harns riders won first and second in the great Wheel
Haee, and three out of five classic Internationa] Scratch
iiaoes. This year the Massey-Harfis boys have repeated
their success by winning three out of the four handicaps,
including the Austral Wheel Race in the fastest time on
record, the two fastest Austral heats, and two out of four
■of the Austral International Scratch events.*
* * * £
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, etc. —at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Palings), and business there is proportion-,
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
■call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*


<r
«7 Snjol^e
#
:kjc
N
brnutumiiiim
[i in in n i
iTimnnufh-
What do you Snjoke?
INSIST ON GETTING DERBY.
Amusements.
TTRK MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY-
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THE THEATRE CLOSED until BOXING NIGHT,
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1899,
when will be presented
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
■TI H EAT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY’.
"*■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1899,
will be presented
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
a Powerful Romantic Play by Freeman Wills, entitled
Tlie Only "Way,
Or, A Tale of Two Cities.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
ft IITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 23,
Will be presented on a scale of Magnificence a Local
Dramatisation of that Famous Novel “ Jess,” entitled,
A TALE OF
THE TRANSVAAL,
By E. Lewis Scott, who Dramatised “ The Silence of
Dean Maitland,” &e., &c.
PRICES AS USUAL—3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Business Manager and Treasurer, Harrie Skinner.
T fCEU M THE ATR E, SY D NE Y.
XMAS ATTRACTION.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23.
Return of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his
POWERFUL DRAMATIC COMPANY,
when will be presented an entirely original MELO-
DRAMA of MODERN LIFE, entitled
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan open at Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEA Tlt E. SYI)N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Marvellous Russian
Vocalists and Dancers,
8 THE NEWSKY FAMILY. 8
First Appearance of Professor DAVY’S Marionettes.
Re - appearance of G. W. HUNTER, Raconteur, Little
Famiy Powers, Howard Chambers, and a host of others.
Sli I PLIANT XMAS PROGRAMME.
Plan at Pal'ng’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJUIJ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION OF
IVE accarte Sisters.
Re-appearance of TOM COSTELLO, LITTLE ALMA
GRAY, SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace King, Elsie Gold-
ing, Lulu Zesch, Will Whitburn, Chas. W. Cogill,
and a host of others.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
TH EA THE RO Y Ah, M ELROD RN It. ‘
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23,
GREAT XMAS ATTRACTION!
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as THE SECOND MRS. BLOCK
—IN—
“ Little Christopher Columbus. ”
MISS GRACIE WIIITEFORD.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers. .
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
LEXANDRA
■ Lessees
TH EAT RE, M KLBOUKN IC.
The Victorian Operatic Society.
BOXING NIGHT, TUESDAY, 26th DECEMBER,
And Following Evenings,
The Victorian Operatio Society will have the honor to
present Planquette’s Masterpiece,
66 Les Cloches de Corneville.”
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILYTE. Hon. S ■.
fjl O W N HALL,
IMPORTANT PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
AN UNPARALLELED HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
Commencing
BOXING NIGHT (TUESDAY, 26th DECEMBER).
Mr. O. M. M'ADOO’S
JUBILEE SIBGBBS-
Tn connection with which is the
PASSION PLAY of OBER AMMERGAU,
By Edison’s Latest and Most Modern Machine,
The KINECOSCOPE.
3000 Feet of Moving Pictures, Illustrating the Life of Our
Saviour from His Birth to the Resurrection.
PRICES.—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
FRED. DAWSON, Agent.
H
OOGSON>S
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. Bd. Post Free, 4s.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassirm«sen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
JL’ KJJX
OUCH Shootidg«
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
RacUharii’s Doy and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS—
ra nos. * met, cm.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 Flinders st., melb. (opp. station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Verj'
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cj'cling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Fanious Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing: in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shirrs,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent's splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1 -. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philoso ; hy of Dress,
ilso Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms!
posted Free. Write for them.
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2 6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 8 6, 9,6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 6-stone Brilliant Dianr ond
Ring. ±.’4los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address—6B4 George Street, Sydney
A
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEY
Sole DistribCitiog Ageo*
for Australasia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-205 Clarence Street , Sydney .
MEMORY LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence. Easy to Learn.
SUCCESS CERTAIM - .
Satisfaction given or Fee Returned
POPULAR PRICES.
Send for Prospectus, etc., Free.
Inquiry Solicited.
I give over 600 practical illustrations of
how to memorise, with rapidity and cer-
tainty, history, geography, foreign
languages, chemistry, physiology,
ledger folios, names, addresses,'and
the theory of music, counterpoint, etc.
The Almanac for the Year
memorised in 3 minutes.
PROF. BROWN,
SCHOOL OF ARTS,
SYDNEY.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
Air. 0. T. Davis,
Bay View,
Dunedin, N.Z.
“It has greatly strengthened my natural memory, and given rue
the power to readily connect, and to lastingly memorise, the most
abstruse, disconnected, and uninteresting matter —making study easy
and delightful. I feel safe in recommending your ‘ Memory System ’to
all students in every branch of literature; to every business man ; and,
indeed, to all who desire a ready memory for language, facts, names,
etc., etc.”
Mr. R. A. Riley,
Teacher,
Caramut.
“* * * It simply means hard work made easy in acquiring know-
ledge, and may be applied to all branches. Muddling is almost ah
impossibility, and it is also a sure antidote to wandering thoughts.”
Mr. D. McEachern,
Student,
Rosewood, N.S.W.
“ By application of it, I can repeat long lists of foreign names, after
one writing out. For learning dates, heights of mountains, lengths of
rivers, etc., its usefulness is unbounded, and I have found it a sure cure
for that despotic curse—mind wandering. I recommend all students, in
every branch of study, to procure its invaluable aid. * * * ”
Mr. J. Harris,
Teacher,
Parkes, N.S.W.
“Having finished the course of ‘Mnemonics,’ as taught by you, I
now have great pleasure in stating that it is one of the greatest blessings
I have ever received. I now find it a pleasure to memorise what before
was a perfect mental toil, and am using the System daily in connection
with my scholastic duties.”
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY .
mm
me
Campbell's Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, Ss 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
D RUN KEN N ESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS: Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can he given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address— R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Oo
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.'
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
t® - Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'OLELLAND
(tv«« BOLQKR)


J. P. Abbott is president of the A.MVP.
Society. At a recent examination of candidates
for admission to the service of that institution,
the question was asked, “ What is the feminine of
Abbott?” A budding actuary replied, “Lady
Abbott.” Fact.
At St. Tfilda (Melb.) Christian Brothers’
break-up the otlier day a youth named Magnus
Cohen presided at the piano ; another of the clan
contributed the principal item of the evening j
tyhile Ike Carslake s son and heir wound up the
pwtgfamitfe; ) The only things ILC. about the
affair were Roman hoses.'
Not generally known that one of th'h
founders of Melbourne Observatory was the King
o| Bavaria. In 1831 a magnetic survey of the
globe, in which th • King took great interest, was
begun, and when the map was finished, the King,
seeing that Australia had not been dealt with,
decided to extend the survey thither at his own
expense. He asked the famous Humboldt to
recommend a man, and Humboldt suggested
George Neutfi slyer who,- accordingly, in ’57 set up
3L bialgnetic ana rrfeteorological observatory in
West; Melbqu'rrte. He
tliere for 5 years,' and then went back to Germany.
Ihe Govt, afterwards combined the King of
Bavaria’s observatory-plant with that of young
Cilery s Williamstowm observatory afid established
the present Domain institution.
HAVE
LE
with VVounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
found'.d with inflammation and. swollen that when you
'*yo*r on inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion / If so, usider the shin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which* if not extracted, you
Ufiyerean recover, but go on suffering till death releases
r y ur k nees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same With the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, Or there may be wounds ? the disease
if allowed to Continue’ will deprive you of the power to
S a ‘ •' *or may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told yohr case is hopeless, or
1,1,111 to amputation j but do not, for I CAN
wet! , OU - 1 do V’t sa y 1 erhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have fared is no reason for not now being cured,
irfend atoricS fOr
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which ar£ a ceitai • remedy fof the Cure Of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, l Iceratea Joints; Carbuncles; Poisoned
Hands, lumuurs. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
A?*.* ™ Gr *at l/l*d. per b .x. Prepared by
AI Pr.it I, /3, lari .ngdon-street, London, England.
Agents*. ELL.O VI BIUJS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g.een la el on ach * (Regd. copyright).
FOREIGN STAMPS.
A RRANGED in Continents—grand value :
50 Africa (all different), Is 3d ; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, Is 6d ; 100 Asia, ss;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, ss; 100
Europe, 3s. Many rarities in the larger
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d; 250,
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. Remit P. 0.0.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
Wm. Aekland,
162 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
A FEW “POINTS”
Shi
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
;t touches the spot,
AND
Soot has ths Aohfng Part,
and wherever rain is present Fomocea or
Homocea Embrocation should be used.
Sold hj/ all stwkeepert. General D.-alcrs, and Chemitti.
E. ?. FINCKH & CO.
83 York St., Sydney
Eastern Merchants <Se Importers.
Our Specialities are-Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Graphics, Matting
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware’
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. ( Wholesale only).
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cipbrocatiofy
for Cuts, Sprains, - Bruise's,’ iih'eunfatisrn,-
and Stiffness of Joints iiV MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons' are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioo-
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
TJie A ustrdliari C astiyht Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
~ i: as ,s In the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed f6'r Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
, Sir,.—Phase inform your readers that I have been
Weakness', etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will Ije pleased 1 to send the means of cure
to all sufferers'. I do this'entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Life of the System.
PUNCSN’S PAT€NT
Slimes
Treatment Plant
AS USED BY
PUNCANS NOYES A CO., Beodigo, WyaloQg, etc.
LICENSES GRANTED.
AGENTS:
NOTES BEOS.,
31 O’ Connell-st.f Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
a
pp
p
The Great
HERBAL
Remedy,
_IS THE
Most Wonderful Discovery of the Age.
INVESTIGATE THE CURES ADVERTISED, AND PROVE FOR
YOURSELF THAT THEY ARE GENUINE.
-)o(-
Thig is truly a
Wonderful Cure.
Hydatids & Gall-stones.
EVERY WORD IS ABSOLUTE FACT.
Investigate..
« . 76 Dorcas-street, South Melbourne, 10th May, 1899.
S. A. PALMER, Agent for VITADATIO.
Dear Sir, I have much pleasure in giving my testimony of what VITADATIO
has done for me. I was taken ill two years ago with Jaundice. I was then living
at Kensington, and the doctor who attended me discovered that I was suffering
from Hydatids. He brought me through that illness, but after twelve months I
was again taken bad, suffering terrible agony at times, and a large lump formed in
my stomach, which the doctors said was hydatids again, and that I would have to
undergo a,n operation ; but while arrangements were being made I heard of your
wonderful medicine. After taking one bottle, which made me very ill, I threw up
three gall-stones. I then continued the medicine, and received great relief. I
took nineteen bottles of VITADATIO, and I now believe I am thoroughly cured of
both hydatids and gall-stones, and feel better and stronger than I have done for
years.
Wishing you every success with your wonderful medicine,
I am, yours very gratefully,
t> Q v Mrs. H. Webster.
* ou are perfect, liberty to make what use you wish of this. My cure
took pia.ce 12 months ago. Anybody wishing to see the gall-stones can see them
at 45 and 47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Price of Vitadatio
-)o(-
ss. 6d. and 3s. 6d
Institutes at
Vic.—Head Institute, 47 Bourke-street E.
SYDNEY, N.S. W.-184 Pitt-street.
BRISBANE, Q. —116 Queen-street.
PERTH, W.A.—481 Hay-street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —238 Rundle-street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—39 Manners-st.
S. A. PALMER
Sole Agent for
Australasia, India, Oeylon,
and Japan.
Sole Proprietor and Alan ufacturer :
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania.
TO LAPIE&.
Ladies' Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAlLS, from 6 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALRETS, &c. , made to order;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakerst
should send to us for anything that they require in 1
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for att article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloort ; send fofillustrai-
tions. Assistants ertgaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George Si 1
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
USE
Spooler’s
iRQYALNAVY DRESSJKC
FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
f BOOTS It SHOES
g OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
|iOIRECII.ONS FOR USC
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
F °r 9 leanin £ and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), Gd. and X&,
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking*
SADDLE SOAP,
?late Powders, Harness Dressing's, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LJIVSE-FRUBT JUICE
- SAUCE.
THF
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
•
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master m Surgery , writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy :—“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
«
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Go., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Good Things.
The Christmas issue of The Bulletin is good.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good appetite,
provide energy, and bring back health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luekham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
As a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it.
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.*
This Will Interest Many
\ N insurance agent in Sydney says that if
IX anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“ E.H., Box 100, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
crive; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.


Ni"RaSSn)(iSSei)’S AlfaliQe Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
•• i. if v , ■. -- : , •' M r t T„ ,m
The Alfaiine Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
Contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A
Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “ Alfaiine Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ot the virtues of the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
Which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of niy
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt, the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, S\’dney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murw'illumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors w'ithout effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a .similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr BASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.j
SYDNEY,
Or to any Of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
PO S t OPPI
’slili'jM! I) H! ■: IMm i liiiiiiiiliJ! i. L'l 1 [li uTfMMIi 1 i
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
fcured atid grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars becessary fof
self-cure; and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of thfe AlfalirtC
Remedies.
ALT aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
ALFALIME BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite,' Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
Bs., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. od.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
2Mms
■
■■
mm
. •
mi
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Vate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Sassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—-
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
ADVK€ FREE.
m
Mr. THOMAS MUHIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabefh-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Igjggg Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that,
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoulest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. ’
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Bui Ids up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SyOllOy
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: # J
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bonrke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Bundle-street (near Tork Hotel)


New South Welshmen
Queenslanders
South Australians
Westralians
New Zealanders
Tasmanians
Victorians
When visiting Melbourne find
THE FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
exactly suited to their requirements
m
J! I
ii w E ii
CoMios Street, MclboCirQ?.
It is conveniently situated
Being close to Spencer Street Station, the Steamship Wharves, and Centre of City
Trams pass door to all suburbs. ’ OI ™
It has 500 rooms for Visitors to choose from
At prices ranging from 2s. to 10s. per night and 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per week.
There are two Dining Rooms and Cafe.
In the Upper Dining Room Table d’hote Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner at 2s. 6d. In
coffin 6 B r kfast ’ Lunch or Tea ’ a la carte ’ from is - in the ° afe '
Boarders 9 Hates are very moderate.
*** 3 ° S ' P ® r W6ek) to 12s - 6d - P er da 7 or
Bor Families special quotations
are made and the manager invites correspondence. There are all classes of rooms at all
prices. Cards of Tariff sent immediately on application.
The numerous Public Booms are open
for , tke " se of all visitors, and include Reading, Writing, Drawing, Reception, Billiard
and Smoking Rooms, &c.
H. PERCIVAL SMITH, Manager.
THE OWL
OUT RATE
Consulting and
/Pmwi
pG Q
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THIS CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguUr Prioe, £1; Gu* Prioe, 13*. fl&
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonlo that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consunipi ion, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorne>s of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing arid
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before tbo
public.
Complete Exhaustion —Thousands In our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day's delay brings yon nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering people as Dr. Clarkson's
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright's disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe' side; take the Rein-
Vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladderand kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright's Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs —You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words oan express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we oan show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST PEEK.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea >
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane.
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against, colds, rheumatism, influensa, sciatica, paina in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pa,ss
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
cont inuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in,a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors.—By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetiam or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action. —Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magio, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Eleotro-
band has been positively proved in hnndreda and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and stomach.—The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
. Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
j. aotion, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
, guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
1 during the past trying and damp winter months, are
; effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could_£>e desired T
j Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
' oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ 1 would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured "
Yes ! what is of more value than health? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belts. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life 1
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FBU.
Ur. Hughes’s Pitaepilep.
This Celebrated KKM KDV FOII EPII.KPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the aye.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronio and obstinate oharaefon-
INWARD or OUTW AKD RILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d. per bo* »
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet. ’ r 8
Igp 1 We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
FREE OF CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address
CJor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
Ooui try Trial Order reapeotfully ■oliolted.


Business Announcements.
D. Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER - SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN'S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS 1
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Foie Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716*4 and 718 George-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI"
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
k/iilvwt —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOI TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my !
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, |
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LO N 00 N.
Irnald’s |alsam of ff orehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
OTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold's Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the "proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, oa ,abel and wrapper
By posr. 1 6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
3D Days' Trial.
tsr WE GRANT EVERY PURCHASER
of our
Electric Belts
and Appliances
a Trial of 30 days before
p -.ymenfc.
Our
Electric Belts
will
CURE ALL
DISEASES
i i all stages, however
o .used, and restore the
wearer to
ROBUST
HEALTH!
Ad areas:
Electric Appliance Agency,
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Ibs LiqCior Habit.
A N INTERESTING PAMPHLET on th<
A Disease of Drunkenness and its cure b)
will be sent free (sealed) 01
application to the ETICRAS\
CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins
street, Melbourne.
N.B. — Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, an i
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
EOcrasy
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Flinders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenue, London E.O.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
PRAPCRS * FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
V
peg
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d,, 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
S. FREEMAN «° SONS Uajp?
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES :
BATHO'S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP.
BLACKING.
TOMATO SAUCE.
BLUE (Bag or Square).
VINEGAR. FLOUR.
JELLY CRYSTALS.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
vm/mt i
Effective
BlichtlmfiamedEyes&lios
Weak Eyes Dimness E 75
. SSICEORCE ST .
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising; from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ———*■
ROBE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all ClattUt
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle. Sheep, ' Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CH EM I STS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
d t\o
4
I in
\/N
•LEVI’S
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
jjstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
‘ CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
5 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
j Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and t
may be worn without the slightest possibility of'
detection. They have cured thousands. <
THEY WILL CURE ¥©ll* ’
£ s. d. ’
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 i
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0 '
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 4
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 380 (
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 1
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will to
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and s
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for '
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, (
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c. '
AH communications should be addressed to— l
A. D. STEPHENSON, ’
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Heals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
. "
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and G-inger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labour required. Anyone can learn to operate
the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS. ''
“To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is
perfect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the
best speculation I have entered into since-I joined the
Licensed Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan
Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its weight in gold.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Hotelkeeper, Coolgardie, W.A., says:
—“Profits saved by making my own supplies of Aerated
Waters with the Machine purchased from you, pay thb
RENT OF MY HOTEL.”
Mr. Lewis, of Old England Hotel, Heidelberg, says
“ I have now had one of your Aerated Water Machines in
use for three years, and have made thousands of dozen*
of the best Aerated Waters with it, and it has not
required sixpence worth of repairs. No Hotelkeeper
should be without one of these Machines.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Hotelkeeper, Yalgoo, W.A., says:—“My
Aerated Water account was formerly £3O per month.
Since getting one of your Machines, and making my own
soft stuff, I have saved the price of the Machine ten times
over.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many
small centres of population, where a deeply-felt want
exists FOR A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE
the profits. Call and see these Machines, or write for
Circular describing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR
/"CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Notpe Catarrh CGre Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
r.TT»«^ alue of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c. use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
" d LOZENGEf


P* Australian (|)idouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
"Rht a ifi'n
•^ II S«*2SSjSiSS»S& , S3SS**" th * '» «» ONLY Ofß* IN AUSTRALIA
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWIOK, M.D., M.L.0.. Chairman-
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed *1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds *215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Write for Special Prospectus.] „ „ T ‘
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary,
it
Tl)€ R€flL WCKAY”
FINESI
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Sole Proprietors
Harrison &
The Australian Mining' and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
Loud on ,
E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London bv
FR.A.3XTK: JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & 00., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
“ DOW KIDGrE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
BY ROYAL warrant of
APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
QUEEN."
Ask for
Wfjisky at)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO PA WATER, Sc-
Ask for
Braody at)d
Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
(Lake
41
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYDWBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
urchasers of all classes of GrOI>D, SILVER
highest prices paid for ores.
CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
PROMPT CASH SETILEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
' " ''T-rr~
■
m
m
H
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Rates,
etc., apply to E.
A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company
of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
INFANTS'
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized*"
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.
LIYER AILMENTS YERSUS KIDNEY DISEASE.
The Most Popular Mistake in the World.
BACKACHE Does Not Mean Kidney Trouble
IT MEANS a SLUGGISH LIVER
Don’t Blame your Kidneys for your Liver’s Transgressions.
The Case of
MRS. EMILY GATELY.
' f Reported for the “ Advocate.”)
Leaving Rockdale and the ocean front,’
and mounting the risingground, back from the
sea, the traveller passes through Bexley, and
following the ridge, along the Stoney Creek
.Road, he comes to open ground of green
velvet turf ranged with gracious trees. This
little ,beauty spot is well named “Alston
Park,” and it was here that our reporter
found the cottage of Mr. Gately, stone-
mason. Mrs. Gately was at home, surrounded
with her fine family of sturdy children,
and in answer to enquiry, kindly consented
to relate the details of her time of suffer-
ing, and the manner of her speedy relief and
recovery I can assure you I was very
bad indeed. It was at a time when I had a
great deal of extra work to do, and was
much worried in many ways ; besides, I had
had influenza, and never got really well of it.
I was told that the influenza had left a lung
weakness, and by advice I painted the
hollows in my shoulders, where I used to
suffer extreme pain, with iodine. This
treatment was very painful, and, so far as I
could tell, did me no good at all. And be-
sides the chest pains I had other distressing
symptoms that, coming quickly one after the
other, made my life unendurable.”
“ Will you tell me how you wereaffected?”
asked the reporter.
“ My kidneys were in a bad state, for I
had agonising pains across the loins, and
there was a dull pain under the shoulders.
(Here Mrs. Gately makes the same mistakes
jh many other sufferers from liver oom.
plaint. The liver has many functions to
perform, and when afflicted the kidneys are
disturbed in sympathy. The water becomes
hot and discoloured, and every sufferer
jumps to the conclusion he has kidney
disease. Nothing of the sort. Kidney
disease has very little means of showing its
presence, and a man may beafflicted for y ears
and never know it. Backache, headache,
1 pains in the arms, chest, loins, back, shoulders,
&c., are invariably due to liver complaint, not
kidney disease. To treat the kidneys is abso-
lutely useless ; cure the liver and the supposed
k idney symptoms cease. —Ed. )It seemed as
though a heavy weight was on my chest,
giving me a stifled feeling, and lower down
I had a pain in the side under the ribs that
prevented me sleeping, or lying down, except
on one side of my body. My sight was a great
trouble to me, for neuralgia pains s read
over my head and forehead and settled at
the back of my eyes. I made sure I was
going blind. I could not endure strong
light, it actually pained me, and I fixed up
curtains when I could about the house to
keep it out. My rest was troubled at night,
and hour after hour I lay in bed unable to
close my eyes. At times my breathing was
affected, and it pained me to draw a long
breath. I became that weak and low I
could not put one leg before the other, or
raise my hands above my head My body
was in a constant tremble, for I know that
my nervous system was quite run down,
affecting even my mind, so that I was
melancholy and fearful, often for no cause at
all. My appetite became very poor, and
what I did eat did no good ; I seemed to be
losing the taste for food. And there is on-
ourious thing with me—l could never drim
plain water, it makes me sick, so that in the
hot weather I was always running to the
teapot, making tea six or seven times a day.
And I have thought often enough that
taking so much tea must be bad; the
difficulty is to find another drink that will
take its place. When I got very bad I told
my husband I should have to lie up, I was
so utterly wearied out with pain and weak-
ness. ”
“ Well, did you lie up, Mrs. Gately ? ”
“No; as it happened, about that time
a man came this way distributing the books
that tell of Clements Tonic and the wonder-
ful cures it has done. One of my children
picked up one these books and brought it
home, and I was quite surprised when I
came to read the testimonials to find cases
mentioned just like my own. It was as
though I had written them myself, describ-
ing all my pains and distressing symptoms
just as I suffered. That made me think that
Clements Tonic must be the medicine for my
case, and would surely cure me as it had
others. So I told my husband that when he
came home from town again he was to
bring me a bottle.”
“ And were your hopes justified i w asked
the reporter.
“Yes; that first bottle did me a great
deal of good. Clements Tonic will go to
every part and nerve of your body, and
repair whatever is wrong. I know this is so,
for it has cured me. I continued with
Clements Tonic, and the result was just whatl
had read about as happening in other cases. !
All my many troubles yielded and melted '■
away before Clements Tonic ; the pains in
my loins, chest, and head, the neuralgia
pains in my forehead and eyes diminished
till I felt them no more. My appew
returned, and I was always anxious for meal
time to come round. And it was Clemente
Tonic that did all this for me, for I took no
other remedy. It quickly brought me back
my old health and strength, and I was able
to work again.”
“ Have you any objection to your experi-
ence being made public ?”
‘‘No,” said Mrs. Gately, “you are very
welcome to make it known in any way you
think best; perhaps what I say will guide
others, as what others said guided me, and
they may find relief, even when at the last
extremity, by taking Clements Tonic.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T, Emily Gately, of Bexley, near Rockdale,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way ;
and I make this, solemn declaration voluntarily, aiid
without receiving any payment, conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the pro-
visions of an Act made and passed in the ninth year
of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled “An
Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
ments of the Government of New South Wales, and
to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits."
Declared at Hurstville, this 22nd day of June,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before,
me, HUGH PATRICK* J.P-


For More Than (N Raindred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS "AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HAPL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for .£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duohesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cana Chair, 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, <£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus at
Country Orders packed Free.
Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full desci ip tion and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6,and (triple 2/6 size) 4-/S per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
IS
I
■S
IM
“Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow upi"
“Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards' ‘ Harlene.'"
The Stinkin’ Pride of Harold
Daveney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN, one dav five years ago, Pat Kinnane, out
of lack, and stone, motherless broke, went down to
Darling H irbor to stow-away on one of Howard
Smith’s Westralian steamers, the only one to see
him off was that weak-chinned fly-flat, Harold
Daveney. „ a a ,
Know what a fly-flat is ? No! Well, a fly-flat
is a bloke who is crook enough to be a spieler, but
‘not clever enough. ’Sides, that sort’s never real
game, and generally winds up as ph.zzgig to a
copman. ~ ,
Now, Kinnane never was on “the cross ; he
was always a hardworking bloke—minin’, lumpin ,
or hidebiblin’ at the skin stores at Cir’clar Quay
—that was his graft.
Daveney used to kid himself that he was a bit
of a toff on the strength of havin’ bin a bank-
clurk once. Hadn’t lasted at that long, though,
heard—not from Daveney, mind—that his poor old
mother fainted right on the bank-manager’s shirt-
front and ante’d-up every bean she had, to save
him from a stretch in the cooler.
When Kinnane got to know Daveney, Daveney
was clurk in a tote, and it was real funny that
these two should have become friends—Kinnane,
common as you make ’em, and the silentest man I
ever struck, and Daveney mashing all the three-
penny barmaids, and, to hear him talk, making
you believe that he knew everything that was
happening in every stable in Sydney —Bill Long’s
and Kelso’s even. Daveney used to bully Kin-
nane and tell him to “ shut up ” when he wasn’t
sayin’ a word, and Kinnane didn’t seem to
mind being bullied so long as he was allowed
to be in his toffy pal’s company. And the funniest
thing was that Daveney was so proud of his
superiority over Kinnane that he would never
borrow or take any favor from him. And, mind
you, Daveney was that strong at borrowin
amongst the twopenny-ha’penny counter-jumpers
that came round the tote that he was known all
about the bottom-end of King-street as the “ Lug-
Biter.” If a bloke had a sore ear he’d kid it was
the marks of Daveney’s teeth.
Well, after Kinnane went off to Coolgardie
without a brief in his kick and no tucker but
some biscuits and a bottle of pickles, Daveney
struck a five-bob double and got the shunt from
the tote. The boss knew quite well that
Daveney had faked it after the races were run,
but he paid Daveney his fifty quid and didn’t
squeal. A tote-man making two hundred a week
never squeals. “ Let ’em all come ! ’ That s his
motter. And they do come—police, black-
mailers, tale-tellers, and have their little “ cut ”
for nixey. ,
Daveney got lower and lower after he d left the
tote. Picked up with the Statue-gang. That’s the
school of spielers that meet near the Captain
Cook statue in Hyde Park every morning at 11
to arrange the day’s business and watch for tugs.
Their box o' tricks is generally a bundle of cronk
notes of a busted Melbourne bank and a tale
about a rich uncle who’s wearin’ out his boots
lookin’ for a deservin’ young feller who he wants
to make a present of five hundred pounds to,
provided the young feller has five hundred
quid of his own' that he has honestly earned. It’s
a played-out trick as a general thing, and it isn’t
safe to try it on anyone from this side of Bathurst.
But sometimes the school will get on to a bloke
from a place likeNimitybelle orßrewarrina ; then
it’s a case of “Steady, the Buffs ! ” for he’ll come
like water. They’ll get him down to a pub. in
Woolloomooloo, and the rich uncle will be there
with his five hundred quid, and the poor young
bloke will say that he is anxious to earn the
money, but he has only got £2OO of his own, and
then one of the school will whisper the tug out
into the passage and lend him che£3oo cronk utis,
of course—and then all the money, good and bad,
is shoved into a hat, and wlmn the game’s over
the school will have the tug’s two hundred pounds
of the real thing and the bloke from the Darling
Hiver will have stowed away in his breast pocket
a hundred of the worst sort of t nuers that never
came out of a bank.
A-course the game’s worked variously ; some-
times they bring it to a barney and accuse the tug
of ringing in the cronk ’uns, and sometimes a
sham detective bobs in and kids to be going to
arrest ’em all, and the tug bolts for his natural,
and —well, you tumble to the strength of it ?
And that’s the sort of yakker that Daveney
grafted at until the other day.
Couple of months ago who should come back to
Sydney but Kinnane, fat as a pig, clobbered up
to the nines, and with a watch-chain as thick as
a ship’s hawser, and he drives up to the Australia
and takes a soot of rooms, and then it comes out
that he’s the Mr. Kinnane—J.P., if you please,
too —who jumped the Ingram mine at Mt. Her-
bert, and sold out to the Butler push for £50,000.
You could have knocked me silly 1 I nearly
busted my boiler lookin’ for Daveney, to tell him
the news, but when I told him, the swine
turned a sort of greeny color, and gritted his
teeth, and snarled out, liftin’ his eyebrows peev-
ishly, “ What’s that got to do with me?”
I tell you, I felt quite took back ! I afterwards
heard that he met Kinnane quite casually, and
Kinnane nearly blubbered with joy, and caught
hold of his hand, and asked him how he was a-
gettin’ on. „ , ,
Then this blinded fool, Daveney, all through
his stinkin’ pride, says quite coldly, Nicely,
thanks.” Then Daveney yawns with a superior
sort of tiredness, and says, “ Be in Sydney long ■
Aw ? ’praps I’ll see you before you go, ’ and he
dropped Kinnane’s hand, just as if he took no
interest in him at all. My word ; they say that
Kinnane, with his shiny hat and his flash clothes,
just shrunk all up, as if he was a nobody, in-
stead of a fifty-thousand pounder. Then he got
a pained, slow sort o’ smile into working order,
and says, with an effort, apologetic like, ‘ How
are you off for stuff, old fel—Mr. Daveney, I
mean.” , . . , ~
B it Diveney still his his beastly .stinkin pride,
and says, without movin’ a muscle, “ Oh, I’ve
gut a nice little account at the London Chartered,
and Im gives Kinnane a look, as much as to say
that it’s like your hanged cheek to go fossicking
into my mat tails. You see he would keep up his
old superiority.
Kinnane just gave a dry sort of swallow and
walked away with his face lookin’ as blue as a
plum. „ , ~ . . . ,
Daveney stroked over to Power s vvith his he id
in the air and had a free lunch vvith his on y
tanner. _ i a e
Bli-me ! I did laugh when I heard of
Da veney’s ski te about his bank-account. Itu.i^
nly £2 3s. 2d., and Daveney hadn t touched it,
r years. He dursen’t! Every spieler must have
a bank-account, if it’s only a quid or two, to save
himself from being lumbered on the vag. It s
like a life-belt in a shipwreck—you must have it.
Did I tell you that Kinnane left in the Ormuz
on a tower of the world the very next day after he
met Daveney ? Well, he did ; arid by this time I
expect he’s in Europe and Paris and them places.
But this is what I’m cornin’ to. .
Daveney got into Darlinghurst Gaol—simplest
thing in the world. The Statue-gang got so strong
with the rich-uncle confidence-trick that the police
put up a snide tug to trap ’em. The school got
him down to Woolloomooloo beautiful, and
Daveney was acting the rich uncle. The real
hard-faces at the game were a bit shy of Hashing
their cronk notes, as the supposed tug was alto-
gether too willing and agreeable, so they quietly
makes up their minds to be out of the stake but in
at the divvy, as the saying is !
So they kids Daveney to draw a cheque to
represent the rich uncle’s five hundred, and
Daveney in the most lordly way hauls out his
cheque-book, fills in the amount and signs it and,
bli-me ! signs it with his own name. He says now
that he did it unconscious-like.
When the money was in the hat, the tug blowed
his nose very hard and four plain-clothes cops
from Parramatta and places like that jumped in,
collared the stuff, cheque and all, and marched
Daveney off to the jug. ~
It was such a clear case that, when at the
Central, Daveney asked if he couldn t be dealt
with summary. But the Beak looks very wise,
and shakes his head, and takes about ten minutes
to explain that Daveney would get the benefit ot
a much longer stretch than the common police-
magistrate could give. , ,
Daveney whimpered and groaned and pawed at
the back of his head and showed himself to be the
regular cocktail when the Beak sent him up to the
Metropolitan Quarter Sessions. But the Beak
with all his show-off and guyver and talk wasn t
as clever as he thought he was.
My word ! didn’t Judge Backhouse rub it
into him when he was tryin’ Daveney s case
up at the Darlinghurst Court.
The Crown Prosecutor proved the case up to
the hilt, and the jury put on that listless look that
they always do when the verdict’s a cert.
All through the case the lawyers wit.
nesses had been callin’ Daveney’s cheque “ Exlnbi-
Hay”—l mean Hay, the letter of the alfnbett
Towards the end of the case, old Backhouse gets
it into his hand and fans himself with it, and then
looks at the clock and draws a picture on his
blottin’-pad, and yawns a little. It must weary
them Judge blokes tryin’ a long case, with a lot of
tenioal points, but which they know can only end
one way from the very start.
Then the Judge looked at the cheque again, and
he straightens his back with a jerk, and his specs
fall off, and he barks out at the Crown Prosecutor
like a tarrier dog, sayin’: “Mr. Surecase, this
’ere cheque ain’t marked by the bank. It should
have been marked ‘Not sufficient funds’or‘!No
account ’ when returned, after presentation.
The Crown Prosecutor rubbed his nose with his
finger, and looked as wise as an owl, and he whis-
pers to his clurk, and the clurk whispers to the
police-inspector, and fire jumps out of the police-
inspector’s eyes as he whispers to the cops ; then
he curses them awful —under his breath, of course
—and the cops’ fingers straddle about the seams of
their pants like daddy-long-legs spiders, and
everybody is lookin’ both ways for Sunday, when
the Judge, who had been watchin’ ’em all, hollers
out, in a terrible tone, “ Has exhibit Hay been
presented at the bank ? ” ,
Then the Crown Prosecutor gets up as if all his
limbs were aching, and bleats out something
about “Slight informality”; “Can’t affect
case”; “Easily rectified”; “Short adjourn-
ment ”; and cetery. ; .
Well, a couple of detectives tumbles into a cab
and away they go, hell-for-leather, to the bank,
and comes bade in a quarter of an hour looking
dazed and silly and carrying a big bag of chink
between them. They whispered to the Inspector
and Crown Prosecutor, who got very red.
And when the lawyer had pulled himself to-
gether he gets up and explains that the cheque has
been presented and honored.
Y uu never saw such a sensation !
‘ ‘ The accused must, of course, be discharged,
said the Judge.
Daveney was hangin’ on to the spikes of the
dock and gaspin’ as if he was goin’ off his nanny.
And one of the detectives goes up to him and
whispers in his ear, “ The bank blokes say that a
Mr. Kinnane paid <£soo into your credit a couple
of months ago. By jingo ! you’re lucky.”
JAMES A. PHILP.
The Hero Maxim.
This is a great time for Heroes. They grow on every
bush. It is calculated that, since the war with Spain,
there are more heroes in the whisky-saloons of the United
States than the world has seen since the days of the
Paladins. The campaign against the Mahdi also produced
a tine crop of Heroes. The Boer war is doing the same
thing. But the real Hero never gets the credit he
deserves. Anyhow we never hear about him being
decorated. A recent cablegram says
“ A great victory has been achieved by the British in
the Soudan. A force under Colonel Sir Francis Wingate
routed 2500 Dervishes, under Ahhmed Fedil, at Abua
Adel, killing 400, and taking many prisoners. The Der-
vishes charged to within 80 yards of the Maxim guns.
The British casualties numbered three.”
Look back a little —
O the thundering Zulu impis
Came charging on the square—
A wild se'a of fierce black faces—
He met them charging there.
His mouth of Death was open,
He swallowed up renown,
And splendid, savage valor,
In gory lie ips went down.
Ho, the fierce white-mantled Dervish,
The Desert-rider came :
The rifles could not stay him,
Though spitting lead and flame ;
But when the Hero Maxim
Joined in the chorus—ah !
Like clothes laid out for bleaching,
Lay the white-robed Baggara.
They rushed upon Destruction
With eyes and hearts aflame,
Each warrior a Rustom,
All in the Mahdi’s name,
“ Come forth, come forth, ye cowards !
Ye dogs of Shaitan, come ! ”
Forth slipped the Hero Maxim—
And the wild white ranks lay dumb.
Then glory to the captains—
Which is indeed their right—
And glory to the privates.
Who won each deadly fight;
But when the glory's uortioned,
And parcelled out by lot,
The modest hero Maxim
Should never be forgot.
CEERVE ROE.


' A Mother’s
Responsibility
A great responsibility rests upon
mothers at the time their daughters are
budding into womanhood. If your daughter
is pale, complains of weakness, is “tired
out” upon slight exertion ; if she is troubled
with headache or backache, pain in the
side; if her temper is fitful and her appe-
tite poor, she is in a condition of extreme
peril, a fit subject for that dreaded
of all diseases— consumption. notice
any of these symptoms lose no time in
procuring
Dr. Williams’ pink pills
for pale people.
They will assist your daughter to
develop properly and regularly, they will
emiclx the blood, strengthen the nerves, and
all danger of consumption and premature
death will be averted.
Anaemia! Sleeplessness ! Loss of Appetite !
became quite pale and bl wd 1 IsJm d ™ dfen'd se m‘e] y" from'' head *7 V ' ° W< !? * f porter said ’ “Some time ago I
I ate I was afflicted with pains a short time afterwards ThSt? 8 £ nd loss of appetite. No matter how little
was to lie down and, if possible, rest. Sometimes I thoueh ItW he ?S oppressed me greatly. My only desire
tion, whilst an increasing dull pain in my back and sidesadde// fc glve 'I ay under me from sheer exhaus-
bed, gasp for breath, arid could never sleep properly T? TwS ,ny At night I would toss about in
on, making me faint and dizzy, so that I had to stand with hi d,starioe heart palpitation would come
was tender, my hands bloodied and rhrLken mv bDs hne “L h d ® to m 7 Bldes to gefc a little relief. My skin
anaemic, and that I ought to undergo six lnt A f.n 7° i deVOld °- f colf ? r " A P h y sician said I was
I tried several remedies, but without success At last T trWi wm- Cal attention did not seem to improve me,
tisement, and after using two boxes I was greatly imumved d Wll } lams Plnk pip s through seeing the adver-
gradually ceased, and I shook off that depmsLmlaumior wln^h 1^16 - T T ca “ e back t 0 cheeks, the headaches
ill-effects followed a meal. In a few weeks fwas qufte brTM t “ 6 ¥ y a returned, and no
since. My complexion has been wonderfully improved haV6 ] been in P erfecfc healfeh ever
strengthened. I cannot be too grateful for my cure by DrWilhams’ RnkPffls “ d “ y Wh ° le n6rVOUS SyStem
*
tered nerves ariTcontairied t 0 ne T J^ e anc * r * c h ness to the blood and restore shat-
They Tre a specific for trn w * omd m Dr - Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
forms of weakness The es peculiar to ladies, such as suppressions, irregularities, and all
cheeks reBtore the low of health t 0 P«4
or excestes of anv nature Th™ C - Ure m a cases prising from mental worry, overwork,
dyspepsia dvsenterv ' • I^ewiSG cu J e rheumatism, neuralgia, consumption, bronchitis,
dyspepsia, dysentery, insomnia, weaknesses due to influenza, etc.
or 1• S ° ld ** Ws < never in loose bulk ) at 2/9 a box
or six boxes for 15/3 (postfree), from Dr. Williams’Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney and
from all reputable Chemists and Storekeepers-But mind you ask for Dr. Williams’. ’
— fib
1
3¥o
m
m
*i
The Currency Lass.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They marshalled her lovers four and four,
A drum at their head, in the days of old :
O none could have guessed their hearts were sore:
I hey marched with such gayness in scarlet and
gold.
They came to the dance place on the hill
Where Death was the piper (he pipes full well):
lhey grounded their arms and stood stock-still;
And just why he sorrowed no one would tell/
O, some had been wed in distant lands,
And sweethearts had others-but let that pass ;
She held them at ease in snow-white hands,
For Queen over all was the Currency Lass.
They ushered her forth in all her charms-
Her eyes were alight and as gold her hair;
ohe looked on the men and oped her arms
What wonder if then they had wished them
there ?
She hearkened the Preacher, thin and pale,
His voice was as frost, but his words were wise’
But sin on the soul is like wrought mail,
And only a scorn of him fired her eyes.
°> sorrow and pray, the hour draws nigh,
The Lord in His justice shall question thee !”
ihe Preacher made prayer ’twixt sob and sigh
And down dropped his soul on bended knee.’
He fashioned thee fair ” —a sideways look—
“ Red lipped and right royal to look upon,
A joy of the Earth ’ —his thin hands shook,
And passionate lights in his deep eyes shone.
In scarlet and gold her lovers stood,
A host under famine with heads out-thrust,
Keen-flamed in the sun ran reddest blood
And lips that were thirsty grew dry as dust.
They loved her for years—their tangled souls
Like scintillant fish in her beauty-mesh
All breathless reposed. . . A dull drum rolls,
And Death is at hand for the Flower of Flesh.
She lifted her head for one love-word
(Afar was a clamor of new-come ships),
Her hair in a cloud the low wind stirred,
And silent they marvelled at her red lips.
“A lover was I from youth,” she said ;
“And Love is my lord till I fill the grave
Then coyly she drooped her gold-haired head—
“ Now, last of my lovers, a kiss I crave ! ”
The preacher was whirled in passion’s rout,
And dark was the stain on his soul’s wliitesnow,
Her lips were as life—his soul leapt out,
And sure there was laughter in Hell below.
“A singer was I these years,” she said,
“ And so I must sing till my soul doth pass.”
Then forth from her sin-sweet lips there sped
The long-dead song of the Currency Las*.
The hands of the spoiler touch her throat ;
The noon is at hand and the last sands run.
(Still over the scene her wild words float'
The noose is ready, the song is do*’-
“A dancer I was from birth,” sue said;
“ A baby —I danced on my mother’s knee;
Now whistle a jig, with swaying head,
And, lovers of mine, I will dance for ve ! ”
Each stood with a droop, a cheated man,
While Sorrow went weaving an ice-cold spell.
Good-bye to the world ! The dance began
With Death for the piper—he piped full well.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
At Launceston, las., the other day, an
old man of 72 years suicided by falling backwards
on to a shoemaker’s awl, and driving it into his
spinal cord.
Again the Woman and the Serpent. One
Brown was the other day called upon at Paterson
(N.S.W.) to kill a snake with a gun handed to
him by the woman in whose house the reptile was.
Brown fired, and the snake went to pieces—but so
did the gun, severely damaging the shooter’s face
and eyes.
A volume of reminiscences now being
compiled by an ex-N.S.W. civil servant will
probably throw a curious light on the indirect
cause of the memorable Sydney Garden Palace
fire. Formerly N.S.W. was divided into seven
land-districts, each controlled by a Commissioner
and though the work, to a conscientious official*
was heavy, emoluments were ditto and the posts
were in demand. Those were the palmy days of
free selection and barefaced swindling “in station
interests,” and as the “runs’ records” from the
earliest dates were filed at the Commissioners’
offices and not in Sydney, it suddenly dawned
upon old Jack Bobertson that the Commissioners
would be more than human if they failed to dis-
play “unconscious bias” in the squatters’favor.
Accordingly each Commissioner received 24 hours'’
notice by wire to pack up all records and close his
office, despatching the papers and the subordinates
of the staff to the capital. Now one of the Com-
missioners having recently married a wealthy
wue, was independent of the service, and resenting
the Minister’s summary action, he simply told his
clerks to report themselves in Sydney, sealed his
drawers and locked the room. Then, before wit-
nesses, he handed the keys to the local postmaster
and wired the Under-secretary that he had
resigned, adding “If you want papers, come for
tfiem. Ihe other Commissioners, however, dulv
despatched the records to Sydney, and as the
papers arrived they were stored in the Garden
I alaee, and did their share towards feeding the
names. I. he insubordinate action of the seventh
man had, however, so upset the routine-governed
intellects of the permanent heads that the question
of who was responsible for his papers remained
unsettled for months after he had locked them up
and these therefore were the only Commissioner’s
records which escaped the conflagration. For
years after the Department was practically
dependent for many essential details of tenure and
area upon the run-holders. Now, ivho ordered the
storage of the records in the Garden Palace ? The
question of who set the Palace on fire after they
were there is too large to be entered upon.
In the Days of the Depression.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stbeetham walked on to the ferry-boat with the
step of authority, his elevated chin poking sharply
°ver the steep shirt-collar. He was adorned with
brightnes S h ''" e a “ d Sh ° eS ° £ P reternatu ral
“ Morning, Pritchard ! ”
Good morning to you, Streetham ! ”
minimum o d fT aS V mall “ an with a quiet style, a
! rr ' and “ lln ° St ®babby enoitgb
“Seen the papers ? ” said Pritchard «
•re talk „ g of old-age [>™io„P They
T-B- T f u Und them ! What will they want next ?
yesterday Fhtfto all
wo°uXt “okeT y boSo?b
and I wdi consider it.” Streetham gave a sweep
°f the hand ; Pritchard nodded assent. P
•• we E3£ bSSLfc” 01 ’'” added Streeth ™-
strolled into a friend’s
PMk Ho -
f My Cod ! , What shall I do? If it were not
no wfdrnng!” I’d . But there,
ROt ?“ hi ? feefc > walking up and down ud
and down, his mind revolving protect after Viro-
ject, each fading at the touch of the solitary shil-
rs,d^-Kaid.“ Ste * nd * h «
ln^ UrS rr'i and nofc a clienfc oalled. These
last days he had ceased to hope for them vet --me
can never tell A step in the passage ! The man
was at the desk pen in hand, writing as though
business pressed. A knock ! gn
“ Come in ! ”
that you ’ Patti son—how are you?” and
l% ° n to a Asperate finteh
How s the world using you ? Jp to my eyes in
work—never a minute’s rest. ’ He put the Den
down wteh a jerk, mid held out his hand with “
v.ro L r UC u y fel ?°w, you, Streetham, always busy
nose to the grindstone, hauling in the stuff ” 7 ’
1 don t growl, Pattison. A man’s srnt ir,
these times. Come over the way ?”
Over the way ” was a palace bar. A sudden
hope had stirred Streetham to the proposal.
Jrattison was reputed well-to-do. The loan of a
liver might be negotiated.
~ £< said Streetham to the bar-tender,
thono-h his soul whispered longingly about a pint
t iimglish and a plate of the tempting eounter-
luneli ; but his eye showed no glint of appetite as
ne toyed fastidiously with a biscuit. Then, as
ne talked banalities, his mind pondered how best
to phrase the appeal. They were leaving the bar
with joking repartee. The moment had come
when, as though by .sudden impulse, Pattison’s
hand clapped Streetham’s shoulder.
Let’s have a tenner, old man, till the end of
the week. I’m clean stumped by Rand wick till
the rents come in.”
Of course I would, dear boy, only too glad ;
but this morning I’ve had to scrape up £l5OO for
calls on those damned bank shares. Left me pro.
rru" 'o^ iou t ; a coin to jingle on a tombstone.
1 hen, last week, £2OOO on Potts Point land—the
last payment, thank God ! I tell you it cleans a
fellow out—literally. I have only what I stand
up in. Awfully sorry, you know ;if you had only
asked me yesterday.”
Oh, no matter,” said Pattison, biting his lip.
but speaking airily. “ I’ll go round to the bank ;
bU mu S worth it for so little.”
They shook hands and separated, each with his
unbroken smile.
* * * *
As Streetham stepped into the office again a
greenish-blue haze spread before his eyes ; he sank
down, his arms about his head. In the street a
band played a waltz tune. The measure of the
sound ' leereC the levity of meaningless
There is a way—there must be a way—even
from the pit. Pluck up heart, man ! Remember
Mary and the children ! ” So he braced himself,
and started on the room-tramp again, like a caged
thing By Jove ! I have it. I’ll tap Pritchard ;
X ve done him many a good turn.”
, ,V r 't°h :l rd and Pritchard, solicitors and notaries
public, was written beside the wide stone en-
trance. In the outer office three clerks busy
addressing circulars (for a nominal remuneration
but they gave an air of population to the
spacious office); in the inner room Mr. Pritchard
behind a screen of tilted newspaper, and before
his open brief-bag, was lunching on two slices of
bread-and-butter and a cup of water.
Come in ! ” he called out at the knock, as he
hurriedly covered his meal with the morning
paper. “You, Streetham? Take a seat.
You ve caught me luckily; been up to the
morning. Got an Equity suit on
the list for this afternoon. So I’ve just got a bare
live minutes to call my own. Excuse me one
moment.” The lawyer touched the table-gong.
One of the circular-addressers responded.
“Jackson, I wish you’d make out Richardson’s
bill of costs; and tell Philips to hurry up engross-
ing that transfer—it will be wanted to-niuht-'-and
remind Alfred to make fresh search at the Regis-
re Higg’s estate ; and, mind you, go over to
oir J ulian at once and get him to name hour for
consultation. That will do now.” The door
closed, the lawyer’s face cleared as though for the
moment free from pressing care.
“I want you to oblige me with a fiver to make
up a cheque,” said Street,ham easily; “I’ve just
found, on looking at my pass-book, that I’ve near
overrun the constable. Bills fell in this vveek-a
regular heap. So busy that I was near forgetting
Shall have to turn-to and hurry up the slow pays
I believe there are people who think a man owns
the Bank of New South Wales.”
The lawyer betrayed no shock of the surprise
Streetham had feared. “Of course, Streethani
between old friends you have only to say the
word, and he reached his hand towards a cheque-
book, opened it—then, after a look at the butts
gave a startled exclamation : “ The devil!—l was
forgetting all about those counsel’s fees • c£soo
this morning, ,£7OO yesterday- all money out-of-
pocket. And .£3OOO calls on bank-shares last
week. lin blest if I know how I stand with the
bank. And that reminds me. I have £9OO to
meet to-morrow on a bit of city land I was fool
enough to buy. I must go round and see the
manager about it, or there’ll be the deuce to pay
Very sorry, very sorry, I’m sure ; but you see how
it is. When it s all pay ! pay ! pay ! the best of
drained. Would it do next week ? ”
“ Oh, it’s of no consequence,” said Streetham
with a careless laugh, and he chatted for five
minutes of he knew not what.
That night at dusk Streetham entered the back
door of his cottage, a building with merely out-
ward show of comfort, though in these latter davs
the blmds were always drawn. A little woman
with a thin face and smiling hope in her eves
16 door - She kissed him and set him at
the table.
“ There is a cup of tea, Frank, and some bread
and sugar, it is the best I could do ”
The meal was laid in the kitchen on the one
table ieft in the house. The man gulped down
tne black tea and strove to eat the bread.
Any luck to-day, dear ? ” She seemed afraid
to ask him, face to face, and came behind his
chair, leaning over his shoulder.
The man could not look up, could not speak • a
choking groan answered her, and when he came
to bite the bread again it was wet with mingled
tears.
HENRY FLETCHER.


For Weak and Delicate Children
For thin blood and loss In flesh; for poor
appetite and weak digestion; and for the de-
pression from long-continued hot weather.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Wd.
w
WA
w/m.
l//m
if //
at
n
m
“My son, whose picture I send you, was taken very sick, became languid,
losing his appetite and seeming to lose all energy. Apparently he did not have
hardly any life left in him. He was so weak he would become unconscious
at times. He also had large swellings in his neck. I was greatly worried
over him. I took him to the doctors with no satisfactory results.
“I then resorted to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, remembering that my sister derived
a wonderful amount of good from this, same medicine. _
“ After a few days my boy’s health began to improve, his appetite returned,
and he gradually lost his extreme languidness. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acted as a
grand tonic upon his whole system, and he soon began to scamper about like
other boys. I attribute his wonderful recovery solely to the fact that he took
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and took it in time.”
This is the experience of Mrs. Arabella Graham (whose son’s portrait is given
above), of 73 Station St., Petersham, New South Wales. It is also the happy
experience of thousands of mothers all over the land. And it is the reason
■why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been named
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
It brings color to white lips and plumpness to pale cheeks.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
B «a»il That "Cures.
It Gives Nerve Power and EVSuscuiar Strength.
Ayer’s Pills are Liver Pills. They cure biliousness.
i
■ ■
m
a
m
SI
I
PLAIN HOMC TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COIVUYTOIW SEN"
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromes. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subject's concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Stbeohrs asp Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Garbs, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Bbcomb a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestlino, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 0d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aug?. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3» 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is Cel post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and Hie Gang (only true history').
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d po*t.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonjrs.
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is Cd posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be obtained from him are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottl* are universally acknowledged
XO DXSFX COMP£tXIXXO»T.
WINES n ‘ Bat *£* * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Ao.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PHSLV*?
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to he “ WORTH A
A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud ot’ Health the Whole Physical Enebgy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9Jd, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
LEA &
PERRINS
SAUCE.
Observe the
Signature
SA
r> i* - *
,r > Blue Ink
ly the Outsit
qj every
OftlOlNAt,
ACffiKTS : Mnwrs. VtROOS. SON, and CUAPMAH,
AXfv mvii) COHEN AND CO.. S>
s>£v
f Sen-Sen &
I.E&E.RINQPON AVENUtI
f LONDON.
b ——c
IfIVALUABLE TO
, SINGEBS & SPEAKERS
eP
vt
fcf
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
Bonnington’s
lrish Moss
Instant Relief - - - Speedy Cure.
The Jolliest Book of the Year.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings, Post Free.
Tno Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
Citt Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AS* . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Qneen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building:, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
1310 H
Board or Apartments at Option.
Mamm att* as
SPOON'S & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
<S>H£ MbBOT
J. * J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,*’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Ws
.
'
in the World.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Ja/pan.
SPECIAL features:
——
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
XI. & J. DICK,
G-reenhead Works,
LONDON Quean Victoria S*.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM S 3 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Nerille St.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
mo phteiit beets
ean be offered than the remarkable increase
in the salea during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
B.eßs are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents t nnwi—Bfc -
Wrn. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
FRESH
FOOD &
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroqia that only Pasteurisation can give, There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
THE VERY EACT THAT
$
&
$
23,500 Rock may
Have been made and sold by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
500 at tlie Anaconda Mines, Butte, Mont. 80 at the Homestake Lead, South Dakota.
14 hy Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J.
New Ingersoll
is the embodiment of all that there is good in
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
ROCK
Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads,
AIR COMPRESSORS
12 Standard Types and
many Special Patterns.
Sole
Agents:
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS’ —*
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pomps
BOILER FEED PUMP-
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
• *»
Send for Catalogues . .
