

MeE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
ffl FRY’S MALTED COCOA
C3-XJ-A»H.A.3Xr’X , DE3E!3Z> OOOO-A. -A.3STU EXTRACT OaF" ivr a r.-^n
R.' <3r , WA.TKIIVS & 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
. . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXI>I OSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
m '
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
c
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEO
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS. a
■ Flour * aaCra.cla.ixa.Csry, «Sc Boilera,! Steel W<wriwim«
_ : MillB , Ert;eted and StorUid !) y ow “ Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
I
iki
11
Over Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
YANDYCK
CIGARS
.
TX6
m
m 8
w t
Is
vLU iAY/fG/r/l/Vf’
SMOK£
'■ M.Rumr % C? SYDNLY
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ’B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARE
ov>LE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of
Testimonials and full particulars.
machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods Suaar
I reduction of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLT BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
THE LAST OF SIX.
¥ ‘! -V
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for-
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
—-
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
a/l
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York. Street;,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Highest Awards wherever Sshilbited.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
N VMS 1(0
It
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the mm a im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE.
SYDNEY.
Ag-ency for Lamp : NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC 00., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q nsland Dept— Central Buildings, Edward-sfc., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.— -jMo. 986. J
[Saturday, January 7, 1899.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post ns a Newsnaner.


The Bulletin will publish
this week
The Bookfellow.
A Monthly Magazinelet
For Book-buyers and Book-readers.
Specimen Copies Free
to any address.
Ijy appointment to jus excellency the
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
booksellers and stationers.
I'ER R.M.S. OROTAVA.
Farrar’s Great Books, 2s «d and 3si&d.post 3s and 4s;
Hviif '* A ratio Upland, 10a 601; poatlls 5 Balfour h Educa-
tion Svsu'm of Groat Britain, 7s Od. post. 8s ; Orson s V list
Lessons in Geology, 3s 0.1, post jg?!
uost lls ; Mosso's Man on the High Alps, 21s, post ~„s .
Smart 's Engineering Practice, 10s 6d, post lls ; Ant Irony a
Electrical .Measurements, 7s Od, post 8s; Dirndls Lit ,>
O’Brien, 'its. post 225; Talbots J)oKenerm-y, (to, post
(is Oil ; Crawford'S Ava Roma, 2vots., 255, post 80s.
Railway Bigtmlliufr, 7s (id, post 8s ; |j
10s (id, post Its 3d ; Hamilton's Mawkin of the l'low, 2s«d
unit 3s (Id, post 3s and 4s ; Carey's ;\ ,ol| ms 1 ld
and 3s O'l, post 3s arid 4s ; Meade, May Gifford,
nosl Os fld ; .Stockton’s Amcneun Buccaneers, Os, post
L (Id : Gaunt’s Headman’S, 2s Od andi3s (Id, post 3s and
4s- Winter's Heart and Sword, 2s (Id aird 3s Od, post 3s
and 4s ; Dawson’s Bismitlah, 2s Od and Ss (Id, post 3s and
4s ; Gerard's Impediment, 2s Od and 3s Od, post 3s and
H ; Tracer's Wimh'haugh, 2s Od and 3s Od post 3s and 48,
Barry’s The Luck of a Native Born, 2s Od and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s.
JUST PUBLISHED :
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.’s COLONIAL
LIBRARY,
Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Sewed, 2s 6d, post 3s.
A BARRIER Ufftnr,, A story or Drukeu Httt Strike.
By Gnwttaß Garnet.
SPIRITUAL LAW THROUGH THE NATURAL
WORLD, By the Rev. S. Hector Ferguson, 3s Od,
post 3s lOd.
Warrigal Series, No. 4,
THE ONE BLACK SHADOW,
By Bessie Cook and F. W. D. MOORE,
narrow wrapper, Is Od, post Is tkl.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
'few York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
‘The Bulletin” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its bhort
the “Argonaut” is
ories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
escribe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
•on. this, our standing injunction to °“[ co V, Ui^h e re ‘
Whatever you are, never be commonplace. The re
the most readable
ilt is that the Argonaut short stories have an ind ' v ' ldu ‘
lity of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
eekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
,ooks rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
ipon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
ip with the literary gossip of the day.
For s ale at The Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American mail ; price, hd. ; posted, 9d. ; mailed, regularly
,o any Australasian address.
air Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses, by Will 11. Ogilvie (“Glenrowan );
with three vignette illustrations by G. W.
Lambert; doth, gilt, top, 4s. Gd. post-free.
In the Press.
A Bush Tanqueray and Other Stories, by
Albert Dorrington ( Alba Do non ).
The Ways of Many Waters; Verses by
E. J. Brady.
“THE WAY TO HELL
S PAVED
WITH GOOD INTENTIONS.”
f|YS°iT ! TS rH p O AVEI. 3 mTH' EM#?? CIGARETTE BOXES;
WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR THE SJIOKE.
this Year
THE RED PAGE.
I FI DELIS.
[For The Bulletin.]
Fidelia was the word ,
A rosebud smile the wand
To touch my soul, that stirred
An ecstasy beyond,
Like a soaring bird.
The bird is in the skies ;
My heart was even there,
Where Summer's cradle lies,
Rocked by a secret air
Slipped from Paradise.
The Summer light it goes,
The bird away it flies,
And Love is one with those —■
The rose that never dies
Never was a rose !
Maoriland. Hubekt Church.
Turn over pictures of bygone fashions in dress,
and note how strange, even ludicrous, may now
appear the costumes of our grandfathers and
grandmothers ! The patches and hoops, the
cravats and buckled shoes, are as quaint to the
eye of this generation as this generation’s dress
might seem to the eyes of a gentleman of the court
of Queen Anne. La Mode has changed even since
the day of our fathers. But our fathers for the
most part have been content to change with the
ifiode ; and if here and there one clings to the
garb of his boyhood he doesn’t dream of insisting
that his sons shall imitate him. Even when justi-
fying his preference he will rarely venture to
declare all other preferences unjustifiable.
* * * *
Fashions in poetry have been almost as numer-
ous as fashions in dress; but in poetry the dead
hand of our ancestors is heavy upon us. Nowadays
we neither wear slashed breeches nor write inter-
minable epics to exalt religious dogma ; but though
it is commonly agreed that gOod taste may be dis-
played in trousers, a considerable body of opinion
still holds that only very bad taste can refuse to re-
cognise “Paradise Lost” and “ Paradise Regained
as two of the highest poetical achievements of the
human mind. In reality, according to the stan-
dards set by present fashion, there is little more
essential poetry in the “ Paradises ” than there is
in Queen Victoria. Like Queen Victoria, Milton s
epics are heavy, and faded, and invested with a
fatiguing magnificence : and they continue to be
revered as Queen Victoria is revered—beoause we
have inherited the tradition of reverence from our
fathers, and are not strong enough to shake it off.
• *
Similarly, though Homer and Dante directly
provide but an infinitesimal portion of the poetioal
stimulus which this generation is receiving, it is
continually declared ex cathedra that Homer and
Dante are the world’s two greatest poets, while
modern writers of verse are little more than the
dust which drifts about their large historic feet.
To argue this question with the (other) dogmatists
it would be necessary to agree upon a definition of
poetry. But such agreement is not necessary to
the affirmation that most Australian readers of
verse know and care little whether Homer and
Dante were poets or palmists. They accept the
I tradition, of course; bow to the printed name of
Dante, and believe that Homer is something vast
and venerable in the verse-line; but the poetical
areas of their minds are occupied, not with
Achilles or Beatrice, but with the Man from Iron-
bark or the ltiver Maiden. Even if you ask of
those who may be supposed to possess cultured or
classical taste, you find they are reading Keats, or
Heine, or Stephen Phillips ; if ycpu notice whom
they take pains to write about, it is Browning, or
Mallarine, or Kipling. Dante and Homer are
very fine fellows, no doubt; but they are on the
shelf with the old maids and Reid s Local Grovern-
ment Bill.
* * • *
What is true of Australia is true of other
countries: people are everywhere occupied for the
most part with present-day poets, and Dante ana
Homer receive far more lip-service than heart-
incense. It is here contended, indeed, that this is
just and right. Homer was no doubt a great poet or
several great poets in his time ; but that is not our
time. We have other minds, other tastes, other
needs. Homer’s beauty and humanity wil 1 always
have their value ; but the plain emotions, the
simple scenes, which may be presumed to have
intoxicated the Greeks of 2700 years ago, are not the
highest ■ poetical boon which modern readers
can desire. Nor, in spite of tragic passion and
picturesque phrasing, are the imaginative vagaries
of Dante more sufficing. According to present
lights, the Dante and Homer of tradition are
25 per cent, genuine poetry and 7o per cent,
academic humbug—Brocken -spectres whose huge
apparent bulk terrifies the average person because
he never dares stop to scrutinise closely the homely
mortal who casts the shadow. Some collateral
proof of this, in Dante’s case, has been recently
furnished by Q. Chief-Justice Griffith. This gen-
tleman has published a translation of some frag-
ments of the Inferno, and the Queenslander gives
a sample of his results. Led into the doleful
I lost souls, Dante is supposed to have
red Francesca and her lover”—
!
ider inusings and what eager lonsring
mght these twain unto this pass of sorrow.”
it I turned my face to them. Then spake I :
gan : “ Francesca, thy sore torments
:ars from me, for sadness and for pity,
me : In the time of the sweet sighings,
and how did love grant of his bounty
had knowledge of desires so doubtful ?”
ttrme : “There is no greater sorrow
recall to memory times of gladness
y ; and that well wots thy teacher,
n—an inch is as good as a mile. Fran-
irase, of course—
s crown of sorrow is remembering happier
is ; the Inferno is the Inferno and
version is infernal ; but allow for
nal flash of thought and phrase, allow
version, and suppose, a yard of this
t in to the Queenslander by local Poet
Would the Queenslander print it ? No
'ould any other paper ? It is at least
Ever so much verse that is intrinsically
poetical is being produced year by year
rgotten. Dante lives on.; not because of
t, but because five centuries claque for
is snowball got a good start in days when
s were scarce, and it has kept on rolling,
philosophy of the 13th century is now
, and it is time the poetry based on that
ly exploded too. The dead hand should
1.
* * * *
be argued, indeed, that much modern
s essentially a parasitic growth upon the
f Homer and Dante and Milton. Doubt-
y treasured ideas and images have been
from their store. Not only our daws, but
cocks, often strut in borrowed feathers,
whose feathers did the peacock of anti-
rut ? Homer, it is admitted, collected the
of a generation, probably of an era : he
,ve been merely the editor of a ballad
gy : when.all the guesses are sifted we
vgarding Him —nothing. Whatever m-
n Dante gave his followers, he would oer-
liave been impotent without his prede-
There is evidence to support the theory
eking the basis of Vondel's “ Lucifer ”
would never have had a “ Paradise ” to
We all stand on the shoulders of the I ast.
iile it is comparatively easy to detect the
isms of modern writers, the geese plucked
ish ancient quills have flown out of sight
he vista of the centuries. The one thing
is that between ancient and modern dis-
•s are easy.
* * * * .
worship of names illustrates the familiar
if habit. Homage to “classic” writers is m
lersons partly or wholly automatic. When
ant learns to walk you see it devoting its
mind to taking one step and another. It
its mouth, fixes its gaze, wrinkles its fore-
Its elders encourage if by examples which
jriously imitates. It works with its whole
and every hesitating advance is a reasoned
But by degrees the act' becomes a habit:
x path is worn in the cerebrum, and the auto-
centres take charge of the legs. Upon an
se from consciousness walking continues un-
ously. By-and-by even the impulse becomes
scious ; the limbs obey a hint so impercepti-
iat it passes unrealised. We walk without
ng it, as Monsieur Jourdain spoke prose.
io the schoolboy, learning from his master or
xt-book that Milton was a great poet, begins
Ik mentally in the path his elders have trod.
> more asks why than as an infant he asked
he should toddle : he imitates the belief as
litated the act. As he grows, the first
impression on his brain is repeated until
is a fixed- idea from which it is hardly
>le to escape. The din of tradition has
, permanent dint. His mind repeats its
automatically—“ Milton is a great poet.
f he would unlearn the lesson, he is met by
heal obstacle .as real as if he tried to unlearn
ng. So, as a rule, his prepossession triumphs
eeble doubts : you can no more persuade him
ive off Milton than to leave off drink or
>l. „ »
* * * *
s argument drifts round to Brunton Stephens
fennyson. In verse and prose Brunton
iens has made his mark upon Australian
s: there is no man in Australia whose
ry judgment is more to be respected. But
ton Stephens is a man of Tennyson s
ation : his mind was m youthful
ty when Tennyson was establishing
jry over that generation: lie has assi-
ed all the plaudits of the crowd which
red in Tennyson’s heyday that the age had
no greater poet, doubtfully a poet as great,
mid be astonishing if the Tennyson impress
m Brunton Stephens had not become a source
itomatic opinion partly independent of ms
ir judgment. Every mans ideas are per-
,ntly coloured by celebrated contemporaries:
i is an infection of fame winch pits brains
mmstakably as smallpox pits bodies We
l prevalent authors just as we catch the pre-
it influenza. Of course Brunton Stephens
ht Tennyson:' it was the obvious thing tor
tton Stephens to do. But there is a valuable
ical law which makes the toxins of one gene-
n provide the anti-toxins of the next: the
s which our fathers endure gradually earn us
unity from our fathers’ diseases. I or example,
as a result? of the historic ravages of syphilis, there
is ground for belief that syphilis is dying out, be-
cause in centuries of struggle the race has learnt
the noble art of self-defence. The poetic analogy
is plain. We can defy the microbesof Tupper and
Bailey. The microbe of Pope finds us, on the
whole, an unsuitable culture-medium. And the
microbe of Tennyson is not half as dangerous as it
was fifty years ago, when it came down like a
dingo on the unvaccinated flock.
Brunton Stephens’s poetical work has been
influenced by many poets ; but notably by Tenny-
son. In his book of collected verses "The
Squatter’s Baccy Famine” parodies “Mariana” ;
“ What does little Joey say,” in “ Marsupial
Bill, ” is another obvious imitation ; and through-
out the book there fere frequent hints in phrase
and thought to show how the elder poet has
swayed the younger.' For example, the lines in
“ Mute Discourse ”
Oh, Sister, would I bruise
The snowy petals of thy prayerful faith.
Or chill the of thy hope
With evil influence of wintry scorn?
are a simple repetition of
„ Leave thou thy sister when she prays,
Hef early Heaven, her happy views ;
Nbr-thou with shadowed hint confuse
A life that leads melodious days.
—ln Memoriam, xxxiii.
» ■* * 0
“ In Memoriam ” wap published in 18'>0, when
Brunton Stephens was a lad of 15 ; and to this
day he is occupied with the effort to reconcile
faith and reason which is “In Memoriam’s”
staple. The inspiration of lines like
We have but faith : we cannot know ;
For knowledge is of things we see ;
And yet we trust it comes from thee,
A beam in darkness: let it grow,
and many similar lines in “In Memoriam ” is
precisely the inspiration seen 47 years later m
Brunton Stephons’s “The Chamber of l'aith —-
And Who knows hut beyond the narrow scope
Of these chamber walls [Faith 1 lives again,
A transmuted force unnamed of men,
One wave whereof is this trembling hope,
That beyond the beyond and above the above
There yet may be things we know not of.
Nothing is more probable than that there is an
Unknown beyond the Known; but poetical
discussion of such matters is out-of-date in a
generation which takes its limitations for granted.
Brunton Stephens, in fact, has preserved nud-
century doubts and problems till they are as
unsuited to their surroundings as mid-century
dress-fashions would be. So mighty an influence
did Tennyson wield upon one youthful bram .
* * * *
Now we begin to see where Brunton Stephens
stands in relation to .Tennyson. 'I he thing that
detracts most from Tennyson’s claim to tlm highest
poetic rank is the very thing which seemed to the
men of his generation the chief support of Ills
claim. Beyond all other verse-writers lie em-
bodied the spirit of his time. But his time lias
gone, and the spirit of his time has gone, and with
them ha- «ono the {ovo* of much yf Tennyson s
poetry. He wrote for the men of Ins day, and lie
was rewarded by the unqualified admirationof
the men of his day, and the chief cause of his
temporary success is the seed of his (by comiuni-
son) permanent failure. To Brunton Stephens
Tennyson is still the Tennyson of the fifties and
sixties, because Brunton Stephens is the Stephens
of the fifties and sixties. because
we are leaving the fane where he is still an ardent
worshipper. But the fane is a fixture, and the
world moves. Possibly it is moving in the wrong
direction : anyway, it moves.
* * * *
Almost of necessity the ancient disciple fails
to perceive the rents which younger eyes-
see in the garment of the master. Why
was it that Huxley and Tyndall revered
Tennyson? Because he made them feel what
they had hitherto only known.’ Precisely.
Huxley and Tyndall and Tennyson were corks
which floated at the same speed in the same place
on the same current, and naturally they attracted
each other. But we have, floated past lennyson
and Huxley and Tyndall. If Tennyson had con-
fined himself to the creation of beauty, or the
decoration of permanent truths, he tnighfc_be h-Id
as great a poet to-day as he was in 1870. Bit
when he set himself to inculcate philosophic d
dogmas which appealed to Huxley and Tynda ,
he was destroying his power over the poetical sense
of a generation which has ceased to believe in the
philosophical dogmas that appealed to Huxley or
Tvndall. He “invested their knowledge with
spiritual attributes’’—and the “ spiritual attri-
butes ” have gone out-of-date with the know-
ledge.” , . .
When it is alleged that Tennyson had a knack
of glorifying commonplace, it is meant that the
result often remains commonplace in spite of the
glorification. When it is alleged that Tennjsqn
lacked passion, it is not meant that he failed to
“ let himself go ” in exaltation of a fleshly Dolol '® s '
but that his nature was cold and selfish, and the
poetical development of his nature was cold and
artificial. When it is alleged that lennysons
ideas were for the most part conventional ideas, it
is meant that he was essentially sheepish, a
follower not a leader of thought, the mate
who always stayed at home and did the
cooking, not the mate who hunted round and
got the tucker. Discussion as to whether it is a
poet’s “business” or “.duty to possess this or
that quality, or to exercise this or that function,
can proceed till the sun freezes. It is
the present if something been done ~~u ses
why, given that Tennyson is a poet, , ■
which com pel Bruntou Stephens to cons
“high among the great poets ” are almost oi
necessity beyond Brunton Stephenss control.
A WISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Love, a brief hour's brilliant bliss,
A flood of light divine,
Then darkness, closing with a kiss
From colder lips than thine.
A song as of a thousand men,
Foiling from heights above,
A cadence in the strain—and then
Sweet Death upon sweet Love.
THE PAGAN.


■::S
¥
■ ■
0
Sydney’s [eading Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNO MEN.
Symptoms, of Dreaded Diseases which
- J destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronio ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“Stop—be sad!” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a oloud of gloom and despondenoy over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unntarrned man,
“ Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronio sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoi)-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
.are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we wouid implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
60 Engravings.
16 Colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
N?rv/o£js Debility, Lo&S of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. The cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. (Call together your better nature. Don’t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life—ambitious —successful. Don’t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
r I ake time by the forelock—nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting.
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modem
equipment and low charges. ,
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don t be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Re honest. If you are sick and want to be ILY
CURED, we are ready to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
c~
K
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO —
ft
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1359
—-
m
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBON'S,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
. He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
ian any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦l
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, ah the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold bauds and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tend r-
, , ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the inouih oil to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of tl.ie heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking oough, falling out of the hair, (Vc., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quiokly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
■jkin diseases inay bo quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
neoessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should bo enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you oan
either oall and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you oan sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your oase, and send it by post.
Dh. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
£1
urn
If, in writing, you do nob feel competent
to fully describe your case, send Gd. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENT llt EI Y
I'ltEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young and
Old Men ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain same easily
and permanently Prof.
Read’s LIFE SYRUP cures the most obstinate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, &c. A Written
Guarantee given in all cases The Life Syrup stim-
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdram of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps for my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how al.
nervous disorders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful ami highly popular iemedy,as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Uioord,
Bostan, Jobei t, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a, medicine of the
' rto employed.
No. 1
... ... ew days only,
removes ail discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serb'ti- «li~oa is.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity ot me blood, senivy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the-destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nei v .us exh luslion, waste f vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses suiprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
kind ami surpasses everythinguunei
THERAPION
in a riMn.iika >lv sliml. time, o I tell n t
THERAPION
Chemist* and Mer mm s throughout the World.
Price in England 2/U & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the tlree numbers is required,and observe
ab ive Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Therai’lon ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without tvhiefa it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrapion— FELTON, GRIMWADE Sc Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSfTT Sc Co.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE-NO PAY]
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NS W.-
or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
NOTE-
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,"
just issued, 108 pages, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Atrophy
w , . JN MEN.
A-o/?^T^ hrul ! k^ r L parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
Yention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use/ Strength,
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address:-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despoil
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Ligixt antd Life.’’
Tms valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address—6. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
• • •
Monster Prize List.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
SPECIAL. —AII the Yeab Round.
HO, 000 Subscribers at .5.
To be Drawn on the Anniversary Handicap,
28th January.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
shares in the above.
£, a
Address
:
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name_
Address
HOBART C. February 1.
50,000 Su.lb acriTaera at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
COOTAMUNDRA C. C.P.C. February 8
10,000 Subscribers at S.
Address
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address.
LAUNCESTON C. February 8.
£50,000 Bubaorlbera at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
shares in the above.
£
Address
t
t
BALLARAT C. C.P.C. March 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me s h ares in the above.
Name
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Tbe 6lass
of FaSbioi)
qnthony • klorderns
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY —'
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists —
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
David graham m Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER _ SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
AT REFORM
PRICES I
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Clothing:
David Braham &Co.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
USE
Spooper’s
ROYAL NAVY DRESSIHC
FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
:: BOOTS & SHOES
OF ML descriptions
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
>foiiiuiimnMimiiMi'miiuiHiS:
ROYAL NAVY
PRCSSINC,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Slack Cream
(■’or Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of liime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mininpr Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
THE
DEAF
SEAS
%W “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
“DOWRIDGE’S’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
gVrv/N/'c'VAyVjH
S ScmzaiQ
me
men?-
u\r\i
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Hager),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
aos ‘ rall ?„L.^ al Provide Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves and bv
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £445,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq.; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 80/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
XSf Send for Price List, "ffij
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Beat-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
EL HILLIER, 135 & J 37 Susscx-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
fARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
v AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
THE
‘ Plum ’
THH
‘ Plum’
/ 1 EN'I’LEMEN wlm find their Ra/.om un-atisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
VIM trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Retristercd and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
Price
Sole
Agents
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i THE MOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WORI.I).
6Y2.192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Rottles, 6d., */-» and 2 - each. ,
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIXOCK & CO., KENT and I.IVKHPOOI, STREETS, BVDNEY.
U.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery M!anf- Company,
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Sprmg
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’ Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 16 per oent. more for your requirements.
(close to Red fern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£818.6.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-Night!
The lamps will be lit over-seas to-night,
And the feast of the year be spread,
And the girls will gather with faces bright,
And the wine will sparkle red,
And hands will close on the glass’s stem,
And over the Christmas cheer
The boys will be drinking ‘ Long life to them ! ”
On the happiest day in the year.
And, spite of the sorrow that hides for shame
In the brown locks streaked with gray,
Though a father may frown at a whispered name,
Yet a mother will have her way ;
For a son’s disgrace is a sword to smite,
But Time is a balm to heal,
And in many a home in the North to-night
They will drink to their Ne’er-do-weel.
The township streets will be full to-night
With the bushmen from far and near
Who have ridden to share in the wild delight
Of the merriest day in the year,
And men will come from the dusty street
And stand at the crowded bar,
And maybe a memory soft and sweet
Will float to some heart from far —
A flashing of lights in a lordly home,
And a glitter of lifted hands,
As they drink to the health of the boys who roam
In those different distant lands;
And there in the midst of the noisy host,
In a sorrow that none can feel,
Will be fashioned, it may be, a silent toast
In the heart of some Ne’er-do-weel.
Deo. 25, 1898.
WILL H. OCILVIE.
The Sting of the Sea.
The dawning falls on thy sibilant breast,
And fisher boats float like gulls in the West,
And the cliffs are silent, and all is still
Save the north-wind’s murmur over the hill.
O, the morning passes, and the day is long,
And the night is sad with thy grievous song 1
I cannot look on thee, luminous Sea—
Thy voice is a pain that withereth ine ;
The beat of thy billows is like my heart
In ceaseless passion and in mournful part:
O, the long day drags, and the night is dree
With thy hungry voices, thou dour grey Sea I
I cannot look on thee, treacherous Sea,
Till thou givest back my boy unto me,
And Hosethe sight of his wild wet eyes,
And I hear not his voice in thy sobbing cries :
O, the long wave heaves, and the red kelp strains,
And the day drags under its load of pains !
O, the long wave heaves, and the shorecoming roll
Hath foam on its lips like the snow in my soul,
And the black rocks weep where the mourner
stands
’Mid the cold despair of the desolate sands.
And the long day drags, and the night is dree
With the sob of my heart and the sob of the Sea.
Tas.
BARKIS.
The Hermit’s Bed.
Ah, leave to worn and palsied age
The horrors of a hermitage,
For prayer is sweeter to the breath
If Love in glory entereth !
While eyes are blue and lips are red,
I shall forswear a Hermit Bed.
But when the winter’s creeping in,
And this gold hair is dull and thin,
When rounded limbs have lost their grace,
Then lead me to the loneliest place:
When all of Beauty’s charms are sped,
Then be the grave my Hermit Bed.
THE PAGAN.
Sydney Nocturnes.
FROM THE NORTH SHORE.
Dimly across the evening calms
Her faint, sweet face beseeches;
A white reproach of wistful arms
Over the bay she reaches.
Upon her gleaming bosom, wet
With tears and quivering,
In ropes of golden beauty set
Her vivid jewels swing.
Upon the pathway of the night
She, pausing often, paces ;
About her body waves gleam white
Like froth of filmy laces.
And to her pleasure hurrying,
Their torches holding high,
On molten waters smouldering
The ferry boats flame by.
IN HYDE PARK.
The white mist walks between the trees
In silver gown ;
Her mystic floating draperies
The branches drown.
And lurking there with eager leer
And wonder new,
The lamps inquisitively peer
Their fingers through.
The city weary of the day
Draws tired breath.
A ruddy glow above the grey,
Far down beneath
On Night’s smooth garment running o’er
In sullen flood,
The city, like a festering sore,
Oozes warm blood.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


■l*
WASHINGTON H SOUL & C?
Pirrsr
WITH EVERY NOVELTY <i
tjgjf&gg. m«" u M cr UR F r* «<®SS
: * CIMIUNTCE W*
lIStiTERS BAKING ROWDS*
ill
L>-'
Brushes
folLtr jr
■ AND
PERFUMERY
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpiIIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
•ASEsmm
H3HIY3H 3IIHAV
JOJ S[SV
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofagood Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
p*
RUBEROID
[copy.]
Nandewar,” Bojffrabri,
November 25, 1897.
Messrs. E. RTCH & 00., LTD.
Dear Sirs.—Will you please send me another roll of P &
(2-pl.v). Please send as soon as possible, as lam waiting for
£1 9s. in payment of same. I am very well pleased with the P
used.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) A.
B Euheroid Roofing
it. I am enclosing
& B Roofing I have
W. WIGHTMAN.
—FOE. SALE BY
Rrooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandkord & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
I Agents: E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELI DON SPA WATER
“Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
ALE.
TATTEJttSALL’S HOTEI
TARIFF
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
iS' Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G-.P.0.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
10s. per Day.
W. .T. ADAMS, Manager.
Fa.in.lesa Dentistry.
THE ....
[ondonQental
Institute,
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modem Dentistry in all its branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY— 9B KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Trade
Mark
EDINBURGH.
foteasss*!
*y-u„ M .-tfgej
feassiii-feaa
Drink
IDodsrately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake ’ ’;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
p drink the very best
/ou can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘D.C.L/
NOT A PATENT MEDICINE.
NOT AN ARTIFICIAL PREPARATION.
BUT NATURE’S OWN CURE foe . .
Gout, Indigestion, Dyspepsia and Rheumatism.
WONDERFUL UPTTIBIIIFIX
BOTTLED DIRECT FROM THE MAORI SPRINGS.
£2r Can be obtained at all Clubs and leading Hotels "tsa
Retail from
The Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Sydney.
Agents for N.S.W. and Q’land: E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Agents for Victoria: E. SAMUEL & CO., 376 Little Elinders-st., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDMSY.
HISTORY or
YANKEE DOODLE
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
Iq America.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
Ii) Australia.
ANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
■ is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Dat.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY FOR HIMSELF.'


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 19.—N0. 986.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1890.
Price Gd.
THE LEAKY-SHIP QUESTION.
"Premier Reid has taken all necessary precautions to provent the Republic (which shipped a coal-cargo at Newcastle and was twice forced by unseaworthiness to return
to port) from again going to sea."-N.S.W. Govt. organ.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Geohge Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... - ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
lit/ sending direct to Thb Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and, White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 346 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 33 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
I ostage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
Gs. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
} repaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Giving to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage - on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Tfe&xzlZe&n,.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1899.
The Federal Deadlock.
Sometime this or next month five Premiers
will probably meet, at the invitation of
George Reid, of New South Wales, to con-
sider amendments, and tinker with the
Federal Constitution Bill, and undo the
work which was done by the people’s elected
representatives and endorsed by the electors
of New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania,
and South Austi'alia. And even now, at
the eleventh hour, the New South Wales
Premier has no new financial scheme to offer
so far as the country is aware, and has no
Parliamentary or other authority to offer
one. The financial clauses are, admittedly,
the biggest part of the whole Federal pro-
blem, and the making of a workable plan of
Federal finance has all along been the
great difficulty. The parochial-souled poli-
ticians of the Gon-fearing Ministry urged
New South Wales to reject the late Federal
Constitution on the ground mainly that the
financial provisions were unsatisfactory, and
it advanced many reasons—most of them
glaringly untrue—in proof thereof. And
now it is apparently quite unable to say
what is jvrong with these provisions—barring
the fact that they were devised by a Conven-
tion of which Edmund Barton was leader.
The Government of New South Wales appeals
to the other provinces to hold “further
inquiry into, and a more thorough considera-
tion of, the financial clauses.” It doesn’t
say what it wants done to them ; in fact, it
evidently doesn’t know what it wants, only
it wants it immediately, whatever it is. In
this matter Premier Reid approaches the
Conference as a weary, wandering bagman
without credentials of any kind. He has to
start by stating that New South Wales
objects to the money clauses in the present
Bill, which is a stupid and clumsy lie to
begin with, for New South Wales accepted
them by a considerable majority. Then he
has to state that he didn’t submit any new
financial scheme either to the Parliament or
the country, so that neither of these authori-
ties have demanded any new scheme in
particular. And as regards any one which
he may offer himself he can’t say whether
the country or the New South Wales Par-
liament will accept it, as they haven’t been
consulted; and in submitting it he may or
may not be fooling away the time of the
other Premier's—he doesn’t know. In his
position as a Premier who goes to a Confer-
ence to state that the greatest province of
Australasia wants something and doesn’t
know what—that it has wakened up in the
night and is crying for an object unspecified
—George Reid looks rather foolish.
* * * •
The old scheme—the one which the God-
fearing Ministry objects to—was (barring
certain small temporary concessions to West-
ralia) reasonably fair all round. The pro-
vinces were all to pay the same customs and
excise duties. They were to pay the same
amount per inhabitant towards the support
of the Federal Government. And each pro-
vince was to receive back as much of its own
customs and excise revenue as was left after
its share of the cost of the Federal Govern-
ment was paid. At the end of five years,
when experience may possibly have thrown
a lot of light on things that are now dark,
the financial scheme was to be reconsidered
by the people’s representatives, to see if the
machinery could be simplified in any way,
but the basis of it was that each province
was to get what it was entitled to down to
the last penny.
• » • •
There are difficulties in the way, of course
—there always are. New South Wales has
more than twice as much land-revenue as
Victoria, South Australia, Tasmania and
Westralia put together, therefore if they all
run the borrowing swindle in about the
same degree it can do with less customs
revenue per head of population than any of
them. Yet the necessity for making the
tariff uniform involves the further necessity
that the revenue per head shall be about the
same all round. In 1898 the five eastern
provinces kept just about solvent on paper
by raising customs and excise revenue as
follows :
per inhabitant. per inhabitant.
N.S.W. ... £l3 1 I Tasmania .. £2 311
S-A. ... 113 5 | Queensland ... 214 7
Victoria ... 115 11 |
Therefore the situation is this : If enough
customs and excise revenue is raised to keep
Queensland solvent the other four provinces
will have a lot more than they have now,
and are confronted by the horrifying fact
that they will be able to do with less borrow-
ing. If enough is raised to just keep
Tasmania solvent then New South Wales,
Victoria and S.A. will have a large sur-
plus, and Queensland will go broke. If
just enough is raised to keep Victoria sol-
vent, then S.A. and New South Wales will
have a surplus, while Tasmania and Queens-
land will be left in a state of bankruptcy. If
the Federal customs and excise revenue is
fixed at the figure which will keep South
Australia afloat and no more, then New
South Wales will have a surplus, while Vic-
toria, Tasmania, and Queensland will all be
bankrupt together. And if the Common-
wealth fixes its tariff at a rate which will
leave New South Wales exactly as it is, then
all the other four provinces will be stony-
broke. Westralia, which wants about £5 or
£6 per head of customs revenue, was covered
temporarily by a special arrangement, so it
is left out of the calculation.
•_ • *
Therefore, among the four provinces (New
South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, and S.A.)
which accepted the Federal Constitution,
New South Wales is the only one which had
no serious risks to face under the Conven-
tion’s arrangement. When the Common-
wealth Parliament sets to work to build the
new tariff for all Australia, each province
will probably want to put the tariff high
enough to cover its own needs, and won’t
worry much about the needs of its neigh-
bors. If all the five provinces above-men-
tioned enter the Federation, then New South
Wales takes the risk of increased taxation
only. Queensland takes the risk of being
made insolvent through the establishment of
a tariff not large enough to cover its neces-
sities. South Australia, Victoria and Tas-
mania take two risks ; they are liable, on
one hand, to extra taxation if the tariff is
made high enough to keep Queensland sol-
vent ; and they are liable, on the other, to
be financially wrecked and left bankrupt if
it is made low enough to suit the ideas of
New South Wales. The latter province is
only in danger of having some extra money
on hand, so that it can build its roads and
bridges without further piling up its ghastly
heap of unproductive debt. All the others
take the chance of having their principal
financial prop knocked from under them.
And so far these provinces have cheerfully
accepted their chances as a fair price to pay
for Australian unity. New South Wales, the
only one of the crowd which is absolutely
secured against financial disaster, is the one
which has done all the lamentation up to
date.
* * * *
There are two visible ways out of the diffi-
culty. One is to hand the debts and rail-
ways over to the Commonwealth, and then
the provinces, being relieved of a great part
of their liabilities, won’t need any refund of
Customs revenue, and won’t need to trouble
about how much the tariff yields. That
would be the shortest and simplest way out,
but so far New South Wales flatly refuses to
consider any such idea. It wasn’t the only
objector, certainly, but it was the loudest
one. Another is that the wealthier pro-
vinces—New South Wales and Victoria—
shall agree to help their poorer neighbors.
So far, New South Wales isn’t taking any
of that either. What the Reid Government
has demanded up to date is practically that
the Federal tariff shall be fixed to yield just
enough to keep its province afloat, and that
the others shall get through any way they
can, or not get through at all, just as things
may happen. Of the three possible arrange-
ments the New South Wales delegates—
particularly those who were members of the
Ministry—declined to accede to two. They
accepted the third, and the people of New
South Wales accepted it also, but now the
Ministry goes back on it. And it offers no
fourth alternative.
• • * •
Australia is waiting for the production of
the new unauthorised financial scheme de-
vised by Reid and Sunday Brunker—
if they have any scheme, which ’ is doubtful.
At present New South Wales cuts a lament-
ably poor figure in the Federal business.
It was by the invitation of its Government
that the present movement started. Its
Government knew—if it was capable of
knowing anything at all—that there was a
financial difficulty in the road. The fact that
the Federal customs revenue must be high
enough to keep the poorer provinces afloat,
or else that the poorer provinces must simply
be thrown overboard, was visible all along
to the commonest intelligence—even the
intelligence of Brunker. The Convention ac-
cepted a scheme which was probably the best
that circumstances admitted of, and the New
South Wales Government delegates con-
curred in it. Then the majority of these
same Government delegates denounced it
over the length and breadth of the country
as an infamous fraud on the Cornstalk
Treasury. The people of New South Wales
endorsed the scheme at a popular election,
and allowed their servants in Parliament to
cancel their decision. The financial system
which was accepted contained certain un-
avoidable risks for all the provinces con-
cerned ; the other Governments took their
share of the risk as a matter of course ; the
New South Wales Ministry took its share
howling, and filled the air with a lying
lamentation that all the possible losses fell
on its State alone. The New South Wales
Parliament hasn’t offered to bear a penny of
the burdens of the other provinces, yet it
demands possession of the capital as a fair
equivalent for the sacrifices it isn’t going to
make. It has wept with a great dampness
about the fact that it hazards its fiscal sys-
tem by federating with the other provinces ;
the other provinces hazard their fiscal sys-
tems also, but none of them has shed tears
of woe over it, or demanded possession of
the capital as compensation. And now New
South Wales’s self-appointed Federal repre-
sentative goes to a conference to state that
his province refuses to accept the financial
scheme embodied in the last Bill (which is
glaringly false) and wants something instead
of it, only it doesn’t really know what it does
want.
The Late Demented.
The above term is used advisedly as regards
the defunct YVestralian boom. About its late-
ness there is no possible shadow of doubt. It
is probably the most completely dead thing to
be found between the Leeuwin, which looks out
to the west, and Thursday Island, that keeps
its eye on the leprous east. There may be a lot
of decay still to be attended to before the pro-
vince reaches bottom, but the boom couldn’t
be more completely deceased even if it tried.
And, as regards the other adjective, it requires
no explanation. The Westralian boom was, in
its way, the most remarkable that this country
has yet seen. In proportion to the size of the
community in which the disease broke out, it
was more violent than any of its predecessors,
with the doubtful exception of the early gold
outbreak in Victoria. It was the most sudden
of all the Australian booms. The other memor-
able bubbles, as a rule, grew slowly; the
first beginning and the last burst were so
wide apart that a large proportion of the
community wasn’t there at both events, and
didn’t enjoy the privilege of seeing a whole
boom and studying the natural history of the
animal in its entirety. The W.A. boom rose
almost in a day, like Jonah’s alleged gourd,
and fell almost as suddenly, and its life was so
short that almost all the notable pioneers of the
movement are still there to look (over the fence
of the Benevolent Asylum or otherwise) at its
ruins.
• * • .
Westralia, like every other province which
has possessed a boom, refused to the very lasi
to admit that it had such a thing. No matter
how many similar affairs have risen and glit-
tered and burst, the province which is having a
boom always denies that its boom is a boom at
all, and maintains that it is merely the natural
development of the country. In this respect
the province is merely like any other drunk
who hangs on to a lamp-post, and asserts his
perfect sobriety, and then falls down. Now
that the vast episode is over, it looks
quite probable that it would have been
a great deal better for WesLralia if it
had never had any boom at all. It is quite
probable that it would have been better for the
province if gold had never been found in it at
all, considering that the main result was to
fill the land with British shindykits and cover
it with British mortgages. Westralia has
gained greatly in population, certainly; that is
to say it has 17 tolerably miserable people where
it used to have four who were placidly comfort-
able. It owes a vast amount more money
than it did. It has found large gold deposits,
and it has emerged from its great dazzle to find
that they mostly belong to that übiquitous
foreign capitalist, J. Bull, and to people in the
other provinces. Before the boom, the gold—
though it was not then discovered—belonged to
the local sandgroper ; during the time of great
joy, it somehow mostly dropped through his
fingers. There was a great influx of foreign
capital, but it mostly went away again, and
the interest keeps going after it; and a lot of
land which was the sandgroper’s own property
before the golden days now belongs to foreign
syndicates. When everything is cleaned up
the sandgroper will probably find himself, on
the average, no richer in actual cash than he
was before—possibly a great deal poorer. Also
his great golden asset will be very largely
foreign property, and the great fortune he might
have made out of it some day, if he had found
it when he was older and had more sense, will
have mostly slipped away. Likewise, his liabili-
ties w'ill have enormously increased, and he will
have to pay much heavier taxes to meet theinter-
est on them ; and he will find himself shaken out
of the old placid rut, and his head will be very
sore and very much enlarged. The peculiarity
of every boom is that assets evaporate like a
snowball in Gehenna, and, in the end, out of
every thousand people, one man doesn’t seem
to be much richer, and 999 are a lot poorer.
• • » *
The Westralian Government is deserving of
no special blame for not profiting by the experi-
ence of the other provinces, for none of them
ever profited by the experience of any other
province either. But if it had possessed the
unusual wisdom to do so, it would have started
about ’92, when the boom began to be really
visible, by setting apart a day for humiliation
and prayer—prayer to be delivered from large
syndicates and from the influx of British capi-
tal. And it would not have depended on prayer
alone, but would have added works thereunto.
It was commonly regarded as an oppressive
Government—certainly it managed, in the
height of the riot, to raise a gross revenue equal
to £2O per inhabitant per annum, which was
three times the average of the other provinces.
Yet its preliminary mistake was that it wasn’t
nearly oppressive enough. It should have
screwed out a revenue of £3O per head,
while the chance was there, and built its own
public works solely out of revenue, or else let
many of the works wait. The new shindykits
and the new capital that flocked into Westralia
created a demand for new railways, and they
were built—with borrowed money. Now the
foreign capital has mostly evaporated and some
of the new people are leaving, and many are
stone-broke, and the struggle to pav the in-
terest bill is already something terrible. The
new railways were built in frantic haste with
loan moneys because British capital was coming
into the country, and it was feared that it
would stop coming if it wasn’t encouraged—
just as if foreign capital, unless its owners
come with it and settle in the country, isn’t a
disease, and a disastrous mortgage, and a thing
for whose scalp a liberal reward should he
offered; The Government piled up hideous
liabilities to keep the boom going—as if any
sane community can possibly want to keep the
boom going. The first object should have been
to get the boom down, and smash it out of all
human recognition, and bury it at the dead of
night where no one would ever find it again
* • * .
Next time there is a great gold discovery in
Australia—if there ever is another—the local
Government should immediately put ice on its
head in order to keep cool. Then it should
write out these seven propositions and paste
them on the decanter where they will be always
visible and handy : (1) There is no haste ; the
gold won t rise up and go away, neither will it
lose its value. (2) The sudden “ development
of the country ” only means that the new
wealth will be sooner exhausted. Also, it
means a great influx of population to dig it out
all at once, and when it begins to fail these
people will take a long time to find other
means of support, therefore the country will
have to build benevolent asylums to put a lot
of them into, and find victuals for them. (3)
No human being who isn’t resident in the
country should be allowed to hold any interest
in any mine under any pretext whatever. The
influx of absentee capital only means that
somebody brings £20,000. into the country in
the hope of taking £2,000,000 out. Also the
absentee capitalist generally waters his stock
to such an alarming degree that he has to screw
the last possible copper out of his mine to pay
dividends, and to do that he cuts down wages
and creates poverty. The poverty is often
the only thing the country gets out of the
deal. (4) The only goldfield where the absen-
tee capitalist should be treated otherwise
than as a public enemy is the one where there
is no gold. (5) To borrow money for public
works when there is a boom only means that
the boom will break some day and throw a
multitude of people out of employment, and the
borrowing will stop about the same time for
want of credit and throw another multitude out
of employment, and there will be two horrors
instead of one. If there is any time when bor-
rowing is justifiable it is when there is no boom.
(6) Rapid increase of population isn’t neces-
sarily a blessing, any more than rapid increase
of tumor. There are times when population is
a disease. (7) Rapid increase of commerce is
often a disease also. In Australia it frequently
means the increased importation of unpaid-for
material to build public works that will be a
dead loss, and the increased export of money to
pay the interest.
* • • •
Therefore, the moral of this tirade is as fol-
lows : Any sensible Government (there are no
sensible Governments, but that doesn’t make
any difference in the argument) will recognise
that a boom is a disaster and treat it as such.
It will also recognise that the influx of capital
is a curse unless the owners come to live
in the country ; the money of the absentee
capitalist is merely a debt owing by the country,
and no sane community whoops over an in-
crease in its debts. If the W.A. Government
had recognised these principles even when the
arrival of much new debt had already created
the Coolgardie boom, it would have been a lot
more oppressive in its taxation than it was, and
would have built its goldfields railways and
other works out of the proceeds, even if it
wrecked the absentee capitalist in the process.


If he was wrecked, W. A. would have made him
pay for aome valuable railways before he left,
and then it would have had the gold for its own
people. At present, Bull has most of the gold,
and W.A. has the debt and the prospective
railway deficit, which is how the boom policy
always pans out sooner or later. This complaint
ends abruptly right here.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Terrorised Bench.
Dear Bulletin, — The unpaid magistrates at
Carlton (Melb.) sit in fear and trembling when
a member of a local “ push ” (Carlton being the
“ pushiest” suburb thereabouts) is brought up
for punishment. Recent testimonials to the
Bench’s mortal funkiness are as follows. For
ringing up a harmless citizen in the middle of
the night, dragging him into the roadway by
his hair and fracturing his leg, the assailant (a
perfect stranger to the prosecutor) was fined
40s. ! For an unprovoked assault, including
breakage of the victim’s leg—a £5 fine. For
knocking a man down and splitting his head
with the sharp edge of an iron bar as he lay on
the ground, the prisoner’s doom was a JBIO fine,
payable within a month, on the understanding
that he would bolt from the province ere the
money fell due. For casually tiring a revolver-
bullet at a hotel-keeper and missing a fatal spot
by half an inch the youthful marksman
received a severe lecture and three days’ im-
prisonment, in default of £1 line, “ the police
being directed to return the revolver to the
prisoner on his completing his sentence ”111
Also, at the same court of justice one Ellis
was charged with stabbing his much-bat-
tered “ woman ” in two places, and the re-
ward of merit was a rather severe lecture and
the same old £1 fine. Popular ignorance
blames the “ beaks ” for these sinfully inade-
quate sentences, but the magistrates, if called
to account, probably pass the blame along to
the police-department, which permits pushes to
exist. The argument that the police cannot
purge Carlton of its ruffianism unless the magis-
trates supply the physic iB a bad argument.
Lawlessness of the wild assault-and-battery
type is bred at street oorners by permission
practically of the men-in-blue. Brutality
nourishes around districts where ill-conditioned
J IM 3 and Bills and Pats are allowed to ex-
change swoars on a large scale in the public
thoroughfare until they acquire iho confidence
of numbers, and don’t care a blanky for the
guardians of the peace, and form themselves
into a prudential intimidation society. If the
Carlton “ beaks ” don’t deal severely with the
local bashers, it is because they are afraid of
being severely dealt with themselves by the
pals of the earcused. Magistrates are mere
human beings and citizens, not specially chosen
for their moral or physical courage or fighting
ability. Their position in Carlton would ex-
pose them to danger, as things are at present,
if they did their duty by it, so they will con-
tinue to “ play for safety,” The Bulletin sup-
poses, until they feel secure of ample police
protection from larrikin vengeance.—E.
[Tub Bulletin publishes this apology mainly for the
purpose of expressing its utter disgust thereat. In the
first place the law doesn’t compel a J.P. to sit on the
Bench. If he is afraid to do justice there he can stay
away or resign, and let the (fovernment send along a
stipendiary magistrate who doesn't live in the district lo
deal it out to the brutal push. The Carlton J'sP. don't
sit on the Bench and act as the practical accomplices of
all the local ruffians because they are terrorised into it,
but because they want to do it—because they apparently
rather like the local brutal assault man. Secondly, they
don’t pass light sentences because Carlton is the pushiest
suburb around Melbourne. Carlton became the pushiest
suburb because the local Bench advertised it as the place
where harmless people could be crippled with impunity.
The push came there because it was practically invited
there by the Bench. Thirdly, the police can’t break up
pushes by themselves. All they are allowed to do is to
hale the push before the local beaks, and if the beaks
won’t do their duty then the police are helpless. In every
one of the cases above-quoted the police did their duty
manfully—and certain beaks insisted on coming upon
the Bench of their own free will for the purpose of nulli-
fying their efforts. If it is claimed that they came there
to acquit the push because they were afraid to stay away,
then the same logic would excuse them if they helped the
push to stoush the police with broken bottles—they were
afraid of what might happen to them if they didn’t help
to stoush the police.)
The Anti-Billious Bogies.
It is curious to look back at this late hour on
the war-cries of the N.S. VV. anti-Billious party
of eight months ago and consider how these
serviceable whoops have mostly dropped out of
sight and remembrance. In those days Pump-
kin Smith fell on a terrifying hollow turnip
with a lighted candle therein, to the effect that
under the Convention Bill N.S. W. would have
to help pay Victoria’s bounties. The Bill said
nothing about that, and if it had been true it
followed naturally that Victoria must help to
pay N.S. W.’s bounties —the ones that are
granted in aid of the mining industry; still it
was a very alarming turnip at the moment and
Sydney Telegraph played it for all it was
worth ; and it doubtless helped a little to raise
the 66,000 anti-Billious minority of 3rd June.
But since then neither Parliament nor the Reid
Ministry, nor the Telegraph, nor Pumpkin
.Smith has asked that this dismal ghost shall be
taken out the Bill—for the sufficient reason
that they know it was never there. The Tkle-
GRAPHaIso complained (leadingarticle, 26th May,
’9B) that the Convention Bill would be practically
ruinous to the Newcastle coal industry (pre-
sumably because it would compel Tasmania
and Queensland to admit N.S.\V. coal free,
where it is now shut out by heavy duties), and
it pointed out that Federation would mean the
destruction of N.S.W. Freetrade. There is
nothing in the proposed amendments to make
Freetrade any safer than it was before, or to
help the Newcastle coal industry; and both
these bogies appear to have perished miserably
by the wayside. The mongrel little Star com-
plained among other things in its issue of 2nd
June that—
All the burden of taxation will ultimately be thrown on
the people of this colony (N.S.W.).
The electors of N.S. W. part with the power, as a colony,
of raising any revenue by either customs or excise.
All bounties imposed before June 30 have to be paid by
the Commonwealth.
All these alleged dangers are left by the
N.S.W. Parliament’s proposed amendments
exactly where they were, and the Star is a
dumb dog, price Id.. and has never once appealed
to the Legislature to demand that the awful
things it said were in the Bill should be sum-
marily thrown out. Then Attorney-General
Jack Want called on the people to reject the
Bill because an alleged Referendum had been
“ kicked out ”of it; yet when the amendments
came before the N.S.W. Council he assured
that august but stupid body that he didn’t want
any Referendum, and the Council fired it out
with enthusiasm. Heydon, M. L.C., shouting
promiscuously at Glen Innes, told the public
that what was wanted was that each province
should collect its own customs revenue, and
that the handing over of the customs to the
Federal authority meant unspeakable disaster,
yet Heydon didn’t believe sufficiently in his
own spectre to even propose his own great
remedy when the subject came up in the House
where he and the other dull-witted Tories do
congregate. The Federal amendments sub-
mitted by N.S.W. Parliament hardly touch
any of the grievances alleged by the old anti-Billi-
ous gang, and not one of the anti-Billites has
raised a protest against the idea of leaving all
these alleged grievances unredressed. Onetheory
is that Heydon and Want and Pumpkin Smith
and their press organs knew all along that these
dreadful things were never in the Draft Con-
stitution at all, which would quite explain why
they don’t demand their removal. The other
is that they really think they are in the Con-
stitution, and want them to remain there —so
that they can use them as an excuse for
denouncing the next Federal scheme as they
did the last one.
+
Trial by Justices.
“ Ginghie Jack ” to The Bulletin
Some little time ago I wrote you re the practice pre-
vailing of police magistrates sitting to try cases with a
charge-sheet in front of them, to which is pinned a list of
previous convictions against accused. As constant
dropping may wear away a stone, so constant reference
to this, and many other police-court injustices, may do
some good.
Only a few days ago I saw a man brought up for larceny,
and the evidence was slight—so slight that no one but a
“ police ’’-magistrate would have listened to it for a
moment; but the P.M. read out the previous convictions,
and said : “ I am satisfied you committed the theft, and
you are the kind of man the publio is to be protected
against” —but it was the previous record that convioted
him, and not the police evidence.
What Judge would allow a list of all previous convic-
tions to bo placed before the jury, trying a man for his
liberty ? Not one ; then surely a police magistrate de-
means himself and lowers the supposed useful and high
ofHoe he holds by descending to what would never be
allowed in any Court of Jastir,e— for a country police-court
is not a Court of Justice for accused persons, but a court
for the upholding and protection of policemen.
And, by the way, it would be better if P.M.’s were filled
with the same spirit which prompted Judge Gibson a few
months ago, when summing up on a charge of inflicting
actual bodily harm, to say words to this effect : “ You
have always to be very careful where the only evidence
against an accused person consists of police evidence.
The police are no doubt a good body of men, but it is to
their interest to get a conviction, and where their evi-
dence is uncorroborated you must always look at it with
a certain amount Of doubt."
I wish, too, to comment strongly on the practice pre-
vailing pretty generally in the country by which very
many police-cases are practically prejudged.
The sergeant or other officer of police almost always
explains the whole case to the P.M. beforehand—no doubt
on the principle that the man who, before the fight be-
gins, gets a good, unexpected hit home on the back of
the other man’s head usually wins the battle. I know
this is done because I have been prosecuting at times,
and I have been behind the scenes a little bit.
One could write all day about how police cases are
heard beforehand, but one instance will suffice to show
the sort of decisions that are given.
Way back at Boggibilla—a town on the Q. border—the
local cricket-club indulges in a game of cricket on Sun-
days, and, a few weeks ago, all the players were
summoned for obstructing the thoroughfare —the obstruc-
tion consisting of now and then hitting the cricket-ball
out into the road. The traffic along that road is so con-
gested that if more than one bullook-waggon in a week
goes along it the populace turns out en masse and go on
the scoot because Boggabilla is becoming such a busy city,
and “ things is looking up.”
When the case came on it was brought out in evidence
that the P.M. had sent for the officer in charge of police,
and. had instructed him to have the summonses issued,
and had informed him that he would sit on the case,
which he promptly proceeded to do.
And, mark the absurdity of this “country justice’s
justice. ” The ease was for obstructing the thoroughfare,
yet the P.M. told the defendants he had no objection to
them playing cricket in this place, provided they did not
play on Sunday, the Lord's day—here he got excited and
nearly gave out the wrong hymn—and considering that
the sportive once-a-week waggon does not travel on Sun-
days, one would think that is the very day they would
not obstruct much if they played.
♦
A Landlord on Poreig-n Capital.
Premier Turner’s proposal that as much as
possible of the new Victorian borrowing should
be done locally caused the ancient Grimwade,
M.L.C., to boil over as one personally wronged,
and make a pathetic exhibition of himself
among the 48 Rich Landlords. The principal
boiling-over of old Grimwade was as follows :
The Treasurer talked about borrowing money here, but
to his (Mr. Grimwadk’s) mind, that was a most suicidal
policy. In fact, it was only like taking our own money
out of one pocket and putting it in another.
Fancy committing suicide by taking our own
money out of one pocket and putting it in an-
other ! The other alternative, of course—the
one Grimwade believes in—is to take someone
else’s money out of one pocket and put it in
another, and that isn’t suicidal, but healthy.
Grimwade, looked at in the light of hard finan-
cial experience, is truly a great ass. He holds
that it is suicidal not to borrow from some
other country—that it is fatal not to be in
debt. Great Britain, as a case in point, does
just what Turner advocates, and what Grim-
wade is all broken up about—it effects its
borrowing locally ; and this suicidal policy
seems to agree with it. France and the United
States are two other suicides of the same order.
And their pitiable condition, as compared with
the gloriously-prosperous state of, say, Turkey,
Greece, Italy, Spain, Honduras, Guatemala,
Peru, Costa Rica, Brazil, Argentina, Ecuador,
Nicaragua, and other countries that have done
their borrowings abroad as Grimwade advo-
cates, is calculated to make one get up and ask
that amazing old man if he is aware that
matches don’t grow on icebergs. The Bulle-
tin respectfully puts this conundrum to Grim-
wade : He says that it is suicidal for the Vic-
torian State to borrow what money it wants
from its own people. Then if some day the
world becomes all one State it will presumably
be suicidal for that State to borrow from its
own people, and if it can’t float a loan in
Jupiter the Lord only knows what is to
become of it. And Grimwade’s theory that
foreign borrowing is healthy enough, though
the local article is disastrous, leads to this
beautiful cul de sac : Supposing New South
Wales and Victoria each borrowed £1,000,000
from its own people that would be h—l. But
if N.S.W. borrowed its million in Melbourne,
and Victoria floated its loan in Sydney, that
would be foreign borrowing, and would be just
what Grimwade strongly advocates. And
then, if these two provinces decided that they
were tired of the foolishness of running two
separate Governments for a mere handful of
people, and agreed to become one State, then
these foreign borrowings would thereby be-
come local borrowings, and the situation would
be too awful for anything. Grimwade reckons
that if a Victorian is found owning the State
securities of his own country it is a national
disaster. Yet, if he is found owning bank-
shares, or land, or houses, or mortgages, or
clothes, or a good hat in his own country it
isn’t. And yet Australia has got the foreign-
capital disease so very badly that it is full of
people just like Grimwade.
* ,
A Howl Upon Art. /
The howler signs himself “Jack Shay,” and
the howl is as follows :
The present N.S.W. Govt, is no doubt trying to do jus-
tice to Art by dividing the subsidy between the two rival
societies. But is all art contained between the four
oorners of a canvas and frame? After looking at Sid.
Long's latest (bought for N.S.W. National Gallery), I
think not. An Australian artist’s attempt to embody a
Greek myth : Foreground, a bit of one of the ponds in
the Botanical Gardens ; characters, impossible satyrs and
four life-studies of a painfully tall and thin young lady in
different poses ; background, a rear view of some panto-
mime scenery ; distance, a sky intlumed with bush lire ;
Art, bosh 1 Ashton, Junior’s, imitation of Strbbton is as
bad, and Gaklick’b picture is only commenced. Yet each
of the rival clans is producing little better year after year,
and this year they quarrel over the loot. To them each and
severally, I would mention Walter Crane, my ideal of an
artist. His is the art that ought to be subsidised.
Stained glass, pottery, metalwork, stucco, interior deco-
rations, fabrics—every one of these common-place things
have glowed under his touch. He is a designer
and a oolorist—a draughtsman of the highest class—a
man who has an art-career extending from the Royal
Academy to the Manchester ootton-looms. And 1-hold
that this is the art of the moderns the beautification and
idealisation of everything. Now, how many of our local
artists are good draughtsmen or colorists? Their work is
full of bad drawing and crude coloring, and the most of it
is by whiskered men, who ought to be able to keep their
tin-pot trade-unions together without Government aid.
Yet one of these “Art” Unions had for a climax
a smoke-conoert, at which a comedian, after ask-
ing to make sure no ladies were about, mounted
the platform and told smoking-room stories. And
a Government subsidy helps them to do it. I pro-
pose that the Government altogether withdraw its sup-
port from both art organisations. Also, the proportion
of the School of Arts subsidy which is devoted to art
teaching. Likewise that it abolishes the make-believe
art classes at the Technical College, and with the money
thus saved let it found an Australian School of Design.
A school where young people will be taught all the rudi-
ments of pictorial and plastic art. Where the grammar
of form and line and color will be the first lessons. Where
the artist will be taught first principles and not to copy
particular instances. With such a school as a beginning
we may hope to produce more than a few artists in the
broad sense of the word. Men who with open eyes will
see the beauties of Australia, and put them not only into
pictures, butintoarchitecture in all its numerous branches,
and make Australian Art understood by the Australian
multitude.
«,
“ Old Possum ” sends along this Xmas lament:
Oh, what have you and George been doing? And all
in two years. The pity of it I I have come back to see
my old love, so fresh and bright and expectant, but she
is faded, and her hat is not plumb, and her eye is bleary,
and there is grass in her hair. Oh, what have you and
Gp.orqb been doing? Oh, my Sydn<se, what have they
been and gone and done to you ? The man at Redfern
showed me his large green card. His boots were polished
where there was no sock, and his sock was polished where
there was no boot, and he said he could show me the best
lodgings in town—near the man with his hand up
(Capt. Cook). He put his head sideways, and looked
as if he didn’t expect me to believe him. I didn’t
believe him, but I went. And they gave me
tea in a broken cup, butter in a broken dish,
and unnecessary information in broken English
(there is something more than coincidence in this). Then
I went out and the people in George-street wanted to give
me boots and photographs because they couldn’t sell
them. They told me so. What a kind, pathetic, gander-
ful way they come up to you 1 I went to visit my
old friend, Captain Cook. He is the only excep-
tion he is just the same. The people after
bread still pass him by—the fat people and the thin
people. And my shabby, clean, careworn, jaunty old
friends, I see them all again ; but their faces are longer
and chins stronger from the harder battle. God bless
them 1 I glory in them. The young husband is still
lugging the first-born in the wake of the unheeding ’bus
and a length in the lead of the wife. But he doesn’t get
up now’—and the fare is only twopence. All men are
fools enough to lug the first-born. Then there is
the small, thin man with the claw-hammer coat and
hard hat who carries the large thin parcel. He is there
yet, but the dent in his hat has now grown natural and
refuses to stop out, and he is as green as a grasshopper.
Poor wretch ! I have often wondered what he had in the
parcel. And the giddy girls 1 There are twice as many
of them now. They have fought and gone under fighting,
and they are not ashamed. All their hoys have gone
away to look for work, and they are pining and lonely.
They all wanted me to go home with them and spend the
Xmas and tell them about the paddymelon. They make
me laugh and curse in turns. God bless them, too ! And
the waxworks and circular ’ammer and the rest of you,
I can’t see you now, I can't. I am in no mood for you.
Oh, my love, my life, my pretty, petulant, jolly-and-fat
Sydn6e, what have they gone and done to you? Oh,
Bulletin, what have you and Gborgk been doing ? Ex-
plain or come outside 1
The Bulletin sees by N.S.VV. Hansard that
the circumstances of Suffield’s four-o’clock-in-
the-morning vote were even worse than they
appeared. The whole proceeding didn’t last ten
minutes. Griffith, M.L.A., who could have
carried his motion for the appointment of a
Royal Commission when originally put, made
five perfunctory remarks to a worn-out House,
and the vote against giving Suffield an oppor-
tunity to clear his character was carried by 24
to 18. As the House numbers 125, this isn’t
conclusive ; and it is to be hoped that next
session a member with more backbone than
Griffith will bring up the matter again.
Electors are invited to note that the men who
showed their honesty and independence by re-
fusing Suffield an enquiry were—
Anderson (Waterloo) O’Conor (Sherbrooke)
Archer (Burwood) Mahony (Annandale)
Ashton (Goulburn) 1 M’Lban (Marrickville)
Brunker (E. Maitland) Millard (Moruya)
Campbell (Illawarra) Morgan (Hawkesbury)
Carruthers (St. George) Nobbs (Granville)
Clarke (Darlington) Reid (Sydney-King)
Cohen (Petersham) Rigg (Newtown-St. Peters)
Cook (Hartley) SLEATH (WILCANNIA) ! 11
Hawthorne (Leichhardt) Thomas (Alma)
Hogue (Glebe) Willis (Barwon)
Lee (Tenterfield) Garland (Woollahra).
The Labor-party was mostly absent, and the
Govt, gang did the trick—assisted by Sleath !
The agreement, or one very like it, of which
The Bulletin spoke the other day, when it
commented on the relations between the Afghan
carrying co’s and their employ6s in Far-Western
N.S.W., has been produced in a Bourke camp.
And it is rather worse than this paper thought
it was. The men bind themselves to work for
the co. for six years for £24 a-year (the worst
of it is that they bind themselves to work in
Australia) ; from that, £ll 17s. lid. is to be
deducted for passage-money; and, until the
expiration of their term, they are entitled to
draw £6 a-year ! During their six years, they
are thus actually entitled to clothe themselves
in fine raiment and make hogs of themselves on
2s. 3d. a-week. The Bouike Bench came to
the conclusion that the agreement was one of
the most disgraceful documents ever brought
into a court of justice, and said so ; where-
upon the co’s solicitor (who didn’t seem to
be working on quite the same terms) looked
painfully injured, and begged the Court to tell
him what it meant by saying such a thing.
The only thing of much consequence, however,
that happened afterwards was that this bleed-
ing country had the honor of feeding and hous-
ing for seven days the particular Said Mahomet,
or something, who broke the agreement that
time ; and it may look forward to some more of
the same pleasure, inasmuch as, when Said was
told that he would be brought up again if he
defaulted on his release, he cheerfully answered
“All right.” Most of the Mahomets, in fact,
seem perfectly willing to spend the whole six
years that way.
• -
The kind of justice administered by the ama-
teur J.P. smells lamentably all over Australia.
It sfnelt so badly in Sydney that the J.P. was
long since removed from the city bench, and
now he merely dispenses his moral fragrance in
the country, where it attracts less notice
because it is far from large centres of popula-
tion. In Melbourne the J.P. is still allowed to
deliver his awful decisions in the city courts,
and lately the Aok was moved to publish a
batch of these from Carlton Court, and to show
how the man who stole a few' shillings got three
months, and the man who called at the house
of a perfect stranger and crippled him for life
under circumstances of awful brutality was
fined a few shillings. Apropos of which a local
solicitor upended himself in the Carlton Court
last week :
Mr. W. H. Leonard, solicitor, on behalf of the legal pro-
fession, wished the presiding magistrates the compliments
of the season. Mr. Leonard, in the course of his remarks,
referred to “ the excellent manner in which the Oarlton
magistrates discharged their official duties during the
past year, their decisions having been such that no fault
could possibly be found with them.” Ilis attention had
been drawn to comments in the Age of that day, which
reflected on certain decisions of the magistrates, but he
hoped those gentlemen would treat the reflections with
the contempt they deserved. He could not see what good
the comments in question would do. In any case, if the
magistrates went wrong it was not the duty of the Age to
set them right. They were responsible to the Minister of
Justice, and not to the Aon or the public. IVhat had the
public to do with them? The object of the Age in pub-
lishing these articles was, apparently, to abolish honorary
justices altogether, and have the work done by stipendiary
magistrates. If that arrangement ever came to pass, then
God help them all. For his own part, he would far rather
have a case heard by honorary justices, who did a great
deal of work for nothing.
The solicitor who wants to know what the
public has to do with the way justice is ad-
ministered looks a pretty blatant ass anyhow'.
But probably he isn’t. For the solicitor who
geqtly bites the ear of the J.P. at suitable
times and places has great luck when he turns
up to defend the brutal hoodlum ; and he
needn’t be very particular how the ear-biting
is done, for the average J.P. is a clumsy person
who doesn’t suspect that any one is taking an
outrageous rise out of him. The thick com-
placency of a bench that sat and joyfully
flapped its ears while it was being assured that
the miserable public should take any kind of
justice it can get and be thankful, is in jf«elf a
strong argument against J.P.-ism.
The present N.S.W. Ministry is a Government
of fits and starts. For instance, it has just
issued orders—which are, apparently, quite
illegal—that the leaky ship Republic is not to
go out of Sydney Harbor without adequate re-
pair. The customs authorities have been
ordered not to give the Republic her papers ;
tug-owners and pilots have been commanded
not to take her out; and at time of writing
she is also in the direct custody of the officers of
the law. In making all this howl about one leaky
ship, the Reid Govt, plainly admits that there
is need of some power which can seize
and detain any unseaworthy man-trap that
may come along. Yet in the Naviga-
tion Bill which it presented to Parliament
a week or two ago, no provision at all
was made for the detention of unseaworthy
vessels. And the Republic was lying in Sydney
harbor then, just as it is now. The
Reid Government is always the same—a luke-
warm thing of shirk and half-measures and
half-remedies and unfinished purposes and odds
and ends and apologies, and all manner of
muddlement.
4.
“ Old Jack ” to The Bulletin :
Instructive to note bow the Broad Arrow Government
of the Land of Sand and Sorrow is doing its level best
to baulk the Penal Commission recently appointed. The
composition of the Commission was effected by the Govt,
in such a manner that in six cases out of ten the meet-
ings lapse for want of a quorum. If it were not for the
persistence of one or two earnest men the whole thing
would end in a fizzle. As it is, such is the obstinate ill-
will of authority to any inquisitorial proceedings, and
such the unscrupulous methods adopted to thwart
inquiry, that it is little likely any great reform will be
immediately accomplished. Means have been taken to
get rid of compromising evidence. Many notorious grum-
blers in Fremantle gaol have been released and sent from
the province. Others have been bribed by easement of
their sentences. Cameron and Beck,’ under sen-
tence of twelve months in irons, have been relieved
of their fetters, and their special - rascality livery of
black and yellow for no apparent better reason
than the fact of the sitting of the Penal Commission.
Further, all the prisoners who have registered their
names as desirous of giving evidence before the Commis-
sion have been required to make a statement of the
nature of that evidence to the gaol officials. This has
been resented. The matter came, by some fortuitous
chance, to the ears of the Commission, and the order was
revoked. But when it is remembered that these things
have been done by order of the Executive, it is easy to
understand the difficulties that lie in the way of any re-
form, so long as the Forrest brood rules the roost. And
this dull, Chinkie-like opposition to sweeping away old-
time abuses characterises the whole of the policy of
Westralia’s leg-iron Government. The Forrest crowd
cannot realise that the brute force authority of the penal
period can no longer be applied to the altered conditions
of Westralia. The clank of the fetters, the swish of the
cat, still linger in their dreams.
The erstwhile fairy godfather of N.S.W.
Free trade party, the gilded Sydney Burdekin,ex-
M.L. A., ex-alderman, and out of luck generally
for .some time back, bobs up as another possible
for N.S.W. Agent-Generalship.


The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the Most
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
was established in the year 1843 as a purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having neither stockholders nor pre
ferential policy-holders. In this respect it is the sole noble exemplar of mutuality in life insurance transacting
business in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1897, this Company has paid to its Policy-
Holders or their representatives over Ninety-five Million Pounds Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
to insure in is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit, perhaps, of its
stock-holders—but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOB ITS POLICY-HOLDERS.
By the report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the year IS9B it is
certified that the MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business on December
31st, 1897, held
“ Total Admitted Assets, $253,750,437.60.”
Converting this into sterling, at |4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,1X2,225 7s. lOd.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with the
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
Don’t confuse the name of this Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
magnitude.
Z. C. BENNIE, General manager for Australasia.
Company's Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
“Prof. Hobday, of the Royal Veterinary
College,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “is quite a crank on animal cripples.
Fitting false legs and eyes to cats and dogs and
legs to crippled cows is with him an everyday per-
formance. His greatest recent feat was providing a
toy terrier with false teeth. Disease had wrecked
the snapper’s stumps. Chloroform reposed him
while the moulds were taken, and a dentist did
the rest, and now the yelper pursues the public
with shop teeth more viciously than ever. The
false legs run from 2s. 6d. to 25 guineas—a leather
socket filled with horsehair or a silver and vul-
canite, steel-springed leg or paw with joints.”
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & C 0.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, Ac.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
H® Majesty's. “ Forty Thieves.”
Ltcbuu . “Maritana.”
Criterion. “ Robbery Under Arms.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra “ The Strategist.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess « The Geisha.”
Bijou •* Madame Sans-Gene."
Theatre Royal “ New Babylon.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Flinders st. & Spring st. Corner —Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
The above remarks have no direct bearing
on the “ Forty Thieves ” as now played at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, but this paper thought it ad-
visable to get them off its chest lest it might begin
to suffer from suppressed poetry. The “ Forty ”
continue to be as gorgeous a spectacle as they were
last week, and Gulliver, and Edward the donkey,
grow even more wildly humorous as time goes on.
The writer isn’t prepared to swear to any notable
change in any of the other performers, but the
continued improvement of Gulliver and the don-
key it does swear to. Also, the beautiful ballet of
the poppies and the gray field-mice looks prettier
every time one meets it ; and the book isn’t grow-
ing any more flat than it was, for there is very
little room for increased flatness ; and the spec-
tacle in general is gorgeous beyond description.
** # *
London still Sleeps publicly at Sydney
Royal, and the takings from the people who come
to see him in bed are very remunerative. The
Sleeping of London only professes to be a respec-
table, glittersome melodrama, put on regardless of
cost; but while it is all there as a spectacle, it is
also quite as much there in a literary sense as can
be expected. Miss Eugenie Duggan, the beautiful
slack-wire orphan in the circus, comes in for an
enormous heap of wealth and goes to live in an
anoestral ’all, and her wioked cousin, the “cap-
ting,” who expected to inherit the wealth himself,
makes tremendous efforts to marry her. And,
like most captings in melodrama, he tries to do it
by using language and dragging the lady around,
lie bursts into her bedroom one night—the enor-
mously rich heiress has a plain iron bedstead and
one hard chair in a top room—and announces his
intention of staying in the chair all night, and
blasting the lady’s reputation by being seen
r g out in the morning ; but changing his mind
sets fire to the house and leaves. Also,
he imprisons the heiress in a mansion where the
gilded Flossie has her lair, and otherwise strives
to win her affections or to bump her head against
the wall, or something. As London turns over
laboriously in its sleep Miss Amy Gourlay, who
wasn’t much noticed at first, begins to stand out
conspicuously as a very bright little lady indeed.
The Bulletin didn’t observe her to any great ex-
tent on the opening night when London had just
blown out the candle and dropped off, but now she
strikes it as a very clever and winsome little
actress who does some of the best work in the
show. She is a misguided girl seeking with a red
hat for a johnny to devour, and it is pleasing to
note that she finds her johnny. William Gourlay,
disguised in woman’s clothes, supplies the wildest
joke of the show—when he weeps on the shoulder
of the sympathetic policeman and says he was a
good girl once. The idea of William Gourlay
being a good girl, even so seldom as once, has a
lot of points about it. And the only serious ob-
jection to pretty Eugenie Duggan is where that
immensely rich heiress, in her frilled nightdress,
is just about to turn into her plain little iron
bed in the small top room with the one hard
wooden chair, and Amy Gourlay, having left her
half-eaten johnny to his fate, calls round on an
errand of mercy—and Miss Duggan calls her
“ see-ee-eester. ” It is a very pathetic scene, all the
same, and Miss Gourlay makes an effect in it that
causes London to partly wake up and fall ouc of
bed.
* * * *
“ Robbery Under Arms ” still robs as
usual at Sydney Criterion, where it is now in its
eighth week, or somewhere thereabouts.
* * * *
“Carmen,” at Sydney Lyceum, concern-
ing the stragglesomeness of which this organ spoke
last week with well-deserved severity, pounded
itself into some kind of shape after a day or two,
and gave a very much improved version of Bizet’s
opera. The chorus began to explode all together
instead of firing separately ; and Farley recaptured
the note that had gone astray; and Leumane
acquired more confidence ; and Miss Lilian Tree
didn’t look quite so large when you got used
to her. Also, some vestiges of a Spanish
atmosphere gathered round the play; it began to
feel as if it was really located in that sunny land of
oheap guitars, where, according to operatic tradi-
tion, all the people live by singing to each other
for a few coppers. But the uniforms of the alleged
Spanish infantry destroyed the illusion again ; no
Spanish soldier ever went forth to battle in togs
even distantly resembling these. By the time
this issue sees the light, however, “Maritana”
will probably be on, so it isn’t worth while to
argue the point further.
* * m *
The Jubilee Singers are settling down for
a long stay at Sydney Palace, and this paper still
drops in there occasionally when it wants some-
thing cool dropped on its fevered frow. There is
a soothing cadence about the melodies of this dark
company that suggests the rippling of many waters,
or a gentle breeze in the forest on a hot day, or
a policeman walking stealthily over dead, brown
leaves, or anything else that has a restful, whisper-
ing note in it. The co.’s conjuror and sleight-of-
hand person is very clever in his art, but after all
ho isn’t the star. It is the quaint darkey
music of old Kentucky and other alleged places
that makes the attraction —the kind of music
which hasn’t too much bang and clatter in it, and
which doesn’t disturb a person too suddenly in his
sleep.
* # * *
Peggy Pryde, Ajax, the pretty and grace-
ful Cora Caselli, and a few other people keep up a
cheerful bustle at the Tivoli, where the Xmas god
has howled even more joyfully than usual. Also,
a number of brief shows have cropped up like
Jonah’s gourd during the holidays, and have
mostly passed away again like the same fleeting
herb which was ringbarlced by the selector out-
side Nineveh.
* * * *
The “ Strategist,” a rather over-rated
comedy of the cheerful rough - and - tumble
variety, is on this week at Sydney Alhambra.
Frank Hawthorne and Carden Wilson are the
best spots in a reasonably strong cast, and the
show is mounted in a fashion that the mouldered
Alhambra hasn’t been used to for many years.
* * * *
Maggie Stirling is to take a trip ’Ome
shortly, and her testimonial concert, at Melb.
Town Hall, will be the biggest thing in musical-
public demonstrations that has happened these
many years. Maggie Stirling’s platform appear-
ance makes her popular before she opens her mouth;
she sings easy, catchy ballads with one of the best
—if not actually the finest—mezzo-soprano voices
in the world, and she is domestically interesting
as the wife of a consumptive husband,
and the supporter of a young family. Also,
the vice-regal Brasseys have shown their
good taste by “ taking her up ” consider-
ably, and the heart of the great aggregate local
Mac warms to the tartan pattern of her name,
whilst Australian natives in general claim her as a
Bister. The idea that Maggie Stirling is going to
Europe with a particular view to taking lessons in
singing doesn’t seem very reasonable, but she will
benefit by hearing the more educated warblers
render the newest songs, and come back to Aus-
tralia with a certain iclat. Anyhow, the amiable
lady will deserve her enthusiastic send-off.
** * *
A plague of hot weather ravaged Mel-
bourne during Xmas week and, with the exception
of one packed house at the Royal (on Boxing
Night), business everywhere fell more or less below
holiday averages all the time. It was open to any
manager to advertise free distributions of cooling
drinks between the acts, and make a handsome
profit on the transaction, but the theatrical mind
seldom rises to meet a great emergency. The
Princess’s certainly put in a special plea
for patronage on accou.t of a sliding
roof, whereas the Circus didn’t even allude
to the tent’s open, airy advantages, and the
Alexandra made no claim to be the least oppres-
sively crowded place of entertainment in Mel-
bourne, although the fact was undeniable. Judging
from the Haleck’s consistent emptiness last week,
The Bulletin fears that the doom of “ Jack and
the Beanstalk ”is pretty nearly sealed. The poor
little attempt at a pantomime doesn’t seem to
improve with practice at any point, and the Giant
has developed into the saddest fiction that ever
stamped on stilts.
** * *
“ Madame Sans-Gene,” at the Bijou, is a
good show which gets very little encouragement
thusfar. The title of the play has no meaning for
95 per cent, of the local population, it appears.
They would be interested in the story of the
dauntless washerwoman if they would come along
to sample it, but they mostly avoid the Bijou and
ask no questions. All the same, Brough cannot
do better than persevere with “ Sans-Gene ” for
another fortnight, on the chance that the warm
approval of small audiences will lead to large
business results. Mrs. Brough in the name-part
is letting herself go more boldly and naturally than
on the first night, and her tongue onslaught upon
Napoleon’s two sisters is a capital burst of indig-
nation. Brough, too, has got a firmer grip of the
imperial Nap. character, which is here displayed in
unneroic light, and needs very careful treatment.
Joseph Carne comes out strong as Lefebvre,
especially in the prologue, but W. T. Lovell’s per-
formance of the Comte de Neipperg is no brighter
than his previous work in other young men parts.
"#* * *
The advt. announces that “The Geisha ”
has come to stay at the Princess’s. The Melb.
press is giving unlimited marmalade to the
Firm’s latest production, and it looks likely to
remain for another month at least.
** * «
“ New Babylon ” bore up manfully against
the weather last week, and will, no doubt, wave its
tangled tale at the Royal as long as Bland Holt
can make a profit on the job. The shipwreck
which occurs at 8.20 p.m., or thereabouts, is calcu-
lated to run for a month, even if there were nothing
to speak of in the subsequent proceedings. “New
Babylon,” however, offers a large assortment
of things worth honorable mention, and The Bul-
letin finds nothing to grumble at except the cattle-
show scene. A pair of piebald ponies are offered
for sale at the Islington cattle-show (instead of at
Tattersall’s, as in days of yore) to the sore distress
of every Londoner in the audience. Worse than
that, somebody’s prize bull, value 700 guineas, is
paraded behind the footlights, and, although no
right-thinking person can possibly take exception
to a beast of the field in its proper place, a good
many persons object to this particular beast in its
dramatic capacity.
** * *
At the Opera House old friend Horace
Wheatley is singing and dancing on two legs with
reasonable success, and Jimmy Shields is doing
likewise on one leg, to the intense satisfaction of
large audiences. Shields on his one leg is really a
stronger favorite than the vaunted Sampson, who
will lift the long, long dumb-bell for the last time
this week.
** * *
Touching the rather gigantic success of
Fitz Gerald Bros.’ Circus in general, and the
growing popularity of elephant Lizzie in particu-
lar, the writer would like to make a few remarks,
but a sudden attack of Xmas spasms compels him
to hold the matter over for another week.
There were Forty Thieves in Bagdad in a bygone
centuree,
Born of poor but honest parents, as might chance
to you or me.
They never paid their ’bus-fares, though the notice
on the box
Said the tuppence should be dropped there. They
were prone to aiming rocks
At the old Arabian bobby, when his vast Arabian
feet
Woke the echoes in the evening down the camel-
haunted street.
And they fought with vim at Chowder when they
got upon the spree—
Chowder by the Shatt-el-Arab, in a bygone centu-
ree.
They got run-in at Bagdad, as any cove be;
They got out on bail in Bagdad, mouldering by
its rivers three;
And when they couldn’t pay the fine, they took it
out instead—
The usual term was seven days, and they “ did it
on their ’ed.”
At least, they meant to do it, but in these strange
times the push
Wore flowing skirts, and when the cold north wind
began to “ whoosh ”
And their brown legs stood up in the air, a naked
sight to see,
They’d have all caught cold in Bagdad in that
far-off centuree.
They played cricket in old Bagdad, where the
Calipns used to be,
With eleven from Damascus ; and they stoushed
the referee ;
And though the wicket’s vanished, and the ball is
long since bust,
And the pitch has long since crumbled, and the
players all are dust,
A ghostly echo lingers where the Forty used to
roar,
And on moonlit nights their ghostly forms make
runs upon the shore.
And scare the jackal in the dust where the grand-
stand used to be,
By the glassy Shatt-el-Arab in the seventh cen-
turee.
They were mostly hanged V'i Bagdad ; they were
hanged upon a tree
By the river Shatt-el-Arab, as might chance to
you or ine.
They were tried by Abdul Windeyer, and promptly
sentenced,
And this time, sad to say, they couldn’t do it “on
their ’ed.”
And there was peace in Bagdad when the Forty
were no more
And the publican no longer heard them pounding
on the door.
When they had a thirst at midnight and were
howling wild and free,
And wanted beer in Bacdad—Bagdad in El
JezirA
And on the 'beaoh at Chowder bottles moulder
silently,
Chowder by the Shatt-el-Arab flowing swiftly to
the sea.
For the push that used to heave them, they are
numbered with the dead,
And the ancient town of Bagdad is no longer
painted red,
And no man chews another’s ear within its silent
walls,
And sandalled feet go silently by the traders’
lonely stalls,
Since the push that woke up Bagdad was scragged
upon a tree
In the city of the Caliphs in the seventh centuree.
The Gatton Murder.
A Bulletin correspondent vents some theories
whioh, as they are interestingly written, we print
even at the risk of their being discredited by
revelationsthat may be made before publication :
The murder was probably committed by two
men. The alternatives are one, or three, or four. But
one could not have overpowered the three victims. Even
if they fully confided in him, he could not have bound
their hands by himself. And the hands were bound dur-
ing life. There were not four, because the motive of the
outrage was lust (probably two motives existed : lust and
revenge), and four people would not go to such lengths
for the same two girls. Further, they would be rivals,
and hate each other as rivals. These reasons exclude
even a third man. In the circumstances, that one brute
should be found is intelligible ; that two should be found
is possible; but that three could trust each other
sufficiently to work together is beyond all probability.
Again, there are physical limits. To overcome one
strong girl would exhaust man as well as girl. To double
the outrage is to double the outrager. If there were
three, the third took no part in the outrage. But, with-
out the others’ motive, it is in the highest degree unlikely
that a third would consent to share their guilt ; it is in
the highest degree unlikely that the others would accept
an accomplice whose hands were not dyed as deeply as
their own—to be horrified, and betray them. Two girls
were outraged ; the tracks of two horses were found; two
men asked a farmer lor horse-feed at midnight.
• • • •
The two men were brothers (or cousins, or inti-
mate friends). They had lived together, worked together,
played together. Only so could they have trusted each
other sufficiently to outrage and murder together. If
they were two brothers, two sisters would have attracted
them : brothers often marry sisters : the family qualities
which attract one brother attract another—for they are
of the same blood.
* • • •
The plan was conceived in one brain and ao-
oepted by another brain which could be maddened by
similar motives, could dare similar risks for similar ends.
A single outrage would have been appalling ; would have
argued the agent an exceptional brute in a civilised
society. The double outrage argues two exceptional
brutes, in the same place at the same time—and probably-
sprung from the same brutish stock. Brother could trust
brother. The younger brother would look up co, and be
influenced by, and rely upon the elder. The second man
must have been powerfully swayed by the first. Equal in
execution, one must have been superior in conception.
Who but a brother, in a society where such crimes are
held in horror, could have made another carry out his
conception ?
* * • •
The men were of strong physique, therefore
used to toil. Education—the cultivation of the brain-
lowers brutish strength, blunts brutish impulses, deters
from brutish outrage ; therefore they had little educa-
tion. They were between 20 and 30 years of age—if older
or younger, energy or desire would have failed them for
auch a crime : they were mature enough to plan, yet not
too mature to execute. They were unmarried, and lived
in a society where there was little vent for sex-passions.
(It is possible, however, that if the younger girl was the
chief objective the elder man was married. In that case,
the younger man may have been no blood-relation, but a
friend dominated by the other. Cut.this is less likely.)
They knew the country. They knew their victims—
no haphazard meeting prompted the double outrage.
Their victims knew them—for outrage had to be followed
by murder. They knew their victims’ movements, and
desired two women only—two others were let pass. They
were used to the saddle, but knew little of firearms—the
murders were accomplished in the method of aboriginal
races, with a stick ; the horse’s throat was cut because
they were uncertain as to the efficacy of bullets. They
lived away from cities—where there was small outlet for
passion; they were in the 'same station of life as their
victims; they were members of the same community;
they had frequently met them ; they might have gone to
school with them.
• • • •
The elder of the two men must be locally known
for his force of character and bodily strength—the
qualities which carried him through the day and night
of December 26 have indubitably made their mark
before. He is subject to violent fits of ill-temper, and is
locally feared and disliked. If both his parents are alive
he is one of a large family. He broods over slights and
fancied slights. He has already committed small acts of
violence. His anger is deadly—and silent. He is
sociable by fits and starts. He drinks rarely
and deeply. He is cruel to animals. His age is
from 27 to 29 (if married, he may be older). He is rather
over the middle-height, stoops slightly, is very strongly
built about the shoulders, has a prominent jaw and teeth,
coarse hair, and somewhat sullen expression. The
younger, aged from 20 to 23, is in character a weaker re-
flection of the elder, but differs in appearance, and is less
unpopular. The elder loved and was repulsed by the
elder girl—was repulsed several times, and eventually
with scorn. He has been attracted by her for years, and
has brooded over his fancied wrongs till his brain turned.
The younger man was attracted by the younger girl, but
it is doubtful whether he told her. But one or both of
them has fallen foul of the brother, and nursed a grudge
against him.
• • m •
The elder man’s grievance was of long-standing :
he had often hugged the idea of humbling scorn-
ful beauty. The revolver may have been bought—
months, years before. The tragedy dates Deo. 26—“ a
shocking treble murder.” On Dec. 14, what the news-
papers called “a shocking double murder” in Sydney
was reported all over Australia. Stuart Briggs shot a
girl whom he loved, and who scorned him. lie shot the
girl’s grandmother also. This is the kind of news that
strong-passioned, imperfectly-educated people brood over
for days. The elder murderer could hardly have missed
seeing it—could hardly have missed comparing Briggs’s
case with his own, and drawing the moral. On Dec. 21,
the Sydney inquest was held, and Briggs’ remarkable letter
read: —“ This is to state that the girl that has come to grief
by me is one who •professed, to love me, but it is sincerely
false. . . . But finding that she is acting falsely, I did the
deed. . ... And no doubt this will come uithin hearing of
the public, and be of a very substantial lesson to those who
are supposed to be had or taken in.” If that letter, or the
gist of it, was reprinted in a paper circulating in Gatton—
such as the Queensland Times— no more was wanted to
concentrate the murderer’s resolution. He would give
the girl one more chance, and then
• * • •
On Boxing Day he went to Mount Sylvia
races, saw hi 9 victims, and was repulsed. He drank
heavily ; he secured his accomplice ; they both drank
heavily. They heard that the violims were coming to the
Gatton ball ; they returned to their home or to some-
where nearer Gatton than the victims lived; had tea;
and learnt that the ball was postponed. Then the Mur-
phys would be disappointed. The Murphys I—and
floating ideas took definite shape. The men
rode forth ; struck the main road between Gatton
and Blackfellows’ Creek ; and waited at the slip-
rails. When the dog-cart came along, its occupants were
bailed up with the revolver ; probably told if they made
a noise they would suffer, if they were quiet no
harm would come to them. The elder man remained
mounted, pointing the revolver; the younger got
into the cart, and hound the hands of brother
and sisters with their own handkerchiefs. Then
he took his seat in the cart and drove through the
slip-rails; the elder man keeping at the side. A mile
further on the elder nmn dismounted; hung his horse
up; and told the Murphys to get out. They stumbled
out with their hands tied, and Michael was struck down
at once with the club. The blow crushed his skull in ;
the handkerchief slipped off his wrists in the fall. The
girls screamed ; the younger man held Ellen ; Norah ran.
tripped, and fell. Ellen fainted; Norah screamed and
fought persistently. The elder man got the hames
strap and choked her into silence. Later, the billet
of wood smashed their skulls also. The murderers
remounted ; washed themselves; and rode off. At first
maybe, they intended to go right away. But the horses
were tired ; as their insane fit passed the men grew tired
too. They turned and came home. If callous, they are
going quietly about their work; if remorseful, they are
the most active in the search for the murderers.
• • * • -i>
The absence of struggle noticed on the ground
points to overwhelming force—or inferiority of force. If
the idea of many men is excluded, the victims’ hands
were tied when they reached the place of doom. The
hands could only have been tied in the first shock of
surprise, before the Murphys realised what was happen-
ing to them. Of the climax to the proceedings they could
never have dreamt: possibly they thought they were
subjects of a rough holiday joke. They were confronted
by determined men—and a revolver. They yielded and
submitted to be tied before they understood'the situation.
When they understood—dimly—it was too late to resist.
The theory that Michael was decoyed off the road by a tale
of accident would be feasible but for the hand-tying.
The hands could not have been tied on the spot, or on the
track, or at any place but the place where the victims
were taken by surprise. Michael did not resist because
he never imagined the need for resistance ; or because the
revolver temporarily took him aback ; or because he felt
the responsibility of his sisters if he resisted unsuccess-
fully. The men may have been masked and discovered ;
or more probably they were not masked. In the latter
event there was so much less reason for distrusting them.


E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
Jaques Bros., engineers, Conpin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, ana treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Hock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery."
Gilfillan and MoCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assa.vers, 434 Onllins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering- Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17" and 38" by 60" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 161 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
ftcwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 60
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com*
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent.
Sydney Agenoy:
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
L Superior to all others {or Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitfc-st., Sydney.
A. E. 60LDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Barrlsou Sb Attwood, Solo JProprletors.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38V.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharjre,
3QIMVAO
guaranteed
98/100^
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles
MANGANESE 71%
All Mininpr Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Mark Wald
178 William Street,
Mrlbocrsb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; S 7 Engle-street,
Britb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, H.Z.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OP ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PER IB
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. loan estimates for the year ending
30th June, 1899, provide for the spending of 62,035,837
of borrowed money on public works. Of this sum
£1,281,114 is to go in works that are nominally repro-
ductive, and the other £754,000 is pure, unadulterated
swindle, to make the accounts look better, and to save
this generation the worry of paying its own liabilities as
it goes along, and to help Reid to keep his billet by adver-
tising himself as the Premier who didn’t increase taxa-
tion. Witness the following taken from Coghlan’s
“ Statistics of the Seven Colonies ” :
Spent on Spent on Total Loan
Productive Unproductive Expenditure
Works. Works on Works.
1895- .. £711,346 £559.552 £1,270,898
1896- .. 985,447 562,658 1,548,105
1897- .. 992,353 650,514 1,642,867
Proposed
1898- .. 1,281,114 754,723 2,035,837
Even the red bull which Potato Young sent up to Kemp-
sey was charged, according to Premier Reid’s own state-
ment in Parliament, to permanent and reproductive
works—the permanent and reproductive bull which our
descendants will still be paying interest on 500 years
hence !!
• • * •
The English, Scottish, and Australian Hank
makes very moderate progress, so far, at getting on its
feet again. For the 12 months ended 80th June, 1898,
the net profit was £6034, which compares with some pre-
vious results as follows
1894 Profit .. £10,154 I 1897 Profit .. £10,870
1895 Loss .. 6,279 1898 „ .. 6,034
1806 „ .. 27,950 I
In 1894-5-6 the E.S. and A. Bank was working under the
old arrangement, and things grew steadily worse. Then
it made new terms with its creditors and reduced interest
considerably—this year its reconstructed deposits cost it
less than 3J per cent, ull round. It has worked under the
new arrangement for two years, and again it shows a
downward tendency. The gross profits for the five years
(i.e., the profits before the interest on reconstructed
deposits are provided for) have been
1894 .. £164,330 11897 .. £130,535
1895 .. 162,408 1898 .. 119,560
1896 .. 139,812 I
This is a very steady decline, especially when it is con-
sidered that during last year most Australian hanks have
begun to exhibit a distinct improvement. Within the
last two years capital has been written down by £431,550,
reducing it to £530,438. And this year’s earnings are
only equal to£l 2s. 4d. per cent, per annum even on that
reduced amount.
The E. S. and A. shareholders have, so far as
concerns the immediate future, about the poorest set of
prospects going—those of the Queensland National crowd
always excepted. According to the latest re-arrangement
it was wisely provided that the first charge on net profits
should be £15,000 n year towards reserve fund, but so far
this amount hasn’t been available. Next the 3 per cent,
deferred inscribed stock (at present standing at £900,010)
is to get an increased rate of interest not exceeding 4j
percent., which will absorb unether 613,500. Next, out
of any balance available for dividend one-fourth is to be
set aside for the redemption of the deferred stock, so
before a 5 per cent, dividend can be paid the E. S. and A.
needs to show a net profit of about £64,000, instead of
the present 66,000—which is a very long, hard road to
travel.
In other respects, things look well enough. Dur-
ing the year ended 30th June, 1897, the bank paid off
about £460,656 of its reconstructed deposits. In the year
ended 30th June, 1898, another £117,545 was wiped' off.
The indebtedness to the reconstructed depositors is now
£3,267,149. New deposits (£1,420,278) are about £30,000
more than they were a year ago, so the business appears
to keep up reasonably well. Cash (£812,000) equals 47
per cent, of all immediate liabilities to the public—the
reconstructed deposits, being fixed for an indefinite
period, require no reserve against them. The re-
serve, including this year’s profit, amounts to £16,904.
In addition the bank has made (apparently all
this year) 629,175 by the purchase of its own deposits at a
discount. This is put to a separate account to cover
depreciation, and after writing of? £BBl6 for loss there re-
mains a second reserve of £20,359. The E.S. and A. is
the only bank which has the honesty to show profits made
by the repurchase of its own depreciated securities
separately from those made in the ordinary course of
business ; the average institution would have lumped the
two, and proudly shown a profit of £35,000 odd, and said
nothing about how the bulk of it was earned. If the
E.S. and A. can go on buying up its securities on this pro-
fitable basis it should be able to build up a reserve which
will eventually do a good deal to help it out of its diffi-
culties—and there is no visible reason why it shouldn’t go
on. All things considered, it looks sound enough from a
depositor’s point of view. And as it is steadily buying up
and extinguishing the deferred 3 per cent, deposits (the
ones which are to get 4£ per cent, when it is available) it
is reducing a big contingent liability for interest, as well
as making a handsome profit out of the deal in the mean-
time. In view of these things the shareholders’ pro-
spects are not getting worse on the whole, though they
are not improving as yet.
• • • •
That tremendous absentee corporation, the
Australian Agricultural Co., held a meeting in London
recently, and supplied some interesting information about
itself. From 1824 to 1857 the dividends totalled £237,250,
an average of e 7189 per annum. From 1857 to 1838 the
dividends were £2,025,00’>, an average of 649,390 per
annum. The paid-up capital is 430,000, so for 41 years
Australia has provided this great Bull corporation with a
very steady dividend of 11J per cent, per annum—and it
is just about time the long-postponed absentee-tax hap-
pened in N.S.W.
* » • •
Apparently the time is not far off when all
the great importing houses will be merely branches
of absentee companies bossed in England. Within
the last year or two, Rich and Co., Henry Bull and
Co., M'Arthur and Co., and Farmer’s, of Sydney, and
Paterson, Lang and Bruce, of Melbourne, have all been
floated on the English market. When is that absentee-
tax coming ?
* * • *
N.S.W. Govt, has not taken over the Tarra-
wingee line, which Parliament decided it should buy, and
has apparently not moved in the matter. But, on a
report made by the local officer, the Tarrawingee co. has
forbidden the Silverton Tramway Co. to run any more
trains over it, several of the bridges and culverts having
fallen into utter disrepair. So Broken Hill is shut off
from two of its three pleasure and picnic places.
The Victorian public find that the notices on
Sillar-boxes do not give the correct times of clearance.
ertain changes were made, and they were notified once
in the obscurity of the daily press, but on the hoxes
themselves the* old misleading information remains un-
changed. The P.M.G. says that, now his attention is
calleS to it, he will have the proper alteration made. The
international packet-post has also been superseded by the
parcel-post, and this too was notified once in the daily
press, but the official Postal Guide still contains a clause
referring to the now non-existent packet-post for the
United Kingdom. So the public still sends packets, that
help to fill up the dead-letter office. Melbourne’s muddled
Postmaster-General mvv yet wreck the Turner Ministry.
* « • •
Melb. land prices are now as far under value as
they were above them at boom time. A big block in
Flinders-street, opposite the rail way-station and almost
adjoining the Gas co.’s offices, changed hands recently
at £2OO a foot, the foot being a 313 ft. strip with frontages
to both Flinders-street and Flinders-lane! The boom
price of this land would have been something like 61500
a foot, but then in those da3 r s one-frontage paddocks in
the suburbs with a depth of 150 ft. were selling for £lOO a
foot.
* * • *
“ Barrier ” writes : You ask, “ Why don’t the
B.H. mining co’s agitate for a reduction in freights from
the Silverton Tram Co., instead of heckling the S.A.
Govt, only?” Well, take a list of the B.H. directors, and
another list of the Silverton Tram directors, and the
answer is easy. It is precisely the same with regard to
water-supply. The charge for water (of wli : 'h large
quantities are used in the concentrating mills) is prepos-
terous ; yet, though Block 14 and, to some extent, the
South and British people have attempred to organise
some opposition, they have not been able to get a move
on the vastly more powerful B.H. Prop, and Block 10 co’s.
For the same reason, the co’s don’t move a muscle to
assist the project for running a rail-line between B.H.
and the Darling at Menindie, though that work would
make firewood vastly cheaper and would open an alterna-
tive’ route to the seaboard, 60 miles by rail and the rest
down the Darling and Murray.
Some little time back B.H. Water Supply share-
holders felt a little uneasy by reason of a move to run
the Govt, into providing a public supply. Tiie B.H. feel-
ing was exceedingly hostile to the co. But the directors
made a concession of 50 per cent.—from ss. to 2s. od. per
thousand—on all water used for gardening ; and Cerberus
has now pitched his growl in a lower key—so low that it
can’t he heard above the howling dust-storms which had
been raging out there for a couple of months past.
When a private co. seeks a concession in Aus-
tralia the tired democrat who can’t successfully put up
his back against the granting of it altogether reckons ho
has done pretty well if he has limited the operation of the
shindykit to a specific term. Sometimes this pans out all
right—sometimes it doesn’t. For instance, if the co. gets
a monopoly, and if it bus to quit in, say, 21 years, it just
hustles round and squeezes out of this generation what it
would be a fair thing to squeeze out of this one and the
next two or three together. Example: The Broken Hill
Water Co. It had to fight hard for its Bill; and when it
got it there was in it a provision that in 26 years from
date the works would go to the State. The result is that
the co., which spent nearly seven years making a reservoir
and waiting for it to be filled (that., of course, was before
the days of the God-fearing, rain-producing Ministry)
is trying to make the unfortunate owners of that sun-
baked dust-bin pay in 21 years the extravagant cost of
the Bill and the works, along with speculators’ profits.
And when the State gets the works they will probably be
so worn out and silted up (because Lite co. can’t he
expected to renew things the last few years), that the
whole show will not he worth more than a very casual
curse. The Water Supply Co. has only been moderately
successful in the squeezing process, but the Silverton
Tramway Co., with its 60 per shout, dividends, has been
a monumental triumph at the work.
• * •
A man from Maoriland has been in N.S.W.
some months spying out the fatness of the land and the
fatheadedness of its legislators. Finding that gold-
dredging was practically unknown here, he applied for a
patent for nearly everything used in gold-dredging, ex-
cept the hare hull of the dredge. The parts re which patents
are applied for have been in use in Maoriland for years,
and are well-known in N.S.W. and some parts have been
long in use here for harbor-dredging, and all of them have
been described and illustrated in public papers. Also,
the N.S.W. Govt, sent Surveyor Jaquet over the pond
to study the dredge in its lair and report thereon, pre-
sumably for the benefit of the mining community ; and
Jaquet’s book has been issued from the Govt. Printing
Office. The patent was ready for issue when some meddle-
some mining men got wind of it, and have at least tem-
porarily blocked it. If granted it will either cause the
infant gold-dredging industry in N.S.W. to be still-born,
or to start seriously hampered by royalties.
* * * »
The B.H. Consols—the huge English co. with
the little B.H. mine—held its annual meeting in London
recently, and congratulated itself that : t hadn’t made a
loss. In fact, six months’ receipts had paid 12 months’
expenses, all but £2OO ; so that £lO,OOO worth of assets
were in hand. This was a more successful result than had
been achieved for six years. It doesn’t always take a
Broken Hill to satisfy J. Bull. The Consols’ new imported
manager, Sweet, by the way, is described as having had
22 years’ practical experience, much of it among German
silver-lead.
• * * *
Gallyraont, N.S.W., is a Bull-owned mine, con-
trolled by Eissler, who cabled to London :—“ Made a
thorough examination and accurate tests of values of ore
prove samples systematically salted since Nov. (’97), de-
ceiving Hocking and myself.” A straightforward but
humiliating admission for an able mining man like Eissler.
Of this mine big things were predicted up to three months
ago. Nothing seemed the matter with it except, perhaps,
that amongst its claqueurs was the Sabbath tipster. It has
the crushing capital of £300,000, but plant and develop-
ment were on a big scale. The first crushing was a dis-
appointment and something was said about using too
much or too little water. Six weeks back writer was
shown an affidavit made by a workman that he and cer-
tain others had worked the mine with the view of getting
it on tribute, i.e., as much mullock as quartz had been
crushed. Then followed many threats of prosecution.
Now comes the admission of sailing. This is altogether
too puzzling. The mine was not for sale or working under
an option of purchase. Men who sold nearly three .years
ago were bought right out, and had no interest—salting
or otherwise. What, then, was the object, and who
the culprit? The energetic and experienced Eissler
practically lived on the mine, and as his manager was al-
ways there, the saltern must surely have been geniuses.
Eissler is the author of standard mining works. Eissler
on Cyanide,Eissler on the “ Metallurgy of Gold”;perhaps
we shall now have Eissler on the “Metallurgy of Salt.”
Shares, which long before the first crushing nearly reached
par, have been falling in London for some time, and, five
weeks ago, were down to 4s. 9d. When worked by small
parties, the claims now forming this mine were only noted
for their short chutes and small veins, and they were for
sale, and refused at much less than £lO,OOO for the lot
long before Eissler came along. What his company gave
the writer knows not, but there was surely nothing in the
property to warrant a co. with £300,000 capital. Nor
was there anything to warrant having fat, ornamental
directors with fat fees in Sydney to do little or nothing.
• * • •
Gibraltar—another of the Anglo-Australian
Co.’s mines—seems to have got on the down grade. No
crushings announced in London for three months running,
and the last is small compared with others before it.
Shares, too, have fallen over 50 per cent. This co. has
two other mines, one somewhere on the south coast, the
other some 30 miles from Cobar. Big things said of each,
but that seems too usual a circumstance for the moment.
This co., which did the biggest work in N.S.W., seems to
have had the hardest luck.
• * • •
Charters Towers divs. for the year, .£304.000
(besides, say, £90,000 netted by cyanide)—according to
Northern Miner. Westralian divs., for 11 months of '93,
£575,691, as compared with £463,034 for all 1397. But
just compare the respective capitals of the Towers and
the Westralian co’s 1
• • • •
Dear Bulletin.—There are several good claims
on different parts of the Clermont (Q.) fields, but one-
third of the diggers are certainly not making tucker.
There were several reefing-claims working until a few
weeks ago. The Star of Hope put a crushing through
which only averaged about 4dwt. per ton. Rumored they
put through 4ft. of a formation, mostly' slate, balance
quartz. There are several small lots of stone along the
line awaiting treatment. No water for crushing pur-
poses. Bedford Bros’. Prince of Wales claim, Macdonald
Flat, crushed 20 tons recently' for average 28dwt. ; crush-
ing is £1 per ton. Dobbins’ and party Wild Cat lead re-
cently crushed 112 tons cement for 4580z.—R.W.
* * * *
Vesuvius (Charters Towers) mine unsold in
London, and the 61st call made in Melbourne. The
"great hopes” expressed about this show seven years
ago remind the writer of a remark lately mode re the same
mine by an enthusiastic Vic. mining veteran : “ She will
turn up trumps directly—take my word for it, sir.”
“ And how long have you been working her ? ” “ Thirty
years.”
* • • •
Bendigo, which, like so many other Australian
towns, has given up to shindykits the rights to electric
and gas lighting and to street tramways, is now thinking
of letting a J. Bull syndicate build electric trams there.
* • • •
Shamrock (Bendigo) got on to good gold again,
working it from the Shenandoah level. Stone running
over2oz., and a 2s. div. for Xmas; working only 60ft.
from the northern boundary, and a lot of money wanted
for shaft and winding-plant if the find proves permanent.
Sensible thing would be to amalgamate with the North
Shamrock.
* * « •
New Moon (Bendigo) sale in London seems to
be right off. Mine looking well; 86th div. declared, and
many more in sight—in fact, no other mine on the field
has so much ore in view.
• * » •
Garden Gully (Bendigo) Xmas dir., No. 306.
Surely the Australian record ? What other beats it I
• * * •
Gold-stealing has never gone right out of fashion
on Bendigo, and is very common just now. Quartz not
as rich as in the old days, but opportunities for dis|>osal
much greater. Some buyers call themselves pyrites-
merchants. Some Chinese do good business in illicit gold
buying. Many miners, shift-bosses and managers sacked
lately, two or three convictions, but the business
goes on in spite of it all. Writer lately discussed
the subject with a veteran in Bendigo. Subject—Lansell.
“ I say it (gold) don’t belong to he. Ho did not put it
there, and I’ll have my share if 1 get a chance.” “ Well,
who put it there, my friend?" “It came with the
(blanky) flood.”
« • • •
Justice Holroyd, Vie., has held that the pro-
posed amendment of the M‘Arthur-Forrest cyanide patent
is bad, and has dismissed the appeal from the decision of
the Attorney-General on the ground that if the amend-
ment were allowed the invention would vary substantially
from that described by the existing specification. What
will be the next move of the poor patentees, who are
having a lively legal time in Australasia? Meanwhile tens
of thousands of tons of gold-tailings are being treated
with the process without royalty ana with profit. Should
they eventually win all along the line what a glorious time
they will have collecting royalties. Verily they will be
“ The Australian Gold Recovery Co. 1"
• • * •
For low-grade gold-mining a comparatively new
field—Ellesmere, Vic.—wears the belt. Like most other
camps, it started with crushings much beyond the present
average, which is so low that sdwts. per ton is now re-
garded as rich ore. Central Ellesmere crushed for the
half-year 6900 tons for 91 loz., average 2'l2grs., giving a
profit, over actual working expenses, of £lO3O. Cost per
load, 6s. 9d., against 7s. Old. last half-year. Thomas
United :—The quartz from this mine averaged under
2dwts. per load. From crushing over 4000 loads of its
own, and doing some public crushing, a half-year’s profit
of £5lO was made. This co., without making a call, has
sunk a main shaft 130 ft., and put up a good winding and
crushing plant. Stewart’s United has paid nine divs.
from stone averaging less than 3dwts. During the half-
year it crushed 4881 loads for 476Joz.—under 2dwts. It
has just modestly declared a div. of £3OO. Stewart's Ex-
tended crushed 2778 loads for 2190 z., a little over 2dwt*.,
and, though it has no battery of its own, the half-year
shows a small profit. Let it not be imagined that
“ loads ” are not full tons. As a rule they are consider-
ably more. Also, be it remembered, in N.S.W. especially,
that there is no water-power at Ellesmere. All the re-
sult of cheap mining and management. Lodea big and
ground soft.
*£* -.SW * * *. •
Between 300 and 400 sluicing leases recently
taken up in Vic. Within the next 12 months the dredge-
system, inaugurated by J. A. Wallace, at Yackandandah,
will be in use all over the province. The old man gave
some sound advice on the business in Melb., lately.
He spent many thousands before he made the process a
success. By its use he was satisfied that many thousands
of ounces would be got which would never otherwise be
recovered. Some persons, in their enthusiasm, thought
tailings of any kind would do for dredging, but in his
opinion it was all the better if there was a little gold left
in them. Where there was no water to cause trouble the
Chinese had been at work and had left very little behind
—often too little to pay, but where John could not get in
for water the ground was all right.
• * • •
“ Tassic Re par. 3/12/’9B on Tas. Smelting Co.
“ Badger,” no doubt, thinks he has “got the tale by
rote ” (to quote Paterson), hut he hasn’t by a long way.
The Tas. Smelting Co. are more or less the same people
that are engineering also the Broken Hill experimental
plants under “ director ” Schmidt’s supervision. They
have unlimited capital at their back, and, despite
“ Badger’s ” superior knowledge, the co. will have its
fingers in most of the going mining concerns on the West
Coast. There is no violent hurry, as it would only mean
waste of cash to buy up any shows before their works are
completed. The other day the co. sent A. T. Brown, the
Vic. expert, alias “ Condemnatory Brown,” to Mt. Read,
where he was for a number of days sampling Hercules and
Mt. Read ores, and having a good look over the pro-
perties. These samples will decide more than sale of ore.
• » • »
Rumor current Oonah S.M. Co.’s rlirectors intend
letting mine on tribute. If correct, shareholders ought
to shoot directors into kingdom-to-come. Even among
generally ineffieienct Tasmanian West Coast directors
the Oonah directors are noteworthy. The mine is a little
patchy in upper levels, but there is absolutely no reason
why matters shouldn’t improve further down. What the
mine wants is sinking. It ought to have been done long
ago. At present, they are picking out all the ore between
the levels, and soon none will be left. Then it is a cage of
making calls to sink or letting on tribute. Another pro-
mising property gone to the devil.
“ Shaker ” : Writer has seen published by quite
a number of papers (B. 22/10/’9B included) the statement
by the chairman of the Coolgardie Mining and Prospect-
ing Co. that “the co.’s working the ground pegged by
the original syndicate had produced 17 t-ons of gold, equal
to £24,000,000.” Yet even The Bulletin has not spotted
the fact that, to obtain the above result, the gold must
be worth at least £4O per ounce.
Cabled that the resolutions of the Great Boulder
committee with respect to the famous, or infamous, mill-
ing contract have been rejected by a majority of the
shareholders in London. Some 4000 members of the co.,
representing over 400,000 shares, petitioned for this meet-
ing in the hope that the contract would be cancelled and
the directors fired out. They must now grin and bear it.
What the contract means they will soon have an oppor-
tunity of knowing, as a start has been made with the
process known as Konemann’s. From the field : “It is
claimed that the Boulder Milling Co. has made a success
of its new roasting system—a shaft furnace—by crushing
the ore through a three-quarter mesh, roasting the coarse
ores and screening out the fines. The latter they hope to
be able to roast when they have made a few alterations to
the furnace. The cyanide part of the plant, which is to
treat the tailings, is not in operation yet, and, if a success,
it will be more expensive than the present methods, as
the milling co. is to receive the first 3dwt. and 40 per cent,
of the balance, and gives no guarantee of extraction.
The tailings for the last year have been running about
Bdwt.” No doubt further particulars by mail will show
that the process was pronounced a great success at the
meeting. But machines and processes cannot lie like
directors. This contract is a millstone around the direc-
tors’ necks, and in due time will carry them under.
Generally claimed by boomsters that but for the
great “ cat ” boom of Westralia the ten or a dozen big
mines of that country, and all at Hannan’s with two or
three exceptions, would never have been Incubated, and
there is more joy over these few than grief over the 199
dead and dying felines which Forrest and others have long
had reason to wish had never been born. When the boom
raged nearly all the Westralian companies were above par
in London. Time has changed all that. Many companies
have been wiped right off the slate, but as it is the rule
with Bull companies never to stop putting gold into mines
while there is any left for that noble purpose, a good
many “ stiffs” still pretend to be alive. The ruling prices
of these mines are regarded as a sort of Joke —except, per-
haps, by the holders who bought above or about par. A
few samples :—Arrow Brownhill, Is 3d ; Boss and Flinders,
3d ; Big Blow (19s 6d paid), Is 6d ; Blacket’s Gold Mines,
la ; Brownhill Proprietary, 6d ; Consolidated Murchison,
Is ; Consuelo, 6d ; Gladiator, 9d ; Golconda, 3d ; Cement
Claims, 2d ; Golden Ridge, 3d ; Hannan’s 100 Acres, Od ;
Hannan’s Main Reef, 8d ; Hit or Miss, 3d ; Kalgurli Great
Western, Is 6d ; King of the West, Is Od ; Lady Loch, Is
3d ; Mawson’s Reward, 4d ; Menzies Golden Age, 6d ;
Miner’s Dream, 6d; Mount Margaret, Od ; Murchison
New Chum, Is 6d ; Sam’s Wealth of Nations, Is; Stray
Shot and Excelsior, 6d ; Sugarloaf (25-Mile) Cement, 6d;
and many others in the same “ cat ”-egory.
London distribution of divs. from Kalgoorlie
mines bake View Consols, 6s. a share, £62,500; Ivan-
hoe Gold Corporation, 65., £62,500 ; Golden Horseshoe,
155., £75,000 ; Associated Gold Mines, 25., £46,000. Total,
£245,000. It. is big money and it has taken most of these
mines long to earn it, in face of enormous monthly out-
puts. That’s the trouble—divs. are not in the same street
with gold values. The ss. div. of Consols and Ivanhoe
are both disappointments. It is known now that the
Whittaker Wright crowd which controls both mines bor-
rowed money to pay the last two Consols divs., but that
was long ago and the mine has produced much gold since.
It was thought Ivanhoe would pay 10s. for a certainty.
What has become of the money Whittaker Wright and,
perhaps, Providence only know. Anyhow, it is about
time shareholders began to regard it as their business to
find out. In each mine the average per ton has
been coming down, and it is likely to continue to
fall. They seem destined to become ounce proposi-
tions, if not less. The only thing that keeps up
is the wilful extravagance of London management. The
powers of London directors are almost illimitable. A
man who lately returned from London, when asked where
all the money had gone, simply shrugged his shoulders
and said : “ 1 suppose a great deal of it has been used by
the London and Globe crowd in other schemes.” Some-
thing must change, or a big slump in shares is a certainty.
The 15s. div. from Horseshoe is a surprise. With con-
siderably less gold it pays £12,500 more than Consols,
and £30,000 more than Associated. Shares have risen
over 40 per cent. Whispered that it is proposed to in-
crease the shares, giving four for each now held. They
have reached £l7, and may go to £2O. The lode is very
rich, but whether it will always be in the ground is by no
means certain, therefore any'further increase in values is
unwarranted by the mine. Nearly all the shares allotted
to Australian vendors have gone to London. In fact,
with the exception of Associated, comparatively little of
these divs. comes to Australia.
When Tozer-Rougemonb leads his party in
search of those gold-deposits out of which the natives of
those parts make their omelette pans, will someone follow
on with an eye for cinnabar ? North-west aborigines’ pig-
ments are largely this sulphide of mercury, for which
there is a constant demand with no big surplus stocks to
wipe off.
The N. Y. Mining and Engineering Journal
opens an article on the much-discussed Konemann tel-
luride process in a style which should freeze the very
hearts of Boulder shareholders.


Q
5*
ORIENT
V.
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Bail way Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
FREMO V.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.
Queensland Branch —
64 Queen St., Brisbane.
FOR THE
photography
HOLIDAY SEASON
Fathers who wish their children to spend their HOLIDAYS
in a RATIONAL and INSTRUCTIVE manner should
get them a
Iflii PTin+nrrvorOutfit
We supply them to suit all people, at prices ranging from
ss. upwards. The most enjoyable way of passing a day’s
outing is with a Camera.
Send for our NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE,
which will assist you in making a selection.
HARRINGTON & Co. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 King Street, Sydney.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
SWEET INNOCENCE.
THE WIFE OF HIS BOSOM:
“John, dear, do back the
Double. I'm sure that is the
horse that will win, because I
heard six men talking in the
train, and they all said they
had backed it.”
Scene—Fitzroy, Melb. Scribe
waking, after several heavy nights.
Mouth as though he’d swallowed a dog
head first; breath bulging out the
window —,£lOOO for a reviver . . .
Knock at door; fraud summons with Is.
conduct-money. Tears of emotion, and
henceforth a fixed belief in Providence.
Felton station, where millionaire Tyson
died, was once the property of the dashing Alfred
Sandeman, who for years posed as the genuine
gentleman squatter of Queensland. Sandeman
mortgaged the station to Tyson and went to Eng-
land, hoping to realise on property there and clear
his creditor out. But in the long run Tyson shut
down and Felton became his. The millionaire
looked on the transaction as among the luckiest in
his life.
* • * *
“ T.D.” : Rode into Sydney last night on
the guard-rail of a ’bus, having given up my seat
to a girl who had been assured that plenty of room
remained on top. Nearing Hordern’s, the usual
signals passed between the driver and the
“ ’bussies ” going the other way, with the result
that I was ignominiously hustled inside because
the di-iver, being a poor man, didn’t “ want to be
fined no bloomin’fifteen bob. ’’ Nothing is a sin
that isn t found out, and very little will ever be
found out so long as transit-officers in uniform are
merely stationed at certain conspicuous points,
and ’busmen give mutual assistance to each other
in dodging the law.
“Banana
suppers are now
the fashion in
the London
* East E n d,’ ”
writes The Bul-
letin’s London
correspondent,
“ and the strong
and smelly fried
fish, together
with the cold
boiled whelk,
have been hurled
to the grave of
the long - since
dead. ‘ Fee-
gee-un ber-nar-
ners, twelve a
bob,’ is a street
cry many Aus-
tralians will re-
member, but in
East London
the price is ‘tup-
pence a bunch.’
These don’t
come from Fiji,
but the Canaries.
The ‘ East-En-
der,’like his pal,
the ‘ Perky Per-
isher,’ of Bir-
mingham, likes
his relish, but it
must be filling,
and bananas are
stodgy, and go a
long way with
the half-fed
human weed of
Bethnel Green. ”
m m
“ V.S.” : Re
late fire-brigade
stories. Our
corps (suburban)
was very friendly
with the local
parson. Congre-
gation didn’t
care for him,
wanted him ex-
changed. Par-
son decided to
take ballot,
“Stay or go.”
We knew all
“the lads,” and
got them to roll
up, and when the
usual ohu r c h
crowd arrived —
no room ! Par-
son stayed on-
unanimous vote.
There was a
slight objection
manifested a t
the back of the
' church, but a
few remarks as to “ being dealt with ”
settled that difficulty.
The pathos of the threepenny school-
fee. Genuine letter recently received by
backblox pedagogue and swisher of rising genera-
tion :
dear Sir,—the reasen the children as not at tended
chool ihave not been hable to send them i have been to
hill ihave been in to the dr hree time from the afect of
the meazels and the chool feeze i am not able to pay.
yoors brijet maLonY.
RECRIMINATIONS.
WIFE: “ You should remember that I am the
weaker vessel.”
HOB: “ How can I, when it’s always me that gets
broke? ”
The alleged N.S.W. Shops and Factories
Act has been shelved, apparently for evermore.
If the law were properly administered, half the
Sydney drapers and other big shopkeepers would
have been made to answer in court for their sins
during the holiday season. There is one eloquent
instance, where the employes at a large drapery
store were kept at work for 12£ hours a day during
Xmas week, and for hours on Xmas eve. At
the close of the busy season a number of
very tired girls are temporarily sacked, with
the prospect of re-engagement when business
brightens up again—at Easter or thereabouts. By
the way, it would be interesting to know how
many Sydney shops or factories now comply with
the requirement that copies of the most important
clauses of the Act shall be conspicuously exhibited
for the information of employes.
* * * *
In Nolland v. Nolland, heard lately in
Sydney Divorce Court, Justice G. B. Simpson in-
formed Nolland (respondent) that he could not
proceed with a cross petition as he hadn’t paid
costs in a previous case. A few weeks before, in
Caulfield v. Norton, Chief-Justice Darley held
that Caulfield’s not having paid costs of a previous
libel-action was no bar to the libel-action he was
then about to begin. If both Judges be right in
their different jurisdictions, equity and common-
sense are sacrificed to law—to a law which, it may
be safely said, was not understood by the Parlia-
ment that made it.
* * * •
“ S.C.C.” lays at our feet a hunk of great
wisdom:—
The rather foolish remarks of “ School Ma’am ” (B.
24/12/’9B) seem to show that the writer doesn’t understand
the matter of “Dominie’s” avoidance of the female of
tender years. Nor is the danger entirely in very “big”
girls. “Dominie” evidently isn’t such a fool that he
can’t profit by the experience of those poor devils whose
want of caution has led to their downfall at the hands of
the prurient girl-child. Quite likely the “usual bush-
girl ” may be “ painfully constrained ” in the presence of
the school-master, and the latter may be safe alone with
999 out of 1000 such. But that is no proof that the lovely
“usual bush-girl” won't take a fit of some sort, imme-
diately after being so “ painfully constrained,” including
the imagination of assault and outrage. Page 7of same
issue of Bulletin gives an account of just such a case,
where the imaginative child was no more than 12. If
the constable involved had had a little sense, he would
have cleared in the opposite direction harder than the
average constable clears at the approach of danger.
“ School Ma’am ” never heard of a “ female teacher taking
precautions for her own moral safety against, the big boys
of the school.” And I don’t suppose she ever heard of a
woman losing her liberty and character through a false
charge of outrage brought against her by a boy, either.
* » * *
A thousand kangaroo tails, exported from
Australia, were recently scrambled for by English
epicures. Another “silken bond!” Soup is
thicker than water.
“ Hermes” : I slung the port-
manteau onto the footboard and
scrambled up beside the driver. A
Sydney four-horse bus. Driver a
short, brown, ugly man with a weird
eye and an insubordinate whisker. A
tall, pale gent with a despairing look
in his eye scrambled up on to the
second box seat, and in anxious tones
inquired: “Will you catch the 5.17,
driver?” “Oh, yes, sir, an’plenty
to spare." Then the driver pulled
up at. Bridge-street corner and boy
on step yelled horribly, “Rhlway-e-e,
Relwhae-e-e-e, Rilewyyh ” driver
suddenly topping-off with a prodi-
gious roar of “ Rhoilwhooy.” Then
again the plaintive tones of the young
man in gray : “ Driver, I’m afraid you
will never catch the 5.17.” “Oh,
that’s all right, sir, we’ll catch the
blanky thing, safe enough ! You see
how my beauties ’ll tuck their hind
legs under ’em when we pass Market-
street.” We reached Post-Office
corner, and once more the boy de-
livered himself of various horrible
sounds supposed to represent “ Rail-
way !” Then the driver shouted to
his horses, made his whip crack like
a repeating rifle, and off we jolted.
We raced along to King-street, stop-
ped a moment to let two waddling
dowagers flop inside, and next minute
were flying past the new markets, the
man in gray holding desperately to
the seat and struggling to keep back a
series of shrieks. Down Brick Held
Hill, with the whip rattling like a
machine gun, in and out among the
crowd, gathering speed as we went,
to take the Christchurch hill with
a rush. The big ’bus rocked and
swayed, and, stuck up there with
our feet dangling over the horses,
we felt like corks on a raging sea.
Two trams were approaching in
opposite directions. The man
with the flag hesitated. Our
driver didn’t! With a shout to the
horses, and a scream from the man in
f gray, we dashed between the trams and
went whirling up to the platform like a
southerly buster in full blast. As we stopped
at the steps the driver pointed triumphantly to
the hands of the clock: “Five-ten, sir! Seven
blanky minutes to spare.” But the lips of the
man in gray were moving in silent prayer, as he
gingerly let himself down and fled.
* * * *
As a proof of the futility of such legisla-
tion as is contained in the S.A. Children’s Protec-
tion Bill—which, among other things, raises the
age of consent from 10 to 17i years—Glynn,
M.P., urged that juvenile immorality is most
noticeable, according to the social purity society
reports, among boys and girls within the present
protected period.
• » * *
Some time ago a law-case at Sale (Victoria)
broke down on its second day through the ex-
traordinary ill-luck of the
jury. The whole twelve
were apparently sound
when the first day of the
hearing ended, but only
five turned up next morn-
UNSYMPATHETIC.
LITTLE GADBY: “ I’m sick to death of calling about
this account.”
JOEY OWETT: “ Then, I’m jolly glad to hear it.”
ing. One had died in r the night; one was laid
up with severe pains in the inside; three had
met with accidents and broken sundry bones ; and
another was locked up for being drunk. The
seventh had simply failed to turn up, and the
court, whose liver was unfit for publication by
this time, struck him with a staggering fine for
contempt.
PERSISTENT.
A year, another year, and all goes well.
The world is much the same as heretofore.
The heavy load of dull advice it bore
Has aged it not. The follies which they tell
It daily wrought have worked no Upas spell
Upon its buoyant forces. As of yore,
When poets say ’twas young, it heeds not lore
Of wit or sage, with candle, book, or bell.
It shows its old percentages of joy,
Percentages of sorrow—shade and shine—
Percentages of soul and body cares ;
To so much sterling good so much alloy
Or thereabouts—working its own design
Amid the babble of the lives it bears.
E. LOWE.
AFTER SCHOPENHAUER.
There is no rose without a thorn —
Sad is the song that ever flows ;
But sadder still the mightier truth,
There’s many a thorn without a rose.
W.B.
A BUSH LITANY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the last day shall break in crashing thunder
And pure souls rush to God,
We dare not rise to realms of gold and azure
On stairs by saints’ feet trod ;
But if far out upon the south sky’s blackness
Alone, nor curst nor blest,
Our two souls drown in the deep dark—together—
Let God take all the rest 1
W. MAYNARD.


vj/
jjAvE Y oa
Forgotten
?
i !!i'i
S®
ANALYSTS,
DOCTORS,
CONNOISSEURS,
RECOMMEND
SYDNEY LAGER BIER
BEFORE
ALL
OTHERS.
It’s the Best Tonic Going.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
SoftCaQVaS Sbirts
Madk to Measure.
Post free 30 - per tfs-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or stamps 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Dear Bulletin. —Be following m 8.,
3/12/ , 98 A
The alleged boats of many N.S. W. coastal earn e reft re
never in the water; in ease of accident they’d be as
watertight as fowl-crates. Good old Marine Board .
Saw boat constantly being used by a well-known
coastal mail steamer for sending lines ashore, it
leaked like a sieve anti needed the active applica-
tion of the bailer whenever the two hands work-
ing it had a chance. What odds the other boats
(not in constant use) being watertight ? AJso a
recent episode in Sydney harbor. Small steamer
was about to start on long voyage, but was
stopped on account of a considerable list. At the
captain’s orders the hose was promptly turned on
to fill the boats on the opposite side, so as to tip
her uii in the right direction. Of course the water
would have been discharged again as soon as she
got away, and she would have listed as much as
ever but it was necessary to straighten her in the
meantime. Poured about half the harbor into
the cracked and sun-dried boats and every drop
promptly leaked out again. List no better, so
crew got down below with much strong curse and
proceeded to hump cargo uphill.—F.
“ Perce ” lets off steam ;
A Westralian bride recently died during the honey-
moon, and there were columns of lament written about
the “ dreadful tragedy ’’; said tragedy consisting of the
fael that the bride was snatched away when the couple
were presumably in the full-tide of hymeneal enjoyment.
Sentiment has hitherto declared that old things are
dearest: old friends, old homes, old arm-chairs—even
the old oaken bucket is extolled in long metre ; but old
wives are regretted only in music-hall songs like “My
Old Dutch." Outside the music-hall, amongst “ respect-
able ” people, the death of a wife after the first year of
marriage ceases to be a tragedy. True, the Emperor of
Austria tore his hair and begged heaven to tell him why
he should suffer thus, but his infidelities and her unhap-
piness were notorious. George 11. wept over his dying
old wife and comforted her by saying : “ I vill neffer get
married no more; I vill keep a harem." In the same
paper which devoted half-a-column to the “ honeymoon
tragedy ’’ this paragraph appeared : “ Our old and es-
teemed townsman, Mr. Bottlenosu, of the Swag and
Damper Hotel, was married last week. He and his young
bride received the congratulations of many friends.” The
first wife bail worked in the pub. for 20 years and Just as
a competency was attained she died. lie married his
housemaid a month later, hut this was no tragedy ; only
an old wife gone and a young one put In her place amidst
congratulations. The poet of Reading Gaol, though not
himself respectable, voices Respectability’s real oreed :
“ Tin hard to part from those wo have known but a short
time.”
• * * •
p Apropos Gov. Fowoll Buxton's resignation,
there is a strong feeling in S. A. legal and political
circles against the amalgamation by little Way
of the offices of Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor,
while the public urge that in his judicial capacity
ho is likely to be prejudiced by continual hob-
nobbing with “ swells.” It is asserted, too, that
Mr. Way now thinks quite as much of making
an ornamental splash at some public function as
of the proper exorcise of his duties as Chief
Justice.
* * * *
Cabled that U.S.A. Episcopal Church in-
tends to raise .£4,000,000 as
a thanks-offering to commemor-
ate the commencement of the
twentieth century. Why
any one shouldbe so wildly
thankful for the com-
mencement of the twen-
tieth century is un-
explained.
BILL'S BILL.
THE WAITER (to Mulga
Bill): “Billerjaresir?”
BILL: “ I don't owe you no
bill; the boss is payin' fer
this blow-out.”
Some wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing—full up to
the neck with evil—has got him into the true fold.
Bishop Goe, in tones of bitter disappointment, in-
formed Vic. Chinese Missionary Society, the other
day, that the religious books which they placed iq
the hands of the yellow heathen, and which the
Society, in its simple faith, imagined were pure
and correct translations of the Scriptures, were,
sad to say, a jumble of Christianity and Con-
fucianism and various other strange and sinful
opinions. Wherefore the Society now proposes
sending two missionaries to China for Instruction
so that it will be able to know what is in its own
books. Meanwhile the local Chow will continue
to profess Christianity so long as its profession
improves the “spling callot ” business and while
the shepherdesses continue to be nice and young
and plump.
A few Melb. Germans have attempted to
acclimatise the German Sunday afternoon and
evening. They have established a club—the Club
Tivoli —in Collingwood, near the odoriferous
Yarra, and it has caught on hugely. It is nicely
situated, with a handy bier-garten attached, and
Studley Park conveniently adjacent for moonlight
strolls after the dance. The Teutons have a
bowling-alley, card-tables, and a fine dancing-
hall, and, of course, a club license. The lager and
sausage and dance are not, perhaps, an exception-
ally edifying way of spending the Sawbath, but
quite as intellectual as the methods of the dour
Scotch by terian who has so long made of the Melb.
Sunday a hell-upon-earth. Meanwhile, a half-
mile away, the young men at Kew R.C. College
may be seen playing football on Sunday mornings
and lawn-tennis in the afternoons.
• • • •
Writes “ Face ”:
On Boxing Day when a ferry steamer was putting off
from Manly w harf a woman fell overboard, and, although
both boat and wharf were crowded, mostly with alleged
men, no one offered to jump in and save her; all hands
rushed for a good front place to watch her struggling and
speculated as to whether she could last until a boat which
had put off from the beach should reach her. Several
daring characters rushed violently about and threatened
to dive in after her at the least provocation, but no one
did dive, and she was eventually picked up more dead
than alive by aforesaid boat. Which suggests the ques-
tion whether, after all, our males will not follow the
recent French performance when the inevitable
and long-expected colossal barbor-ferry accident does
occur. The average city Australian is not troubled with
any nasty pride, and instances are not wanting to show
that he doesn't mind bustling out of danger and leaving
the women and children to look after themselves if there
is any danger of his getting wet or soiling his clothes.
Can this, from “ Spectator,” be another version
of the above alleged occurrence :
Boxing Day witnessed a scene of quiet unrewarded
heroism which escaped the notice of the daijies. When
the s.s. Brighton, heavily loaded with excursionists, was
about forging out from the wharf a lust dash for her was
made by a belated party, and a girl of about 14 was
knocked into the w ater. Her head apparently struck one
of the piles, for she sank like a stone. Two passengers,
one elderly and the other a younger man, unhesitatingly
jumped off the sponson after her, not taking off so much
as a hat between them. They ran no little risk, for the
huge paddle-wheels were expected to si art at any
moment, and the child had sunk to the bottom. The
elder man brought the girl to the surface, when she was
pounced on bv her shrieking relatives. The rescuers
simply jumped on to the steamer, shook themselves, and
went off to Sydney w ithout a word of thanks or solitary
cheer.
• * * •
J. E S. Honerie’s hoax, in Sydney
D.T., to the effect that, on Xmas Eve, in Oxford-
street, Sydney, he counted 89 drunken women
(some of whom were .giving their infants brandy)
and 45 drunken men, including four clergymen
with beer oozing from their lips, was taken
seriously by crowds of dull people who didn’t
reflect that it was written at Kristmish, and that
Henerie has a soaring poetical imagination.
• • • •
“Bnrgo,” on “humors of the confes-
sional ”: —
A boy friend
of mine told
me that h e
went once to
Father Petre
at Oampbell-
town and con-
fessed to a
habit of
slaughtering
common flies.
It was a hot
day, and the
priest was in-
clined to be
bald. “Oh!”
he said, sti-
fling a yawn,
“ kill as many
of them as you
like- they’re a pest. There’s no sin In that, at all.” An-
other schoolmate of mine, when at confession, had only
one sin to confess—“stealing sugar.” No matter how
cross-examined, he would admit nothing more than the
“sugar steal.” Last year he ran awa3' with another
man'B wife, and, later on, shot her and blew his own
brains out. Same old sin—stealing sugar.
Extraordinary story sent to
The Bulletin :
A medico in a little N.S. W. way-back
town lately objected to certain items in
the local grocer’s bill, which had reached
abnormal proportions in the month, and,
refusing to pay, was summoned. He
resolved to dispute the items, but on
attending court was amazed to find that
the presiding J.P. was the tradesman
to whom he was indebted. By the time
the flabbergasted sawbones had re-
covered from the shock plaintiff had
relieved himself of many nasty remarks
concerning persons who refuse to pay
their just debts, and had entered a ver-
dict for himself for fall amount with
costs ; and when at last defendant did
find voice to object he was threatened
with “ the rising” for “ contempt,” and
was hustled out into the street by the
local “ cop.”
* » * *
Some unpleasantness has
been created in a Queensland town
over the conduct of an alleged
white teetotaller who —so it is
solemnly averred burnt - corked
himself into some resemblance of
a kanaka, and went round trying
to buy a drink in broken English,
with a view to getting convictions
against publicans for supplying
intoxicated niggers after hours,
contrary to the “statoot.” He
was such an ineffective copy of a
nigger that no liquor was forth-
coming. Which was a pity, for a
charge of selling grog to a white
man painted black would have
been interesting reading.
* 0 * *
Saw an able-bodied uniform-
ed Salvation Army man rattling a
begging-box in the steeet to-day.
nr. “n .
Mear him was one of the numerous
poor women who beg, with babies, and having a
few matches in a cigar-box.
• • • •
The “Queensland Horror” looks like one
of the most remarkable mysteries of crime that
Australia has yet produced. Three people —an
athletio young man named Murphy and his two
sisters, one 27, the other 18, both strong, well-
grown young women-—were driving home in a
dog cart along a tolerably frequented road, in a
well-settled district, near Ipswich. They never
got home; next morning they were all found dead,
their skulls fractured by heavy blows (and the
girls horribly outraged as well, and with their
hands tied behind them) in a paddock a mile or so
off the main road. Even the horse was included
in the wholesale slaughter. Yet there were no
signs of any struggle on the road, though they
were presumably captured there, and then driven
to the place where they met their death. Nor
were there signs of any very desperate conflict
where the murders seemingly took place. Appa-
rently, the Murphys were waited for on the road
—other people, who passed earlier, spoke of seeing
“a man” loitering about. But, in the ordinary
course of things, it must have required a number
of men to capture three adults in such a
fashion. How many were they ? Who were
they? Was the capture effected on the road, and
were the prisoners then driven across the paddock,
or did they leave the road to escape from some-
thing they saw ahead, and drive on till they were
overtaken ? If so, what did they see on the road
to make them turn off? The tracks showed that
the vehicle hadn’t pulled up (as if the occupants
were considering the matter or arguing with any-
body) before quitting the road. The turn-off had
been taken without halt or hesitation. Appar-
ently there was no earthly possibility that
it was merely a tragedy among themselves,
winding up by suicide, for the man had
been killed by having his brains beaten out,
and no man suicides in that way. The mur-
derers seem to have left practically no track
behind. There are stories about footprints being
found to show where one man was concealed be-
hind a tree, and that is about aIL
And, in spite of the fact that the country is
black with police and detectives and trackers
for leagues around, there is a great
scarcity of the usual news of the usual “sus-
picious characters ” being seen getting
away. It looks as if the crime had been
done by perfectly respectable local resi-
dents, who had simply gone home afterwards
and gone to bed, and then turned out in the
morning to help to hunt for themselves. By boiling
down the dead horse an ordinary revolver bullet
was found which would fit any number of
weapons, and up to time of writing one revolver
has been found to fit the bullet. It was found
in the possession of a harmless resident
who can prove that he, at least, wasn’t there.
Presumably no strangers would have waited so
elaborately for this particular party—one that
must have looked rather difficult to tackle, though
apparently it was captured easily enough. And
no resident of the locality is reported to have gone
amissing, so there is some reason in the theory
that the murderer or murderers are going round
as usual in the immediate vicinity.
The Gfatton tragedy recalls another Queens-
land horror, the murder and worse of the
barmaid Fanny Briggs, near Wiseman’s. During
the absence of her employer this poor girl
was most foully outraged and murdered. Her
employer on his return found tracks of naked feet.
The aboriginal troopers, when brought to the
scene, made trouble about the tracks; but ulti-
mately the body was found in a brigalow tree in
the scrub, showing terrible evidences of brutal
NOT EXTEMPORE .
HE : “Do you know your sister said last night she’d marry
me? "
THE INFANT : “ Last night! Why, she said months ago she’d
marry you. ”
usage. The trackers said the tracks were those
of myalls. They then went out under their
white officer whom they made believe they were
following the tracks, and, coming upon a large
body of wild blacks, it is said they shot about 70
of these innocent people. Soon after, the whole
horrible truth was revealed by the gins of the black
police, who, having got drunk, had beaten them
almost to death, it is rare to hear of a black
woman retaliating, but in this instance they told.
Someone overheard them trying to frighten the
black follows with : “Mine tell em captain you
fellow all about been do along a white Mary ’fore
you kill ’em.” The white officer hearing of this
questioned the lubras, and became convinced that
tne large body of natives “ dispersed, ” were inno-
cent victims of the crafty trackers, his own black
police, who were the real offenders. It would
oven now hardly be safe to say what became of
the guilty trackers.
• * • •
Apparently, the victim whose body was
found in that boot-trunk floating down the Yarra
must have been the original {Superfluous Woman.
The story of the boot-trunk and the deceased
inhabitant who was crowded therein has been
circulated all over Australia. Any number of
families whose ’laser or Sarah - llann hadn’t
written lately have risen up and raised Cain,
to find out if ’Liser or Sarah-Hanu was all
right, but she always proved to bo alive and
well. Many young women, having their
movements thus unexpectedly looked into, have
been found under circumstances which led
to their removal home, to be deservedly Bpanked
and set to hard labor on the family wash, but so
far every supposed denizen of that drifting trunk
has been accounted for. There seems to be abso-
lutely no woman missing—apparently, the mystery
in the box had no local home, billet, lover, board-
ing-housekeeper, unpaid bill, relative, pal, or un-
claimed trunk to draw attention to her absence.
Nobody even remembers about a woman who
ordered a new frock and didn’t come for it, or
whose boots had been half-soled and left on hand.
The real superfluous woman appears to have been
found at last—in a boot-trunk.
• • * •
The Melbourne morgue and the detective
office have been visited by nearly 50 people de-
sirous of applying the supernatural to the solution
of the Yarra body-in-a-boot-box mystery—ranging
from the “ balmy ” parson, who prayed on the
steps of the morgue for divine guidance until he
was moved on, to the lady spiritist who stood .
beside the much-decomposed corpse in a “trance ”
for a solid hour on one of the hottest days.
• • » *
Palmists, clairvoyants, and other male
and female Cagliostros of Sydney have done a
lively trade in revelations about the existence of
squatter Tyson’s will. One well-advertised dame,
said to be under most distinguished patronage,
located the missing document in a hole in a wall
from which a brick had been abstracted, but was
painfully hazy as to where the house containing
the wall is situated.
The N.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors thaf break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys ; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.


A
REWARD
OF £lOO,OOO ■■
has been offered to Edison by
A LADY
if the great electrician can restore her sight.
It is impossible to think what it means to be
blind. Think of the beauties of Nature which
would be as a sealed book to you. Think, too,
that it would be impossible for you to see
The Charming Display
which we are now making of all the most
fashionable novelties in Dress Fabrics, Gloves,
Millinery, Laces, Handkerchiefs, Hosiery,
besides our specially imported Cool Summer
Underclothing.
Visitors
from the country are cordially invited to in-
r i ■ spect our splendid show-
rooms.
W. T. WATERS 4. CO.
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
N.B.—We shall be pleased to post our Latest Parisian
Fashion Book, our list of suitable Xmas Presents, and also
Patterns of our Dress Fabrics, FREE to any address.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
S. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Tlae Famous French.
Chocolate.
CHOCBUT-lIIEIIIEg
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 3, 1899.
My Dear Myee—
Randwick on Monday didn’t seem to suffer
from the empty vice-regal box, as everyone in
town turned out in smart raiment. Certainly to-
wards the end of the afternoon the meeting was
rewarded by the sight of His Ex. in a patient smile
and a long frock-coat, accompanied by a much
fatter Captain Fielden than before Xmas, but
Lady Hampden didn’t show up. She merely
came to town with Miss Dolly Brand for the
Highland Gathering, and went back to Sutton
Forest next day.
I hardly know where to begin among so many
attractive frocks. Mrs. Alison, just back from
’Ome, looked like her pretty mother in bridal
grey, the skirt in three flounces, a style which has,
so far, resisted the public raid on styles. Two
brown-eyed sisters from Randwick wore a blue-
and-yellow muslin each with happier results than
you usually get from frocks that imitate each other
to a button. Mrs. H. E. Cohen was in barrel-
striped pink, without a collar, and walked about
with a pretty red-haired Melbourne woman in
black and white. A white beige frock, covered
all over with a coarse black spotted net
ended in a deep black lace flounce, and is
sure to be imitated by anyone who wants
to revive a tired white dress. Mrs. Percy
Rundle wore a purple hat with a light-green silk
gown, and repeated the hat in hyacinth at her
waist. Everybody had flowers in the belt, and re-
gretted it ten minutes after the racing started. I
also noticed a few timid attempts at the polonaise
that rules London and Paris rigorously this season,
but the article is not yet understood by local
frock-builders, and won’t be at its worst till the
winter sets in.
What is society'doing at Bowral while Hollo-
way’s latest melodrama runs so giddily at Sydney
Theatre Royal? The moral lessons that any
Nice person could carry away from that astonish-
ingly shady play, “When London Sleeps,” are
being lamentably wasted on good country-people,
who glean their ideas of wickedness from Rolf
Boldrewood and the Down and Gumtiiee Jernel.
As all “ Nice People ” know a little more than
this, they could have wildly-exciting evenings at
the theatre just now, to sav nothing of the im-
niorals they could pick up without stooping, as it
were. I can only say that I sat in front of a row
of sad-eyed bushies, who constantly disturbed the
atmosphere with that woeful click of the tongue
that means distress, and can only be rendered in
print by the letters “d’thih.” Also, that the
bushies didn’t go home after the first act —a broad
tribute to the play’s naughtiness.
That pretty, volatile little lady, Amy Gourlay,
plays the peculiar part of Maudie with a delicate
diablerie that just saves a fearfully tense situa-
tion. She looks altogether charming in a cream
suit that shows scarlet hose and linings, and a
natty hat to match. Her fluty speaking-voice
rings sweetly on the ear after the strange sore-
throatedness of the three other young ladies in
the play. Miss Eugenie Duggan in particular
engineers some croupy inflections into tier tones,
and seems to sit on her drawl to broaden it. “He
her hell loves her me ” may strengthen the case for
the hell-loved one, but really cannot be reckoned
a verbal improvement on the archaic “He loves
me.”
It isn’t every melodrama that can sport three
such well-dressed and pretty women as Miss
Duggan, Miss Gourlay and Miss Ida Gresham.
We are so used, at 3s. a head in the d. c., to find
melodramatic virtue clothe itself in eleven-
pence -’apenny-pink-satin with pearl-trimmings,
that the smartness of these ladies’ frocking smites
hard. Miss Duggan whisks her long blue satin
train about excellently, and pleases the fastidious
taste by throwing on' a long white cloak-to-the-
heels, instead of the short and lumpy waist-
wideners usually donned by the heroine when she
rushes into the midnight in her ball-dress. In the
white flowing gown of the circus-scene with a bind
in her hair, Miss Duggan struck a strong resem-
blance to Essie Jenyns as Parthenia. Another
time when the likeness cropped up—accidentally
perhaps, or possibly because Charles Holloway
happens to be Essie’s step-uncle—was when she
visited the Indian Exhibition in more flowing and
waistless white, with a little white Juliet cap on
her aesthetic head. This gown, by the way, was
quite a success in the horribly realistic suttee
scene that follows, but even for purposes of stage
suttee what heiress cf many thousands goes to
Exhibitions in a sort of white fancy night-dress,
capped with a white satin fancy cap ? This might
pass itself off as a nice tea-gown, or even an
aesthetic evening dress, but it is not quite the thing
for sightseeing, even in London, where the sun only
shines sometimes.
“ Hilda Carrode with a Past ” accentuated her-
self, but becomingly, with a black gown of the
future, cut right off the shoulders, as all ball-
gowns are to be cut next season. She also kept in
touch with smart people by wearing her hair on
top, where all fashionable women insist, in spite
of other people, on wearing theirs for some time to
come.
And here let me state a little fact for The Nice.
A big drapery establishment, heavily patronised
by the masses and visited slyly early in the morn-
ing by kerridge folk out on “the save,” has given
the greatest fillip to the neck-coil now so common
in this city. Yes, several hundreds of shop-girls
are employed there, and there isn’t one who doesn’t
do her hair down her back-bone.
Speaking of distinguished people reminds me
that the furious bubble of curiosity has died away
to a languid simmer since Govt. House betook
itself to Sutton Forest. This change of tempera-
ture may be due to the fact that there doesn’t
seem to be any chance of learning anything—you
know the sort of anything they want to learn.
All the same, it seems that other provinces are
just as interested as ever in the cause of the Hamp-
dens’ approaching exit. A pathetic letter from a
Westralian lady to a Sydney friend illustrates me
here:—“. . . I’ve already written to Maggie,
Ella, and Mary without receiving the slightest
satisfaction, and now I appeal to you. Do tell me
what your wicked old Governor has been doing.”
And now it turns out that he hasn’t been doing
anything (no one ever believed that he had) —he is
going ’Ome simply because his eldest son is about
to marry—which, as the son aforesaid is heir to
the title, is a serious matter, and calls for the pre-
sence of his pa.
At the Electric-light Carnival it created quite a
fizz in one’s brain-pan to come across fourteen
thousand people, well-dressed and well-fed, none
of whom are to be met at Exclusive affairs. Is
society, then, only a very small mite in this city’s
cheese? Deducting the unclad, and the strata
above the unclad, and the blind and the cripples,
the inner circle becomes too small to think in—
which probably explains several things. Every
variety of man, woman, and the sort of infant
that goes to chapel, pork-suppers, ’arbor excur-
sions, and comes in at the death of its own great-
grand-children, crushed through the gates the first
night of the carnival. The seating accommoda-
tion didn’t expand to the extent of the visitors,
and hundreds had to stand all the evening. As
for the electric-light, it was a brilliant success,
not leaving a dark corner anywhere for those who
sought one. And if little Continental tables and
chairs, with iced drinks and coffee, could have
been scattered about the lawns, anyone might
have spent a pleasant evening there.
A weird rumor seems to have come across
the seas telling that red is the only color tolerated
by decent society. Otherwise, how is one to
account for the sudden universal emulation of
poppies and peonies that marked half the women
at the Carnival—and red isn’t a shade that can be
chosen in the dark, and worn with any other color.
A prawn-tinted hat, shooting up from a flushed
forehead as straight as Browning’s red-brick wall,
with lappets of tangle between, doesn’t unite
peaceably with the madder-lake frock, esi>ecially
when the case is aggravated with a neck-bow like
the cover of this blushing paper. A Macliiavelli
couldn’t put three reds together without murder,
and the woman who buys without matching will
perpetrate some horrible crime if she isn’t watched
whenever she goes out in a red frock.
I looked in at the Pantomime again last week,
and found that, fortunately, things were being
lopped off wholesale. Viewed from half-a-step,
with a whole pillar in the eye, I saw even a little
less of the good things than at my first visit, but
managed to notice that Pattie Brown hasn’t tied
her sash differently yet. Will some case-hardened
person who is no relation please mention the
matter to her ? Otherwise she looks more charming
than I have seen her yet, as she has an excellent
opportunity to show what she’s made of. But she
still remains out of work.
Johnny Coleman undergoes a change for the
worse in his raiment to my mind ; giving up the
suitably-silly green frock for a grotesque old coat
that has too much the air of trying to be funny to
be successful. Also, it strikes one dolefully that
there is a harrowing absence of spontaneity in
everyone except the delightful Donkey, Little
Gulliver’s legs, and the small girl who takes off
Peggy Pryde so brilliantly. This child, little
Stella Tracey, ought to have a bright time coming
if she does not overstrain her poor small voice in
her early youth, It already shows signs of ill-
usage. , Her first song might reasonably be cut, as
nobody really wants to hear a little, shrill-voiced
girl imitate a hiccuping man.
What unaccountable things fashions are ! If
you don’t say “very’’three times over whenever
you say “ very -thusly, “ I’m so very, very, very
sorry I was out when you called ” —you are abso-
lutely and entirely out of it (or, perhaps, I ought
to write it, It). But don’t let us scoff. This may
be going to end well. If Sydney Society comes to
saying all its words three times over, think of all
the g’s and h’s that may be reinstated ! One
would have to be woefully hardened before one
could say, in the favorite words of a representa-
tive Sydney lady, “I’m so ’orribly, ’orribly,
’orribly sorry you’ve got to be goin.’ ”
The monotonous medal promises to become a
Eublic grievance. All the Sydney schools seem to
ave broken out into a perfect epidemic of medals,
gold and silver (especially sdver), which are
awarded for anything or nothing mostly any-
thing. Private teachers, too, bestow medals in-
stead of books upon their pet scholars. And for
such reasons ! Punctuality, Good Manners,
Needlework. Gold medals—Passing a Junior
Theory exam, (a child of eight in Sydney has
passed it), Geography, Politeness. By next year
the child that hasn’t a medal will probably be an
outcast or a curiosity.
Sydney church-goers never forget Dr. Julius,
long ago of Ballarat, who was made Bishop of
Christchurch, M.L. Wilson Barrett or Wallace
Brownlow never drew more crowded audiences
than does this interesting pastor, whenever it is
whispered that he is going to preach. Now that
his sprightly daughter, Ethel, is going to marry
Rev. Cecil Wilson, Bishop of Melanesia, in Feb-
ruary, Bishop Julius’ hearers will expect to hear
a few racy remarks in his next sermon regarding
the thieving propensities of missionaries.
The backblocks chess-players, who begin to make
it an annual custom to come to Sydney at Xmas
time, held their own against nearly all the metro-
politan chess-clubs this year with the exception of
the strongest coterie, the Sydney Chess Club. On
the occasion of the match played with this club,
they were beaten by 18£ to 4£, and even then
about six good players were absent from the
winning side. Col. Lassetter, President of the
S.C. Club, entertained all the players at a tre-
mendous “ shivoo ” last Wednesday, which some-
what consoled the waybackers.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Captain Frewen, Gov. Brassey’s departing
aide, left for ’Ome per same boat as young Lady
Clarke and her buxom, blooming sister, Miss Hilda
Cumming. The gentle ex-attach 4 will probably
find time pass more quickly this trip than on the
outward-bound voyage. His present shipmates
are famous for their high spirits. Toorak resi-
dents remember to this day the sounds of revelry
which invariably heralded the approach of the
four-wheeler, chartered by careful parents to con-
vey the then Miss Amy Cumming to and from
school.
“Last time a Via society leader sampled the
old country she told her chums, so the latter say,
that her main reasons for going ’Ome were:
(1) Purchase of diamonds suitable to her newly-
acquired rank ; (2) Opera-box near that occupied
by Prince of Wales; (3) To stimulate potentate
aforesaid by joint blaze of brilliants and beaux-
yeux to cunosity-pitch, and consequent enquiries
re the who-ness of his dashing neighbor. First
part of programme, the enterprising Australienne
fulfilled to the letter. Final clause presumably
resting in abeyance.
“ At the Bijou, Mrs. Brough, as Sans-Gene, in
her soap-sud days, wears short-skirted lilac frock,
apron, cap, etc., and apparently appeals to Mere
Man as powerfully as did Trilby. French washer-
women seemingly break hearts as mercilessly as
hospital-nurses hereabouts, unlike our own poor
laundry-splashers—elderly, Gamplike toilers, most
of them.
“Later on, as the blundering, ungrammatical
Duchesse, Mrs. Brough interviews tradesmen and
sich, in pink dressing-jacket over Empire petticoat
to match. Whisking off her coatee, prior to try-
ing on a riding-habit, she treats male spectators to
a full view of bare arms, shoulders, and high-
waist ed cerise under-skirt. Instead of grumbling
at this sartorial candor, the ducal husband
should congratulate himself that, though a vul-
garian, his Catherine’s toilette will bear inspection
below top stratum. There are Melbourne society-
leaders, pretty, dressy, brainy matrons, who, in
sleeping-cars, for instance, shed dainty finery
husks, prior to offending the gaze of sister-travel-
lers with frowsy unaer-skirts, adapted from
shabby street-suits.
“Sans-Gene’s hunting-habit is fawn cloth, waist
arm-high, funny little velvet jacket, and light-
grey soft-felt hat. Her reception toilet of gold-
flowered cream brocade with ermined crimson
mantle represents money thrown away, owing to
the fact that the parvenu-wearer trips up when
she curtseys and in the innocence of her heart tells
broad stories to supercilious sneerers. In real life
the ex-laundress would have aped the fine lady
convincingly enough, especially as, later on, in a
stormy interview with Napoleon, she shows her-
self the possessor of a head more tightly screwed
on than most. I’rior to failing the Eagle of France
in his eyrie Mdme. La Mareohale flings a green
empire cloak over her bo-diamonded decolletage
and soon has her ears pulled caressingly and her
bare shoulders slapped resoundingly by the cajoled
Corsican.
“Mr. Brough, as Napoleon, is convincingly cor-
pulent but too short-nosed for the Man of Destiny.
Boney is dished-up without his melodramatic
cloak, untroubled by hankerings after his Jose-
phine. Somehow, 1 don’t believe he hankered
anything worth mentioning. Anyway, Brough
makes the upstart Corsican whimsical, eccentric,
short-tempered, while affable, humorous and
susceptible.
“Miss Sisley, in blue, with pink rose in her hair,
personates a fresh young Duchess. A welcome
innovation this blooming damsel ! The Brough
co. needs some fresh young faces badly. One
handsome, graceful matron goes a long way, but
pretty girls and an effective lady-killer have been
cried out for, nevertheless.
“Mrs. Brough’s plump shoulders are useful for
the part of Madame Sans-Gene. Napoleon had a
familiar way with people he liked, and when he
expresses his approbation of the ex-washerwoman
he slaps her on the bare back with a smack that
resounds through the theatre. There is a good
deal of slapping by Brough as Napoleon. He is
fond of slapping his thighs at decisive moments,
but these slaps are not as real-sounding as those
administered to Mrs. Brough. Mr. Brough’s form
is not Napoleonic, so he ‘makes-up,’ with peg-
toppish effect.
“At the Bijou, Vera Renny, as the upstart
Queen of Naples, in brocaded Empire gown, chig-
non and side-curls, makes a realistic parvenu
princess. That lolloping stage-gait of hers does
well for a jumped-up daughter of the bourgeoisie.
Italia Conti, Bony’s other stage-sister, with her
tip-tilted plebeian profile, looks a prettyish young
snob.
“On New Year’s first night, a South Yarra con-
tingent were jointly interested in Miss Sisley’s
first appearance with the Broughs and the stage-
debut of young Purbrick. Pa Sisley, elocution-
teacher at the Conservatorium and Working-men’s
College, lias handed down his histrionic leanings
to his two bright daughters. A while back, these
courageous chicks engaged the Bijou, and supplied
an entertainment off their own juvenile bats, plus
a song or two by the late Gladstone Wright and a
little amateur orchestration. Mr. Purbrick is a
versatile legal sprig, who, though he distinguished
himself in law-court exams., has not as yet applied
for admission to the bar; on Xmas. Eve, he shouted
* Down with the Tuileries ! ’ as complacently as if
content to live and die in his present rdle of
‘Second Citizen.’ Off the boards, the lawyer
is a little dark and vivacious youth, a promising
orator, and favorite smoke-night reciter. The
Brough co., by the way, boasts another recruit
from local legaldom in solicitor Pringle, servant
to Sir Kit, in ‘ The Liars.’
“Local small fry run ‘stiff, stark, staring
wild,’ thanks to Fitzgerald Bros.’ big show.
’Twas the voice of the weekly washerwoman ; I
heard her, and many like her, complain of baffling
knots in their clothes-lines. As for cows, cats,
and similar dumb martyrs, they would be far
better off lying down with the lion, outside or in,
as might be decreed by Mein Herr, the animal-
king, than enduring present annoyance at the
hands of boyish beast-breakers.
“The heart of John Bull, junior, ’tis said, still
beats true to his Xmas pantomime. Young Aus-
tralia, when given the choice, gladly substitutes
circus for transformation-scene in his holiday pro-
gramme. And there are more reasons for this
preference than our national horse-cult. The
juvenile pantomime-patron sees the stage spec-
tacle and nothing more. A glimpse behind the
scenes is further out of his ken than a peep into
heaven.
_ “ But the ring holds less than half what the
circus-goer gets for his money. Caravans, brass-
band, wild-beasts, stables, horse-flesh, canvas-
town, tent-folk—white, black, brown, and yellow—
food for glamour, enchantment, romance, if you
like.
“For that matter, most of us own to a weakness
for the scent of the tan and its associations.
Especially those whose childhood languished in
arid, wayback villages, neither town nor country,
uncheered by flowers, fruit, shop-windows, amuse-
ment of any kind. For such ‘ spirits in prison ’
the unlooked-for arrival of a circus with its music,
fizz and fuss was wont to disperse the brooding
dullness effectually as ‘the waft of an angel’s wing.’
Oh, those equestrienne fairies ; * beautiful as but-
terflies and proud as queens! ’ Local mothers
preached themselves hoarse on the text of the
sirens’ paint and powder. Their daughters
listened half-heartedly, just as their younger
brothers did to the oft-told maternal recital of the
Sydney boy who peered through a hole in the
circus tent till the clown jabbed out his prying eye
with a penknife. The victim’s parents were said to
have rejoiced in their son’s salutary suffering.
This sounds harsh, but an old-time Anglican
bishop, whose only son was drowned bathing on
Sunday in his father’s first Australian diocese, told
Sunday-school scholars that he ‘ could not regret
his boy’s self-hastened end if careless companions
took warning thereby.’
“ Circus toilettes of to-day put those of long ago
completely out of court. In the Fitzgerald snow,
‘ Mdlle. Millie Dagmar ’ (Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald)
wears white habit nicely laced with gold, a splen-
did color-match for her white and fawn mount
‘ Napoleon ’ —the handsomest of * Bony’s ’ local
namesakes, human or otherwise, up to date.
Twice as tender-hearted a brute, indeed, as the
crusty Corsican himself, for, if beaten by his fair
rider, ’tis said he goes off his feed at once. When
the haute icolihrc quits the saddle for the ‘ rolling
globe, ’ she affects deep-rose satin, the short skirt
painted with a bold design of poppies, while a
touch of faint green lisse tones down the corsage
tints.
“ This lady is as busy a bee as any in the circus-
hive. Besides designing her own costumes, and
those of junior members of the troupe, she keeps
a watchful eye on the latter and their way of put-
ting on their finery. See her tie this one’s shoul-
der-straps and drape the other’s sash, and you will
understand how her careless charges contrive to
look as dainty as a group of ‘all-nation’ dolls,
newly-dressed for a bazaar.
“ Hearing of roamings by land and sea, ponder,
ing the discomforts of frail canvas dressing-rooms
throughout Bananaland and Westralian summers,
one would expect to encounter in ‘ La Belle Rose,’
the equestrienne and ‘globe-trotter’ aforesaid,
a weather-beaten campaigner with a wrinkle and
a freckle for every minute of her busy life, rather
than the girlish, pretty, young matron of the
reality.
“‘Such a lot of funny things’ one hoars in
Fitzgeraldville of ‘ lovely young Lizzie,’the nine-
year-old performing elephant. This engaging
artiste, though full-grown, may fairly be praised
as an ‘ infant prodigy,’ considering that elephant-
folk habitually defer departure to the happy
hunting grounds till the ripe age of one hundred.
Anyway, ‘Eliza, Elizabeth, Betsy, or Bess,’
knows her way about, riding her trike and using
her serviette like other up-to-date females. Up
Bowen way (Q.) she once got hysterical at
midnight, and soon had the hotel back-
yard hare as a billiard-table of barrels, hen-
coops and outhouses. While messengers hunted
the township for her trainer, the landlord
stood at an open window in his sleeping kilts,
crying like a child, and handing out loaves of
bread, bananas, all the eatables in the house, to
the serenader as fast as his wife could bring them.
Poor, dear Liz, she’s too loving and confiding, like
the rest of her sex. Way back she set her affec-
tions on some male knockabout, not her keeper.
This wretch got too thirsty one night, and re-
ceived black eyes and bluggy nose in consequence.
When Lizzie saw him she tenderly stroked his
poor face with her trunk, moaning and whimper-
ing to herself at the thought of his pain. For
kinder critter ne’er drew breath than this elephant
gal Elizabeth.
“The rage for a European verdict is going to
deprive Melbourne of its most popular ballad-
singer, and Maggie Stirling is to have a big benefit
in February to set her on the way to Paris. As a
wife bravely struggling to support a sick husband
and a family of children, Maggie Stirling has long
had the public sympathy. It is to be hoped that,
whatever she gains, she will not lose that human-
hearted singing that always fetches her audience.
By the way, they say that the coming Melbourne
accompanist is a Miss Rosie Siogenburg, pupil of
Herr Edouard Schaff; she played at some late
concerts in a way that showed the right accom-
panist is born, not paid.
“IJc occupations for women. A Melbourne
spinster has worked up a splendid connection for
herself in the house-agency line. If a house-owner
can’t get his place tenanted he consults Miss X.,
and she does the trick for him, if anyone can.
Toorak’s finest mansions are entrusted to the same
lady’s care ‘to be let furnished,’ and she justifies
the faith of her clients every time.
“Now she offers to advise customers as to what
business or occupation is best suited to their
powers —terms, two guineas per prescription.
This field is panning out splendidly, and besides
leads indirectly to good business in sales of schools,
purchases of tea-rooms, placing of governesses,
&c., &c.
“ There used to be sold at Bayreuth, during the
musical festivals, cuff - buttons and scarf - pins
adorned with portraits of the ‘great master,’
Wagner, and people used to sport these emblems
at the performances. Melbourne Cornervatoriurn
of Music girls are now following the practice by
wearing, as brooches, buttons adorned (if that is
the right word) with portraits of Professor Mar-
shall Hall. The beloved prof, affected to be much
annoyed at the issue of the souvenirs, which, how-
ever, are still worn as emblems of worship.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Gomersal, of Astley’s, was the first eminent sham
Napoleon. But there never was one able to make up for
it, or do without make-up, like Miln.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
Wm
-
&
sfci
CIGARETTES.
People You Know.
No. I—THE BAKER.
Mr. T. Streater writes: “I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Vic-Cocoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. I am a baker by
trade, which, as you know, is very hard work, but
I am pleased to say that when I am done of a night
I go home and have a cup of your Cocoa, and feel
quite fresh again, and then I go and enjoy myself.
But before I took to Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, I used
to mess about indoors as tired as could be.”
Vi-Cocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted
dietetic value, Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is at once
digestive and refreshing, nutritious and invigorat-
ing. This is the secret of its phenomenal success.
It seems, so far as we can gather, to agree with
everybody, and everybody is agreed in giving it a
good name. Apparently it is the accepted bever-
age of a people who have recognised and appreci-
ated its remarkable health-giving properties. And
certainly in this age of rush and worry, v ear and
tear, when the energies of mind and body are so
severely taxed, it is an ideal food.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 2(19 George-st., Sydney.
As an unparalleled test of merit, a dainty sample
tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be sent free on
application to any address, if when writing (a
postcard will do) the reader will name The
Bulletin.*
PRESCOTT’S &. CO’S
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the A ustralian
colonies.
Sole Agents |
or Sydney: i
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL d. CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Maoriland Seddon grows more and more
like a re-incarnation of Vic. ex-Premier James
M'Culloch.
Weather-prophet Ellery (Vic.) used to tell
of a post-card forwarded by an old lady asking
him to be sure and let her know when there would
be a “consternation.” She wished to see one.
Stipendiary Addison, retiring from the
Sydney Bench, where he sat for 17 years, has been
42 years in N.S.W. civil service. He is a lineal
descendant of Addison, the classical English
essayist.
The only boastful anecdote Jimmy Tyson
indulged in referred to the bunyip. He believed
in the bunyip, and asserted that he riddled one
with rifle bullets and hoped to capture the body,
but, bunyip-like, it eluded him.
The case of Ellen
M‘Nabb recalls a matter
tried by Judge Moles-
worth, sen., many years
ago. A Fitzroy volun-
teer, after a review,
deliberately shot his wife
dead —no word of pro-
vocation, no nothing—
simply shot her. In-
dicted for murder, found
guilty of manslaughter.
The astounded Moles-
worth said it must be
either murder or acci-
dent, and passed sentence
of one week’s imprison-
ment !
S.A. has had 11
Judges: Jeffcott, ap-
pointed in 183(5; Cooper,
1838; Booth by, 1853;
Gwynne, 1859; Hanson,
1861; Wearing, 18(57;
Stow, 1875; Way, 1876;
Bouoaut, 1878; An-
drews, 1881; Bundey,
1884. Jeffcott had the
shortest record—one year.
His successor, Cooper,
had the longest—23
years, though if Way
lasts another year he
will leave Cooper behind.
Boothbv, who had to
be forcibly removed from
the Bench to prevent
him turning the whole
provinoe upside - down,
was the most remarkable
of the crowd. Booth by
was the last Judge ap-
pointed direct by the
British Crown; when
Responsible Government
came in Gwynne and
Hanson received their
appointments locally.
Boothby, in the glory
of his British appoint-
ment, refused to recog-
nise the existence of
these locally-made offi-
cials. Even when he sat
on the Bencli with them
he used to mention in
his judgments that hie
learned and bogus
brothers had no real
standing there, and that
he, the only genuine
Judge in S.A., merely
tolerated them as a mat-
ter of courtesy. He was
always on the point of
committing the other
Judges for contempt or
something. The last
straw was when he
turned loose a whole
assize-load of criminals,
on the ground that they
were not legally before
the court, some docu-
ments connected with
the assize having been
signed by one of his
learned but sham brethen
instead of by himself.
Then Boothby was shift-
ed off the Bench and
S.A. had a much-needed
rest.
S.A. Chief Justice Way’s devotion to the
little Bethel of his father is paralleled (for some
distance, anyhow) by Shenton’s connection with
the Perth Wesleyans. The knighted Shenton on
week-days bosses the Westralian Leg. Council, of
which he is President; and on Sundays and spare
evenings he conducts the Wesleyan choir and
urges the weary, sore-footed hymn over the track-
less wastes of doctrine.
The father of the present Acting-Justice
“ Dick ” O’Connor was clerk of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment for many years. Printed somewhere that
he was a clever flautist, and once took a favorite
instrument for repair to Henry Parkes, when the
latter presided over the toy shop in Hunter-street
and labored at the turning-lathe. When Parkes
first got into Parliament he ambled up to the
clerk and blandly said, “ Hi suppose vou don’t
remember me? ” “ Oh, yes,” said Mr. O’Connor,
“ I do ; you are the man that ruined my flute.”
Robert Stout was for years the champion
lolly-chewer of Maoriland Parliament, just as G.
Reid is in the N.S.W. Legislature. The other
Parliaments have never had any champion lolly-
chewer, though the beer-chewer is mostly there.
Three provinces in succession have held the record
in the last 30 years, as owning the champion
political drunk of Australasia ; one of them, in
tact, held it twice. And a fourth province would
have had a chip in, only its very promising drunk
died young and was cut off before he attained the
fulness of his beer.
On N.S.W. roll are seven solicitors ad-
mitted in the 40’s, seven in the 50’s, and 28 in the
60’s. On the Bar roll—not reckoning Judges or
ex-Judges—are two members called in the 50’s,
eight in the GO’s, and 19 in the 70’s.
At the “break-up” of Bankstown(N.S.W.)
public school every recitation on the programme
was by “ The Banjo,” and had been originally
published in The Bulletin. Let us print the
songs of a nation, and we care not who publishes
its leading articles.
The cachinnatious A. J. Peacock—
Australian Jackass Peacock—is undoubtedly
the youngest Minister of Education that Victoria
has had thus far. Peacock is almost too young.
The other week he turned up at a country State-
school attended by a pet monkey, to amuse the
children. They laughed, and he laughed—O !he
did laugh when one of the boys began to scratch
the top of his head and the monkey hurried over
to discover the cause of the irritation.
“FORTY THIEVES,” AT HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
A Sydney paper solemnly ascribes to
millionaire Tyson the remark that “he hoped his
heirs would derive as much pleasure from
squandering his wealth as he did in making it.”
This historic phrase was formerly attributed to
“ Big ” Clarke; it was also used by Captain
Cook and Christopher Columbus, and Li Hung
Chang. What Tyson really did say was:
“ Had I but served my God as I have served my
king, he would not have deserted mo in my old age,”
or words to that effect.
John Soult Fortescue Le Clere, who died
at Rockdale, Sydney, last week, aged 83, seems to
have been a nephew of Napoleon’s great general,
Marshal Soult. He had seen some ups and downs
—was originally intended for the diplomatic ser-
vice, but entered the church. For some time he
got his livelihood as a Murrumbidgee fisherman at
Hay.
Listen, ye rhapsodists, and learn. Says a
voice from Kosciusko :
Night comes on at last. The full moon “ lifts her lamp
on high,” and we are positively awestruck. Go ye hence,
ye Atheists, and you, ye votaries of those hideous doc-
trines of eternal damnation, double-distilled hell and
annihilation, or reverently bow before the Power
Supreme, for you are face to face with him, the Great
Meteorologist-in-Chief. Behold his work, supernal laws,
and deny and damn men who dare.
Dear Clement—how he wallows in elephantine
incoherency ! How he pats the Almighty on the
back, and gives Him the same billet that Wragge
himself possesses !
“ Southerner ” : Everyone in Australia
does not know that Madden, Macedon Syme’s
friend, is brother of the Chief Justice. A third
brother, the attorney, began the family streaks of
luck by marrying the daughter of Premier Francis.
Madden, the father, is yet extant in pink, on a
white horse, like Napoleon Knight’s, to look at
the hunt, which he chronicled in the Austral-
asian.
Archbishop Dunne was once building a
church at Toowoomba (Q.), and was asked by
Tyson what sort of a subscription he would like.
“ Oh, anything, down to sixpence,” was the
answer. The big cattle-man responded with a
cheque for .£5O. “And that says the
Archbishop now, “ is worth more to James Tyson
than all his millions.” How humorous is the
cheerful cocksureness of the cleric !
J. F. Perrin, editor of Perth Monitor,
previously editor of the M.L. Tablet, on arriving
in Victoria 30 years ago, wrote to Charles Gavan
Duffy enclosing a letter of introduction and soli-
citing use of his influence. Duffy replied: “The
best recommendation you can have is to let the
Victorians know that your uncle did all in his
power to hang me." It was before Chief-Justice
Perrin that Duffy was tried for treason-felony.
Premier Kingston’s political opponents
find him too strong to dislodge, but they are
always taking mean advantages of him. Because
the Mayor of Glenelg has a personal grudge
against him, Kingston was not asked to the Foun-
dation Day banquet on December 28. This, too,
although his father was second in command of the
survey-staff which originally laid out Adelaide.
Kingston now is more than ever determined to
lay out the Conservatives when the proper time
comes.
“S. le W.” : The society scribes have
never mentioned Vic. Chief-Justice Madden’s
bow. I don’t know his Court of Fashion one, but
his Supreme Court entree is superb. He catches up
the red-and-fur night-gown opposite the breast,
raises it so as not to interfere with, but expose, his
shapely legs, draws one foot back 24 inches, and
slowly bends a la bowing figure in the lancers.
All this is to another belaced figure, only the
second figure is draped in black. The same is
done in a general wav—l suppose, this time, to the
bar or the public. He ought to have been an actor
—in fact, he is one
The discovery that Eugene Cerf, the Bal-
larat hawker, is a relative of Captain Dreyfus, of
Devil's Island, simply goes to show that, small as
is the population of Australia, it is able at short
notice to produce a relative of any man on whom
the eyes of the world momentarily rest.
N.S.W. Parliamentary humorists have
found another butt in the bull-voiced Monaro
Miller. He was looked upon as a rather ordinary
bore until once, when he was roaring his loudest,
“ Jack ” Haynes politely asked him to speak up,
and Miller, not noticing the “borak,” spoke up.
“ I beg your pardon,” said .John, leaning forward,
with his hand to his ear, after the manner of the
deaf. Miller nearly lifted the roof as he bawled
the remark again. “Excuse me, I couldn’t quite
catch it,’’ said Haynes, solemnly, his hand still
to his ear, and it was not until he had awakened
the whole neighborhood, and members were rush-
ing in to see what the explosion was, that the
man from Snowy River “ dropped.”
“Outsider”: Betore
a nominee to N.S.
Wales Legislative Coun-
cil is approved of by
the Executive Council
and gazetted, he is
formally asked by the
Governor if he will ac-
cept the honor which,
as a matter of fact, he
has already accepted.
And it is just as formal
for him to reply that “he
has great pleasure,” &o.
Some years ago, when a
batch of M.L.C.’s were
to be appointed prior to
the then Premier leaving
for England, it fell to my
lot (as a junior clerk) to
deliver half-a-dozen of
these formal guberna-
torial communications.
In the last instance I
saw my man’s face flush-
up as lie read the letter ;
then turning to his clerk
he said: “Leave the
room, I wish to speak
to this gentleman on
important private busi-
ness.” When the sur-
prised clerk had clearod-
out I was requested to
seat myself, asked for my
name, and shaken warm-
ly by the hand by the
nominee, who was actu-
ally trembling with ex-
citement. Then he rang
violently, and when the
clerk caino in, “Smith,”
said his master, “ there
is no paper in this office
fit to answer this import
ant communication on.
Go immediately and buy
ten shillings-worth of
fancy note-paper.” The
astonished clerk disap-
peared, and the new
M.L.C., pointing to a
photograph on the wall,
informed me that that
was his country seat, and
would I do him the honor
to spend two or three
weeks with his family
there, or, failing that,
would I dine with him
at his town house. Just
then the clerk returned
with about a cwt. of
notepaper of all the
colors of the rainbow
(sort Mary Ann com-
municates with her
policeman on). And the
future legislator sat down
to write, but he was
trembling so much that
he had to get me to do
the job for him. The
happy man then grasped
me by the hand; told
me, if I ever wanted a
friend, he was mine ; re-
newed his invitation, and
added that he would see
me that night at the
Premier’s banquet. I
said I wasn’t going, but
he said I must, ana sent
off his clerk on the
spot with a guinea and
my name to the committee-room. When the
clerk returned with the necessary invitation I was
at last able to get away ; but I have often since
thought that I fooled away a si wend id chance of
borrowing .£5O or marrying an M.L.C.’s daughter.
If that man is ever offered a C.M.Gr.-ship, the
lunatic-asylum will get him, sure !
How history is fabricated is illustrated by
an incident re the cottage at White Hills, near
Bendigo, where Premier Salisbury is alleged to
have lodged during his visit to the goldfields about
45 years ago. When the Tory hack, H. C.
Richards, was here last year he visited the place
as reverently as though visiting a sacred shrine,
and took home a photo, to Salisbury. Now
Richards sends out a portrait of the Prime Minister
to the occupant of the house, with the remark
(vide Argus report) that Salisbury “ could not
identify the particular places at which he resided.”
But the Age reports that Salisbury “ recognised
the place, and was so pleased that he sent an en-
larged photo, of himself in an oak frame.” There
is nothing in the Argus report about Salisbury
sending the portrait himself. How is it likely
that he should recognise the place, even if it still
stands, which is doubtful? Salisbury left England
in 1850 for a tour. He was back in 1853. He
spent most of his time on board ship and in
Maoriland. In some accounts he is said to have
lived in Bendigo in a tent; but gradually the
White Hills house myth has grown up. In a few
years people will point to his footmarks on the
garden path, and a few of his Lair combings will
be preserved in a glass ease, whilst the walls may
be expected to become covered with his writing—
in ink or his own blood.


ThreeGoodThincs
MADE IN ENGLAND
M
f
Sauce
Pickles
Vi NEGAR
*>6B
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant aito
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R- RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elffin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
Editor Bulletin.—-Hard to get a “stand”
these times—shearers sending written applica-
*J on > e |f°t° r, s-right and photo., references and
quid. A shearer tied- his two horses up,
and the boss said he could give him shearing, but
didn t want men with horses. The shearer imme-
diately put them out of their misery with a bor-
rowed rifle and went on shearing.—7x7.
• • * *
“ Jep” : The usual summer query—Why
won’t the bushy wear straw hats ? —answered.
One droughty summer, after a brief sojourn in
town, I revisited the selection arrayed in city
1 clobber ” and an up-to-date straw hat. The
paddocks were as bare as a bear’s rear. I greeted
* Old Poley,” the family milker, lying half-
starved in the middle of a paddock, with winsome
and well-remembered “kerp, Poley 1” Noticing
the startling activity with which the cow got up,
and the hungry look in her eyes, I sprinted fence-
wards, Poley close up. Ten yards from shelter
she got alongside, and licked the hat from my head
with her tongue, and, from a safe perch, I saw it
journeying to Poley’s innards —the first real food
she’d eaten for three months. I always wear a
common felt hat now when I visit “our farm.”
• * * •
“Jeff” on the old bone controversy :
I have seen horses and cattle chew bones in New Eng-
land country, but they have been old and white without
a vestige ot meat on them. I’ve a moke, however, that
will put the horse liars up some. The first station I
shore at this year she lived on waste bread, curry and
rice, plum-pudding, &c., and would occasionally try some
Irish stew. Next shed (Bunna Bunna, near Narrabri) she
completely gave up her vegetarian principles, and the
dogs had no hope of getting any raw legs of mutton or
shins of beef that “ went bad.” Then, by way of variety,
she ate all the feathers from off two emu skins. One even-
ing she tackled a sheep that had died of starvation and
devoured a goodly portion of it. But the chief of her
delights is a real good long beer, together with a loaf of
bread and a tin of “ joy ” (golden syrup), and that Is
what she gets when I want her to do a 70 or 80 mile stags.
After eating all this stuff she was rolling fat.
• • • •
“Yang Anyut ”•. Re brush-turkey. In
Borneo and neighboring islands there is an allied
megapode which makes mounds 40ft. in diameter
and sft. high. Numerous hens to each heap, but
only one cock. Nests generally close to sea. Eggs
laid in pairs or threes, those which are to produce
male birds being much longer than others. Incu-
bation, 40 days. Young birds burrow out them-
selves, are fully fledged and able to fly an hour
after. Males congregate at breeding time, and
fight till only one is left in. He is the parent of
every brood in that heap, and the defeated ones
mope about by themselves.
• * * •
“H. 8.”: During’BB drought was fixing
flood-gates in a back creek anticipating a fresh
from the Condamine, and noticed, although no
local indications of a rise, that the ants, spiders
and other insects were shifting camp, carrying '
larvae, etc., up the banks. The water did not pass
that spot until 12 hours later. How did they get
their “ wire ” ?
* * * •
“E.S.S.” : In the dark scrubs on the
Richmond River one occasionally comes upon a
nest resembling that of the magpie. But it is not
occupied by any bird, though it may have been
built by one. It is the nest of the pretty little red
possum. Doubled up into a ball, he sleeps there
the day out, and goes off with the first shadows
for a taste of whatever sweets the night may bring
him. Does that red ’possum build its own nest,
or does it annex that of a bird ?
LAST STAGE OF DARLING PEA.—(By a Darling Amateur.)
“ Kati-Kati ” : Re beauty or otherwise of
“faded” Australian landscape and vivid green
English ditto. The principal factor in the forma-
tion of a taste for particular style of scenery is the
sort of country in which one’s courting is done,
The English James takes his Sarah through lanes
of bright green grass, overshadowed by trees so
full of color that it seems to drip from the tips of
the leaves, and flanked by high hedges gay with
flowers, and ever after that style is beautiful to
him. The Scotch Alexawnder strolls with his
Jean surrounded by hills purple with heather,
and henceforth no other aspect is so pleasing. The
Australian Billjim swings himself on to his 30s.
hors© and is carried through dull greys of blue-
gums to his best girl who has developed no
national name yet, and together they dream love’s
young dream amid the faded hues of an Aus-
tralian landscape, and in time beauty of landscape
will mean to him a harmony of color in the lowest
key. The present Australian predilection for the
“crude” coloring of an English landscape is an
inherited liking developed by the courting of
hundreds of generations of ancestors under the
greenwood tree.
• • • •
0. N. Bayertz writes from Dunedin about
an aboriginal grievance:—
“ Atcheringa ” writes in Thr Bulletin, 19/11/98, that
in Cook’s voyages somewhere there occurs a story of
some Maoris who, when asked for the whereabouts of
any strange Itnds, pointed apparently in the direction of
Australia, anti called out “Ulimaroa.” Cook may have
written this story, though I can’t find the original any-
where, hut it is quite certain that no Maori ever pro-
nounced the word. There is no “1” in Maori. They
might have said “ Urimaroa.” “Uri ” means(l) offspring,
descendants; (2) race. There is no Maori word “ maroa,”
but there are two separate words—(l) “ ma,” meaning
white; (2) “ ma,” the prep., for, by, or by way of; and the
conj. and, and “ roa,” meaning long, tall, or slow—taking
a long time. I can't, however, get any reasonable mean-
ing from the word. Cook had no ear for language.
Phonetic inaccuracies abound in his attempts to tran-
scribe Maori words. In Kingston’s “ Captain Cook’s
Voyages,” p. 79, a chief called “Toiava” is mentioned.
There is no “v” in Maori. On page 91, “ Eaheinou-
mauwe ” is given as the name of the North Island,
instead of “ Aotearoa ” pronounced ah-o-tay-ah-r6a. On
the same page “ Tovy Poenammoo ” is given instead of
“ Waipounamu " for the South Island—“ Wai,” water;
“ pounamu,” greenstone. (Perhaps the vin “ Tovy ”is a
misprint for 6.) The Federal Capitalists will probably
get a better name for their city than the meaningless and
unintelligible “ Ulimaroa.” Other great explorers, by
the way, as well as Cook have raised “1” in Maori. Paul
Blouet thus concludes a chapter on Maoriland in his
“ Johnßull and Co." : “I fancy I hear again their (the
Maoris’) melodious Mokololulu (linger longer lulu) Kiri-
latata, Waramanatihipu —“ Good-bye 1 Ta-ta." Oaoo-
phonous drivel 1 [But it isn’t caoophonous.—K.B.J
• • • •
Stonehenge (0.Q.), a little nearer to Sheol
than most other places, is situated on a gravelly
ridge adjacent to a puddle-hole known to map-
makers as the Thompson River. Old - time
travellers often left the town bootless and couldn’t
account for it. Once in the long ago writer struck
the gravel-heap shod with a pair of Callaghan’s
best and a oouple of extra pairs in the bag. Three
days later departed in a canvas shoe belonging to
mine host and a dancing-pump left behind by a
one-legged showman. Sharp gravel ridges with
the thermometer something over 150° in the sun
(there’s no shade) are not conducive to long-lived
foot-wear. I hereby enter Stonehenge, near
Sheol, in Queensland, in the new competition for
the boot-destroyingest (new adjective) place in
Australia.
• • • •
“Scotty the Wrinkler”: More animal
companionship. At Brookong' station in ’9l a
well-bred collie pup took up with the pigs, was
suckled by one of the sows, and used to come to
the butcher to be fed. I offered a pound for her
because she bit. I like biting dogs. Last owner,
Billy Morrison, with travelling sheep. All Urana
knew her.
* • » 9
“ H.M.T. ” : One of the most peculiar pro-
ducts of W.A. is the paper-bark tree. As far as
the writer knows it is commercially valueless, bub
the bark indicates the nucleus of a future industry.
Tt is about an inch thick and will split into 10,000
sheets easily, each of which can be made to receive
a legible impression. The tree
grows in swampy land or on
the edge of billabongs, and
its waving bark streamers are
weird companions in the
moonlight.
“Galena”; Mate and I struck a rich
patch in a mining-town in Tas., not mineral—our
patch was a hash-house, but rich, very. We
decided to stay a week, and look for work. We
got up one morning to go to a job. The girl
whose biz. it was to feed us was a fat, slovenly
creature, with a chronic snort, and big shoes down
at heel. She appeared that morning with a
sleepy expression on her face, and the shivers,
She asked us if we would try a littlo chop. She
didn’t mention anything about steak, sausages, or
ham and eggs, so we concluded it was a case of
chops or nothing. We preferred chops. Presently
they appeared, and the girl leaned against the
wall to doze. Then we found the pepper-dredge
was a failure, as it would not yield a grain when
ON THE ROAD.
1ST SQUATTER (nearing neighborhood homestead) :
“ Going to get off the horses, Tom?"
2ND DITTO (absent-mindedly): “Get off what
horses, Bill?"
turned upside-down and jerked, nor after having
its end violently spanked. We drew the girl’s
attention to it, and she, after examining it, in-
formed us that it was all right, only the holes
were stopped. Whereupon she drew a hairpin
from the back of her head and bored the holes
afresh, saying, “There, now see if it will go 1 ”
It went.
• * • *
P.A. : No wonder Rougemonfc lied well.
The appreciative credulity of his dupes would
have demoralised George Washington. No
one but cockneys of the Newnes stamp would
have treated him seriously after his statement
that while swimming he saw natives ten miles off
running about the beach—this, too, after receiving
a smack from the tail of a 150 ft. whale. More-
over the man who jumped on the back of an alli-
gator would never see London again, for there is
nothing but electricity to compare with the
appalling suddenness of the ’gator’s grab. I once
prodded a baby croc, to see if he was asleep, and
I shall never forget the lightning flash of his jaw
as he tore away the stick from my hand, giving
me a shock like the kick of a mule.
“ Nomad ” : The
blessings and advan-
tages of cremation have
already spread to the
Queensland back-
blocks. On a station
not 100 miles from
Boulia, the blacks had
all gone to a big cor-
roboree. They left an
old gin behind, who
shortly afterdied. Boss
came to hut, asked
couple of men to go
and “burn her off.”
Went up, and threw a
few sticks on her, fired
them, and left. Went
up at sundown to col-
lect ashes. Dear dusky
departed only half
burnt. More wood
c ollected, thrown on,
and fired ; also, more
smell of burning hide.
In the morning, skull
still left, and likely is
there now. No burial
service.
The chairman of a Central Queensland
Divisional Board recently told the tale of how the
local niggers outwitted him for a while. Chair-
man was in the habit of receiving and paying for
kangaroo-scalps, which he threw (by way of keep-
ing them till properly tallied) on the top of a high
galvanised-iron roof—the strangest place to keep
scalps on record. The aboriginals of the district
showed most commendable perseverance in hunt-
ing down the local marsupials. Day after day
they kept bringing in fresh trophies and receiving
pay for the same. One night the boardsman
aforesaid happened to pay a visit to the shed
where his hard-bought scalps were reposing. To
his surprise he noticed a ladder fixed against the
roof—and a nigger on the ladder. That chair-
man calculates he bought every one of those
scalps 20 times over. A dose of small shot on the
aboriginal shanks settled the new native industry,
and a good Christian darkey from the mission-
station retired into private life for & while.
“ Wallaroo ” : The
average cocky’s family
m dried-up regions re-
markable for crop fail-
ure is absolutely alaim-
, Anything under
10 isn t worth mention-
mg ; up to 14 is small-
ish ; lb moderate ; and
from that on to 24 by
no means infrequent.
Sometimes their mag-
nitude is so over-
powering that even the
mother is bewildered.
Asked how many in
in
family, she can’t
say till she has
counted the m,
and then she
isn’t certain.
Also, her only
method of find-
, ingout if they’re
all in bed is to
go systemati-
cally through
the house and
peer in corners
in search of pos-
sible slumber-
ing absentees.
Notable that
while the par-
ents are mostly
a hardy, pure-
blooded pair, as
a rule several
of the offspring
are in some wav
anatomically defi-
cient; though some-
times the family is
sound all through.
By the time the tail-
end of such families is
on speaking terms with
the world the parents are
pretty well on, so that great
opportunities are offered those
interested in the study of the children of old
parents. They’re generally bright, healthy little
creatures, with a quaintness of action and ex-
pression partly due to constant oommunion with
adults and a consequent mingling of advanced
ideas with child-reasoning.
• • • *
Dear Bulletin.— Strolling through Syd-
ney Botanic Gardens saw on seat man evidently
from out-back, so we talked learnedly about the
drought, the relative merits of imported bulls and
native-born cows, the crops, &c. Talked cattle
and drought to him till we became great friends,
and strolled up town. Country friend invited mo
to “have one.” He was so guileless and simple
and brown that by this time I had ceased to
wonder at the ease with which his tribe are cleaned
out by the Sydney spieler. Had one accordingly,
and when I awoke yokel had gone; also every-
thing I had about me.— Smarty.
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.
“ That's the piece that chucked up Bunny Smith.”
“ Why? Wasn’t he good enough?”
“Yer see, he blacked her eyes and cut her face about
when he was drunk, and she took it as a
hinsult. Yer carn't understand these
women.”
“ A.A.A. ” : Re “E.S.S.” and haunted
camps. Most of the favorite cattle-camps are
haunted but it isn’t ghosts. Camped beyond
Moree, one dark night, with a small mob of
“ fats ; ” myself and mate heard strange weird
cries about midnight, and, the cattle becoming
restless, we both (after a consultation) went
off in the direction of the wailfulness, to find
out what it came from. Followed it (the
shriek) up for about a quarter of a mile, and, not
being able to get closer to it on account of its
constant retreat, we decided that it was some-
thing from the other world, and should be left in
peace. Arriving back at the camp, we discovered
that our saddles and bridles, blankets and tucker


.11
! * Ss \
\ \
y
■r/
Drink ™
only
WOLFEsScHNAPPS
AND BE
IMPOSEP
UPON BY
IMITATION*
“APENTA”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT
WATER.
“As a cooling medicine for children it has no
superior, and it is readily taken by them.”—
Practitioner. Sole exporters : The Apollinaris
Company, Limited, London W.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
Ser’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
ottles Is. everywhere. *
Hotel Australia.
Rates from 12/6 per day, inclusive
of all meals and attendance.
If you are a stranger in
Sydney, do not waste time
considering where you will
go. Drive straight to “ The
Australia.” There is only
one Hotel Australia in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Ladies with families will
obtain every comfort at
The Australia at a very
reasonable cost.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
6(
YES'NO 99
always says TES !
when asked to vote for
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
America’s finest and lightest Beer.
bags had left us. Whilst we were following up
th ghost, the ghost’s mates came up from the
oi 10-r side and made a rise. Two or three active
apparitions and a smart dog usually run the
haunted camp, and grow fat thereon. Old and
e\|« rienced drovers, when they hear strange and
ghostly lamentations up the hill or down the
ridge at night, sit tight, and remark that they
aren’t having any. /
\ * • • • /
V“6 x 8 ’’ discourses on the never-ending
Out-back question of which we are all now pretty
tired :
He “J. Jinsrle’s ” attack on Lawson. I know the N.S.W.
hack-country as well as any man living-. I’ve tramped it
for years, and know every hut, stump, short-cut, rabbit-
trap, and shanty along the tracks Henry Lawson has
truveiled, and, bar “the 20,000 cattle,” he exaggerates
little. During a specially hot and dry season the “coun-
try out beyond the Darling, the land of the living death,”
is strewn with corpses. In ‘96 heat-wave there was
hardly a station between Bourke and Wilcannia, or a
track between the Darling and the N.YV. border, that
d n t rccoid the find of a dead swagman or two ! On big
•Salisbury Downs run (dry corner) were found no less than
seven swags, the owners of which innet have perished. I
myself helped to bury three victims of that heat-wave.
As to shrivelled leather and bridle-reins, the man Lawson
refers to is the chap who j s riding through the country
seeking s!.earing or other work, and not able to get it
because of wage-cutting blackleg cockeys, retrenching
syndicates, arid fat absentees ! lie has no means of look-
ing after his gear : hardly able to look after bis stomach !
In'96, after the big strike, met scores of such unfortu-
nates on skeletons of horses with hay-hand bridles and
bag saddles ! Lawson is no! hing if not sympathetic. Ho
sp'-uks and feels for the wretch who is out battling, and
is kept out by servile, “smoodging" station “lifers!”
Permanent station work, even at poor pay, is bard to get,
uml to keep it demands a fearful amount of cringing ami
crawling nowadays ! Lawson's htishmen aren't built that
way. and prefer even the hellish dry country to that!
As to Lawson's accuracy, there isit t a sentiment, a type,or
character you meet that you can’t find in “ While the Bily
Boils," or ‘ln the Days When the World Was Wide.” As
for “change of hell,” no words could express it better.
The dry country is a hell, and cooky-shearers, station-
crawlers. and snake-juice vendors are its devils !
• • • •
A Northern mis mthrope to The Bulle-
tin : -
Iteoentlv passed through »iul lira (six years ago one of
the most flourishing Hub* towns of the North). The only
living thing in the street was ali ‘ goat, Seeing an open
door, ventured in, and alter about ten minutes’ hammer-
ing a tired person appeared, and, in answer to my
request for something to drink, he produced a runt-bottle
and shook il vigorously, remarking that a plug of
tobacco bad got fast in the neck, but he would soon prod
it out. Asked low he managed to live, he said times
were very hard till the Ohillagoe boom set in, but since
then he had found a good copper lode, which lie had
placed under offer to a big Melbourne speculator for L’O ;
anil if this went off it. would keep him going fill after the
wet, season. Most of the towns on the road from Marecba
to the Tate River are like this. The only time the few
remaining Inhabitants venture out is when a stranger
■ appears, and they want, to know if anything has been
seen or heard of the Ohillagoe railway, and when assured
that a few navvies have arrived at Cairns they imme-
diately call a progress moel iiig to discuss best methods of
securing their doors and windows.
•v* * *
“Werrimoe” : One day, wliilo tailing
hoifors on Deep Creek station (Casino, N.S.W.),
I esatne upon a very large carpet-snake, coiled up
in the long grass. I was struck with the peculiar
shape of the spotted mass, which resembled a bee-
hive. On being disturbed, it slowly uncoiled itself
and crawled away, revealing a neatly-made grass
nest, full of eggs. Toese eggs, which had a soft,
tough skin, and were about the size of a walnut,
were all glued together in one solid mass. I could
not ascertain the exact number, but I should think
there were considerably over a hundred. I pulled
one off and broke it. It contained a young snake
in process of formation. This was proof enough
that the carpet-snake hatches its eggs in the same
manner as a hen.
• • • •
The tale oi a Big Set ub dog. Tony Bul-
lock, of Twowharves, had the best triok-dog on
the three rivers. A farmer from the Clarence was
greatly taken with the dog’s performance in the
bar of the Canecutter’s Curse Hotel. One old
trick delighted the farmer wildly. Tony placed a
bit of meat on Sir Joseph’s nose. “ Sirjoe ” (as
we called him for short) sat motionless. Said
Tony: “Ready!” Not a canine eyelash quivered.
“ Present! ! ” Not even a gleam of carnal joy in
the dog’s eyes. “Fire!!!” Sirjoe tossed the
hunk of old-team btillook into the air and caught
it in his mouth as it fell. The Clarence farmer
bought Sirjoe, and took him to Grafton, where he
put the dog through his tricks. “Now I’ll show
ya his great trick. Gi's a bit a meat.” (A bit of
the sirioin was produced and placed on Sir joe’s
snout.) “ Now, chaps, lam proud o’this trick.
It’s as good as ever ya seo inna circus. ‘ Ready ! ’
See, not a move. ‘ Present! 1 ’ Twig ? Sirjoe’s
as still as death. ‘ Shoot! !! ’ ” But the dog
stirred ‘not. “ Shoot! !! ” the farmer roared.
“ See, chaps, notta move,” said a malioious wag.
“ Oh ! sha-sha-shoot, you wretch ! ” screamed the
showman. But he shot not worth a cent. And
he might have squatted there rigidly till the meat-
bit went gamey ; but for the quickness of a Lis-
more Rifle Reserve man, who shouted “Ready!
Present! Fi-yah 111” And the dog fired.
• • * *
“ Bargo ” : The man from out-back is the
one most impressed by the vitality-restoring advt.
The town-man, having his tuppenny’bus to run'
after, seldom reads them, but the “ bushy,”
receiving One paper a week, pores diligently
through every line. Recently up South, a cocky,
reading from a weekly paper a nervous-cure advt.,
told trie that the advertiser had altered two lines
of it. I could hardly believe his memory till he
brought me the previous week’s papers, and sure
enough the alteration in the advt. had taken
place. From constant weekly wade, he had the
advt., “ Specks before the eyes, lassitude, torpor,”
etc., completely off by heart.
“ Bunyip ” ; In the
year 1871, whilst sleeper-
getting for the North-
Eastern railway on the
large lagoons fed by the
Murray (Victorian side,
between Bungowounah
/and Albury), the pro-
longed booming of the so-
called bunyip could be
heard nightly. It was
discovered that the noise
was made by the bittern,
a bird rather common in
these parts. I am in-
fqrmed that some years
ago the bird also existed
on the lagoons of the
Macquarie, below Dubbo,
where the same booming
noise was heard. Pro-
bably settlement in both
districts has driven the
cheerless fowl into more
secluded parts.
■ • •
A N.Q. bush picture.
llOdee. in the shade ; the
usual crowd of drunks
under the hotel veran-
dahs, and a general at-
mosphere of blasphemy
and bad beer. Squatter
and his wife come driving
down main street with a
•Tap. (presumably cook) on
back seat- of buggy, fol-
lowed by a limn driving
thb spare horses, and a
white girl (just up from
“ below ”) on a brute with
an action like a orossont-
saw. To all appearances,
she had never been on a
horse before ; had no
riding-skirt, and 20 miles
of blinding, dusty, scorch-
ing road in front of her.
It was the same man who
engaged a governess in
one of the big cities and
sent a blackboy with an
old broken-down Borew to fetch her out— a girl
who had never ridden in her life.
Kur or Kaadaitcha-luma: or “The
Walking About of a Bad Man.”
The Kandaitoh is an evil omen, a bad spirit, a
noarro (no good) fellow ; a murderer, and hence a
wearer of the strange shoes bearing above name.
These are made of emu-feathers and human hair,
glued together with human blood. The soles are
thick, soft, and yielding, and are oval in form, toe
and heel being shaped alike. They leave hardly
any tvaek on any kind of ground, but on a firm
surface it is Quite impossible to follow their trail.
They have nothing in common with the Indian
mocassin, which is one piece of hide made into a
shoe for the protection of the foot. The wearer
of the Kaadaitcha foot-gear has around his waist
a hundred folds of human hair twined between
which and his skin is hidden a stone of magical
properties ; sometimes it is hidden in the hair of
his head and occasionally carried in the arm-
f»it. Of the use of these strange shoes very
ittle is known ; but it is a fact that the
murderers generally hunt in couples ; the evil
man calling to his assistance the tribal medi-
cine-man or sorcerer. On no account will
they proceed without wearing the band round
their body (made from the hair of some famous
warrior), capable of producing a dpuble effect of
valour to themselves and fear amongst their
enemies. The shoes, as shown in illustration, are
slightly convex at the sole and flat on top, not
unlike Chinese bathing-shoes. They are still to
be found, and the practice still prevails in Central
Northern Australia. It is the man that is the
Kaadaitcha, though the shoes are now generally
known by tnat name. The illustration snows the
sole of the shoe.
The medicine man and the other Kaadaitchi
hide about the neighborhood of the camp in which
resides the intended victim until a favorable op-
portunity occurs to steal upon him and kill him.
Then a hasty retreat is made, as they know the
avenging party will soon be out after blood for
blood, as is the custom of all the aborigines.—
Haeby Stookdale.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Miss MAY POLLARD , as Violet Grey, in the “Belle of New York.’
Photo., Lafayette, London.
Malle ’: Re “ Bush Notion’s ” recent letter
on N.S.W. teachers’ grievances. Was lately In a Northern
town, and had occasion to visit the post-office. It is an
alleged cottage, bigger than a dog-kennel hut not quite
so large as a decent horse-box, and was probably painted
in the early days of Australian exploration. The depart-
ment occupies the best part of the premises, the balance
boing the postmaster’s residence. Knowing of the rent
charge, 1 hunted up the latest departmental blue-hook to
ascertain the amount deducted from this officer, and was
flabbergasted to find that Govt, pays £26 per annum
for the shanty, and charges the P.M. £3O for
his portion ! Further search reveals two other
cases where officers are charged a higher rent
than, and several where they are charged an
equal rent to, that paid by department. In all these cases
it must be understood that Govt, occupies the best por-
tion of building, and the back premises are common to
everyone employed in the office, therefore the postmaster
has very little domestio privacy. Moreover, those who
continued in the superannuation fund have to part up
their 4 per cent, on their rent allowance, whioh is thus
treated as solary ! When the Govt, is reduced to this sort
of sweating, no wonder lteid wants more revenue.
* • » *
Vic. Customs department announces a stern
determination to prosecute licensed victuallers who may
be found carrying on the business of a wine-and-spiri't
merchant. It is a contravention of the Act for any publi-
can to sell bulk quantities of liquors through travellers.
If Govt, gave a publican liberty to do a wholesale trade it
would put him in a position to buy his liquors cheaper,
keep large quantities maturing in bond, and supply cus-
tomers over the bar with better poison than they get at
present. And this at the expense of the blessed middle-
man wine-merchant! The Act loves the merchant middle-
man. Hasn’t James Service been Premier, and wasn’t
G. D. Carter the author of a famous Budget, and are not
they and other pillars of the Vic. State interested in keep-
ing the Act up to the mark ? Already the big grocer who
Imports liquors from ’Ome is beginning to outrage the
feelings of the “recognised" wine-and-spirit merchant,
and an Act to prevent the grocer from pushing his trade
(with a olause prohibiting whisky importation by private
persons) ought to be passed immediately.
• • • •
A business-like idea, in which the N.S.W.
Government ought to copy Victorian and W.A. legisla-
tion, is in the compulsory registration of firms. The idea
is simply to compel firms to register the names of the
people who run tne show, so that there is some tangible
person to serve the summons on. As matters stand, it
often happens that Smith, calling himself Smith and Co.,
works up a business and a reputation which is good for
much credit. Then he sells out to Mosenberg and Israel-
stein, who keep the honored name of Smith still above
the door, and sign it on cheques, and say nothing about
the change. Also, it often happens that Jones and Co.
really consists of six men, none of whom, except Jones
himself, who has nothing, can be proved to be in the show
when the trouble comes; while Cow Fat in business is
almost always Ho Oat in private life, and Israeloff, money-
lender, is as often as not really Aaronstein, or Cohenloup,
or MacDonald, or Duncan Abrahams.
* * » *
A Sydneyite wanted to keep a shop he was just
.eaving vacant for a week so that he could take all his
custom to new premises opposite ere anyone could open
opposition. Didn’t want to pay week’s rent to keep old
shop though, so got friend to offer landlord 2s. 6d. a week
more them he himself was paying. Offer immediately
accepted, and keys handed over on departure of previous
tenant. Landlord has not since seen new tenant, and
had to burst in the doors at the expiration of the
week.
• * * *
The oollapse of the oycling-boom brings with it
revelations worthy of the boom of ’BB. Mere lads, with
not an ounce of commercial aptitude, and no other quali-
fication than the ability to reel off a mile in 2.2, were
placed jn charge of big concerns, and the result is now
being discovered. There was little “ cronk "-work, so far
as can be ascertained, but the carelessness and utter in-
competence of the managers of many cycling depbts
must stand as records. In one agency, it has been
found that no less than 100 machines—each capable
of being retailed at from £2O to £3o—have absolutely dis-
appeared from stock, and in scarcely any of the shops
which have “gone out" in the smash is the complete
stock to be found. The reason of this is the lax manner
In which bikes were tossed about in the good times of two
years back. Any casual friend of the management could
enter a cycle agency then, and borrow a machine for a
few days ; and whether he ever returned the jigger it was
evidently nobody’s business to inquire. Hundreds of
machines have vanished into the evsiglceit from different
Australian cycle-shops since 1896.
» » * *
Minister Outtrim, after a recent month’s ex-
perience of Sydney telephone management, lately re-
turned to Melbourne with the gallful assertion that the
Southern system is quite satisfactory by comparison.
There is no arguing with an official who refuses to be con-
vinced. Visitors from Sydney are unanimous - in their
bad language re the crossing of wires and general ineffi-
ciency of the Melb. ’phone service. As for the local resi-
dents, who pay £9 a year for being “ laid on ’’ to this
scandalous fraud, they know that the telephone couldn’t
be so much more popular in Sydney if its subscribers
there had not their lines cast in pleasanter places. If
they believed Outtrim’s statement, and had no hope
of things improving, they would give the tele-
phone up as a costly delusion and annoyance. Why
not a mass meeting of' subscribers to protest against any
further continuance of Duffy, P.M.G., in the billet where
he has proved himself a public nuisance?
• * * *
The delivery agent of a certain time-payment
Australasian pictorial publication one day informed Mrs.
Dooley that on the following morn full numbers thereof
would be delivered to her as per agreement and that she
would have to pay £l2 10s. Dooley being informed of the
trouble when he returned from toil, thought hard until
he evolved a “plan of campaign.” Next morning,
“ Dooley’s ’’ front parlor foretold an auction sale. Articles
grouped in numbered lots, and so forth, with Dooley in
the midst minus hat and coat. Presently the agent ar-
rived with—“ I’ve brought the book.” “ What book? Is
It wan ye’re goin’ to put into the sale?” “ Sale ! ” said
the agent, hastily picking his parcel off the table again.
“Where is Mrs. Dooley?" “Divil a one of me knows.
She left here yesterday. I’m the bailiff in possession and
I wouldn't advise ye to lave anny property here. Shure
thim divils of landlords ’ud sell the coat off yer back if
they got the chance ! ” Then the agent went sadly away.
* • • •
The humors of the hash-house. Restaurant-
keeping is a profitable business : people must eat. Yet
they do not always “pay at the desk,” as directed by
notice—they prefer to eat to-day and pay to-morrow—or
never. The restaurateur has no remedy either, except to
summon them. It’s a dobt, the law says—and the law
knows. The man or woman of nerve will seize the
“ balancer's ’’ hat. One woman in Melbourne is popularly
supposed to have a roomful of hats taken from default-
ing diners as collateral security. During the last few
hard years “ scaling ’’ or “balancing” has become a fine
art among the “crook" pugs and the vast multitude of
semi-well-dressed men who live in or on the streets, race-
courses and hotels. Only a week or two ago, in Pitt-
street, Sydney, two “ stiffs ” who wished to (line worked
a “ balancing-joint," and “ scaled ” a restaurant-keeper.
They accosted an elderly man in a casual way, and “ sup-
posed he could do with a feed." He could. “ Well, come
on then," and in the trio went and had their soup, meat,
pudding, salad, tea and toast, at 6d: a time. They hur-
ried, and finished beforo Hie old man, and the spokesman
told him they were going out, but that ho need not
hurry—they would paj- for him, and he could stand up so
that the cash-taker would know him. At the door, they
explained that the old man would pay, and he, in response
to their pointing, stood up and nodded. The cash-taker
was satisfied, and the two operators cleared. When the
old fellow turned up at the pay-oountor with his explana-
tion, ho was scoffed at and abused, and Anally, having no
money, he was thrown out on the street, where he curt jd
his philanthropic friends, and explained the story to an
amused crowd.
• • • •
Melbourne and suburban J.P.’s have not re-
covered from their antipathy for Vic. Factories Act, and
people who come before them on certain charges “ work”
on this weakness. If defendant pleads that he can’t pay,
because he is thrown out of work by the operations of the
abhorred law, which stops him from getting piece-work
at Chinese rates as ho aid formerly, the bench over Hows
with righteous indignation, and the pointer gets off
cheaply or walks out “on the nod.” Up-to-date law and
out-of-date administration—new wine and old skins.
♦ * * *
“ Bargo ”: Know a tenant who shifts in a
hurry, and has a bed of his own making, which, by the
pulling of a string, falls instantly to pieces. Then wife
takes chair and box ; hubby gathers up the patent bed-
stead—and off!
* • • •
An enterprising Cornstalk thinks of trying the
Yankee trout-farming system in ponds scooped out along-
side a fast-running, cool stream In the Blue Mountains.
The troutlets are to be carefully reared and fed in artificial
preserves, from which, when a fish of any desired weight
is wanted, it can be simply lifted out with a hand-net.
In America, areas of water are made into fish-farms,
wherein an incredible amount of trout are stocked. They
grow rapidly, and provide big divs. for the “ farmers.”
* • • *
A Vic. country mounted policeman had a debt-
warrant to serve on himself, t’other day. He served it,
endorsed it nulla bona, and returned it. Unfortunately,
it was made out for, say, John Jones, “ mounted con-
stable stationed at,” say Crow Flat; and now there is a
departmental “How's this?”
• > * •
An 18-year-old Sydney clerk, going into a city
bank recently, picked up a roll of notes and cheques
totalling £l2O, of which £75 was notes. The property
was easily identified as belonging to a wool Ann, and
finder hied him to their office, with visions of substantial
reward. He interviewed one of the heads of the firm,
who received him haw-hawly, and discredited his state-
ment of where he found the lucre. “ They did not bank
there, so how could it be lost there?” But inquiry
Bhowed that their clerk had called there on the way to
the firm’s bank. Result, dismissal of delinquent, and
barely civil acknowledgement, to finder, who, on reporting
the matter to his own employers, was advised to apply
for his cab-fare. He did, and received—half-a-erown.


I. . Thumb-nail Sketches on Board the MaraEoa,
15.—While the present writer was in Hobart
the Southern Cross sailgd for the Antarctic with
five;years’ provisions on board.
2.—As the Mararoa approached the Tasmanian
'coast the weather got decidedly cooler. Our artist
-found a warm place to loo’ard of the funnel.
Capt. Phillip is justly proud of this funnel i
and paints it himself every day a bright /
(vermilion. J
5.—A monotonous
diet. We had trum-
peter three times a
day on board.
° f th 0
8, —The most impressive feature about Hobart is
Mount Wellington. It is particularly so if
you do it on a bicycle.
11.—After all, sight-seeing is
very disappointing. And this
after a 3-mile walk !
9. —Hobart Man : “ Deep ! Why,
you could float the navies of the world
here.”
V isiTOß (dreamily ): “ Let’s see ;
where was it you said, Lord Brassey’s
yacht got aground 1 ”
10.—Our representative doesn’t think much of
the Hobart electric trams. One overtook him
while on the way to Mount Wellington ; he
hailed it, but the conductor wouldn’t stop. /
12. —Tasmanians \
boast of the .infre- \
quency of railway acci- \
dents there. Any one
who- has travelled “ex-
press,” 20 miles in 2 hours,
can readily understand that.
iS/t *Pfg
14;—He was particularly impressed r
with the fertility of the soil. Briars
grow about Hobart like weeds.
16.—There is a tradition at New Nor-
folk that a salmon was once caught in the
/ Derv.ent. . Our Rep. resolved to go fishing,
4 even at the risk of. learning to lie.
17 —He caught several “speckled
beauties.” Weight not ascertained.
IMPRESSIONS OF TASMANIA


I
(1) Dairy cattle, milking-sheds. dairies,
etc., must be under supervision of veter- "
inary and medical practitioners, or trained
pathologists. «;
, ' L »iilZ ;'“n Vr , Curtin 10 *
te ftJv*** r «
/ c,
mz> f
fp?Jy 'tjlyy a*?) ; —My €xr
Ma4?k»7 ’puAse is
yoYtrjtS, Scdipfeisyo
■*> U, o| * •O’lJenoe |
MprulmroulirtiH among cattlo munt »>o
■ «radicntu<l--a mutter vrbioh »m* *>“«» Hhown
■ to bo practicublu. nqmwz
m\ |> 3^' —
?* Cure
*&&&?&? f!
is Ho Yeyyy
. 077 -'tpe,
\ siokt
\ %<■ 1
%\ n
-)
tf s^’ 7!iL «*
ctyoyidc of W e .ir,
fi' }
\d.
Lm. \T L. w l %3mSSm
> i
JFpyf&y/
JsAi i
JUT (6\ Tho patient must live, a» orach *»
'practicable, in the ..pci. -dr. and ■ n " 6t , '"J
engage in any dusty oootipitton. the disewefl
surfaces in. the lung -f the consuinpU
affording all wcellont ground for the settle-
ment and growth ..f any diseaso-producuM
organisms that «n»y be in the dust-
®\ aA-YSI
V/
y
\Ci cP
* c^XeiV
fA; jTf
if V 5 ix’ c iv<' I
(1 {v\SM°oj, J
i l&fritf'tj: — jail) itjc.
\'H Spir >
>K
fifty ip >
Jfi Vou, /fie/
CoyfinTp/fiAfo <% Wou/d H/ff
-7 /szissf _j-2
\ fipfts 'fir. ifie JafMyee
{kprfe/isy--\Quile~Vo —syyffcys
opcode- J- Coyyeyd.
\ Woui'csp.Tion—
Wje- good. fyoPrhyK
Us (8) Public dintntecung ovens mußt bo pro 1
//. vidcd for insuring complete disinfection of 1
'// clothing, bedding, carpets, ruga, and mcb
yy liko articles *
/o//ceyap2/4- (Zye 09, yp Jo dfr/y/ouT/
J*yh-fo\[p ijfadfe cdey
ye *’
Vfy *' % °>
V
«» % ’<{„ f 4
•* ,A "%
-SK%
/b
'"-nfv
Gfe*
THE PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS.
"Melbourne Board of Public Health has issued a sheet dealing with the dread disease, tuberculosis."
Our artist, after sleeping on the sheet, offers suggestions as above.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/C,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
A CLEVER GIRL
Will always speak with enthusiasm of D.C.L.
Whisky after her “ boy ” has tried it once. Most
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him dull and
morose. A nip of D.C.L. causes him to sparkle.*
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOB
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
HEADACHE
\ CURED!
A Headache Cure should be
instantaneous, safe, certain,
and effective, however often
it is used, and free from dan-
ger of evil after-effects. The
public should know that some
so-called headache cures are
dangerous, and ought not to
be used except under medical
advice. A headache cure, free
from every objection, is ob-
tainable, and known as
BISHOP’S
Citrate of Caffeine
It immediately cures the
worst headache, and dispels
all feelings of exhaustion and
weariness. Supplied by all
Chemists at
i/iJ4 and 2/-, or
of ALFRED
BISHOP, Ltd.,
Mfg. Chemists,
Mile End New
Town, London.
LAI
fringes,
Natural Curl;, from 8/3 each.
plaits and TAlfe,
¥ 8 - *" '■cal hair.
CUTTINGS A OOMBINGS
up, S/8 per oz.
We are the ch capes tin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Bend Color of Uair. '"'
W. H. Wig2«ll,v
jllO Willi au Stiiiset,
corner of Palmer-etreeV
- SYDNEY.
'Cable Tram will stop at Door,.
Send stamps for full Prioe
Prompt attention given to Country Ordera
ALSTON’S
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 XOs.
WINDMILLS
Thp Sfr C ° St , the only Cost No Attention Required
Th WINOMHi s e P r c r H ? U , S -’ Stock or Garden - I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
IS a FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE-Latest Type £7 log •
or with 11 Reoords and 100 Needles, £9 ; Reoordg, 8s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
CDISON ELECTRIC PARLOR.
• 162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ Talking MacbiO? Pepot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4
Ivinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus'
. T . „„„„ Edison-Lalanae Batteries, eto. ’
GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters In Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only), °
Any Bushman Will Tell
yon to use
Row’s Cnpbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits.
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
/1 ViPELIS-S Fluid Disinfectant clears out Buys,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverflsh, and Fevers.
A. Saunders.
8 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 20i
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
£3 6s; 6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
18c. Solid Gold, 17 Diamonds, £lO.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
16a Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2 15s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
iiWS
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
150. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Sounders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
A. Sautulers.
2-Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ Long Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
180. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double-cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send tor
illustrations.
18c. Solid Gold, extra Strong
and Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s., £3, £4.
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Out
Diamond, £5 6s; Larger,
£6 6s, £7los, £Blos, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
00. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
16c., 20s, 255;
18a, 255, 308, 355, £2.
0a Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
15c. Solid Gold, Hand-made Brooch,
60 Diamonds and 8 Sapphires, £l5 15s.
58 Diamonds, 120.
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
oQJO
OLSZfc:
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold tl n 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s; 16c., £2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s;
16c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, Ss 6cL
a. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding l Rings o n H
l • ex „l a £ eav y* 258 ; 18c - ooid, 2oT
heavy, 30s, 365, 40s. Send lor card. ’
Ma Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 27 Diamonds,
Extra Strong, £22 10s.
di
tS
0
CD
MW
20s.
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper : strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
„ your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 16/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, £6, £6, £7, £B. 2,3, 4,6, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
□
Extra Strong, 16c. Gold, Hand-made, 2 Heart Braeelet
40 Diamonds, £22 10s.
26 Diamonds and 15 Rubles, £l6 16s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
16c. Solid Gold Hand-made Brooch,
21 Diamonds, £lO.
Very Pretty.
W
33
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
iry us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice vnll be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. iV ame and address must appear on MS.
iyo liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
fi-ons voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Powell: Moderately funny; but please send
the immoderately funny Chris D. : Fairly well-written,
but B. has no use for ghost-stories on strictly regulation
? lne ® Fre d B. : Very similar item has already appeared
C.P.N. : Not enough in it Bushy:
Ideal touch of power, but too erratically applied
™ : Both l ust beside the mark E. Bogan:
Feeble doggerel W. H. Dean :No literary value
Edward R. : How you must have been mixing your
liquors! Beatrice M. : Nil Lennie : What do we
think would be a fitting remuneration ? Well, say six
months’ “hard.” Souchy : “ Right In It.” Correct;
refer to the basket! H. Bos. : Examples not
sufficiently local or permanent for our print Hugo •
Joke invisible......A.T.R. : Rather dull lie Hawkshaw :
Any natural-history book will tell you. We want new
observations, not rudimentary theories on old ones
biji : Not enough general interest .... 6Y.H. : Point
mostly lost in distance Louis M. : Jingles fair, but
main points not good enough Percy A. : Fun too
laboriously hidden P.P. : Garter item declined
Alendoro : No one cognisant of the intensity of police
jealousies would ever suggest that N.S.W. detectives
should be sent to help the Q. police at Gatton
J. : Joke as fatigued as a Leg. Councillor Baron
K. : Referred to contributor. You might have let us
know your highness's rank before. Awful to think
we’ve been cheeking you like an ordinary person
from Woolloomooloo Minemere : Dreadful
Alpha : Mostly dull; returned L.S.O. : It will never
smile again. H.R.M. : “ Saul ” old ; t’other weak
8.8. : (Ballina): Joke-animalcule received Korari:
Neither quite up Marie B. : Doubtless hospital manage-
ment teems with abuses, butthe workingcommunity would
miss hospitals badly if abolished. T.M. : Don’t
make us call him Tedious Tyson Amy M. : We should
want “ a cheque” for printing it. The Harp : Rusty.
Com. Trav. : Thinking over it. Dabton : Can’t
understand how you got that par. in Le
Camille: Point too carefully blunted Observer
(Gyinpie) : Regret that artist isn’t taking any
railway official straddling a truck Anthony B. : Bul-
letin started at 4d.; fell to 3d.; and rose to 6d G.W.:
We’d print it if a lot better, or a little worse W.M.F.:
Will print “Cattle-men.” Diomus : Will print shortly.
......Rascal : Small poem about golden-haired child de-
clined W. J. (Kaneira): Kindly little hymn, but we
are old and sin-battered, and the good little hymn
appeals to us no more Harry: Awful conundrum
E.T.: “Shield of Gold” just misses the ’bus. Comes
within an ace of overtaking the vehicle and then drops
O. K. : A subject too unsavory for any but a very right-
thinking paper A.A.A.: Don’t want to teach any new
forms of “ blanky.” Australia is already red with hlanky,
like a shambles Towri : It was a good yarn, anyhow,
and if the latitude of the nigger was a few miles out,
what matter North Queenslander: Will probably pub-
lish “ Gentle Tap.” 11. B.: Obituary poem on new plan,
stating that you hope your deceased wife is lost, to hand.
Vigilans : “ Sehooi Girls’ Revolt,” very good in places,
but, unfortunately, not in otherplaces J. (Roebourne):
If a far-seeing undertaker likes to have 12 graves dug in
advance, why not ? Always provided the grave is baled
out before the defunct goes in F.M.: “ Lola ” is aggra-
vating metre, and the “Dark, deep, desolate darkness”
is a cheerless thing at this season Poorly-educated,
Hard-working Australian Bush Poet: No hope for long,
scraggy poem told in short yelps, like this—
Spero M. : Observation fair ; description very middling.
M. : Only prettyish Porte C/: The astounding state-
ment that “ Billy was the son of his father and mother ”
broke us all up Chaplain : Not ill-written, but corpse
fu° V.H.E. : “ Brer Rabbit” may get through
the fence. Other, well-written, but too trivial .. ..
ilugh 11. Liptus : Writer has personally experienced sun-
temperature of 170 in S.A L.R.M.: “Kinchen” not
U P I J lar^ ] Fly-by-Night: “ Elopement ” only a cloud
dust and an unfinished episode rushing by. “ Irony ”
old as chaos Vhe : Rabbit poem weak parody
......Jumbuek : Address asked for is “Keelbottom via
Townsville, Q.” Jane : Sorry can’t recommend any-
one in particular .....7 x 7: “ Couldn’t-count-’em” yarn
antique and übiquitous. Your character - judgments
founded on crudest of generalities. Also your MS. almost
unreadable ..Ursa: Ursa minor, then ! .R.V.P. :
“ Tanked ” policeman not phenomenal enough for print.
Flash : in the pan ! The Writer : Matter not novel
enough to carry-off conventionality of style . Lanta :
.Poetical as Hlbs. of steak Richard W. : Sobriquet is
right—no “u” after the “o”; but enciente is
wrong should be enceinte Rennie: A feeble
“ anc * .Alex. K. : Too deadly - lively Fancy
F.; Sorry still don’t like Ida J. : You don’t
begin to be able to versify. “ Go-to and make ”
pudding! Evelyn: Well-worn idea.. . Razzle : Sorry
we can’t add “dazzle.” Jackeroo: No “move” in it.
.... .E. N. M‘o. : Well-conceived and neatly-versed, but
quite outside Bulletin’s orbit Theo S. : “Mahedy,”
funny, but too slight... .Mattie : Like unto the ferocious
roaring of the wild cricket .... Seoro : We don’t want ob-
vious lies, unless they are very humorous lies... L.A.G. :
“Price of a Passion” not saleable .. T. Bend: Long
jingle about the weakest horse-swindle on record
C.W. : Britain must either crush the Boers or yield the
suzerainty Quoyle : Absolutely bald Vista : Sonnet
stiff—in two senses Phil. K. : Can’t use ; but admire
the lady. Who was your naughty model?... G.H.L.:
Not up Dingo : You “tried it on the dog.” Did he
suffer much? F.N. : Worthless E.A.V. : Lacks force
and originality Pilgrim: Dull and dreary .... Shell-
back : Verse useless. T.I. items acceptable, if brief and
interesting Pine arid Box : You understand, but can’t
express Marryat N. : “Spinks” is open at the ends
and hollow in the middle ... A.S.L.: Neat; but no
novelty Critio : Can’t oblige ; it’s new as far as we
know, but we can’t remember all the thousands of pic-
tures that have appeared Sidney Montagu : Come
back at 23 A.H.L. (Tas.): Ancient Parasite: Idea
wants baking T.J.L. (M.L.): Will use if possible E.
Fox : Funny C.R.F. : Don’t tell that to anyone again.
It’snotsafe G. : Thanks .... A.L. : Both unsuitable
W.D.: Flattery is what the other fellow gets. We get
bare justice C.A. : All right enough for that strong
opponent of colored labor to hire Australian aborigines
to cut his own cane, provided his wages-sheet and hours
show fair. The local aborigine has quite as much right to
a job as the white man—perhaps more O.M.A. :
Weariest item this week G.E.8.: Kindly sit down and
invent a scathing jibe at your incompetence Momus :
Unsuitable Spook (W.A.): Spirits we deal in
must be distilled, not vaporous Barkis: “Zephyr”
doesn’t breathe hard enough Lucy W.H. : “Piano"
declined Otway : “ Prayer” not up E.N.M.: Verse
weak N.B.K. : Linoleum verse—smooth and flat and
trodden on P.P. (Vic.): Worthless Mar: Bulletin
hasn’t any “favorites." Obviously the man who has
pleased it once is likely to please it again, and get printed
again Echo : An echo is a tired noise that fades into
the great silence—like your noise E.R.P. : May do
Won : Bad case—nothing but courage and a rope can cure
you V.K. : “The Last” too moral and mournful
Leslie F. : Whether there’s a sex-problem or no, the
individual girl-problem bothers nine-tenths of would-be
Bulletin bards.
For maiden free,
So fond of life,
Yet long to be
Ifis wedded wife;
For he so gay
In glory fit,
Leads maid astray,
Then does a get
To foreign parts.


“ Yang Anyut ” : Re Chinese power of
dying at will. When I was living, as a boy, outside
the concession at Shanghai, near by lived a China-
man who used to have frequent “ barneys with
his elderly sister-in-law, and once, after a particu-
larly hair-raising row, the lady swore to be
revenged, and took a seat at John’s front-door.
That evening there was much wailing in the
village over the old girl’s death, and I naturally
expected dire punishment to overtake John, but,
upon seeking information from my Chinese nurse,
1 found that the victim had merely sat on her
relative’s door step with the intention of dying
there to spite him. She actually had died there,
too, and the revenge would come in the under-
taker’s little bill, for, according to Chinese custom,
John would be compelled to give his sister-in-law
a gorgeous 16-s'orey funeral, the expense of which
would cripple him for many moons to come.
Adelaide people are seriously thinking,
now that Buxton has resigned, of petitioning the
'Ome authorities to send out something worldly
and uproarious for a change. It is surely up to
S.A, to have a sporting peer theatrically inclined,
with a big cheok suit and eloquent flow of bad
language. Buxtoa always wore sombre black,
never went to the races or the theatre, and habitu-
ally looked as solemn as a boiled owl belonging to
a serious Noncomformist family. What is now
wanted is a dook with ample funds and a chronio
thirst, and, if possible, it would be advantageous
to have a person with a disgraceful scandal
attached to his name. Things have come to such
a pass in the gloomful city that all its citizens,
from Kingston downwards, are either pious or
suspected to be so, and, unless something is done,
there will be a crisis.
MICK SIMMON
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest Ctit Prices-
CRICKET. LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SAN DOWN, &c. &e. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths' All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,6/6
~ , 3/0, 4/-, 4 6
Special lino Youths' Single Oane Handle
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men's All-cane Handle
„ F. H. Ayres' ditto (International)
~ Bryant's Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
~ Bartlett's Men’s All-cane Handle
„ Bartlett's ditto (Hepercusive)
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) 6s 6d, 7s6d,
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
„ Clapshaw's ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUM PS WITH BA 11,8.—Brass Ferrule, Iron'
Shod (Special)
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
~ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.-Youths' ..
„ Men’s
„ Men's Skeleton, best irold cape
BALf,S.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match.
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 6s 6d ; ditto Best
„ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, hound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (tkia is the beat value in Sydney) ..
CRICKET N UTS.— Complete ... Ios6d, 17s 6d, 20s
„ With pegs, runners, <fcc., Ac. ... 40s, 60s, 60s
11s
16s
Lis
10a
14s
0S
12s
18s
6s
7s, 7s
... Os 6d, 12s
l2s
4s
6s, 6s
68, 7s 9d, 9s
10s
5s
4s
80s
22 2 2222222222 S 22222222
BATS. - Oobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6a 6d, 8a 6d, 10s 6d
„ Keltham's ditto 6s 6d
„ Felthani’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lily white’s All-cane Handle 16s 0d
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 16s 6d
„ Shaw A Shrewsbury’s ditto ...6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons' Patent Cork-cased Handle... 16s Od
„ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLK I’S.— ' Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
„ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s »d
~ Ited Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s Od
MATTING GLOVES 6s 6d, 6s Od, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SC< >ItI NG B<)OKS 6d, Bd, la, Is Od, 2s Od
BALLS.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 8s 9d to 4s Od
„ Compo.—Nicholson's, 8s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ ~ Match, ls; Boys’, Sd, 4d, and 6d
CRICK KT SETS.—Boys’ ... Is 6d, 2s, 2s Bd, 2s 6d
~ Youths' 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 8/8, 10/6, 12/6
Youth's Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, A Stumps 7s 6d
Men's Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps „ ... Ms Ot
A VISTT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
DRAWING an OVERDRAFT
ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
*
*
xn
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c., &c Use
ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLERS’ BAG BHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
A INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
I'EVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood, and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENOS Patent.
00 KS you WANT!
Tblkphonb 2216.
frsT WILL
|{ HAND RAPE.
- f BPUBLISHER
fc IMPORTER.
I®?) H ®
CHEAP BOOKS
WILL ANDRADE*
Wife's Guide and Friknd;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the right to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugh, prose-
cuted work, Is: post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Hook of Nature and Mar-
riagk Guide, 3s Od; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. A pplks of Sin, Is.
I’lain Home Talk about
tub Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edit ion, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post.l 9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Tokology, illustrated—a book for every woman, 10s 6d ;
post tree, 11s. How to Exckl in Businkss. Post tree, ls6d.
Crisp Talus mom thb Frhbch, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is; post Is 3d. Australia* Crimk and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post Robbkrt Undkr Arms, new complete
edition, Is; post Is Bd. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australia*
Ready Reckonbr and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, waije earners, etc., Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotlb (complete), colored plates, 8s 6d ; poet, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmabtb* ; or. How to Edu-
cate One’s Self ; post free, Is 6d.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette ; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
Phallic, or Srx Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
Gustave and His Loves, by Paul de Kock ; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d, post free. Th*
Same for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
Dr. Beanby’s Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
Thk Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife's Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Best Way to Grt Ox : Guide to Money-making. Is 6d,
post free. The Art of Ventriloquism. Post free, Is.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle ; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of thb
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Our List of Sl* EC IA L BOOKS post free anywhere.
WILL ANDRADE,
p osite Waxworks.
201 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
The London & American Supply Stores
•-
MML
LONDON*, AMERICAN
UrrL
5@
« # FOB t §
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING k HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BCURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
When the Liver Goes Wrong
the Whole System Suffers.
A Bad Case. A Good Cure.
(ftom At "Australian Christian World*
July Ist, 1898.)
(BT OU* OWW REPORT HR.)
•*Out of pure gratitude for my deliveranoe
from a most serious and painful complica-
tion of complaints, I am willing to
give you the whole afternoon if you wish
it 1” answered Mrs. Cole, of 2 Purves-street,
Forest Lodge, Sydney, to our reporter
on his requesting an interview as to
that lady’s case. “ The whole trouble,”
said Mrs. Cole, in answer to further ques-
tions on the subject, “arose, I firmly believe,
from the poison that got into my system
through a deranged liver. Soon after that
organ got out of order and started to work
irregularly my appetite began to get very
fickle and changeable. Without cause or
reason I turned against delicacies which
were formerly favourite dishes of mine, and
sometimes I sat down to meal after meal
and rose again without being able to so
much as swallow a single mouthful. In the
morning I invariably had a most unpleasant
acrid taste in the mouth, together with a
dirty coated tongue, and, as time wore on
(for I must tell you I was seriously ill for
over a year), my liver trouble got worse and
worse. When I woke in the morning I
felt giddy, stupid, and dazed, and often
made vain efforts to get out of bed, being
forced to lie back again on the pillow to
collect enough strength before finally suc-
ceeding. At nights I was unable to sleep,
and I should lie wide awake restlessly
turning about and counting the weary hours
as they wore away, till the dawn began to
break, when I usually fell into a sort of
stupor,—it was not a proper sleep,—and I
woke from that half dazed as I have
just described. I became very, very thin,
not like I am now (Mrs. Cole has now a
particularly healthy appearance, with a
clear eye and that clear freshness of
complexion which is never seen with a
disordered liver), and, as for my complexion
—well, sallow was not the word for it. It
was as yellow as if I was suffering from
fellow jaundice.” •
“All this must have had a very depressing
effect upon your spirits i”
i“ It did indeed, as anyone might expect,”
answered Mrs. Cole, “ though you have not
heard the half of my bad symptoms yet. I
was most low spirited and dull and
crotchety as well. I couldn't bear the
slightest noise, and the smallest trifles
would have a most distressing effect upon
my nerves. Nothing could interest me. I
didn’t care even to hear the hews of the
day, and the trifling cares of domestic life
drove me into a state of nervous irritation.
I was always languid and weary. I went to
bed every night as fatigued as though I had
done some excessive labour, when as a
matter of fact I had done nothing; but I
could not sleep, and I rose in the morning
feeling more tired, weary, and lifeless than
I did the night before. I suffered from
terrible headaches, and I vomited almost
daily. More than once, after I had managed
to walk a short distance to my mother’s
house, I ha ve had to fling myself upon the
grass, one of these sick fits attacking me and
causing me to vomit ten ibly, and being so
giddy that I positively couldn’t stand. Then
palpitation of the heart often came on
suddenly, and I know of nothing more dis-
tressing and terrifying whilst the violence
of the fit was on than that.”
“ You suffered from other complications V*
“ Yes, I regret to say, after a time pain-
ful neuralgia attacked me. The attacks
came on at short and regular intervals. I
should first feel a peculiar tickling sensa-
tion in my face and jaws and then a sudden
and awful whirling sensation over all my
face and head, just like the mad rushing of
a big red hot wheel in my head. Ido not
think there are w'ords in the dictionary
capable of expressing the exquisite agopy I
suffered whilst these periodical attacks
lasted. Many doctors attended me, but
unfortunately for me they were not able to
either give me relief or effect a cure,
although I faithfully followed the treat-
ment they recommended and took the
medicines they prescribed. Then my
rheumatism ”
“ V hat Mrs. Cole, you surprise me, did
„ ou suffer from rheumatism also ?”
41 1 did, very acutely, too. The pain in
my legs was terrible. My feet swelled up
to a prodigious size, and of course it was
impossible to put on a shoe, and worse
than all my knees swelled. I was quite
unable to walk. The pain in my ankles,
my knees, and other joints was unremitting,
and gave me no rest neither by night nor by
day.
“In what way was Clements Tonio
brought to your notice T”
“ Through a little book that was placed
in my hand when things seemed at their
worst. I supposed I had reached the worst.
No medicines that I took did me any good,
nor were the many doctors who attended
me able to alleviate my sufferings. Well,
as I said, someone gave me a book that con-
tained an account of a case that in many
important particulars was precisely similar
to mine. I naturally read it with engross-
ing interest, and, seeing that Clements
Tonic had effected a complete cure for that
patient, and being satisfied as to the
absolute truth of every word of the account
of the patient’s illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, I commenced to use that remedy
myself. Very glad I am, too, that I did.”
“ In what way did it act in your case ?”
“The first thing I noticed, the very
first action of the remedy, was to make
me sleep, and about that there could be no
mistake. Natural sleep came upon me after
taking the remedy as regularly as the night
follows the day, and from the time I started
Clements Tonic my sleep became refreshing
and dreamless. After long weary months
of nearly sleepless nights, only snatches of
sleep being obtained at odd times when the
pain troubled me least, I can hardly express
to you the priceless boon this sleep was to
me. The neuralgic pains in my jaws and
head gradually gave way to Clements Tonic,
and at the same time the swelling in my
knees and ankles became more reduced evei y
day till it went away altogether, and I was
once more enabled to get my shoes on and
to put my feet to the ground without pain.
I was able to eat again without feeling at
all sick afterwards, as I used to, and I have
had no sick fits since. Clements Tonic also
rid me of that low, depressed feeling, and
when I now awoke in the morning I felt
bright and cheerful and once more fib to
undertake my domestic duties, no longer
with a feeling of wearhiess, but with posi-
tive pleasure. One by one all the compli-
cations which beset me were driven out of
my system by Clements Tonic. My head-
aches were a thing of the past and I was
troubled no more with palpitation of the
heart. My friends all noticed the change
for the better in my health and spirits.'
Clements Tonic, in addition to removing the
poison that collects in the blood in conse-
quence of a diseased state of the liver, has
a marvellous effect in toning up the system,
and my natural healthy colour speedily
returned and I commenced to get stout.
It was not very long before I was completely
cured and as well, if not better, than I was
before my illness.”
“You will consent for the proprietor oi
Clements Tonic to publish all this ?”
“ Yes. You can make what use you like
of what I’ve told you, and I shall only be
too happy to answer any enquires, if any
should be made, in regard to my recovery.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Sarah Colr, of 2 Purves-street, Forest hodg-e,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales do
solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of eleven
folios and consecutively numbered from one to eleven,
and that it contains a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the
of her present Majesty, intituled ' An Act for
the more effectual abolition of f'aths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New Pouth Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suptnession
of voluntary and txtia judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Deeared at Srdaay, this 13th day of June. 1898,
before me. JOHN •TRACHA.N, J.£.


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TBA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather” Blend.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE ;
Agents for “White Heather’’ Whisky,
Oranuma and Fodah Porridge Meals.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfelcl Lager.
749) don’t go further than ’96, but some more
interesting returns should be due shortly.
MELBOURNE DIRECTORY, 1899.
“The Melbourne Directory ” for 1899 will be
ready for delivery on Wednesday , Jflh Jan.
Sands and MuDougall Ltd.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 3-sorge Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In. Reid circles there is talk qf the appoint-
or? to N.S.W. Upper House of three ex-
j\l b.L.A. of the Labor-party.
Federation is like an amateur climbing a
greasy pole. Plenty of effort, but no progress,
fteid is the grease on the pole.
“ Melbournian ” : Gillies has lost his im-
pact. . Even the angular M‘lntyre was more
effective than Duncan has been of late. Vic.
Opposition ought to fetch in a leader from the
outside.
Over a score of N.S.W. legislators profess
so deep an interest in Norfolk Island affairs that
they have tapped the Govt, for a free trip there—
free boat, free provisions, free lodgings. Modest
legislators !
Willis, Sleath and Thomas, of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, voted against the appointment of
a Royal Commission to enquire into the Suffield
case. Had they voted differently Suffield had had
his enquiry.
Up to date, public money, or rather loan
money, spent in the awful M'Sharry (N.S.W.)
arbitration-case amounts to .£29,433 12s. Id. And
Premier Reid calls this “permanent and repro-
ductive works! ”
John Forrest was eight years Premier and
Treasurer of Westralia on Thursday (29th Dec.).
This is the biggest continuous record in Austra-
lasia. Herbert, who bossed the politics of Queens-
land for 6 years 53 days, comes second in intense
continuity of billet.
N.S. Wales Leg. Council numbers 58
members, of whom 42 have held seats in the
Legislative Assembly. When the people are so
tired of a politician that they won’t put him in
for three years, he is appointed to boss them for
the rest of his natural life.
Samuel Tomkinson, M.L.C., S.A.’s oldest
legislator, finally retires from Parliament next
year. The old man boasts that he has never voted
for a democratic measure, and yet his honesty
and independence have made him one of the most
popular men in S.A. politics.
Sleath, M.L.A., thinks the N.S.W. mili-
tary estimates should be cut down, that there is
altogether too much cash wasted on guns and
swords and tilings. He reckons that a man with
a pen behind his ear and a ruler in hi- fist is armed
enough for all practical purposes.
At the last moment there was a strong
chance of a settlement of the row between S.A.
Leg. Council and the Kingston Government, but
several prominent Tories kept deliberately out of
the way, a course which so angered Kingston that
he declined to listen to compromise. S.A. Tories
now realise that they irreparably blundered in
blocking prorogation.
JACK WORRALL-“The only man in Australia who can score 100 on a bad wicket."
The N.S.W. police estimates, which in
previous years were rushed through the Assembly
m 10 minutes or so, were this time under discus-
sion for hours, the individual grievance of almost
every “cop.” in the force being moaned over at
great length. Reason : The bobby has a vote
now.
An inquisitive member proposes to ask
N.S.W. Govt., when the House meets, how many
paid Govt, positions ex-editor Dr. Garran, now
on the Public Works Committee, has held since
leaving S.M. Herald office on the score of ill-
health? Also, how much per year his income
from the various posts has averaged ?
“It is not what Cicero, or Aristotle, or
Plato, Pythagoras, or Thucydides, or Julius
Caesar said that we want to know,” remarked
King O’Malley during the recent S.A. crisis ;
“All that we are anxious to learn is what Kingston
says. He is the man raised up by God to help
this country to its democratic rights.”
The return of the N.S.W. Aborigines
Protection Board for the year just ended continues
the story of its predecessors. Among full-
bloods and half-castes there were 194 deaths in
the twelve-months, but of these 192 svere
deaths of full-bloods. The genuine black
aborigines decreased by 67 ; half-caste 3
increased by 108. In 1882 the census
gave full-bloods 6540, and half-castes
2379 ; now the former stand at 3230,
and the latter at 3661. It is almost
possible to fix the year of the total
disappearance of the black race in
N.S.W.
In N.S.W. Assembly .re-
cently Geo. Reid was sitting on
back Govt, bench, and Fegan,
who is a most servile barracker
for Yes-no, went over and, kneel-
ing on the front bench, started
a conversation with him. Then
Opposition whip Perry rose and
drew attention to the disorderly
conduct of the hon. member in
“ kneeling before his god in the
chamber while the House was
sitting.” It wasn't much of a
joke, but was better than the
general run of humor which
comes from a Parliament where
Sleath is boss-humorist.
Chief Justice Griffith, a
week after a Q.N. Bank direc-
tors were acquitted, ordered the
jurors in the case to be paid
extra fees, thus raising their
allowances to two guineas a
day. The jury, it is true, ap-
plied for increased fees early in
the trial, and the Judge pro-
mised to consider the applica-
tion, but the increases should
have been granted or refused
before the verdict was returned.
Everybody asks or thinks the
question : Would they have got
the extra pay if the accused direc-
tors had been convicted ? Queensland looks deep
down in the brown abyss of its beer for a reply,
and finds none.
“Mr. S. A. Stephen, M.L.C., of Syd-
ney, who has recently taken up his residence in
London, has joined the London board of the
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co.”
Yet Mr. Stephen retains his membership of
N.S.W. Leg. Council, to which he was appointed
in ’B7, and has perhaps the worst record for atten-
dance of any member of the Upper House. Like
another lawyer-member of the Council, Mr.
Stephen has lived alternately a few months in
London and a few in Sydney.
The Northern Territory electorate, now
more or less represented in the S.A. Parliament
by Oppositionists Solomon and Griffiths, stretches
from Port Darwin to within cooey of Port Augusta;
and the campaigner can mostly rely on strik-
ing one elector every week, if he is a good bush-
man and keeps a-moving. If he isn’t, the chances
are that he will soon become a corpse, with no one
within 50 miles to bury him. The magnificent
Solomon couldn’t, of course, think of overlanding ;
but Griffiths, whose re-election is not so sure, will
probably be forced to prowl over his huge elector-
ate this year with a compass and a waterbag.
There does not seem the remotest possi-
bility of Turner’s Alien Immigration Bill passing
so long as the suave and ancient Cuthbert repre-
sents the Govt, in Vic. Council. Cuthbert is a
perfect lady in his language and manners, but his
post wants something more than that. A man of
fire and eloquence and energy, and with the voice
of a thunderbolt, might scare concessions out of
the 48 Rich Landlords now and then. A person
who pats them with the velvet paw of the ancient
and gentlemanly kitten is of no use whatever.
During the hearing of an action against
Brisbane Tramway Co. for -£lOOO damages, one
witness, a discharged motor-man, said ;
According to the co.’s rules men who were six months
in the service were entitled to 6s. a day. Up to that time
they received ss. a day. His experience was that after
men finished their six months’ service some excuse was
given for their dismissal, and they were sent away, while
fresh men were engaged at 6s. a day.
Five shillings a day ! Wages are as good as that
now in England. Truly this great, bright, sunny
land has slumped suddenly in its early youth.
The indignant scream in N.S.W. Assembly
of Meagher, M-L.A., that he had been accused in
a paper published by an ex-member of the same
House, and allegedly on the word of two present
members, of laying plans for the murder of a
prominent member of the Leg. Council, hardly
created a ripple on the dirty placid waters of
N.S.W. politics. Scarcely anyone even listened
intently to Meagher’s assurances that he never
even dreamt of murdering Salomons, Q.C. Yet
what a storm such an accusation would have
aroused in any Legislature which had a vestige of
self-respect left to it!
HOSPITALITY.
CANDID DEADBEAT : “ Gimme sixpence, sir, to get
a drink.”
THE OTHER : “ But does not this democratic com-
munity foster many threepenny bars? ”
THE BEAT : “ Of course, boss ; but with only three-
pence I couldn’t have asked you to join me.”
The heaviest S.A. Ministerial billet is that
of representative in the Council, which falls to
nu- c /~v»r it tt i •
Chief bee. O Loghlin. Unlike his predecessor,
Gordon, O’Loghlin has been a comparative failure
in the position, and the defeat of nearly all King-
ston’s democratic measures is ascribed in part to
his bad generalship. O’Loghlin is a clever ex-
journalist, but absolutely tactless.
Some four hundred
destitute Austrians were
recently tumbled on to
Maoriland shores, osten-
sibly to support them-
selves by digging gum.
As there isn’t enough gum
to go round the destitute
local person, the Aus-
trians looked like starv-
ing till somebody had a
bright idea—“ ship them
to Queensland.” And to
Queensland, the cesspool
of Australia, they are
being duly shipped.
Kilmorey ascribes
the failure of his S.A.
Outer Harbor scheme to
the bitter opposition of
the South Australian
Company, the big land
syndicate, composed en-
tirely of British absen-
tees. The co. owns nearly
.£300,000 worth of S.A.
land-values, and has very
valuable freeholds along
the Port Adelaide River,
which would be much de-
preciated in value should
an Outer Harbor be con-
structed. This company
was founded by George
Fife Angas, alleged phil-
anthropist, in 1836, and
has been sucking the life-
blood of theprovince ever
since.
Sarcasm of N.S.W.
Labor-member Hughes,
when Premier Reid gross-
ly interrupted him, and
then disclaimed any idea
of alluding to the speak-
ing member : “Am I to
believe that the right
hon. member is address-
ing the benches? Is he
wandering in his sleep ?
Has he gone suddenly
and permanently mad,
and is he talking to the
furniture ? ”
“Turncoat Bill”
Copley, the S.A. farmer,
puts both feet into it
more than ever. The
Northern blunderer’s
latest offence was to read
an anonymous letter charging the Labor-members
who recently visited an up-country township with
having their exes, paid by the drought-stricken
ratepayers of the part. And when Copley was
pommelled subsequently from all parts of the
House—the allegation having been instantly re-
futed—not a single member went to his rescue.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
Sydney Municipal Council turns naturally
to the State to make its colossal new markets pay.
Govt, has already taken premises therein for the
Lending Library. A branch P.O. is established
there also, and the Council now desires to lease
the basement for a “national bathroom.”
There are more than twice as many
colored aliens in North Queensland as there are in
the South and centre put together. About nina
out of every twenty men in N.Q. are colored aliens.
Population of the North, 95,837 souls, of whom
(say) 22,000 are adult males. In the same piebald
sub-province there are 16,496 imported browns,
blacks, and yellows. And last year about half
the increase in the North consisted of browns,
blacks, and yellows.
A measure has just passed Q. Assembly
by which all aliens are prohibited from holding
licenses for pearling-boats. There were certain
enthusiasts who wanted a legal enactment to
bring about compulsory sale of boats owned by
aliens, but the Govt, couldn’t see it. Of course
the alien employe goes on just as before— he isn’t
a grievance, inasmuch as he helps to swell the pro-
fits of the white capitalist. Monopoly for the
white capitalist, and Jap competition for the
laborer—that’s the Act.
The Melbourne Tory papers insist on
classing that unionist baker who took a billet in a
non-union shop, and worked the illegal hours
fixed by his boss, and then informed and got the
boss fined JJS, with the detectives who paid sundry
abortionists to do an illegal operation, and then
got them convicted. Yet there really isn’t a
speck of resemblance between the two cases.
The detectives asked their victims to do an
illegal act, and offered them a cash induce-
ment. The unionist baker didn’t ask his boss to
break the law, or pay him to do it, or induce him
in any way. Ho simply went there to find out if
the boss was breaking the law of his own free will
by bidding his employes to work illegal hours, and
discovered him doing it. The difference is just
that between the policeman who finds and arrests
a burglar, and the fizgig who persuades a man to
go burgling with him and then gives him away to
the law.
The Govt, rail-painting Xmas job in
Sydney found temporary work for 2750 unem-
ployed—about three per cent, of the adult male
population of the city ! Considering that this
was a mere casual fragment of the great relief
system it doesn’t look well for the regime of Jolly
and Fat. It is a notable circumstance, by the
way, that N.S.W. pauperism has increased more
rapidly during the glorious Freetrade epoch of
Premier Reid than it ever did before. Between
1889 and 1894—covering the great bank-smash
period—the number of N.S.W. paupers increased
from 44 to 48 per 10,000 inhabitants—an increase
of four per 10,000 in five years. Then in ’95 and
’96 they increased to 54 per 10,000 —an increase of
6 per 10,000 in two years. Coghlan’s figures
(“ Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.” for 1897, page
THE TRUE HOLIDAY SPIRIT.
STREET LOAFER: “Say, boss, can ye give me the price of a meal? I
can’t git no work, and haven’t had anything to eat for three
days! ”
PRACTICAL PHILANTHROPIST : “ Come with me, my poor man. I have a
stump in my backyard that I leant grubbed out. You can
earn enough this afternoon to keep you over Sunday.”
LOAFER: “ What I Would yer do a poor hard-worked man out of his
reg'lar legal half-’oliday? ”


PALINC’S
PIANOS
ORGANS
and
Musical
Instruments
of all kinds
ARE
UNEQUALLED
on all points.
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
LIPP
FEURICH
Excellent
PIANOS
Though Cheaper
Estey Organs
“ VICTOR
PIANOS
Conquer all
at the Price
Catalogues Post Free
Easy Time Payments
High Grade
PIANOS
at Lowest Prices
TTEBEL
ECKE
VICTOR
BELLING
Estey Organs
In Two Models.
No. 1 £46 lOs
No. 2 £49
the u JHD6ET M _!!!ll21
ACCORDEON
Posted to any town in New South Wales.
A most serviceable Instrument.
W. N- PaliQg & Co. Ltd.
340 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE,
BRISBANE, &c.
An ex-Pentridge warder (40 years in the
Penal service) vouches for this :—ln the early
days a certain candidate for warder’s billet, though
satisfactory in every other way, was one-eighth of
an inch under the required height. The day
before his examination he induced a compatriot
(Hibernian, av eoorse) to whack hard with a pot-
stick on the top of his crownpiece. As the examin-
ing official was not a phrenologist, the ingenious
one, being measured to the summit of the bump,
just scraped through.
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c. ? &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
“ F.C.” on Melbourne “push” Xmas
festivities: —
Despite last year’s complaints of the giddy goings-on
at the beaches of Port Phillip on holidays, I formed one of
a barrel-full of herrings on Boxing Day-said harrel being
a cattle-truck with canvas awning and forms braced
athwart ship. We meandered gently down to Mor-
dialloe, covering the whole 16 miles in less than an hour
and three-quarters. Bill was there—also ’Lizer; but
somewhat subdued by the presence of a half-dozen extra
constables. Still, Bill had much amusement. He danced,
in an open-sided hall, till he was tired, when a short but
sharp scrap in the scrub adjacent roused him to a sense
of his responsibility and dispelled the temporary effects
of the “sun.” Later on a rash youth threw doubts on
the musical ability of the concertina-wielder and was
promptly thrown out on his ear. Between whiles Bill
cooled his imagination in the shady seclusion of the bar,
whence he would wander back to rest for a while under-
neath the dance-platform—raised some six feet above
ground—where from numerous cracks and knot-holes
he would catch glimpses of ’Lizer’s flying stockings.
'Lizer, on the ’op, mostly closes her eyes or wears a
dreamy expression, and holds herself stiff as a ramrod
from her hips up, but flings her feet round “regardless.”
Bill goes into the business with a tremendous sense of re-
sponsibility, which shows itself in a pained expression of
countenance and a general look as of a lost soul departing
in agony. His lips are mostly sucking a half-smoked
cigar. Occasionally he sings, in ominous key and doleful
tone.
Tired of dancing, casual members of the push with
their donahs strolled along the beach or the pier. A few
went for a sail in one of the many “ yots." “Yotting”
appears to be great sport - when there is only the owner
aboard and the rest of the party don’t know a tiller from
a tea-tray. One such boat was discharging a party at the
pier steps when her bow bumped heavily against the piles.
The pilot or captain yelled to Bill—standing on the fore-
deck—to “ fend off,” which he did to such purpose that
he immediately found himself floundering about in two
feet of water, with a couple of his lady friends. They
took it very well, merely requesting the pilot to consider
himself the offspring of a blind hippopotamus, and the
descendant of a woman of poor character. Then the
ladies strolled along the beach, and sat in the sun, and
took off their stockings, and sun-dried the rest of their
habiliments. Later on they were observed with a num-
ber of their friends indulging in the pleasant game of
“ rollers.” “ Rollers ”is a great game, and a simple. A
lot of boys and girls get together at the top of a sloping
sandbank, lie down simultaneously, and roll to the bot-
tom. The first arrival is the winner, of course. That’s
all there is in it. The spectator takes up a masterly and
strategic position on the right flank and a little to the
rear, and, as in most amusements, the onlooker sees
most of the game—also he appears to have most of the
fun. Mordialloc on Boxing-day is amusing, but Bill as a
tearing terror and a rorty perisher is a fraud and the
worst sort of a “ have.” He’s quite tame, he won't bite,
he won’t even bark unless you interfere with him or his
donah—and who wouldn’t do the same 1
N. S. Wales Government Gazette, of
21/12/’9B, notices that Rev. Andrew Brown, C.E.,
and Rev. Archibald Geikie, “ having died, are no
longer authorised to celebrate marriages in New
South Wales.” A thoughtful paper, the Govern-
ment Gazette.
Advt. from a Charters Towers (Q.) paper :
T OST Pair Gray Holland Trousers near Freehold
Mine. Finder will be rewarded by returning
to Mrs. Christensen, Rainbow Flat.
Advt. from next issue of same:
LOST.—It was not this ’ere cove that lost his
trousers. I've only got one pair. A. C. Chris-
tensen, Rocky Roost, Eastward Ho.
Chief Secretary Peacock (Vic.) being a
bachelor, lavishes his affections upon the brute
creation. His house and grounds at Creswick are
shared by a cold-snouted monkey, five cockatoos,
a peacock, three shell parrots, seven dogs, an emu,
a hutch of guinea-pigs, a laughing jackass, a calf,
a native bear, a black sheep, and various other
fowl and quadrupeds. Most of them are named
after local politicians. The Bulletin has this
information on the worst authority, and.anybody
can rely on it if he pleases.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-8).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
« Tuesday
■ Tuesday
m Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Palgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badfrery, Limited.
Winehcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
h<'f 7 7'*7 •::•■ :5777777
?■• \ ’■• • 7-'
■: ' v;:-7.- ',.-
■• ? & . *, ■ ..
77.
-7.,‘ ;■ -
mmim
:.r,V *«i» ••'■■
■ : ' 7 s ;. :>.•'.<••'•
77.'.
V>.r.
1
>•>» *
' ->•/
• * .••s*'■. •' 7..
77h
; ' ; 77
FAST or ROUGH RIDING
. . It's always the same result.
«
Dun top Tyres
• •
* *
... TO THE FRONT.
V V
ON THE TRACKS
They’re the Fastest.
ON THE ROAD-%-
The most Reliable.
In fact, they are the fastest Tyres for alt purposes.
Manufactured and guaranteed by a firm whose aim is
to make every tyre a standing advertisement, and
every Dunlop rider a satisfied one.
lieu-are of Imitations'^
Examine the cover and tube for th is
Registered Trade Mark.
None genuine without it.
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop PneumaticlTyre Co. Ltd.
486 Kent Street, Sydney ;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
11.5.111. Wont de piete
D. & I. Go., Limited
(Lakge White Mabble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawn bro /»• ii ig Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
FER. MZOKTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at- Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
HEAD office
I NTERSECTION HUNTER,BLIGH and
Castle reach
• SYDNEY •
Establish to - 1873.
Office ih AustrM-'* *
natnua l Income and In yes ted
Funds Exceed J2oo,oooSterling .
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. .... £38,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. £213,260
The Capital and. Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of. the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
- 79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
_ (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
£700,000
WM. C. SMITH.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ••• 250,000
£350,000
United li)S(irai>C€ Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
*500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
™E GRAPHOPHONE.
50/-
3&.
th*
lbe
SR
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
TALKS!
LAtTOHS!
SINGS ! AMUSES ! and
ENTERTAINS
PRICE (including Repro-
ducer, Horn, and Record),
£2 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Importing Representa-
tives for Australia. Agents wanted where we are not
already represented. Send for Catalogues of Grapho-
phones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets, Musical
Instruments and Music; also for the best Mouth Organ in
the world— “ The BOOMERANG,” price 2s. 6d. Trade
supplied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
Banking, Publlo Companies, &o.
Jb€ TrOstccs, C^ccCitorS,
AND
Ag?OCV Conjpaijy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Embling; Robert)
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; lion N. Tbornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron-
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Milbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London O/jice: 1 Jtlshopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES'.
SIDNEY - 373 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual iLife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. <J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748- assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccldent
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. ot London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liiabil
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, et
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital '.. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ». .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. ». .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. /
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; O. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Richard Jones, Esq. ; T. A.
Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Hon. F. J. Humphrey, M.L.C.; E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliiii - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
W ARRN AMBOOL
Tyrian, Friday, January 6, 5 p.m.
-Gabo, Saturday, Jan, 7,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 14,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Friday, January 6, 5 p.m.
Gabo, Saturday, Jan. 7,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
-Gabo, Saturday, Jan. 7,12 Noon.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 7, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Jan. 10, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 14, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE I
LUCINDA POINT ,
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c. J
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 7, 2 p.ni.
"Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 14, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST aiBKI'JT FA It US TO AU POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, comer George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
1, INGLAND VIA AMERICA
A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, IB Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
TO . . CUP *H.
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Rates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to—
Gibbs, Bright & Co ~ Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE. 52 Market-street ;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M’Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner Wiiliam-st., Melbourne
Cable Address—lfiEMSEiL. Telephone No. 095.
Code— Moueing & Neal. etc. Box No. :5J7, u. P. 0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
AVRilnblc.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
TRADE MARK
GIRL ft BRAID
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bulimba, Friday, January 0.
'S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, January 10.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, !
Transhipping-at Fremantle I
to V
VASSE, DONGARRA, 1
BUNBURY’, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Bulimba, Friday,
January 6.
S.S. Marloo, (from Melb.)
Tuesday, January 10.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Saturday,
January 7.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at ilobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, A'6s to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £as. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Kuddart, parker & C°’s D' ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6600 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £26 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
IDlluiraith, (l|‘[jacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S- IM. Ooy. Ltd.
EOYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamship*, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornianton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd;’, Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar HXT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But. as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is Sud-
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you.'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twioe a day.
They Purity the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical G-entleman says
. about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, ana consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England
Port Adelaide, Ootober 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’ ■-
- Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronio
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy aotion of the secretions and
induoing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJEUKIN, M.D. Tlie Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. Itlias a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBHB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. 1 therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’3
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so oalled INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-streeb.
fISBBSBOHHHHBBBDBSTSZSuXSOHESHHBHfIfIHHBS&gQ&BOEBMBHHBHHHBHCZIia
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of (he Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW'S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot barm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
tL.e cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
p&SS6Ci»
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
BOW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW L CO.,
Sydney.
D.S.MAI R
gp
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
-Mainspring-, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
1 Sin INTO FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 605.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
m
■ ■ r.
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bkar : ‘ What's your hurry, Jim ?"
Sbcond Bkar : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there 1”
First Bbar : “ Have they got gunst"
Sbcond Bkar : “ No I Kodaks I"
Australian Depots
—FOB—
saw?
KODAKS.
Ml
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BRKER $ ROUSE
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Dr. TARRANT,
F.K.C.S.R, L.E.0.P.E., L. 1i.C.5.1., L.M.It.C.P.E.,
/• a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
worla-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formula) formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
aoquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the prlncipa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or aohieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
JVr o Man or 'Woxn.axi
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ;it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced iheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright's Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, bv advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation' or Relaxation of the
Bowels; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr!
TARRANT makes
Absolutely KTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eve and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUAET & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, i 3 perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 «. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
.. Self-Measurement System.,
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the
Human Foot
Post Free.
BEWARE of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS.
imi
7
&
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the Joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Out the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Bootsare made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
oheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS,
Sydney.
636 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! -1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OP
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T*E T*M* F*R e*E*Y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with [the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most, reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
“ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A. Solid Silver Watch
Absolutely GIVEN AWAY. Can You Bead This?
| WA»S j T* E | T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter Watches (Ladies' or
Gentlemen’s) to every reader who sends us the correct
reading of the above rebus. Conditions—that your
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely with
the object of introducing our catalogue and advertising
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stamped-addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Address:
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch & Jewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
\
Croup, \
Coughs,
. Tooth-
{ ache
Cramps,
Colic,
1 Colds,
Cuts,
Burns,
Bruises
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'"Potin-KiWer
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHANI & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS, ,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.


Prevention of Seasickness. — Mr. F.
Mitchell, 66 Upper Fort-street, travelling from
Sydney to Brisbane and back, writes on Dec. 5
endorsing the testimony already published as to
the wonderfully efficacy of the new remedy “ Sea-
joi.” He says : “For the first time I was free
from any feeling of sickness. I shall always carry
a bottle with me when travelling by water.”
“ Seajoi ” is sold by Albert Sharp, 257 George-st.,
Sydney ; 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.; posted to any colony,
4d. and Bd.*
The lepers at the Queensland lazarette on
Stradbroke Island celebrated Xmas by sailing
across to Cleveland, and having quite a cheerful
drunk at that pleasant watering-place. This is
what they call, a policy of rigid
isolation 1
Sydney Telegraph made a woeful bull
last Tuesday in its efforts to prove that the 20th
century begins at the beginning of 1900 instead of
1901: —
On January 1 Christendom registered its 1899th birth-
day. On the Ist of next January its 1900th birthday will
have been attained. On the New Year’s Day following it
will have reached its 1901st birthday. When a man has
lived to count 100 birthdays, he is usually said to be a
century old. Whether pedantry requires a world to have
101 annual birthdays to its century is a question for
pedants to decide.
But, then, Christendom, or rather the Christian
era, only registered its first birthday on Ist
January, 2, so Ist January, 1899, is its 1898th
birthday. Tho controversy about the beginning
of the 20th century will drive somebody into a
lunatic asylum yet.
The height (or depth) ot irony! The
Bulletin scissors from the Band of Mercy and
Humane Journal of N.S.W. some remarks made
by the late Justice-Minister Gould in moving the
report of the “ Woman’s Society for Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, N.S.W.” (Gould was the
callous attorney who persistently refused to fjrant
Suffield an enquiry into his case, though his de-
partment had such a doubt about it that Suffield
was several times offered release if he would
petition for mercy):—
Mr. Gould, in rising to move the adoption of the report,
said that it gave him very great pleasure to again be pre-
sent at the annual meeting of the society, and to discern
from the report that the operations of the society during
the past 12 months showed progress, and that its humane
work had not been neglected (!). It was perhaps true, as
had been stated by their chairman, that when he was a
boy, boys too often took an apparently intense delight in
torturing animals, but he was lain to believe that it had
not been due to inherent cruelty, but from a spirit of
thoughtlessness, and the absence of those valuable
lessons that the school-children of the present age had
inculcated in their minds by societies of the character of
the Women's S.P.O. A. and kindred associations (!!!). .
He appealed more especially to the young people present,
to do all they could by example, and otherwise to show
their horror and detestation of everything approaching
cruelty to animals, many of whom ministered to the
happiness of mankind (! 1) No one could have failed to
remark upon the many miserable wandering dogs about
the streets of the city, friendless, homeless and wretched,
but how many people paused to consider what eventually
became of those miserable animals when they dis-
appeared ? From time to time they were gathered by the
police and destroyed under a system which, it bad been
said, inflicted unnecessary cruelty. Whether this was
true or r.ot, he did not know, but it was only fair to
remember that the authorities contended that their
method of destruction was r i painless and humane as
could be adopted. Efforts 1. \ liowever, been made by
the society to secure the establishment of a lethal
chamber, similar to that at Battersea. England, for the
painless destruction of these dogs.
And so on. No accounting fot tastes. Some
men sympathise with their fellow-creatures ; others
with mangy dogs.
During the month of last Sept, the New
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.
supplied ttie German warship Falke with 6000
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use on the
voyage to Samoa and Apia. During the vessel s
stay in our harbor 600 gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute to tho
excellence of the local lager comes from the Ger-
man warship Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart)
bottles of Svdney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk Lager daily.
Both ships* crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney Lager. As the firemen,
officers and crews come from the country that has
always been famous for lager production, it is
clear that the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
deserves all that has been said by every con-
noisseur in favor of its lager. *
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
yz~
i
*
*
1
When a CHAMPION,
Who has for years been engaged in the cycle trade, buys a cycle for his own use,
paying his good gold for same, his judgment must be worth something, as he is
supposed to know a little about cycles. Such a rider is
CHA-RXjB 3 3Ft-
(late of the Cycle Firm of BENNETT & WOOD, Sydney)
Mr. Wood has examined and tested many bicyles in his time, and considers the
“ RED BIRD ” is the best value for his money.
The following is what he says : “ I have pleasure in stating that the ‘ Red Bird'
Cycle purchased hy me has, after two years’ hard riding, proved itself to be the
best and strongest cycle I have ever ridden, and has cost me nothing for repairs.
As we have said before—
“ Red Bird ” riders are the satisfied cyclists t
Our ’99 Models are to hand.
The fioold gicycSa Co. limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES!
64 KINO ST., SYDNEY (Head Office)
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
221 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Factories — BRANTFORD, CANADA.
*
*
*
*
*
\£-
y>
Agents in Tenon and Country.
TJSB THE
•‘New Sunlight
SunligUt in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner■
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s. 6d.
AUSTRALIAN
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Horseracing in Australia is, to a great extent*
what the newspapers make it. As long- as “ nags ” can be
inn in a rough-and-tumble style unbacked and “no-
where” one day, and “ crack ” performers a day or two
later—without exciting pertinent comment from the
reporters who are supposed to study “ form ” and criticise
jockeyship, so long will owners stretch the glorious un-
certainty of the turf” to ridiculous limits. Strathroy
ran now'here in the Villiers Stakes (six furlongs) on the
first day of the A.J.C. meeting. Certainly the horse had
a very big weight to carry, but considering that he had
earned a big weight by previous performances over short
courses it was natural for the public to expect him to be
fancied’by the stable. Why run an animal of his preten-
sions if it didn’t seem good enough to back him ? Two
davs later Strathroy won the Summer Cup (14 furlongs),
beatin”' Alerloolas and Amberite at a difference of only
3or 41b and proving himself “on paper ” one of the best
Cup horses in Australia. Melb. Argus remarked casu-
allv—“ Strathroy has hitherto been regarded as a sprinter
only but at Randwick he showed that he possesses
stamina as well as speed.” No reference to the fact that
this new champion had performed badly (with a different
jockey up) in the Villiers Stakes.
Take another paragraph from the same issue of
the Argus concerning the principal event at the V.A.T.C.
meeting, on Boxing Day likewise “The connection of
E Davis’s stable had a good win over Dandy Dick in the
Hopetoun Cup. The gelding ran poorly at Williamstown
a week ago, but on Saturday morning he registered a
splendid trial at Caulfield. He was backed at the opening
of the betting at 15 to 1, but at the finish 5 to 1 was the
best price against him.” A singularly pointless par under
the circs.
Handy Dick, aforesaid, ran in a six furlongs
welter race at Williamstown on December 19. He was
not mentioned in the betting, and, as the gentle Argus
scribe puts it, he “ ran poorly.” Are the public to un-
derstand that the stable didn’t know him to be a good
horse at that time, or that he wasn’t “ fit” ? A week
later Dandy Dick is tried (as though he hadn’t been tried
in public at Williamstown !), and he is “fit” enough,
anyway to put, up a fine performance on the track, which
neiformanee he dulv repeats on December 26 in the
Hopetoun Cup race of nine furlongs. The Buli.etin ad-
vises the punting public to turn the case of Dandy Dick
over in their mind, and then ask themselves whether the
Argus paragraph, quoted above, is calculated to check
these sudden “ reversals of form,” or encourage them
D 6 horse-reporters write as vigilant critics on behalf of
the public, or do they merely scribble to suit the people
who, in many cases, take care to give them the whisper
when a good thing is going?
« • * •
There is no “skinner” about the tote. When
nobody is on the winner, the whole amount invested,
minus the usual commission, is divided between the
second and third horses. The race won by Helmsman at
Randwick was a case in point; no one backing him on
one of Sydney’s machines, so the whole amount went to
the other placed horses. When does Mo pay second horse
when nobody backs the winner?
, • * *
The punter who backs “ form ” dropped cash on
Stand Off for the recent sprint races at Randwick. After
his running in Rosehill Stakes followers of form with one
accord supported him for the Villiers and made him
favorite only to see him scratched at the last minute.
Then the cunning brigade decided that the Carrington
was his particular “ dart,” and he w-as made favorite for
that event—to again be scratched about half-an-hour
before the race. Stand Off will give any race lie is sent
after a great shaking, but in future backers will see him
go to the post before they plunge.
• * * •
Playboy’s win in the Second Hurdle Race at
Randwick, with 12st. 41b. up, stamps him as by far the
best hurdler N.S.W. now has. To give such a slippery
customer on the flat as Lord Gresford. nearly 2st. and
beat him in a go up the straight was a big performance.
* * * *
People are so used to Mr. Justin M'Sweeney s
bad luck that his win, with Akarini, of the Carring-
ton Stakes, at Tattersall’s meeting, at Randwick, came
quite as a surprise. The mare looked in tip-top trim, and,
had she belonged to a stable in the winning vein, would
never have started at the price she did. Djm-Djin, the
favorite, did not get a fair run, and was never pro-
minent, and Akarini, coming with a good run at the
rb'ht end, won comfortably from Latem (idiotically
called after his sire’s name, spelt backwards). The
public were no more successful in picking the
winner of Tattersall’s Cup, on the second day.
Merloolas started a strong favorite, and more judiciously
ridden must have about won, but he was made use of too
soon, and Crosslake, at 20 to 1, beat him in the run home.
Percy Fielder, who rode Crosslake, had good luck in
getting the mount. He rode Prince Carbine on Saturday,
and the Prince’s people, not thinking Fielder had got
quite enough out of the horse, gave the mount to Cis
Parker. Fielder then got the mount on Crosslake and
had the satisfaction of beating his field home.
* * * *
A piece of “ringing-in” occurred at Kurra-
jong, N.S.W., Show trot the other day, which was
won bv Shakespeare, a fine-looking 3-year-old stallion by
Era from a Boccaccio mare. One entry had a big start,
and came in first, but was recognised as an imported
horse which, amongst other performances, had won a
free-for-all trot in Sydney ; he was, of course, disqualified.
* * * *
Australasian’s London correspondent writes
of Tod Sloan “ Possibly one of the secrets of his success
is the undemonstrative way in which he finishes. Nothing
can be more absurd than the invariable, but utterly use-
less, practice of swinging the hands round in a circle,
either from left to right, or vice-versa, when finishing ;
and we should like to hear any jockey explain what
possible advantage can arise from this gymnastic exer-
cise.” If the circular flourish of the hands is a ridiculous
trick, what about the average Australian jockey who
finishes with his head turned sideways whilst he labori-
ously whips the nag? The whipping can’t possibly
induce a fully-extended animal to go any faster, and
putting himself in a position to use the “ flail ’’ makes his
weight considerably heavier than if he were sitting well
forward.
• • * *
Despite the attempts of the cycling authorities
to block betting at the recent Sydney carnival, the odds
to any reasonable amount could be had on any race.
Some fairly big wagering was done on M‘Don aid and
Megson, but it was rather strange that while threes-to-
one could be had about Megson on the first night, nothing
better than even money was going on the final night,
although M’Donald had beaten him meanwhile.
• • • •
“ C.A.P.” : Recently at Eagle Farm (Brisbane)
races fancied two horses for certain race ; backed one on
the tote, and drew the other in a half-crown sweep. Horses
came in Ist and 2nd. Shook hands with myself and
jumped gaily on hat. Horse 1 backed on the tote came
in Ist, blit disqualified for short weight, and tote paid 2nd
horse. Went to sweep-man to lift money for 2nd horse,
but found sweep-man had paid Ist horse past post. How’s
this for hard luck ?
• • • *
“The close of the racing season is at hand,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “and, not
taking into consideration Merman’s great chance for
Manchester Novemher Handicap on 26th, the “ Walers
have taken over £lO,OOO in ‘place money’ since March
last. Now at 7’s, Jersey’s faithful antipod. bears the
stable oats, and good luck to him, for he is an equine
Umsiopogaas. His credits are the Jockey Club Cup,
£450, and a Caesarewitch ‘third.’ Malua’s mare,
his stable companion, has netted over £2OOO in stakes,
and this is the proud record of the 6-year-old Maluma :
the Lewes Spring and Summer Handicaps, Vyner Handi-
cap, and Windsor July Handicap, with three places.
Georgic, very cleverly handled, only tried, it is said,
three, but 1 believe two times, and landed £3500 with
‘firsts’ in the Cambridgeshire and Manchester Prince
Edward Handicap. Form’s Waterbench Plate was equal
to £'265, ex bets. Newhaven—‘ a pig,’and not worth
transplanting,’ according to Allison’s mud-judgment—
won the March Handicap, and seconded Bay Ronald in
the City and Suburban and Epsom Cup. Aurum, Ac-
mena, Survivor, Old Clo’, Uniform, poor old Paris, Reso-
lute, haven’t yet, though some have threatened to, paid
their passages. Of these, Acmena should be put in a cab
and Paris to bed.”
• * # *
Dear Bulletin. —I have been a client of
“Tatt.’s” sweeps for 15 years, and have waited two
mails for explanation before writing this to you. On
Oct. 25th I sent P. 0.0. for six tickets in “ Final Special
(55.), in Melb. Cup, or “Final” ordinary (55.), which
letter would be delivered to * ‘ Tatt.” on the morning of
Oct. 29th. Two mails arrived here by which reply might
have been sent; but I did not receive tickets till Nov. 20
—nearlv four weeks from above date. Letter stated I
was too - late for Cup, and my money was put in Sandhurst
Cup. The Hobart post-mark on envelope was Nov. 14—
16 days after my letter arrived in Hobart, though tickets
should have been posted a day or two after Oct. 29. I
asked “ Tatt.’s ” manager why my tickets were not posted
for Melb. Cup, or a few days after Oct. 29th for Sandhurst
Cup, instead of lying in Hobart 16 days. I did not get a
reply. Numbers evidently were issued early, as they
were 8000 odd. A friend of mine sent from here on Nov.
2—a week after me—and his reply-letter bore Hobart
eost-mark Nov. 10th—four days before me ; and his num-
ers were 36,000 odd I—T. J. Lumsden, Invercargill, M.L.
• * * *
The attention of “ Tattersall ” is drawn to the
following item from a recent Melbourne Age : “ A syndi-
cate of 11 residents of Corowa drew a certain horse in
Tattersall’s sweep on the Newcastle Cup, and telegraphed
the owner an offer of £5OO to nothing. They received a
reply to the effect that unless they proffered half their
winnings the horse would not start. He was not among
those who faced the barrier.” “ Tattersall ’ now runs
certain consultations —not many, certainly—which are
not drawn till the day of the race. Therefore, in them
there is no chance for the horse-owner to levy on the
drawer of the animal, and the latter, if his horse wins,
gets his prize less the recognised 10 per cent.— not, as is
too frequently the case in other consultations, also less
another 30 or 40 or 50 per cent, to a greedy owner. But,
in view of the many complaints from people who say they
applied for tickets in the new consultation where the
drawer gets all his prize, and that they were put,
against their positive instructions, into the old
one where he is liable to he systematically squeezed
by the horse-owner, the above is worthy of notice.
If the new system is to have a fair show,
there should be consultations, drawn on the day of
the race, upon every important event, and everybody who
applies for tickets in these special consultations should
get them. So far, though The Bulletin has heard of
many complaints from people who say they were put in
the ordinary consultation against their express wish, it
hasn't heard a single individual say that he was put into
the special consultation when he didn’t so desire. Appar-
ently, in every case where no preference was expressed,
and in a number of other cases as well, the applicant was
put into the old style of consultation—the one where the
horse-owner grabs so much of the prize and the drawer
gets so little. And this apparent tendency to stick in
the old bad rut is eminently unfortunate.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin. —Do you not think that “ Tat-
tersall ” would be doing a good thing for the subscribers
if he were to make first, second, and third prizes lower,
and make the drawer of a starter or non-starter receive
the same money? If starters and non-starters received
the same money, then no one would let the owner of a
mere outsider blackmail him under threat that the horse
wouldn’t start without a cash inducement. And, if the
first three horse prizes were only a shade larger than the
starter’s prize, nobody would let even the owner of the
favorite blackmail him much. Why not make the sensa-
tional prize a cash affair, with no horse in it at all?—C.S.
« • • •
Star Pointer, record 1.59£, the only harness-
horse in the world to break 2min., recently changed
hands in America for £3OOO. John R. Gentry, the next-
best, has a record of 2min. Ojsec. Alex holds the trotting
record with 2min. 3}sec., which means that the best
pacer could give the best trotter, say, 168 ft. start in a
mile.
* • • *
Many Sydney jockeys have taken to the “ Tod ”
Sloan seat, and, to date, have mostly succeeded in getting
badly licked by commonplace riders who don't lie down ;
the only Sloan to score at Randwick was F. Kuhn, on
Gallina, in the Hampden Stakes. Some jocks, blame
Sloan for several of the recent Australian accidents,
which is doubtless correct, as when boys who can only
just stick on sitting up take to doing circus tricks in a
big field, something has to go.
An old hand like J.W. Trumble boyishly con-
tends that “ the five test-matches will mean everything
on the next tour. These, and these only, will be remem-
bered.” Trumble’s personal experience of county cricket
in England should have taught him that the financial
success of an Australian Eleven depends largely upon
their steady and consistent beatings of the ’Ome teams in
various places. In the northern shires particularly
crowds will be immense, or merely “ big,” at the test-
matches, according to whether the visitors have hand-
somely whopped the local representatives, or otherwise.
Even in Australia the test-match results will not mean
anything. Few people hereabouts remember the scores
made by the last Australian Eleven in the test-match
which they won, but fewer have forgotten their ignomini-
ous first innings in their first contest with an M.C.C.
Eleven. Australia’s parting word to the boys should be—
“ Take care of the counties and scratch teams, and the
test-matches will take care of themselves.”
• * * *
“S. Snell ” : Have seen many slow games of
cricket, but never before anything to equal the fearful
weariness of Monday’s play in the last Vic. v. N.S.W.
match. It was a ghastly performance altogether up to
the appearance of Graham late in the day, and there
were long intervals of depression after he appeared.
There were no acts and three murderous intervals, and
the one incident of the day that served to temporarily
moderate the tired feeling that possessed the great crowd
was a spirited cock-fight between two mi nahs, fought to
a finish on the green. A long-suffering people bore the
monotonous shiftlessness of the play in a spirit of meek-
ness, but the long waits filled the push with a hatred
that’ found expression in hoarse cries. It looked
as if a big effort were being made for the fourth
day's “ gate,” and it would perhaps have been
better for Australian cricket if the crowd had rushed the
ground and asserted itself with due emphasis. This would
have called forth much journalistic abuse for “the larrikin
element,” of course, but it would have brought home to
the powers a hazy idea that perhaps, after all, some con-
sideration might be shown for the feelings of the people
who are expected to foot the score. The dullest item of
that deadly dull day was M'Leod's handling of the bat.
He was in for over an hour and a-half, and made 18 run 9
in a pottering, cheerless way. Charles is a clever but not
a spirited batsman, and with good fielding would probably
never score against such bowling as N.S.W. can now send
against him. The success of Worrall and Graham in
Melb. and Jones in Adelaide shows that it is the pluggcr
who hits up scores against the Howells and Nobles. He
sees his chance and seizes it, whilst the accurate bat gets
bowled while “ waiting for a better one.”
• • * •
“ Albert Trott has formed the extraordinary
idea,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “of
a winter indoor cricket class. He proposes to rent a
large iron shed near the M.C.C. ground, and to lay a
matting wicnet on which he will bowl at and coach a
select number of ambitious bats throughout the football
months. He has already several prominent willow-
wipers on his list, and the idea has caught favor surpns-
Last Friday wrestlers Dunn and Lucifer met a
second time at Sydney Opera House. Dunn got the first
fall and Lucifer the second, with a unique hold, which
made the audience yell with excitement while Dunn was
being levered over. Then Lucifer retired exhausted,
under medical orders, and the match fell to the burly
Dunn.
• • • *
The M.B.C. meeting at St. Kilda last Saturday
was spoilt by the heat. But the programme was good,
all the cracks competing. The chief interest centred in
Park, until lately the pet of the lily-white amateurs and
onetime secretary of their body—it was his first Melb. go
as a pro. In point of legs. Park proved himself a tip-
topper, but he showed yrreat lack of the head work
needed to place him among Walne, Beauchamp, M‘Don aid
and co. He was beaten not by a great distance but with
great ease by Walne in the mile scratch, but he beat out
Corbett and other good men in fine style in a heat of the
mile handicap. He would, however, have had little
chance had not the bad riding of others let him get
through. In the final he came third behind Barker and
Gargurevitch.
Barker rode well, getting another second behind
Walne in the ten-mile event, and scoring an honorless
third in the mile scratch. This fell to Walne, who rode
like his old self again, proving himself the master of
M‘Donald in the final sprint, after riding a mile which
occupied the marvellous time of 4.16.
The big handicap of the day, crawlsomely
termed the Brassey Stakes, provided a remarkable exhi-
bition of selfishness, firstly on the part of the back-
markers, who all wanted the other man to pace, and,
secondly, on the part of overlander Greenwood, who de-
clined to take his turn with Gibson and Feenane in front,
and deservedly got no nearer to them when they were
respectively first and second.
Mutton, the fast Sydneyite, won one heat in
good style, but in doing so he crossed another rider, and
got rubbed out for the day. The decision not pleasing
Mutton, he made remarks, which cost him a further dis-
qualification of a month.
The particular star of the lily-white-amateur
Vic. Cyclists’ Union, W. L. Park, has enlisted as a pro.
The amateurs, who were as dead as Julius Cffisar, there-
upon notified their willingness to co-operate with the
League, and that body forgivingly accepted the shama-
teur brigade, which hail scorned them when amalgamation
was suggested by the League itself a year ago. The com-
bination of amateur and professional racing will probably
mean the making of the former class, which will now have
first-class trophies put up for races on the same pro-
gramme as the events which send the public into shriek-
ing excitement, and will participate in the huge “ cates ”
which the pro. cracks attract. The public has never
taken a cent’s worth of interest in trophy races, and, as
far as the amalgamation of the two classes is concerned,
it shows the League to be an excellent philanthropist,
but a very had business-man. Its last act amounts to
little more than making itself into a benevolent asylum.
* * •
From accounts to Viand of the Corbett-Sharkey
fight it would seem that Corbett’s ring-days have de-
parted. His perfect science gave him a lead for the first
few rounds, but he soon tired, and in the ninth round
one of his seconds rushed into the ring, and the fight was
awarded to Sharkey, a second entering the ring whilst a
fight is in progress constituting a foul under Queensberry
rules. That it was pre-arranged that the second should
so act in the event of Corbett being bested was so pal-
pable that the referee declared all bets off.
r • • * *
Australian Bob Fitzsimmons, the elongated red-
headed champion bruiser of the world, is engaged in liti-
gation just now. He is suing theproprietor of ttic Gilsey
House, New York, for refusing to supply him with a meal
—said proprietor having, some week or two previously,
intimated, on account of a brawl which took place in his
hotel between those two champion talkers, “ Kid ” M‘Coy
and Jim Corbett, that no pugilists need apply. Bob con-
tends that the action of the Gilsey House people was
“greatly” to his “discredit, humiliation and mortifica-
tion, and to his great and irreparable damage.” The
balm Fitz. seeks is a trifle of 60,000d015.
* * • •
From far-off Capetown comes news that Jack
Valentine, erstwhile champion amateur boxer of Aus-
tralia, was beaten in a contest for the championship of
South Africa by a Dutchman named Holloway after 20
rounds of very severe work, throughout the whole of
which —right up to a moment or two before the knock-
out—the Sydneyite showed best. Jack is said to be
making plenty money at Capetown with a boxing-hall
and school.
* • * •
The long-distance jawing-mateh between Jim
Corbett and “Kid” M’Coy came to an end recently at
the Gilsey House, New York, and red war took its place.
Corbett began pleasantries by calling M’Coy “Monkey.”
M’Coy said Corbett was a “ Cur.” This started an argu-
ment in which both reflections were hurled back in the
teeth of the respective calumniators. Hands were put
up. M’Coy promptly found Corbett’s jaw with a half-
arm uppercut. Corbett retaliated by leaving his mark
on M’Cov’s cheek, and M’Coy plumped another fist into
the ex-champion’s startled and somewhat broken-up
features. At this critical moment bystanders took a
hand and separated the raging pugs. This little affair
settles one vital question as important in its way as the
much-disputed championship. Corbett has long been
known as “Gentleman Jim ’’—even before he proved his
right to the title by spitting in Fitzsimmons’ face. M’Coy,
a few months since, published “a card” stating that he
was an American gentleman “and no mistake, and
pointed with pride to the fact that he could trace his
ancestors in gentility back to 1667. And now the little
affair at Gilsey House proves that they are both gentle-
men.
• * • •
To so low an ebb has the noble art fallen in
Melb. of late that recently the suburbs 'have witnessed
the spectacle of “ champions ” getting into a street alter-
cation for the sole purpose of giving the boxing booth
proprietor who employs them the opportunity of calling
on them to •• come inside and have it out and don’t waste
your science in a rough and tumble.” The crowd of
spectators which previously looked askance at paying
their sixpences for an exhibition spar now fight for places
to witness a real blood-and-fire go.


THE BEAUTY OF THE
MASSEY- HARRIS
BICYCLE
Has always been famous. This year
we have surpassed all previous
efforts and produced a bicycle as
near perfection, as our skill
and the practically unlimited re*
sources of our great factories can
make it. The design is elegant
and graceful, and every detail
of workmanship and finish has been
brought to tempting ideality.
ONE GRADE ONLY
THAT THE HIGHEST.
We confine our efforts and the efforts
of every one of the 600 skilled
mechanics in our factories to the
perfecting of one model, one
only; and no maker who scatters his
energies over half a dozen models
can hope to compete with us. For
years we have tested, improved and
perfected this one model of
Massey-Harris Bicycle
until, we believe, it is superior in
every way to any other bicycle that
has yet been built.
ESTABLISHED 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quahtirs : William Strut, Melbourne.
Bbanchbs : Dunedin— Syd ney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Jlobart—hortliuin.
DBFOTB and Agencies almost everywhere.
W. W. GREENER’S
Renowned
Guns & Rifles
Can now be obtained through all principal dealers in
Australia. BEFORE BUYING A GUN, LOOK AT THE
NAME, and save trouble with all Life Insurance offices.
Address enquiries —W. W. GREENER, Box 826
G.P.0., Sydney; or to C. W. BUOKLAND, 16 Curral-
road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. Rep.).
¥7l OR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
X 1 ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE t'RKHt'EXT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
Ellm* King-street Coffee I'nlnce,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-dlay!
Yesterday !
akd To-morrow 1
"CyE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ * We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable aud fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
tdf Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde" Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment ..
also,
Perfect,' ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff Amerioan
BICYCLES.
Prank Grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is.; .. per Post Is. 3d.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND*
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. Jt\ Mr licrmott.
General Agent- for Australasia,
87 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden City’
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
) Prank Grimley
■{
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-206 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send (or a Bottle of ELECTItINE HAIR-
WABH. Simple to use, clean, and you can Ret any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Eree.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
080 - 632 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Beat Quality).
1
BUY FROM US AND
SANK 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved io equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
273 Oeorfre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
HOW to PRESERVE tie EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
• MELBOURKTEJ •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
ss. to 12s. per Day ... }- Inclusive Terms -{ • . 255. to £3 10s. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY—at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12a. Gd. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two Dining Rooms (2S. 6d. A Is.) and Cafe.
1
It
uu
VEH
\
AIL
, PRICE LIST .
• .
‘Swift’ No. 1 Lady’s - - £2B
Club ‘Swift’ Lady’s - - £25
Road Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Path Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Austral ‘Swift’ Roadster - £22
Austral ‘ Swift’ Road Racer £2O
2 SOLE AGENTS
TOR
•Swift CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Sj?
The Justral Cycle Agency [td.,
391 George Street , Sydney .
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth* Bendigo,
Warrnambool, Hamilton, Hobart, Launceston,
Christchurch, etc.
The bitter cry of a tongue-lashed husband
made itself heard in Melb. Divorce Court
lately. Chief Justice Madden, having duly de-
dared that the last male respondent on the list
was a “ monster, ** likewise “ a filthy and detest-
able beast,” &e., went on to mention that a pre-
vious respondent, who had been summed up by
the learned divorcer as a fiend incarnate, or words
to that effect, was now writing to protest against
his Honor’s abusive language. It had deprived
him of his means of livelihood, and he felt it all
the more—said this aggrieved person —for the
reason that it was unfair abuse, which
would never have been uttered but for
Madden’s ignorance of the other side of
the case. In excuse for his reckless epithets the
Chief Justioe pleaded that a male respondent
must expect to get held up to execration if he
doesn’t enter an appearance at the court and dis-
count his wife’s “facts.” Sonah, on his own
showing, is always ready to believe a woman’s
statement, provided it is “clear.” Faith in the
truthfulness of the fair sex, together with his ten-
dency to bemoan Man’s inhumanity to Woman,
amounts to “ rats in the garret ” with his wigged
Waxellency. About 50 husbands already have
some oause for complaint. The Bulletin will
pass the office guitar to one of these degraded
miscreants :—
Address on a letter received from Ossett
(Yorkshire, England):—
Messrs. R. A. Harvey and Co., importers, 28 Pitt-street,
Sydney, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia.
The “ beautiful Princess May ” of a few
years ago seems to have settled down into “ the
Duke of York’s rather plain wife,” and a Yankee
paper boldly alleges that York has fallen in love
with the Princess of Pless. The Princess is a
daughter of the old-time sassiety beauty, Mrs.
Cornwallis West. As a child, she sat for the
photographer around her mother’s shoulders —
pick-a-back fashion—and the picture had a large
sale in London. In those days, “York’s” father
adored Mrs. West.
I've held aloof from robbery, and forgery, and killin’,
I’ve always acted fairly by a pal,
Yet I’m blest if I'm not branded us an extra-special vill'ln
By a judge who puts belief in my “ old gal.”J
She pitched her little fable to that learn-ed sympathiser,
And told him she'd been cruelly forsook ;
But if his noble nibs had had to live along o’ ’User
He’d forgive me for a-slinging of my hook.
It was nag, nag, nag at breakfast, tea and dinner,
And she worried me the more 'cause I tried to hold
my tongue.
I reckoned her an angel when I started out to win
her,
But as soon as we got married all my hopes went
bung.
She made my life a burden till I smote her on the
“ smeller,”
Which hurt her, though I did it for the best:
So she went to live with mother, and she mashed another
feller,
And I departed, happy, to the West.
But, later on, I found she'd been protesting unto Madden
That I used to bite and kiok her like a 'orse ;
And 1 saw myself depicted as a truly awful bad ’un
In the papers whioh reported our divorce.
With my curse, curse, curse when she wanted to be
tender;
AVith my stoush, stoush, stoush on her body, limbs
and head !
My duty to the lady was to fondle and defend her,
But I'd been a “ human monster so the kind
Judge said.
Tue talp of my brutality comes rough on me, I'm thinkin’;
I’m pointed at by kiddies in the street;
I can't obtain employment, for my character is stinkin’ ;
I'm a “ dog " in search of anything to eat.
And all along o’ ’User swearing false upon the Bible,
And Madden being such a one to jaw.
Un doesn't stand to suffer heavy damages for libel—
All the tommyrot he utters is the Law.
Tommyrot, rot, rot! When petitioner's a woman,
And the husband isn't present her assertions to
dispute;
He’s the vilest thing in blackguards, and his con-
duct's so inhuman
That the learn-ed Judge regards him as a Loathsome
Brute.


mm.
m
m
m
DID YOU EVER
SEE A SNOWSTORM
IN SUMMER?
We never did : but we have
seen the clothing at this time
of the year so covered with
dandruff that it looked as if
it had been out in a regular
snowstorm.
No need of this snowstorm.
As the summer sun would melt the
r falling snow, so will
Ayer's Hair Vigor
melt these flakes of dandruff in the scalp,
ft goes further than this : it prevents their
formation.
It has still other properties: it will restore
color to gray hair in just ten out of every
ten cases.
And it does even more: it feeds and nour-
ishes the roots of the hair. Thin hair be-
comes thick hair; and short hair becomes
long hair.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE MUSIC BOOK
OF THE YEAR
awaiflOT!
mSrori
in
N ? 3
sra
a
Price!'
£4?
:
Allan & C 9
ft l *?',' x - Xi ■„ 9«f ,i .*, <4~ &' ■■■
! PubßsM
In the whole range of Christmas musical publications,
ALLAN'S MELBOURNE MUSICAL MAGAZINE for 1899
stands easily first. The marked appreciation with which
it has been received, and the fact that it has within a few
days reached its second edition, is conclusive proof that
it is without a rival in variety or value. For ONE
SHILLING you get the following popular songs, seven of
which are valuable copyrights :
1. THE SIMPLE LITTLE MAIDEN OF TO-DAY
(Sung by Ada Reeve)
2. THE MINER’S DREAM OF HOME
3. Dorothy Dean
4. Now We Shan’t Be Long
(Sung by George Beauchamp)
5. The “ Special Scotch ” Man
(Sung by Johnny Coleman)
6. Barney O’Hea
7. Cockels and Mussels
8. Clever Mr. Green
(Dan Leno’s Great Hit)
9. The Pardon Caine Too Late.
10. “ Answer ”
11. Goodbye, Sweetheart, Goodbye
PRICE, Is., or POSTED, Is. 2d.
Allan & Co- Proprietary Ltd-,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
rll ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
I Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
OTIJH ETjL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beaui v. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
“Hermes”: Melbourne Argus led the way
among the “ great organs of public opinion ” by
loudly denouncing Bishop Thornton’s recent
Ballarat address. When Thornton said we
were one of the strongest, most courageous,
capable, nimble-minded, progressive, and in-
teresting races the world has ever seen, and a
lot more nice things, the Australian flapped bis
ears and stretched himself out languorously for
some more, like a long pussy-cat reaching for a
fly on a hot afternoon. And according to the
great organs aforesaid any person who won’t
fall down and worship the huge idol of Aus-
tralian conceit is an immoral individual with
an unclean mind. Bishop Thornton didn’t say
we are any worse than other people—in fact, he
said we are rather better than most, but, that
with all our excellence, “ below the surface
Australian town life is stained deep with intem-
perance, profanity, and lust even, it is terrible
to record, among our children. . . . Theft is
incessant, and unchastity very lightly thought
of. Suicide is becoming not uncommon. . . .
The relations of the * boom ’ time in Victoria
quite forbid our holding up our heads in
righteous indignation at the Hooley intrigues
and scandals in England.” It is a true bill!
It doesn’t matter that other places are worse,
and that Sodom and Gomorrah had their draw-
backs. That doesn’t make us any better. In
N.S.W., during 1897, out of a population of
1,323,460 there were 3951 lunatics; 3709 chil-
dren were burdened on the State because their
parents couldn’t or wouldn’t support them;
45,578 people were convicted of various offences,
and 187 persons suicided. If the “ great Aus-
tralian dailies ” will carefully consider these
figures they may not do any good, but the
dailies may get into a less bumptious slate of
mind.
“Personal” journalism in polite France
from Lk Tour :—“ We have had the pleasure of
learning that the wound received yesterday by
Morel, the lawyer, is more serious than was
thought. Complicated by a dangerous disease,
there is all room to hope that this wound will
have consequences.
WHY PAY FOR
A WATCH?
CAN YOU READ THIS?
A | S*L*D | S*LV*R | W*T*H ) I | G**N_
«F | I 1 QU*SS 1 R*G*T ] & | B*Y ) A ) OH*»N ,
In order to introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 lOs. Solid Silver Keyless
Hunter Watches,
LADIES’ or GENTLEMEN'S, to every reader who sends
the Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS. —That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER SINGLE OR
DOUBLE CHAINS. Send Stamped Addressed Envelope
for reply. Money returned if not satisfied.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE G-liOBE WATCH COMPANY, Ltd.
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
("HLOROPYNE.
si#
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Positively the
Best Dressing
•A
w
H
'tk
■A
sc
■o
*>C
££ZJ; ■ (-r^'^o
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAKEEJNE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlerie ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2 6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” CO.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W.C.
NEW TEAR’S GIFT.
The British Hatch Co.
379 GEORGE ST. t SYDNEY,
GUARANTEES to present a Watch FREE of CHARGE
to any Person who correctly answers the following
Puzzle:—
B*Y O*R
w**c**s.
Send with written answer Stamped ADDRESSED
Envelope for reply. Our only condition is that you
purchase one of our Solid Silver Chains, Price 27/6, to
wear with your WATCH.
Address— THE MANAGER,
British Watch Company,
379 George Street, Sydney.
Thousands of Testimonials.
R. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Kue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
8 for 55.; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free, securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes : “ I was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips."
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Ciiapei, Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
4
6,
TIOOK OF NATURE
* —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYJtN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated V”th more than fifty engravings, price 3s fid ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, poet free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is; by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free ]S. TllE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Ttv ROYA.L WARRANT OF APPOINT3VTF3XTT TO “THE QXJEENT.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scbv/€pp€’
SCHWEPPES
SOPAWATER, &c.
Ask for
Brafydy ai)d
‘ScbW€pp€’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
t
rag
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW AURA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Prr;im*ers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST TRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W,


N £rr RaSSrpGSScij’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
-A. Few of Tlaem.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaliue Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. 1 may also
mention that several of my friends to whom 1 have re-
commended your remedies have derived (treat benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, whioh I do most heartily wish you.- Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Rum.ktin, a (tentlemun whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rashmchskn.— Dear
Sir, —I think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaliue Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKIIAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Raw ton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
.Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. 0. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaliue Herbal Remedies cured him of
several oomplaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Greoious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oongu, writes that the Alfaliue Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoor ie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when ail other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Maoquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmusseh.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
coinplaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootatnundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoaihaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rabsmubbrn.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief st once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rabbmubbkn.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmusseh.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR, RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmusseu’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Itassmussen has
shown ussome highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—” Herr ltassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona ftden of his testimonials appear to
be well established."
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—" Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of'many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Itassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies."
Sydney Truth. “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.- “It may not be out of
place to ment ion that Herr Itassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mall. Wellington. “We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney."
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Itassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Plies.
To Hbrr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir, —Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last 1 tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express mv thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Hkrr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. 1 cannot express how glad lamut my r eov cry,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HI.RR RASMUSSENS
IDission in the Herbal ||Jorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, nod that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be. seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Rejnedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING ••
Rat runs of JJc.rr Rass-
mussen’s Alfatim Wt
bal Remediesare hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
sereral unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are H err Rassmus-
sen, or Herr R ass -
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
1
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
- ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmuxxen
dexires to iniorin tux
palronx tha t his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from hie
to any chemist or
'Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Allaline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
A!faline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Regiaterecll.
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold, Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Itecom mended by
the Faculty, and received more Test monials than all the other remedies
put toy ether in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
APVK€ FREE.
3L.1 S T
OK TUB
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(beoistkiikd.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, ami are
unequalled aB a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. Od.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BCOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, (Is. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening’ the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Da-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affection*
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
hut also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., Os., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and mouslaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is:
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pur and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Pasted, Bs. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Allaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles
2s. p >sled.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
t faline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tim«
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALITA-LIKTE "VITALITY PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening th*
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BDOES WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmusseu’s Head Office: - 547 G-eorg*e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: "
BRISBANE 160 ueen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bonrke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Randle-street (near Tork Hotel)
N.Z , WELLINGTON ... 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOEGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


Melbourne music publishers, Allan and Co., have Just
issued their usual musical annual. The contents are ex-
ceptionally srood this year, including: as they do such
son«-s as “The M'tier's Dream of Home, Ada Reeves
“Simple Little Maiden,” and “ Cockles and Mussells,
besides song:s by George Beauchamp, Johnny Coleman,
and others, the price for the lot being is. -
Government Notices.
Land and Income Tax Office, Custom House,
Sydney, 20th December, IS9B.
LAND AND INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT
OF 1895.
NOTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of the
above Act, that Returns of Income received during
the year 1898 for the purposes of the assessment of income
Tax for the year 1899 are required to be furnished to the
Commissioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before
the Uth day of February, 1899, and all persons who are in
receipt of income, and all persons liable under the provi-
sions of the Act in any representative capacity to furnish
returns for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby informed
that the prescribed Forms of Returns are now available,
and may be obtained (except those for Companies) on ap-
plication at any Post Office, Police Office, Custom House,
Railway Station, and the office of any Clerk of Petty Ses-
sions in New South Wales, Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-
street, Sydney, or at the Taxation Office, Custom House,
Sydney. Forms for Companies can be obtained at the
Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the
Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney. All persons car-
rying on any business, trade or profession on their own
account are required to furnish Income Returns irrespec-
tive of the amount of their income ; but no return of in-
come is required from any person in receipt of salary or
waqes only if the gross annual amount of such salary or
wages does not exceed £2OO. All employers of labour,
whether they themselves are liable to make Income Tax
Returns or not, are required to furnish to the Commis-
sioners of Taxation the name, occupation, and address of
all employees whose salaries or wages for the year 1898
aggregated £l6O and upwards. Public attention is called
to the fact that a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds
is imposed on any person neglecting to furnish the Return
required of him within the time abovementioned, and
that persons failing to furnish such Return are not re-
lieved from liability to the penalty by reason only that
they may not have received a notice to furnish the Re-
turn, or that the prescribed Form may not have been de-
livered to them. The attention of owners of taxable lands
subject to mortgage is invited to the necessity for furnish-
ing the requisite particulars in order that they may de-
rive the benefit of the deduction to which they are en-
titled in respect of the interest on the mortgage of their
lands, including improvements thereon. Without these
particulars the Commissioners will be unable to make the
statutory deduction from the tax on the unimproved
values. Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained
on application at any of the abovementioned offices, and
should be furnished on or before the Uth day of February,
1899, before mentioned.
N. LOCKYER,
R. N. JOHNSON, V
L. S. SPILLER, J
Commissioner*
of
Taxation.
N.B. —Particular attention is called to the observations
and directions with the Forms ot Return.
2c 8
WRAGGE S Australasian
and Weather Guide ALMANAC
for LAND & SEA
WILL BE READY EARLY in JANUARY, 1899. No
’' traveller should be without a copy.
Invaluable to captains and all seafaring men, Merchants,
Squatters, Fanners, Miners, Scientists, Mechanics,
Laborers, and Bushmen.
8®“ A COPY SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
Order at once from your Bookseller.
Wholesale Agents for New South Wales:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd.,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
SAPSFORD <& CO., Publishers and Printers,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, Q.
u:i
nK&
iA
m
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 2CO yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
JT. A. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
OASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’SCUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
tlie Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gclatino Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
YHTAR PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Thousands of Latest Novelties*
OUR LATEST “ REGISTERED •• NOVELTIES.
“Solid Gold”
With Beil or Gem Heart
Pendant,
10s. 6cL
RECS
14s. 60.
BE Cl
Without Pendant,
13a. Gd.
Solid
Gold.
Keu) Bird Start
and
Bell BroocTt,
Bemarkabl*
Value,
ISs. each.
REGS
H4s. GcL
fies S'lfc. o !*! f? fcffclC®
& b!MO«
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6/6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6
„ Heart, 7/6 „ „ 6/6
„ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3,6, 6/6, 7/6,10/-
Gold Xmas Bell Brooch, 10s. 6d.
Our New Wild Hoar's Tush
Jirooch,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, 6s. 6d.
Gold-mounted, Its.
LINKS TO MATCH.
Silver, 4s. Cd.; Gold, 10s. 6d. pair.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
0
Real Amethyst
Button Hoole.
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
Our New
Twin
Bird
Brooches,
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian i di?yM« "jO^KING_^TREET^^YDNEY^
u Ocean Spray,"
Coogee.
Messrs. FREEMAN <ts SONS.
Gentlemen.
I have used your Flour, Self-
raising Flour, and Rat ho’s Baking Powder
for six months at my weekly lectures in con-
nection with the Australian Gas Light Co.,
and am very pleased with all three. I con-
sider the Baking Powder better than any I
hare previously used, and both the Flour
and Self-raising Flour cannot be better. I
shall have much pleasure in recommending
them all three at my weekly lectures, subur-
ban ones, private classes, and among my
own personal friends.
Trusting that you may meet with the
reward your excellent articles deserve,
I am, gentlemen,
Yours faithf ully,
E. MARGARET COOK.
Teacher Scientific Cookery,
Lecturess to Aus. Gas Light Co.
December 22, ’9B.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Matinees every Saturday and Wednesday at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Spec-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and la.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
12th WHISK 12th
—of—
ALFRCP PAMPICR.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING!
PRlCES—Private Boxes, £1 Is; Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls,
2s ; Family Circle, Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
fJIIIEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
Stupendous Holiday Attraction,
When London Sleeps.
A DISTINCT DRAMATIC NOVELTY NOW
ATTRACTING ALL SYDNEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
IVOLI T H E A T R S Y D N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss PEGGY PRYDE.
Mr. FRED. POPLA.R
MONS. AJAX, THE FLEXIBLE MARVEL.
Sisters Phillips ...and... Bros- Lorenzi-
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE nnd SAYLES,
Mr. WALLACE KING, FLORRIE RANGER, DELROY
and LYNNE, CHAS. COGILL, NIT A CLARKE, and
our Grand Double Co. Matinees every Saturday.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Mr. H. WHEATLEY. CONLEY & CAREW.
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
0- A- Sampson- Lieut- Frank Travis-
CLARENCE SISTERS. Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mi'sgrovk.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
Will be Repeated
fehe (geisha: <A (Story of a £ea (House.
Book by Owen Hall.
Lyrics by nenry Creenbank. Music by Sydney Jones.
AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
TREMENDOUS ACCLAIM EVERY EVENING
at that Remarkable Compendium of
Sensation, Life, Fun, Frolic, and Human Interest,
3\Tew Babylon.
Fall and Augmented Strength of BLAND HOLT’S
Grand Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING 1
and First Production in Australia of
MAPAME SANS SENE.
(by special arrangement with Sir Henry Irving and
Mons. Sardou).
A comedy In a Prologue and 3 Acts, by Victorien Sardou
and Emile Moreau, adapted by J. Comyns Carr.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Alexandra theatre., Melbourne
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
EVERY EVENING!
Spontaneous Success of the Latest Drury Lane
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
Complete Company, Beautiful Scenery, Gorgeous
Dresses, Marvellous Effects, Full Operatio Orchestra
and Chorus of over 200. .
POPULAR PRICES : 3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE
JjXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM 1
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
The great holiday attraction.
HE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
. . Fitzgerald’s . .
Htigcco tpbipgd SI)OWS,
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
Watch the Lkm-Ekphant Tricycle Aofc
At Poverty Point.
During the Boxing Day crush, Fitzgerald’s circus in
Flinders-street, Melbourne, was incapable of accommodat-
ing all those who paid for admission. But the firm was
equal to the occasion : Brother Tom rushed into the
Australian Church next door and requested Pastor Strong
to oblige with the loan of a few pews. Much to his sur-
prise the good pastor acceded, whereupon half the fittings
of the church were promptly transferred to the tent, and
Dr. Strong and all his family even unto the fourth genera-
tion were placed “ on the door ” of the circus for ever.
The minister himself was one of the most amused spec-
tators around the ring that afternoon.
Many people attend Mdme. Heller's stances who have
never before visited a theatre. One night at Auckland
Opera House, Percy Abbott held out his hand to take
some tickets from a party of ladies whom the doorkeeper
had missed in the rush. Mr. Abbott’s frock-coat, white
tie, and benign clerical expression evidently reminded
them of the parson who stands at the door welcoming his
flock at a church function, for the ladies all shook him
cordially by the hand, and one of them remarked that it
was going to be “ quite a full meeting.” Another night
a party went to the circle and, never having seen a fold-
ing-seat, sat down on the floor between the arms of the
chairs, which came up to their ears. After a while they
went to the door and asked if they could go downstairs
where the seats were more comfortable, as the ones they
were in were so low they could not see what was going
on. Their surprise when the seat was unfolded was
intense.
“ S.S.” : Strong man Sampson only asks for sixpences
and “thrummers” to tear with his fingers. Even a
worn threepenny is a tough item. There was a
woman showing in Ballarat, over 20 years ago, whose
mo3t, surprising trick was drawing 4in. nails out of a
hardwood post’, about an inch of the nail being left, for a
grip. She drew the nails with her fingers, and then with
her teeth. This feat was as obviously genuine as any of
Sampson’s. Wonder if the Utter has ever wrestled with
it ? Would it be a soft snap to him ? Anyhow, it is a
taking item for show purposes.
Brough’s Napoleon would be more convincing if he
could overcome certain Brough-nesses. As, for instance,
standing about with his mouth wide open. One cannot
imagine Napoleon standing with his mouth wide open
while he was being spoken to. No great man ever stood
about with his mouth open. Decision of character tends
rather to a tight compression of the lips.
George and Henry Leopold, who engineered the
Alexandra Pantomime this Xmas, made their first Melb.
appearance in the harlequinade of “ Dick Whittington,”
Theatre Royal, 1857. Their brother Tom was clown.
“ Paradis” : Bland Holt introduces five bulls in “New
Babylon.” Not Irish ones. Joe Brown was never able to
stage his bullock-team drama. Bland is nothing, if not
circusy. He put on a pieoe without horses, but somehow
it didn’t quite gee.
“ Haresfoot ” : Apropos Madame Sans-GSne. Napoleon,
to get rid of his troublesome sister, Pauline—the lady in
the altogether—ordered her off to San Domingo with her
husband, General Leclerc, as Governor. Pauline wrought
on Leclerc’s fears by representing that his young sister
would be left defenceless in Paris. Leclerc spoke of this
to the Emperor. Napoleon: “ I’ll find her a husband.”
Shortly afterwards Marshal Davoust came in to obtain
the Emperor’s consent to his marriage with a rich widow.
He said : “Sire, 1 have to ask your consent to my mar-
riage with ” Napoleon : “ Oh ! yes, I know, Mdlle.
Leclerc.” Davoust: “ No, Sire 1” But he had to marry
her.
“M. 8.5.": A few weeks ago, Tub Bulletin remarked
that Henry Arthur Jones had, in “The Liars,” simply
repeated his own “ Case of Rebellious Susan ” with a few
variations. Now Nisbet, dramatic critic of the London
Times and of the Acadkmy, states that Jones’ last play,
“The Manoeuvres of Jane,” has simply repeated “The
Liars”: “ It is a piece written on the same lines and in
the same spirit,” says Nisbet. “ But whereas the lying
of Mr. Jones’ earlier piece was in some sort involuntary
and forced upon the liars by circumstances, in the
present instance it is deliberate and long continued and
so much the less excusable.”
Charles Itenningham has, it would seem, been telling a
Melb. interviewer of his achievements as a libretto “ im-
prover” as well as a musical composer. He was engaged
for a comic-opera which had a “ shockingly bad ” book-
awful stuff, doncherknow, written by .1. M. Barrie and
Conan Doyle. Kenningham couldn’t tolerate the “ tripe”
of such vain pretenders, so he and Rutland Barrington
(a somewhat aged baritone) set to work to rewrite the
libretto in a couple of hours. Kenningham didn’t tell
the interviewer whether the reconstructed opera was a
brilliant success, but, if it didn’t “ knock ” the house, the
failure was due to the weakness of the Barrie-Doyle plot,
no doubt. Some opera-books defy even the efforts of a
Kenningham to “lick them into shape.” The Bulletin
would advise manager Williamson to let his imported
tenor knock up an opera for production at the Princess’s
shortly—sav “ The Bounding Notion,” written and com-
posed by Kenningham, and introducing his immortal
ballad, “ O 1 Can it be Blow ? ”
Dear Bulletin.—Re par 24,/12/’9S, I sure Milburn at the
Theatre Royal, Jarrow-on-Tyne, England, 20 years ago,
doing the “ Scarecrow Dance.” Milburn is still alive; 1
saw him just before I left England on the 11/11,’98.
Yours faithfully, James Shields, “One Legged Comedian."
Dear Bulletin : What rot! Mrs. Keightley only had
one brother-in-law—Alfred Peachy, a surveyor, long since
dead. Mrs. Keightley did ride into Bathurst for the
ransom, and returned from Blackdown with it. I was
living only a. few miles off at the time. The horse she
rode died in ’75, near Coombing Park, and was about 26
years of a^e.—Yours, Abercrombie. IPerhaps the “ old
resident of Bathurst,” who stated the contrary so specifi-
cally in Syd. D.T. of 10/12/’9B, will favor The Bulletin
with his name and details.]
Mrs. Brown-Potter, who had scored a big success as
Miladi*, in “The Three Musketeers ”—a part in which all
her dainty mannerisms count for histrionic virtues—was
laid up with pleurisy at latest dates. On the first night
of Mrs. P.'s illness the gap was filled by Gracie Warner.
The Firm, it seems, is not to have an Australian mono-
poly of the “ souvenir” system of advertising. At Melb.
Opera House, the other night, every feminine visitor was
supplied with a 36-page “ souvenir,” containing portraits
of the principal artists engaged by Rickards during the
past four years.
On a recent night a number of Sydney musicians fore-
gathered for a common beefsteak supper, but the popular
manager of a musical depot was unfortunate enough to
suggest that- fizz was better for the musicianly throat
than beer. The frolic only lasted an hour and a half, and
it cost him nigh on £2O.
“ Silas Snell" : It should be evident now even to the
most hopeful that Melbourne does not want good plays
well played. I find the Royal crowded night after night,
and the liijou almost desolate. At the Royal, Bland Holt
is producing “New Babylon ” ;at the Bijou, Robert Brough
supplies “ Madame Sans-Gene.” Bland Holt produces the
melodrama splendidly ; Robert Brough’s treatment of the
drama is susceptible of many improvements. Andjret at
the best the melodrama is only the same old garish, bald
and awful rushing to literary extremes, and the drama at
its worst is a good play, fairly artistic and full of incident.
The theatres are not - 50 yards apart, and prices to the
popular quarters are practically the same, and yet the
old familiar setting of the old, familiar incidents and the
crude contrasts of unmitigated virtue and perfect vice
draw enthusiastic pushes, and at the Bijou the voice of
Sardou is the voice of one crying in the wilderness. The
Melb. playgoer declares he wants to be amused. Plays
like “ The Liars,” “ Lord and Lady Algy," and “ Sans-
Gene ” should amuse him immensely, and do not; play*
like “ New Babylon ” should not amuse him and do.
There is the problem. “Teach the play-goer better,"
savs somebody. Humph ! That is how fortunes are ost.
Te'aohin-* the public better is about the most hopeless,
heart-breaking, and thankless task ever undertaken by
man and the teacher always dies before his pupils dis-
cover what the deuce he is doing. Try to teach the pub-
lic by giving it better '.—better give it best.
A specimen verse quoted in the Firm s advt. of “The
Geisha ” is not deeply impressive :
He called her the Jewel of Asia,
But she was the Queen of the Geisha.*
So she laughed : “ Though you’re ready to-day, Sir,
To flirt when I flutter my fan,
To-morrow you’ll go on your way, sir,
Forgetting the girl of Japan.”
“ Admirer ” : Wilson Barrett is sft. Bin. Anybody who
calls him 6ft. *in. has the jaundice. The profession re-
cognises that his stage figure has been the model of sym-
metry.
Ethel Haydon’s husband appears to be somewhat
“naughty” in his music-hall ditties. One of them relates
to the girls in the room above, who bore holes through
the ceiling and watch him as he undresses his manly pro-
portions at night.
News comes from London of the death, on Sept. 30, at
St. Mary’s Hospital, of Harry Power, Irish comedian,
aged 52 years. His real name was Alexander Morrison,
and he flourished at the old Vic. under John Bennett’s
management in the 70’s.
“Sector” : The late Johnson was architect of Melb.
Opera House, and Cornwell, Madame Midas’s father, was
contractor. Has she got to a nunnery V
Letter recently received by a Melb. manager:—“Deer
sir, just a few lines to ask you if any time you wont girls
for to learn to go on the stage I would be very pleased if
you could give me work as I fancy I would like to go on
but I have never been on the stage before and also my
friend would like to go on the stage to & if you think you
could give us work you might let us no by doing so you
will greatly oblige miss Jones send an ancer Please to
this adress 59 street. This is my Friends name miss
A. smith.”


Christmas and New Year’s Presents.
TEDDIS
A. H. MOORE & 00.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
Tlu- SLASHING Racquet 15/-ea.
The CH AMP OS Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore's SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore's THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
From 6s.
T’le UNT Tinnis Ball,
12s per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
nml lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz. 7/6
TROPICAL HELMtiT, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure white Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
K. H. Smith * Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
t'-tT Poverty lPolixteral
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Acoommodation in Queensland
Nkxt GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTorth Qu.eenslan.ci.
Jamos Wattors Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
U of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliablemining information to be obtained from J.W.
Publications, etc. _
MRS. M ACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3a. €*c3L.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestio
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Oonfes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
TJ AVING devoted special attention to the Second-hand
Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books Prescribed for the Junior and Senior Matriculation
First, Second and Third year course examinations for
1899 and 1900. Special attention is drawn co students
and teachers that ihey can be purchased from me at
nearly one-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 3/6 for 2'6 ; Ransome’s History, 3/6 for 26;
Geikie's Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/-; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3 6 for 2/-; Geikie's Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for 3-; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3/6 for
2/-; Todhunter’s Algebra, 2 6 for 1/6; Hall and Knight's
Algebra, 4 6 for 3 ; Hall and Stevens' Euclid, 4 6 for 3/-;
Todhunter’s Euclid, 3/6 for 2/- ; Lock's Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/-; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/-; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for 3/-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4/6 for 3-; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2'6; Balfour Stewart's
Physics, 4/6 for 3-; Otto’s German Grammar, 5/- for 3/-;
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7/6 for 5/6 ; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra.
RXKT QXTTATM PT? Second-hand Book Arcade,
. VV . DJYIiN IN Xilb, 105 Castlereagh-st. , Sydney.
Telephone, 3043.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers' Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for baahfumess, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-Bitsin prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. istamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you lore. Anglo-Ameeioaj,- Pubi.isbino
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.B.'W. Mention this
paper when writing
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. Wl AUNG’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Politics became of the bedstead variety on
the last night of the Vic. session. Dr. Carty
Salmon, MlL.A., held forth in this style (see
Hansard) on a subject he should know something
about:—
Young: mothers seemed to consider it unnecessary that
they should give to their children that sustenance which
Nature had provided for them. There were too many
j “bottle babies” in this community. It was very easy
* for the experienced person to observe, even after the
lapse of many years, the child which was brought up in
an unnatural fashion, and which was called a “ bottle
, baby.” He regarded these yountr women as being merely
incubators. They just performed the same functions as
a machine which was kept at a certain temperature for a
certain number of days for the purpose of incubation)
and they did little or nothing to keep alive the animal
which was produced from the time of incubation. (Mr.
Murray-“They are afraid of spoiling their figures. ’)
That seemed to be the case, although, if they only knew
it, the very action which they took was most destructive
to what they desired to attain.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Vic. House of Rich Landlords gave a
dinner recently to their hero Sargood, whereat
brewer Fitzgerald did solemnly declare that Sar-
good's perseverance, industry, and peculiar genius
as an “improver” of legislation accounted for the
present popularity of the Hupper ’Ouse. The
country was never before so proud of its 48 bloated
obstructionists, said the unblushing beerist, and
Sargood is the draper who has made them famous
and beloved. To which, and ti lot more of it,
Sargood replied in a spirit of lofty patriot-
ism, disclaiming any special personal credit
for the Council’s misdeeds. “ The great secret
of the strength of the Legislative Council is
that they always hang together,” he reckons,
and The Buw.etin feels quite sure that Sargood
reckons rightly. It is in not criticising itself that
the Council names out strong. The Assembly
forms two or more parties for exposing one
another’s foolishness at times, but the Higher
Chamber (Lord bless it!) consists of only one
party —Fatrnan—whose solo object in life is to
hang together and resist encroachments upon the
Rights of Proputty. Patman doesn’t move,
neither does ho talk for the most part. Ho simply
hangs together, and smells unpleasantly, like a bit
of meat which has outlived its usefulness.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
■lO to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 50 to
R 8 3s. each. WIGS, BCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount .you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you con depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Halrdrossors and Wlgmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 Gkorgk St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales' Harbors’ Supply House.
uvrv-rvyv
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 16 Japan, Cd ; 46 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is Cd; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 8d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ;50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, Cd ; 60, is ;
100, 28 Cd ; 160,6 s ; 1000, 47s Cd; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
IC2 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Handsome NieVel Puzzle Matchbox.
4
•F
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id.
6/6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
Toevery purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese "Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gents’
Curb) we will pre-
sent on payment
of 4/- extra an
Open - Face Key-
less Watch (as
illustrated) which
wetruarantee, Cor-
rect timekeeper.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
£OJCOIIt<M
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism , Lain baf/o ,
All Aches and Pains ,
Wounds , Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of .Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
houth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
IMAIS
>ESTROYS
All
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
/
I^ANIMALS/2
ixi
>ESTROYS
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
/
k^vANIMALS/4
IXI
•XI
)ESTROYS
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
COUGHS, COLDS on the CMJiiST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most oomforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. lIEARNE. —Dear Sir,- — I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great, quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At, this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. 1 had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, hut nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Aon of your ‘ Bronchitis (Jure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Ilalpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearnc’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medioine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medioine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we oertify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to .any address
when not obtainable locally.
ON€ HON€ST MAN.
TAEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
1 ' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 160, SYDNEY.
CAUTION TO WOMEN!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY’S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE
HOUSE.
S ]
JT|r. Clarkson’s
Me-Invigorator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sen t sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11 ; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate Liston application.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED and
onlv SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly dr otherwise. Placed iti a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatesso quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
oubSPECIAL BELTfobLADIESis
REALLY A MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man - Electricity.
Our fc edric Sells will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, We give a written
guarantee With each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. — Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free', giving illu-t r.itioto >. different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN . LE.TRIC APPI/ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
m
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor-
GENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
D?ROBERTS’;
SO/?
S/CW DISEASEf
AND WOUA/DS
or £. V£R Y
DESCRIPTIONS'
d?roberts ua,, nil | c
ALTERAnVE ” !LLS
A 1 * 1 I IL- FOR SKIN DISEASES.
A/VD ALL DISORDERS OF THE
STOMA CM & LIVER .
or ALL CHEMISTS //ji & EACH
BEACH & BAR NIC OTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
MELBOURNE,
So®?
«KTy POST FREE
watches - Clocks-J eiVellery- BirtMday-
WeddipJg z CrißisTEfJirlc Presents
HNeM/lAAI- 1755177-ELIZABETri ST*
OPPOSITE C-.P.0. -
MELBOURNE.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most, efficient truss— Elastic— without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World 1 If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ;or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
iriDIAH CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
"I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand'
Price, I Os. <i«l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 George-st., Sydney
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
| * OLDSWORTH & CO., 101 Svvanston-street,
: * Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS.
HOLDSWORTH 'i
HOLDSWORTH I
HOLDSWORTH f
HOLDSWORTH )
The “Sherlock Holmes
of real life.


Few Year Gifts ! . Few Year Gifts !
Stewart Dawson & Go.
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
m
No. 176 a.
18ct. Gold Band Rina;
21s to £2.
Gent’s 18ct. Gold Ring,
8 fine Diamonds, £2l.
No. 171.
18ct. Gold and fine Opal
Bing, £2 108.
No. 175.
18ct. Gold and fine
Diamond Bing, £26.
Ho.tfi. 18ct. Gold Ring,
6 Diamonds and 6 Rubies,
£l3 10b.
Ko. 172. Gent's 18ct. Gold
•nd fine Diamond Ring 1 ,
£lO.
No. 168 a.
18ct. Odd and Diamond
Bing, £B.
No. 107. Oct. Gold, Pearl and Ruby Brooch, 17s 8&
No. 102 a.
Oct. Gold and Pearl Brooch, 14s od.
Nana
Oct Gold Bur Brooch, 13b OIL
No. 113.
Oct. Gold Brooch, Diamond centre.
17s 6d.
No. 196 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ; 16ct., £116«.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 194 a. Set Links.
Oct. Gold, £1 6s ; 15ct Gold, £2 10b.
Silver, 4s Cd.
X
Jt
No. 392. Set Studs,
tot. Gold, 14s; 15ct., £l i»
Silver, te.
No. 195 a. Bc* Links.
*ot Gold, 12s ed; X6ct Gold, £1 fit
BUnr, 8s <kL
Cw
CJ
No. 198 a. Set Links.
Pet Gold, 16s 6d ; 16ot, £llos.
Silver, 4s.
No. 121 a.
15ct. Gold Bar and Anchor Brooch,
£1 10s.
No. 117.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby Brooch.
£1 7b 6d.
No. 189 a. 15ct. Gold and finest Opal Brooch, £Blos,
No. 104 a.
Oct. Gold Trace and Shoe Brooch,
lls 6d.
15ct. Gold Band Bracelet, set fine Diamond, £6.
3
wm
wmm
mi
No. 134 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Opal Half-Hoop Bracelet, £1&
No. 141 A.
. Gold, Petri and Ruby Buckle Bracelet, £4loa.
No. 122 a.
16ct. Gold Brooch, set Sexagon Amethyat,
£2 7s 6d.
No. 116 a. 9ct. Gold Brooch, with Amethyat
Centre end Heart, SI 6s.
111
No. 1111. Oct. Gold Safety Pin Brooch,
with lßct. Heart, set with Pearls.
£\ Is.
Ka life.
•ot <001(1 and fine Amethyst Bpw*,
No. 124 a.
IBct Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
£1 7s fid.
No. 261. Medal.
9ct. Gold .. £llO
15et. Gold .. 117 6
Silver .. .. 0 8 6
wmm..
ass
w
SBS
No. 231.
IBet. Gold Locket, eet with
8 Diamonds, £4 10s.
i
No. 263. Cron.
Oct. Gold .. Bsfld
15ot. „ .. 17i Cd
No. 230.
Pot. Gold Compass, £1 6s
lßct. „ „ £2 IQs
Silver, 6s 6d.
m
No. H 62. Ooml
Oct Gold .. ex 1 •
l&ot M .. £1 li «
No. 231 a.
IV*. Gold Locket, set with
t Diamonds, 4 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 265. Medal
Oct Gold, £\ 10b ; 15ct, £3 15s.
Silver, 6s.
No. 128 a.
15ct. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
_ No. 573.
Fine Diamond New Moon Brooch, £BO.
Others in stock, £6 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10b, £l2lOB.
No. 1174.
15ct. Gold “ Merry Thought” Brooch,
•et Pearls, Sapphire, Ruby and Diamond,
£3 7s 6d.
No. 126 a. Isct. Gold and Diamond
Set Swallow Brooch, £4.
No. 268 a.
Set of Silver Manicure Instruments in ceee, lVs 6d.
No. 336, Twelve Silver-plated Tea Spoons and
Tong i in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 295. Silver-plated Napkin Rings.
2in case, 8s 6d ; 4,16 s 6d ;6, £1 6s.
3TE.V/ART DAWSON 8. C°
No. 819.
Silver Button Hooks and Shoe
Lift in case, 16s 6d.
No. 302 a. Two Solid Silver-mounted
■- I '' Brushes in case, £3 3s.
No. 300 a. Combination Case; containing
best Silver-plated Butter Knife, Jam
Spoon, Pickle Fork, Sugar Tongs, and
No. 1171. Case, containing Solid
Silver Shell Butter Dish, with Solid
Silver Knife, £1 6s.
No. 330. Case, containing Solid Silver Sugar
Sifter, Jam Spoon, and Butter Knife, £1 6a.
No. 304. Two Solid Silver Hair Brushes
And Silver-mounted Comb, in case, £4.
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


BRUSH’S
Mto-nusrauai kits saddles.
BRUSH
N*krr
ivonet.
o. tr
r. ? K V. >✓•
No. 19.
Natural Saffron
AMS
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
JB2*
»*»««
\ /,K«UVJ
No. 21.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, with
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“ Brush, Maher, Sydney, Registered.”
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit for
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, .£3 ss; A, £3 15s; B, £4 ;
0,10 s ; D, ; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired.
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d.
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired—No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations of
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. J. HAYNES, M.L. A., states that “ while in Wellington, N.S. W., I saw two
children suffering badly from sore eyes, the flies being an awful infliction.” He sent
the mother two bottles of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. This is the reply: “ I
thank you for the lotion you sent me for the babies’ eyes. The lotion is doing them
good. They are so much better.”
Mr. E. MORTLOCK, Rooty Hill, says: “I have used your Eye Lotion, and
find it most invaluable for all eye complaints."
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PROPRIETOR :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
West Australian
International Mining'
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
IF YOU HAVE SUFFERED for 20 YEARS,
VITADATIO WILL CURE YOU,
VITADATIO WILL CURE YOU,
and don’t forget it (without operation), even when the eminent doctors of London, Melbourne, or any other part
of the world have failed; be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Consumption, Piles, Gall Stones, Liver or
Kidney Complaint, Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Bheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Indigestion, &c.
VITADATIO.
Mr. P. W. HOHNE, who has been a clerk in the employ of Perry and Co., timber merchants, 150 Lonsdale-
street, for eight years, sends his photographs to show what “ VITADATIO ’’ has done for him. He says“ For
the last five years I have been a great sufferer, and I did not know what it was to be at work for a month without
having to have two or three days’ leave of absence. I became so despondent at times that I .began to think of
* suicide,’ as life was only a burden to me. I consulted my lodge doctor (I am a prominent member in the
Druids’ Order), who said that I had very bad bilious attacks. When I had the last attack of my trouble, a par-
ticular friend of mine (who is a great believer in VITADATIO) came to see me, and would not go away until I
promised him to go in for a course of VITADATIO. I did so. I purchased six bottles, and before I had finished
"»** first bottle I trot «n had that I consulted a doctor. Prom what I told the doctor on tb*t occasion, he said
BEFORE TAKING “ VITADATIO
a m
’
AFTER TAKING “ VITADATIO” for 10 Weeks.
‘Why, man, you are suffering from hydatids.’ I said, ‘ Oh, well, that is all right; I have trot the cure.’ He
said, ‘ What is it? ’ I replied, ‘ Vitadatio.’ The doctor said, ‘I have heard some very good reports about that
remedy.’ After persevering with a course of the medicine (which I took in ten weeks), lam thoroughly restored
to perfect health, which, if you judge between the two photos., you will see for yourself. I will be glad to
answer any inquiries about my case, addressed in care of above firm.—Yours very gratefully, FRED. W. HOHNE,
District President Druids Order, No. 1 District."
For Testimonials of others that have been cured, write or send to the agent, S. A. PALMER, 45 and 47
Bourke-street, Melbourne. A Thorough, Cure is Guaranteed. The sum of £5OO (five hundred pounds) will be
paid to anyone that can refute any testimonial in circulation about VITADATIO.
The Price of this Valuable Medicine and Tonic is: Large Size, 56; Small Size, 36. Ask your
Chemist or Grocer for it.
S. A. PALMER,
Head
Offices,
45-7 Bourke-st., Melbourne
From the Mayor and Justices of the Peace and the Rev. Mr. Jones, of Invercargill, New Zealand, where Mr.
Palmer lived aboiit 26 years. Read what they say
“THIS IS TO CERTIFY that we, the undersigned, have known the bearer, Mr. S. A. Palmer, as a resident
of Invercargill, New Zealand, for a great many years. We know he has been a great sufferer during the past 14
years, and he never was expected to recover. But, as the result of taking a course of Vitadatio, he has quite
recovered his long-lost health, and now appears to us to be quite a new man. We have pleasure in recommend-
ing him to the public, wherever his lot may be cast, as an honorable man and worthy the confidence of all with
whom he may come in contact.— John Sinclair, Mayor, Invercargill; Jno. W. Mitchell, Merchant, Invercargill;
Pnm Weight Jones, Primitive Methodist Minister, Invercargill ; G. Feoggatt, J.P., Invercargill.'*
Mesmerised.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I went to Mr. Hirem’s entertainment, and got
mad on mesmerism. I came home and made
passes till the family thought it was St. Vitus.
In railway-carriages I stared young women out of
countenance. My sweetheart has broken it off
she says she wants a man who can do something
beside sta-are. I tried it on the cat. I inveigled
the office-boy home, at a cost of 55., and tried it
on him. He got fidgetty, but not mesmerised—
and the little brute went and told the clerks about
it. At pedestrians I darted glances like to wither
them, and even experimented on meek-looking
customers who came to the office. But all to no
purpose—l couldn’t mesmerise a living creature.
I got all the books out of the library, but could
make no progress. I was getting sane again, and
could eat a mutton-chop or so when this hap-
pened.
I was walking along Bourke-street and ap-
proached a man, travelling in the opposite direc-
tion, whose face seemed familiar. He was shabby
and dirty and beer-blossomy, and suddenly the
truth flashed upon me—he was one of Hirem’s
“ subjects,” the pianist. The man who played
rapturously on a deal-table, turned over imaginary
musio like an artist, thumped and pedalled and
wriggled, and who remained for 15 minutes like
an all-time statue—with his fingers raised ready
to strike the notes—the moment “the master”
took the influence off. He it was who had quaffed
the mustard-cnw-kerosene-vinegar-and-pepper and
sucked the candles, and before he oame a yard
nearer I had made up my mind. It was the
chanoe of my life. I strode up to him, made a
rapid pass, said in a commanding voice, “ Shut
your eyes!” and—joy I —he was mine. Yes,
mine.
He shut his eyes and assumed the un-spined
attitude I knew so well. We were close to the
Book Aroade ; there were dozens of people around,
and I was frightened at my success. I remem-
bered the formula, and said to him : “ When you
open your eyes your name is Mr. Lake ; you iive
at Warracknabeal; you are a customer of mine ;
you have come down to buy some barbed-wire
from me—open your eyes ! ”
He did, and then it dawned upon me that I was
in a mess. I had an engagement at the office
almost due—with the real Mr. Lake, too. I must
get rid of this idiot pretty soon, but I wasn’t quite
sure if I knew the way. I hadn’t paid much
attention to the bring-’em-out-of-it regulations. I
felt somewhat ashamed of his company as
we walked along, and the fool could talk
about nothing but barbed-wire. I took him in
to have a drink, and “suggested” that his
was brandy and whisky mixed. I was gratified
to find that he couldn’t resist the suggestion, and
felt my courage return. I knew now that I could
get rid of him at any moment. The offioe is in
King-street, and I walked him thitherward. I
planned to take him as far as William-street, and
un-mesmerise him in a quiet spot. Before we got
to the right place a friend passed, nodded to me,
and took stock of my disreputable-looking com-
panion. A little further on that office-boy came
strolling past, affecting not to see us, but com-
prehending the whole of the business as I thought.
These circumstances upset me a little, but near-
ing Menzies’ the coast was clear, and the moment
had arrived. I glanced round to make sure that
the office-boy wasn’t watching, and, in doing so,
had the misfortune to see Lake (the real one) com-
ing along on the other side of the street. I was
half-inclined to run, but was afraid the brute
would follow. I nerved up, put my hand on his
forehead, and said, “ Shut your eyes ! When you
open your eyes you will be a loafer again, and
will go about your usual business, if you have any.
Open your eyes ! ”
He didn’t, because he had never shut them ;
but he opened his mouth to some purpose. He
said, “Look here, mister, you’ve been havin’ a
game with me, and now yer wan ter get rid of me,
don’t yer ? Well, look here ; you give me ten bob
and I’ll slope, straight—see! ”
Lake was now right opposite ; saw me, and
angled across the street towards us. I took some
money out of my pocket, and said, “ Here’s five
shillings ; now you get! ”
“No yer don’t, mister,” he whined; “I never
do it under ten bob, ’cept it’s for a long engage-
ment—l ain’t a-goin’ ter go till I get my proper
fee, see ? ”
Lake was now at the kerb. I forked out two
more half-crowns with, “ Will you go now, you
cur ? ”
“All right, mister, don’t get waxy,” and he
slunk off.
Lake hoped I hadn’t been giving money to that
drunken-looking fellow—“ They invariably drink
it,” he said, “ and it only keeps them from trying
to earn an honest penny.” Whereupon I said it
was merely a trifle ; and then we got to business.
I have taken to amateur photography lately and
do a little at golf, but I leave mesmerism to “ the
master.”
DAEDALUS.
“ Mr. A. O. Sachse, M.L.0., who has been
on a visit to England, has started on his return to
Melbourne."— (Argus cablegram.) This is rather
less interesting than the ordinary cable nows that
John James Brownjones has achieved his B.A.
degree or become a duly qualified surgeon. Mel-
bourne knows nothing of Sachse, M.L.C., except
that he figured as somebody’s brother-in-law in a
family squabble case tried at Melb. Law Courts
some years back. Sachse was mentioned as the
funny man of the family, who had a way of pitch-
ing his hat into the room as a notification that he
was about to follow.
From North Coolgardie (W.A.) Herald’s
report of a local court-case: —
Prisoner: Your Worships, I would like to make a
statement.
Mr. Ballard, J.P.: You can make your statement when
the time oomes.
Witness (continuing) : Accused then said he would
either have to withdraw his words or take a d good
hiding.
Prisoner : I plead justification, your Worship, and ask
to be allowed to employ a solicitor.
Mr. Ballard : Shut up, man ; what do you want a solici-
tor for when you have already pleaded guilty ?
Prisoner continued addressing the Bench.
Mr. Ballard : By the Lord Harry, man, if you don’t
shut up I will send you up for 14 days more than you are
going to get on this charge.
Prisoner : I plead justification.
Mr. Ballard : Will you shut up, man 1
The dignity of the Sandgroper bench
The Drought at Mungerebar.—
A Fable.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Really, I can’t remember his name. There are
such a lot of them here in Heaven, you know, that
one gets a bit mixed. I, myself, perhaps, may
some fine morning—but, there, I won’t brag.
Anyhow, let’s call him Smith. He had been
dead a good few centuries. But only lately he got
canonised for some reason or other, and had been
duly invested with the title as soon as the appoint-
ment was known. He didn’t feel quite comfort-
able in his new dignity, and he said that the halo
was bad for the eyes. But that was mere pose.
His billet, however, was no sinecure. They
kept him busy with earthly affairs, intercessions
and appeals innumerable—for men rightly reasoned
that new brooms sweep clean ; and, when I come
to consider it, there isn’t much difference between
a just-elected M.P. and a recently-canonised saint
—bar on the point of veracity. And, with com-
mendable zeal, St. Smith transacted his agency
business, taking a real and personal interest in
every single case.
Thus it happened one day, just as I was putting
a new E string into my harp, that the saint hailed
me : “ I say, old man, you come from Queensland,
don’t you ? Where is that locality, at all ? You
will excuse my ignoranoe, but there are so very
few from that region in Heaven.”
He wasn’t strong on geography, and he had died
long before the discovery of Australia. So I ex-
plained as well as I could, and he continued :
“ Know a place called Mungerebar ? ”
I knew it, worse luck ! It had been a cattle-
station out West when I was in the flesh, and I
had been there myself. Moreover, that sojourn
had nearly cost me my pension up here, und I was
able to give detailed information.
“ Well, well! H’m, h’m ! ” muttered the saint.
He was very consequential in conversation with
his inferiors. “ Let’s see ! Humble petition—er—
gracious intervention—er—most holy and sinless
father—very good—the faithful of Mungerebar—
phew—no rain for seventeen years ! Humph ! You
say thev are an awful crowd. Very sad, very sad !
Earth lias gone to the dogs since I left—but, I
suppose we’ll have to humor them a bit, poor
mortals. Might teaoh them to regard the—er—
saints with more devotion. Yes, I’ll see to it at
once.”
Immeasurably far away, millions of light-years
beyond the farthest confines of the outermost
stardust, the Spirit of God was hovering over the
deep, in the awful silence of Nothingness. Not
even the searching flashes of revolving worlds
oould penetrate the darkness that had slept there
for untold reons, and as God lifted His eyes and
saw the loneliness and hopelessness, as He felt the
icy coldness of the night, He shuddered. “ More
worlds ! More suns ! More stars 1 ” He mur-
mured. He stretched forth His all-powerful
hand, and the shiver of creation stirred through
the emptiness. And God spoke: “There shall
bo ”
“May it please Your Majesty,” irrelevantly
squeaked a little voice at His side ; “ may it please
Your Majesty, Your servant humbly pleads for
mercy, for forgiveness for the undeserving ! ”
Frowningly the Lord turned. “ The people of
Mungerebar,’’ the voice continued, “have prayed
and asked of Thee to~ intervene in their behalf.
They have solemnly repented of their sins, and
their cries of anguish have penetrated through
the golden portal. For behold, they have had no
rain for 17 years and ’’
The Lord interrupted : “ Where is Mungere-
bar ? ’’
“ In—er—Western Queensland, I believe.”
“ And where is Western Queensland? ”
“In Australia—on the Earth,” explained St.
Smith.
Calmly, the Lord continued : “And where is
the Earth ? ”
The saintcollapsed. Oneof the Recording Angel’s
staff was ordered to look up “ Earth ” in the office-
directory.
“It will take some time, Your Majesty,” re-
monstrated the overworked clerk. “In the stellar
system Mr. Smith comes from there are alone
9537 million billions of ”
“ You’ll have to find it. Your books don’t
seem to be in the very best order. I’ll give you
a trillion centuries to look it up. Now, be off,
both of you 1 ” And God turned towards ex-
pectant space again.
St. Smith grinned hysterically (for swearing is
not allowed in Heaven) at the Recording-clerk,
and the latter, in appreciation of his task, picked
up a passing comet and Hung it viciously at the
Southern Cross. But as the missile only travels
at the fate of 1350 miles per second, it will take
some millions of years yet till that grand constel-
lation gets smashed to smithereens.
However, it is not likely that Mungerebar will
have any rain for another 200 years. Luckily,
most residents don’t expeot it till then, either.
VON KOTZE.
“This is a book to take up while some-
body upstairs is putting on her bonnet.—Satur-
day Review.
“ 0.5." to The Bulletin :
“J.S.T.’B” comments (B. 12'll/’9B) on “T.’s” opinion
that social perambulation in the “altogether” would settle
the sexual question, do not seem to hit the bull’s eye.
“ J.S.T." reckons that general nakedness would largely
increase the birth-rate, and perhaps it might at first; hut
the next generation would certainly he less oonoupiscent.
Not so long ago Japanese men and women bathed to-
gether freely in public and the “ altogether," and plenty
of white me.n did ditto, with “ moosnnes” to towel them
afterwards. The Japs themselves, of course, took no
notice of each,other’s want of clothing, and though
the white man did at first, the novelty very soon
wore off and he became as inured as the natives to
the Adam and live business. Moreover, Jap. sexual
morality was in those days a long way better than
Sydney ditto. Adultery with a married woman was al-
most unknown (the penalty was extremely hideous) and if
prostitution was not considered disgraceful it was, at any
rate, severely restricted. Observation of both systems,
Jap. and Australian, in fact, convinces this scribe that
there’s little to choose as regards prevalence—while in all
other respects the Jap. custom is the less coarse
and sheeny animal. As for promiscuous indulgence,
the amorous Jap “ lady” is by no means al-fresco-ly im-
modest us her Sydney like. “ J.S.T s ” fears, therefore,
are not warranted by any known results elsewhere. Also,
when he talks of a municipal Flossie to, come some day,
he is merely reviving the old ideiv of a system of socialistic
soiled doves, sanctioned by the Church of the Middle
Ages. Prostitution at that time was placed upon a
guild-organisation ; brothels were Municipal, Crown, or
Church establishments, and enjoyed special protection,
whilst their principals swore to be faithful and friendly
to their respective towns.


A., B. and C. are intimates. B. is sus-
pected of too deep an admiration of A.’s wife.
The three are in a bar parlor, just about to
demolish long drinks, when Mrs. A. passes the
window. “ Excuse me,” says B., rising hastily,
and disappears. A. quaffs his glass serenely. 0.
(excitedly), “Why don’t you follow him, man?
He’s gone after your wife 1 ” A. (glancing round
eagerly and reaching over the table), “Has he?
By jove, I’ll drink his beer ! ” (Does so).
To country visitors.—A duty you should
perform before returning home : Leave a record of
your measures with us, Hordern's in Pitt-st. Our
dressmakers or tailors will register your measures
free. Come in and have a look around before you
return home. You will find our prices the cheap-
est in the city. We send parcels of drapery to
the remotest corner of this great colony post free.
Hordern Brothers, cash buyers and sellers, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Healthy, Happy Grirls
often, from no apparent cause, become languid and despon-
dent in the early days of their womanhood. They drag
along, always tired, never hunger, breathless, and with a
palpitating heart after slight exercise, so that merely to walk
upstairs is exhausting. Sometimes a short, dry cough leads
to the fear that they are “ going into consumption.”
They are anaemic, doctors tell them, which means that
they have too little blood. Are you like that ? Have you
too little blood ?
More anaemic people have been made strong, hungry,
energetic men and women by the use of Dp- Williams’
Fink Pills for Pale People than by any other
means. They are the best Tonic in the world.
Miss Rose Kexnerdale, of Carnarvon-street, North Auburn, Sydney, had been a very healthy girl until
about 18 months ago, when she grew weak and pale. She lost her appetite, was as tired in the morning as on
retiring, and lost fh-sh until she became so emaciated that her friends hardly knew her. Her physician declared
the disease, anaemia, and his treatment did not appear to restore her. At last she tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People. After the second box, her improvement was magical. She is now well and strong, and
endowed with sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks.
5%
9
c
n
d JLUTION. —Most Druggists are reliable, but if a dealer tells you he has
something - just as good” as Dr. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE,
he is unreliable. Insist on having the genuine.
R tffjr
ILLS
FOR
ALE,
C,OFL£
k
z.
\
Sold only in Packages like this.
At all Druggists, or direct from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney. Price, 2/9 per box; six boxes 15/3.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure Anaemia (bloodlessness), Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Diarrhoea, Biliousness, Liver and
Kidney Troubles, Consumption, Gravel, Bright’s Disease, Headaches, Ladies’ Ailments, Paralysis, Pimples, Skin Complaints, &c.
Mariana in the Shingle Hut.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On my selection all is slow
And hot and dry and God-forsaken ;
The grass is done, the water’s low ;
All Hope is dead, all Faith is shaken;
The waterholes are choked with mud,
And lined with corpses—rotting—lying.
If I could see a good old flood
I think the sight would set me crying.
That barren spot before my place
That once, alas ! I called a garden,
Now mocks me with its sun-dried face,
And evermore doth waste and harden.
Y et here I’m tied and must abide
Po wait for Government inspection,
And yet once more I curse the law
That makes me live on my selection.
L ist night the air was deadly still;
Midst heavy heat my brain was burning !
1 could not sleep for hours—until
All wearied out with restless turning.
A nd in my dreams one came and stood,
Whose voice was sweet as seraph-singing—
Who said, “ The Marthayuy’s in Hood,
And all around the grass is springing / "
Yes, in my dreams the drought was broke,
And through the bark the rain was streaming.
The sun was up when I awoke !
The sun was up and I’d been dreaming /
O barren plains, and burning sky !
O bitterness of deep dejection !
Thrice cursed spot, thrice cruel lot,
Why must I live on my selection 1
I f I were rich, if I were left
Sole legatee of Jimmy Tyson,
Would I stay here, remote, bereft,
And gaze on this forlorn horizon !!
The stock might die, the tanks go dry,
The rotting sheep might spead infection
With noisome breath—and Grisly Death
Might hold his court on my selection 1
The skies might sodden be, or fair,
The glass might register 200°,
I should not care, I’d not be there,
My property and I’d be sundered.
O if you doubt my tale of drought,
Pray take a turn in this direction.
Just spend a week at Myall Creek,
Just stop a month on my selection !
JESSIE PATERSON.
“ The pitcher is broken at last.” Alexan-
der Murray, the South Australian whose name is
on millions of jam-tins scattered up and down
Australia, had ridden a favorite horse for twenty
years. But the ancient animal never took kindly
to the bicycle. One day it plunged at sight of one,
and a useful citizen was dead.
A Woman’s Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She took up the specialist’s reply. Her fingers
trembled as she opened it:
Yours of t he sth to hand. Prom your report of your
husband’s case, and from notes duly received from your
family doctor, I am strongly of opinion that your hus-
band's eyesight may be restored. Of course till I examine
the case myself I cannot be more explicit. If your hus-
band wishes to place himself in my hands, let me know
as soon as possible, as my stay in this city is limited.
The letter fell on the table, and through the
open window the sea breeze fluttered its pages.
But she clutched it back with a vague feeling
that with that scrap of paper would go all that it
represented, freedom from care, light, new life
for the one she loved best on earth. The sea-girt
landscape took on brighter colors as though she
were already watching it through her husband’s
opened eyes. The wonder and glory of it all.
The answer had come - so soon ! The little chink
of hope had widened into a beautiful probability.
A voice from the inner room. She rose, slip-
ping the letter into her pocket. She felt an im-
pulse to dally with her happiness—and his.
He was in the one-time studio, bare, dismantled;
yet he clung to it with all its associations. He
was sitting by the window, and, with brush up-
raised, was painting the air with long, sweeping
strokes.
“ Well, Maggie ! ” He turned at the rustle of
her dress.
They had been young when they married ten
years ago—twenty and twenty-five respectively.
He was young still; his oval face, the glow of gold
in hair and moustache, gave a brightness to his
face which even the vacancy of the blue eyes
oould not counteract.
She had been handsome, too, but the anxiety
born of her husband’s affliction had iuduced aii
illness the effects of which were still visible and
would, possibly, never pass away. She was only
thirty, but her face was haggard, her thin, yellow
hair coarsened with grey.
“Still painting!” She laid her hand on his
curling hair. She was feeling in anticipation the
joy that was to follow. “ You are always paint-
ing now.” She could be playful on the subject.
A few months, and he would be painting in
reality.
“ Always, my dear.” He put the brush down
with a little smile. “Do you know, when I have it
in my hands it sometimes seems to give a clair-
voyant sense of sight. I can see this room so
plainly now. The curtain blown Bideways, that
bust of Psyche, the easels—no, they are all away
now, with the pupils. It is very empty, this
studio ; I can see the emptiness though it did not
change —till afterwards. But there is no change
about you, Maggie. I can see you now ”
“ Can you, dear ? ” She spoke dreamily. She
was used to being “seen.” Besides, she was
thinking of the letter.
“Yes, I can see you now.” The blank blue
eyes looked at her with such an inner keenness
that she shivered—for a moment she could not tell
why. He leant forward. “ Your hair, so soft
and yellow ” he touched the grizzled locks
tenderly—“ I never let you do it in a tangled
fringe like other girls. You used to lament over
this, don’t you remember ? You said it looked so
untidy when the wind blew. But I don’t know—
it was like a field, at evening, when the wind is
blowing, and the sun slants across it with that
dazzling yellow gleam that yet never dazzles—
dear, pretty hair ! ”
The woman shrank away from his caress. There
was a sudden fear in her heart. His very finger-
tips seemed to have eyes in them.
“ And your eyes—blue, like mine ; but softer.
A bluish haze seemed to spread into the whites of
them—like a child’s eyes, you know. I see them
now, Maggie.” Involuntarily her dimmed eyes
closed. “ And your cheek —it seems a little
thinner now, but there is still that pure curve
from brow to chin. How I love that curve—see,
here it is.”
He drew it in the air, and she put her hands to
her haggard face. Her mind was in a whirl ;
then one thought came uppermost.
“ You love me, Arthur, you love me—for my
beauty! ”
“ Now, my dear,” he spoke with tender gaiety,
“ don’t be like the common woman and pretend
to misunderstand—stupidly. I do love you for
your beauty. I cannot separate the two. Your
beauty is you ; you are your beauty. An artist’s
love ! Ever hear of an artist marrying a plain
woman ? The musician may ; the poet does,
almost invariably. But an artist —never ! Beauty
is necessary for us. Other men see with their
eyes, we with our souls. Other men see the
whole, dimly, not knowing what they see ; we,
the different parts individually, the curve, the
shadow, the gleam, and the whole as well. Not a
touch of sensualism in this. Blind as I am,
Maggie, your beauty delights me as much as in
those other days, before this came upon me. I see
you still, Maggie ; thank God, I can see you still.”
“ You see me still! ” The words came softly,
as if without her consent. Her eyes were fixed on
the blue curve of the distant hills, fresh, fair
hills, whose beauty no sorrow ever impaired, “If
I were old and haggard, what then?”
“It would not be you,” he answered, simply,
“ but you will never grow old, Maggie. Yours is
a beauty that does not fade, only matures—a
steadier light in the eyes, a deeper shade in the
hair; that is all. Maggie ” —his voice changed to
a note of appeal—“in spite of this inner sight of
mine, I long to see you with the outer vision, to
see the world again, to go back to my old work ;
but, more thau all, to see you, Maggie, to see my
beautiful wife again. I suppose ” —he spoke
anxiously—“ it is too early yet for the doctor’s
answer? ”
Her gaze turned to the hills again. There was
no sorrow in her face now.
“ Not too early, Arthur ; the answer has come.”
“ And what is it, Maggie, dearest—the worst —
or best ? ”
There was silence a moment; then the sharp
sound of paper torn to fragments. She put her
hand on his shoulder.
“He says—there is no hope, Arthur. You will
—never see me again ! ”
CONSTANOE CLYDE.
“H.” : In a vol. of Edinburgh Review,
I find this vouched for—l put in a name for a
blank : Lord Devilham married a young lady, who
purported to be a widow. She died on the Con-
tinent, but directed her body to be buried at a
Dover church. Devilham took it, coffined, over
the Channel. The Dover Customs-people insisted
on inspection. The husband could only get out
by allowing the Dover clergyman to see the dead.
The clergyman found that it was his own wife.
On Marriage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bulletin’s office cynic discourses on matri-
mony .
_ 3 ’ _ , .. ....
Youn ' man > ma y Heaven ha , v ' e P on >’ ou ! Not be ’
041136 of >; our youth-time will cure that-but because
y° u are g°' n " to get married. If Heaven is not pitiful
towards you, then indeed is .your life a sorrowful pro-
cession of perambulators to the grave. You are going to
get married, thinking it necessary because you are in
love—forgetting that a remedy may be worse than the
disease. To cure love by marriage is to cure thirst by
drowning. Love needs no such desperate remedy, for it
j g a d j sease n 0 more dangerous and disagreeable than
delirium tremens. As you will get married, let us con-
template the least, deplorable aspect of the disaster.
Perha P 3 nul rriage will be for your good. Some men
require trouble and sorrow for the development of their
spiritual natures. Perhaps even you have a latent
?P' r ‘ w hich marriage will develop to your
benefit and the a stomshment of your friends. Life,
we are sur6i waB not intende d to be a game of skittles
j n a beer garden, nor a game of beer in a skittle-allev, but
a school of instruction. In single life the school is with-
out a master. Marriage provides the master. Marriage
is good for you, and when you do anything that is good
J° r you you need heaven’s pity. I speak feelingly. I
have watched people doing things that were good for
them and my heart has bled in pity r have hatched
men ea t porridge, because it is so wholesome. I have
seen men read in order to improve their minds. I have
seen men dig large holes in the ground for their health’s
sake. I have seen sorrow in my time ; that is why I
sa y heaven pity you. I have seen men one moment
stroll -' healthy, and intelligent—and the next moment
married i have watched over the last hours of many a
happy single life. I have smoked a cigar with a man
who had promised his wife never to smoke again. I
have seen a man sitting in a room in which there were
ten of his own children. I have seen a strong, stalwart
,nan if* j on h ’ s ' v ’ de ’f bonnet. I have seen a woman
who had no one to talk to.
To marry once j 8 to g 0 to tbe sc hool of experience,
which is the only school that is any use to some people,
To marry a second time is to return to school during the
holidays.
Yes. Get married. It will be a change for you. I
ex P 6ot a >> yourjriends think a change must be an improve-
ment Get m * rled {or the sake of your mother-in-law—
ghe wantB ft home Get married for the sako of your „ irl
—after marriage she may become usefully human in place
of being a useless angel. Get married for my sake. lam
fond of tragedy. Get married for heaven's sake—you
will live to repent it, as sure as you are a sinner, and
there is more Joy in heaven over one sinner that repent-
than over ninety-nine that need no repentance.
KATI-KATI.


The Message of the Spear.
Away back in the year 54 b.®.— 1948 yf‘ ars a o°~
a little detatehment of Rowan soldiers was
beseiged by a host of Gauls at Cbaleroi, in the
north of what is now called France. Believing
that no help could possibly reach them, the
Romans expected to fight until they were a
striken down. One day a short spear came
whizzing over-the ramparts and stuck in one o
the wooden towers. Nobody paid any attention
to it at first. Tbev just went on slaughtering
Gauls and getting slaughtered themselves. At
lencfth an officer saw something fluttering from
that spear. It proved to be a note from Juluas
Cassar— written in Greek. He said he was on his
way with an army to relieve the garrison. that
note had been there unheeded for several days.
In due time Caesar came and made short work of
the Gauls.
That people should suffer and struggle hope-
lessly when help.is near at hand is sad to think of,
but they must know of the coming help before they
can draw courage from it. Take the torments and
dangers of disease for example. We fight them
with all the weapons we have. hit
on the right thing, and more often we don’t, even
when it is as dose as the spear in the tower was to
the exhausted (tarrison.
If Mr. Robert Lavis, postmaster at High Ham,
Langport, Somerset, could have found a remedy
for indigestion, dyspepsia and liver complaint, he
certainly would not have suffered from it, as he
did, for twenty years. Why, that is more than
half an average lifetime. A single day of illness
is always long enough, goodness knows. But
fancy such an experience stretching itself into
weeks, months, and years ! Common enough ?
Yes, dreadfully common. So is poverty; but
does that fact reconcile anybody to either V Mr.
Lavis is not a man to sit tamely down and b.rood
over a misfortune. Besides being postmaster he
is a grocer, with work enough to keep him busy.
Under what difficulties this'work was done he
tells us in a letter dated Nov. 8, 181)3.
“ I had a bad taste in the mouth,” ho says,
“particularly in the morning, and my mouth was
dry, and I spat up thick, tenacious phlegm. After
eating even the simplest food I had great pain in
the chest and around the heart. I suffered greatly
from sick headache and giddiness, and if I exer-
ciser! much 1 got out of breath.”
[This was asthma, caused by the stupefying
action of foul blood upon the nerves that move the
lungs; the impurities in the blood having come
from the festering mass of undigested food in the
stomach. 'I'lie heart trouble, the sick headache,
and the giddiness were symptoms of the same
thing.]
“As time went on,” continues Mr. Lavis, “I
became very low, weak, and mentally discouraged
and depressed.”
[A doctor, writing about this case for a learned
medical journal, would use many tough Latin
words, but he would not make the facts as plain
as Mr. Lavis himself has made them. Naturally
a man who can eat but little—-which little mostly
rots in his stomach—will lose’ flesh and strength
and come to be of small use to himself of to any-
one else. We can all see that even by candle-
light.]
“! tried many medicines,” he says finally,
“ but they did me no real good. At last I heard
of Mother Seigel's Curative Syrup, and used it. I
am happy to tell ypu that it soon relieved and
cured me. Whenever 1 feel a sign of rny old ail-
ment I resort to the Syrup at once, and the disease
gets no further hold upon me. Publish my state-
ment if you like, and believe me yours, &o.,
(Signed) Robert Lavis.”
The Roman soldiers left Caesar’s message unre-
garded for days. It was written on parchment and
fluttered from a spear, as I have said. But, see !
We live in the age of print. Are ypu. ill and in
pain as Mr. Lavis was? Every newspaper, every
magazine, almost every publication your eve falls
on, contains accounts of what Mother Seigel’s
Syrup has done, and daily does, for those who
suffer. Read the messages. This is one; and,
having read it, you know where to look for help.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” Gas Choker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Oasliyht Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If >fa# i# in the room the Cooker will be connected FKEE
OF COST to the Consumer.
|3?“' Fite Cent. Discount ailowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, lIAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
AN' ELEPHANT PERFORMANCE.
m
%
%
//
it,
I.—The clown was introducing some new feats
with the elephant, when
2. —lliß Royal Highness grow weary
<9
S.—And when the great sliding act came-
V,
7oj>4z£.
4.—The clown found himself “ right in it,”
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS now
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OXJTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
B&IWS
Ij’Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, l 1 lush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of 13roath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF TN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to bo “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud oe Hicai.tu the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, ihese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tho
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bccrham's Pills have Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EEGL'ANB.
Sold. Everywhere, in Boxes, ls ljd, and 2s Od each.
NOTICE.
Headers of The BlflfXßTlN, where-
ever situated, unit greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who woikfd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
fW A RLBSBINO IN EVERY FAMILY.
TTJ OIiLOW A V'' S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
1 I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeon
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benellcent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOUflUFFlilt, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxkoiid-bt., I/mdon. tW" l'ur-
chasers should look to the Uvhel on the Foxes arid Fots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
BRiVKTDT’S PATENT
HANP ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10
MINUTES!
EVERY WIFE lIER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
J3T 101 bs. of Ice and Iced Water produced at a cost of 2/-.
Fric© - - - £5 Os.
BRANDT BROS
Lamp Manufacturers,
236,Pitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five diflerent Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
sole jXTICHOLSOKT & 00.,
AGENTS : gjsougis stueex, srnxisr.
Bonnington s
9 Cures While Sleeping,
IRISH MOSS
TESXIMOKTIAL.
Adamstown, September 11th, 189 G.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
17!) Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus,- which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington's Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTnMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION. B 1
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bennington’s Pills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


LARG!
uj W J—j-j
o; yk.
y UJE
% *£
& “£
o roe
o =>
-ISHED
1847,
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169'William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address 3
35 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue I'ree. on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
ASS . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
First-class Accommodation. Tariff—8per Day.
What is Health?
Jfheumatiam, Sciatica,
Lumbat/o, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA UK Kit, 1.45 Victoria Paradk,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
'these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<g>HS
BBOT
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
■‘Si®.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)ii)gtoi) PGfi)pii)g Ei)gii)€ Cori)pai)y.
(Australasian Branch.) Simpson Brothera (Australasian Branch.)
■b»l \‘l
S .r
v<S’\ • *
e M- ■. gi
_3>r-- <C
REGULAR PATTERN
Clarence-st.,
X
WORTHINGTON
tRAQX MARIO*
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Aliee-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W. O. &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies profnptly
attended to.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
THE LAST OF SIX
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.Ii.B,. Botanist to
H.B.H. the Prince of Waiei
Permanent Cure.
V
ECZEMA
Jan (oone»nt<L), t/6, post 4/10 “Q[£JQ
8n>mre—U. H. Honvmx, U Pitt St.
Aokliidb-Habbis Si Kcur, t Bundle St.
M*lboo»*»—Ease, J. E. Phillips, 817 Collins St,
Seif Applied.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, la, 3d,
N.8.W. FRESH FOOD Si ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIP
OP SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter' Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
' ARCADE—for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.—Arrangements may be made at either erf
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS
THE “HEAD 03
WILL RECEIVE PRO*
” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
SYDITEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining 1 Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
. . . Sole Agents for . . .
The ‘New Ingersoll’ Drill-
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Baffin's D a i.j nn
Baking Powder _
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co „
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth'
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, toCLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE s POCK :—14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual h ric 9&-————— T - TrTr - M , n .
£8, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 16 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £1010s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D B Breech lokdin" Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £14, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete Usual price £21, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address »n any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WFADON, THOMAS & CO.
A
B.S.A,
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (lm srross) Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes-(complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(-6/11 dozen pairs) Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
8 3 cross rST’ SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
Hate P 7 < 8 £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. ,
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney;
mmm
SHUTTLE.
KORTINQ'S INJECTOR.
Unrivalled.
Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
HAVE FOR SALE
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors
Mason’s Steam and Water Reducing
Valves
“ Pickering” Steam Engine Governors
‘ Midget” Steam Traps /
“ Ludlow ” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Valves
Richards and other Steam Indicators
Revolution Counters, Jenkin’s Valves
Every description of Engine and Boiler Fittings, Mountings and Supplies
