

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY,
BEAVER STOUT.
MALTED
G-TT.^lF£-^T , >T*A“J i jJ.T3X3 OOOO-A. _<SJKn> BXTEIACT OF ]yr A T„t*
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
9
Mining and fon"ractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXri.OSJVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
27 0
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
wiM-nu-.’s GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hole
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, Os. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C # ss put street, SYDNEY.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE— PORTABLE.
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Huston, Proctor Sz c 0 . t .a
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and RUMPS.
MAO£[I]\r£:S, S-A/VST SEKTCHES,
BOCBI STTRIO
■x*JEacJFL-A.sEa:iiMr<s
&c., &c.
THORNE’S
1 WHISKY.
er’s Clarendon Hotel
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilniinster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
BOWLING GREEN , TENNIS COURT , BILLIARDS.
ifillifiii
HOBART.
Z-fcX
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
wKCOND-HAND
W AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of hest
quality at fully SO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geonre-st. (3 doors past Huncer-st.), SYL*Ni£V
Telephone 1023.
I
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. & CO.,
DYEKS & CLEANERS,
40 XOKli hiltEEl’, SYDNIfilf
10pp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post iruiu all the colonies promptly
attended to.
to
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durabi'itv !( nd Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. VV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICF& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
J OSIIUA ’S A USTJR ALI A N
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
Tiie Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
"iSAIN AUSTRALIA.
S3T Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER’fS “ HIGHLAND CREAM ” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS j
Plummer Love «&z Co.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vo] 20.- No. 1029 j
[M.iinrjnv. November 4, 1 S<>o.
Fpp”stered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


Mixed Ej)itaphs.
Here lies the remains of Thomas Woodheu
The most amiable of husbands and excellent ©f me*.
N.B. -Ilia name was Woodcock, but it would not earn a
in rhyme.
A Liverpool lady, who died, was thus kindly relin-
quished to the Lord by her lovitijr husband :
.She om-e was mine,.
But now, oh Lord
I her to thee resign,
And remain your obedient, humble servant. —Robert
Kemp. *
In New' London, Conn., U.S.A., there is a lot in theeiiy
cemetery containing fh e graves, those of a man and his
four wives. The women’s graves form four sides of. a
square, the man reposing in the centre, while the in-
scriptions are as follows :
MY THIRD '
MY SECOND WIFE.
OUR HUSBAND
MY FIRST WIFE.
my fourth w:
On Mrs. Hannah Jones
Stranger pause, 1113’ tale attend,
And learn the cause of Hannah’s end,
Across the world t he wind did blow,
She ketched a cold what laid her low.
We shed a lot of tears’tis true,
But life is short. Aired .§B.
On an American newspaper editor’s wife :
To the memory of Tabitha,
Wife of Moses Abe Spehner, Esq., Gentleman Editor of
the Despatch.
Terms—Three dollars a year, in advance.
A kind mother and ah exeinplary wife.
Office over Coleman's grocery, up two flights of stairs.
(Knock hard.)
We shall miss thee.
Job Printing- Solicited.
Hudson’s Eumenihol ” (Registered) Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
ov.
KsOr
os^
i-^ N
IKVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SB
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. 6d. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, Gh HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Province. Sydney Agent: S. Taylor, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
CSBT They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
THE RED PAGE.
ON the whole, the undertakers’speeches,
asked for in competition, were not
individually satisfactory, though here
and there came gleams of what a
really jovial undertaker might think and
say. The prize of 10s. fid. goes to Mri C.
W. Jones, who sends the following—
An Undertaker’s Speech.
“ Gentlemen,—Here’s to the cloth—the cere-
cloth. A beer to the bier. Long life to death.
Success to the greatest and gravest profession of
all. Does any one doubt that ? How is it, then,
that, while every enterprise is an undertaking,
common usage has confined the term ‘ undertaker ’
to one special form of enterprise ? Does not
language thus embalm a confession that the under-
taking par excellence is that which meetly and
duly closes the drama of life? Call no man
happy till he is dead, says the sage; suspend your
verdict, that is, till the pall falls on the last scene
in the tragedy. Accoucheurs and monthly
nurses are not not called undertakers save
by occasional grim humour of sarcasm.
They are mere assistants in providing fresh raw
material for the final artist. Solemnizers of
matrimony merely mark an earlier stage in that
production : physicians but provide that delicate
suspense of postponement which gives due dramatic
interest to the climax. What are good generals
but our jackals ? What is the greatest statesman
but a prospective national funeral ? And would
that every man was a great statesman ! The three
stages of life are birth, marriage, and death. You
can be born, at a pinch, for nothing : you can be
married, ring and witnesses provided, for a guinea:
but, to our credit be it said, you cannot be buried
in the humblest way under a tenner.
“So I repeat, without fear of contradiction,
success to the grandest occupation of all. What
does that wish imply ? Is it a prayer for a visit
from the plague ? By no means. * Plagues may
attack even undertakers; and the sight of cart-
loads of subjects hastily and unceremoniously shot
into a pit does not mean the success we desire. Is
it an increase in the birth-rate? Gentlemen, I
have seven already. Or in the marriage-rate ?
Well, that helps us. Small families and plenty is
what we want. An only child is worth to us
seven tmies one of seven. Do we want the death-
rate increased ? Not that exactly; but we
deprecate the growing fashion of longevity. If the
maximum age was lowered to sixty-five there would
not be more deaths on the whole, since no man, alas!
dies more than once : but our interests would be
greatly advanced. The very old and the very
young are equally undesirable subjects : grandpa
at eighty compares very unfavourably with papa
at forty-five, and Mabel at two months is a deplor-
able waste of material. No : we ask not for more
deaths, but for a nicer discrimination in dying.
We ask also for a higher standard of taste in cere-
mony and circumstance: we want to see hatch-
ment and catafalque, mausoleum and obsequy,
take the place of the plumeless hearse, the solitary
coach, the plain shell and the bare earth, which
modern lack of taste makes so painfully common.”
Loud applause; audience burst spontaneously
into “ Down among the dead men/’
C. W. JONES.
This, by J. A. Wilkinson, was received
too late for competition—
An Undebtakeb’s Speech.
Ma freens, —I’d hae ye drink “ Success to under-
taking.” Oors is the trade-that has the best
claim o’ ony tae be considered the auldest, for
ever sin’ the time o’ Abel there maun hae been the
happin’ up o’ the deid, an’ oor business wull gang
on till the Last Day, when Gabriel’s, trump, I’m
feart, wull make short wark o’ a’ trades, an’ dae awa
wi’ the necessity o’ coffins for those wha wull be
changed i’ the twinkling o’ an ee. Hoos’ever,
as that’ll no be in oor time, we can look
forrat tee a continuance o’ the auld-fashioned
way whiles we are i’ the warld, and ev’n should
oor auld-farrant ideas gie place to yon cremation
I’m thinkin’ there’ll still be need o* undertakers,
for the deid—wi’ a’ due respeo’ tae Scripture—
canna bury theirsels. That maun aye be dune for
them, and therefore there’ll a’ways be wric-hts,
or as thae English term them —undertakers.
“ But I’m sair mista’en if the guid auld days,
when a funeral wi’oot whusky was unheard o’, hae
no clean gane, departit indeed like them we hae
putten under the mods. Folk noo-a-days. seem
tae think they honor them that’s deid by no tastin’
ere they set oot frae the hoose, an’ tae hae a week’s
enjoyment at the efterhend wad e’en seem tae
lead a man tae fair damnation. Forbye that
there’s but little tae complayi o’. People dinna
quite tak up wi’ a’ thae ‘ trappings o’ woe, ’ as the
poet ca’s them, in the way they ance did, but still
there’s a wheen bit pickin’ tae be made oot o’ the
weaknesses o’ human natur’. There’s lead coffins
an’ oak, there’s siller plates an’ han’les, tae say
naethin’ o’satin linin’s, an’first, second, and third
class hearses, mournin’ coaches, an’ what not.
It’s a mortal peety, I’m thinkin’, that hat-bands
an’ gloves are no the fashion still; they aye make
han’some items i’ tha account.
“But Providence tempers the win’ tae the
shorn lamb, ye ken, an’ noo we juist hae the em-
balmin’tae mak up for what we wad lose by the
change o’ fashions. Losh me ! but yon embalmin’s
a graun’ notion for the trade. I’m no’ feart that
cremation wull make any difference tae the under-
takin’, tho’mebbe it wad gin the practeece becomin’
general, still it wadna a’thegither abolish oor pro-
feshion. But it’s no gaun tae tak a hold upon the
public yet awhile, for folks seem feart that the
Lord micht tak offence at the inoeenerary urns,
and no care tae tak the trouble o’ resurrectin’ a
pickle cinders, wi’ which He has tae gang owre a’
the bother o’ creatin' a new body ; and they’re juist
a wee thing dootfu’ about takin’ leeberties wi’
their Maker.
“Weel, ye’ll juist aff wi’ the toast. While
there’s life there’ll aye be death, and whaur there’s
a corpse there ’ll be work for the undertaker ; sae
here's ‘Success tae undertaking ! ’”
J. A. WILKINSON.
In order that the virtue of other competi-
tors may not. be lost, their work has been
concentrated in the following :
Associated Undertakers ' Picnic.
(From, the N.S. W. Undertakers'' and Gravcdieaers ’
Gazette.)
The annual picnic of the Associated Under-
takers’ Society was held yesterday on the
heights of Rookwood, and ' proved' in every
way successful. The weather was inappro-
priately gloomy; but there was no gloom over the
proceedings, which were eminently joyous and
festive. Upwards of four hundred undertakers
and others connected with the Profession attended
t7«5 fef, fami l ie f ? and by th .« ir happy faces tea-
tihed to the gratifying prosperity of business. In
7,hV ,a r SP ? competition was keen. The
■ » Head Handicap of 440yds., prize ldoz
Samnil W 6S ’ WaS WOn by Mr ‘ Beu Sorrow, Mr.
bainuel Worms carrying off second prize of two
I®* hearse-plumes A grave-digging contest be-
tween the caretakers of the Old and Now planta-
tions was won by the Old, after an exciting
struggle, by three shovelsful. K
At the luncheon, after Mr. W. Dykgrave had
sung “Down Among the Dead Men,” the toast of
man MV? pr ° po^ d by the respected chair-
man, Mr. I. Buryem, who spoke as follows
“Fellow Undertakers, Mutes, Gravediggers
Lmbalmers,— Ladies and Gentlemen,—l rise—as
I hope all our patrons will some day (hear hear)
to propose ‘Success to Undertaking.’ I will ask
urge a vo,i° to nn h thiH toiiSt - beer ' but 1 »eed nS
Profession^ 0 S° Ur gIaSS ? S ’ because 111 our
otession ha, ha ! we charge everything
(Laughter and applause.) y %
ai ? rl -? t to make a grave speech : yet,
formal? u laV ° not bac * an opportunity to
my remarks > 1 feel that I ean-
“ute <» this happy occasion ;
for I am delighted to state that never, in all the
cheerful Prof”- 1 1 — Ve en cbnne cted with our
cheerful Profession, have I seen a more jolly lot of
faces than those which you now present before
me. (Dear, hear !)
x ™ hy should we n ?f be jolly ? lam glad
to sa y that, as you know, business has never been
better than m the last twelve months. Though
the local birth-rate lias decreased, the death-
rate has kept up wonderfully. You will no
doubt have observed that the number of medical
degrees conferred by our local universities is
swelling yearly -a most gratifying omen for our
welfare. lam afraid that our friends of the allied
Profession of Medicine dp not always realise that
there is a mutual bond of obligation between us
We are deeply sensible of the benefits that they
confer upon us ; but do we not also benefit them
wu f ° L OWI 1 I j g 1 — t .°, cover U P th eir tracks ?
Why should Death s right hand quarrel with his
if- ' What are our licenses, and their diplomas,
but different stages of the same application of
habeas corpus heard before the Filial Judge ’ So
I congratulate my brethren of the medical profes-
sion not only on the number of young men who
are coming forward locally to join us ; but also on
the number who have arrived from Great Britain
and Ireland, with very beneficial results, giving
an extraordinary impetus to all branches of the
undertaking business. (Laughter and applause.)
Ladies and Gentlemen, we welcome every
birth into this world, more especially still-births,
tor a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush—
we welcome every birth, I say, because to be born
is sooner or later to die, and to die is to invoke the
Profession. We are glad of a large birth-rate :
j a J ar ß’ e death-rate. The birth-rate without
the death-rate would- profit little. For consider
what they imply. Large birth-rate : world a
nursery ; everything sticky with jam. One large
silence at the bottom of the Pacific ; another
smaller one in the Sahara; not a fragment else-
where. Life a mournful procession of peram-
bulators to the christening shops. Large death-
rate : a world peopled by men getting on well
with their neighbours ; because, as a rule, they or
their neighbours are dead. Rich relatives less
vexatious ; poor ones not so persistent; life en-
livened by the brisk march of numberless
iunerals ; and last, but not least, a prosperous
body of undertakers taking the current as
it serves, and never losing by their ventures.
Yet as people must be born to die, seeing that
corpses rarely come into the world ready-made,
we are content to subordinate our natural im-
pulses, and merely ask that in return our friends
will make a little concession to us by dying as
quickly as possible. There are many men in Aus-
tralia to-day, Ladies and Gentlemen-—men whom
the country could .very well spare—they are dead
—yes, Ladies and Gentlemen, dead; but they
won’t lie down—that’s where the trouble is. So
we ask the public to remember our motto : ‘Short
lives, and quick returns ’! (Loud applause.)
“ While I am dealing with this subject, I may
say—with I trust excusable pride—that nine hun-
dred and sixty-three and a quarter corpses was my
total last year’s plant, if you will allow me to class
a few odds and ends such as a couple of Chinese
and an aboriginal as legitimate corpses. The
fraction, I might mention, consisted of the leg
of a gentleman who went bathing at Bondi.
It was all that his friends were able to rescue from
the shark which took the remainder. I may say,
in passing, Ladies and Gentlemen, that I detest,
sharks. They inflict great losses on trade, as you
might expect from anything connected with the
Sea. I hate the Sea. No self-respecting under-
taker can do anything but hate a. blackleg who
works at prices that are outside fair competition.
(Applause.) But, returning to myself, if you ask
me how I reached the total I have mentioned to
you, I answer—and I trust my words will be
kept in mind by the younger members of the
Profession-Watch the crows that is, the
doctors. When I was beginning business
1 used to tip the doctors’ housemaids for
a list of clients, and kept a smart boy to
follow the dog-cart wherever it went. Then 1
waited—some were tougher than others, and took
longer to succumb ; but I think three weeks was
about the average. At the end of that time I was
generally able to get in a nice little varnished pine
shell, and do the business handsomely—though I
needn’t tell you, 'Ladies and Gentlemen, that I
always charged oak —or rosewood-,-some prefer
rosewood : it’s all a matter of taste. People ask
for rosewood, oak, mahogany—all sorts of ridicu-
lous things; but, Ladies and Gentlemen, as I am
speaking to friends, I need not tell you what they
get. (Loud laughter.) Ladies and Gentlemen, I
fear that undertakers live in an ungrateful world ;
but we must oppose the mind conscious of worth
to the slings and arrows of fortune. (Hear, hear.)
1 once had a dear friend ” (here the speaker’s voice
failed him for a moment) “who broke the ties of
half a lifetime in a wanton and cruel mariner.
We were dining together in a city restaurant,
and had reached the fish. Suddenly a bone
stuck in my friend’s throat. Whether I looked at
him iii a professional Manner or not I cannot say
(if I did, it was purely mechanical), but he cursed
me for a ghoul (groans)—yes, Ladies and Gentle-
men, a Ghoul between his gasps, and hurriedly
left lne. (Groans.) I had the—er —melancholy
pleasure of burying him two days later. (Applause.)
I am proud to say that 1 gave him the very best
send-off which my establishment was capable of.
(Cheers and applause.) But I must say that some
people are very inconsiderate. The other day, I
was Wivtching a nice little twenty-pound job on its
way to Rookwood, and a dismal-looking fellow
said to me, ‘Sad sight! ain’t it?’ I answered
him pretty sharply (and I trust the ladies will
excuse me), ‘lt would be a dashed sight more
melancholy to see that there elegant turnout
empty in the stables, eating its head off.’ (Ap-
plause.) He could n’t answer that , so he moved
on. It came into my mind that he looked like
one of those cremation-advocates. (A Voice :
‘ What about cremation ? ’ Groans and hisses.)
“ Ladies and Gentlemen, referring to matters
of current interest, I may say I don’t hold at all
with this pioposal to give up Hyde Park for
a railway-station. A beautiful burial site like
that ! —and so handy ; so much time saved in busy
seasons. I need riot say we could ensure that there
would be no saving in price. Again, you will n
doubt have observed with disgust that Australian
contingents are going to the Transvaal. (Groans.
Where’s the sense of that? (Applause.) War i
a curse. The corpses are shovelled into huge pit
by clumsy amateurs, regardless of the grief o
relatives and the professional feelings of under
takers. As artists we recoil from the thought
As men with wives and little children who look to
us for bread, we abhor it. And I say .emphatically
that the shipping of hundreds of our prospective
clients from this country is a gross breach of trust
and a disgraceful violation of vested interests
(Loud applause.)
“My fnend asks: ‘What about cremation?
I trust that no disturbing element will intei'fere
with our natural enjoyment. But, if I may be
permitted the comparison : Fancy the joy of see
nig the dear departed neatly screwed down in a
superfine rosewood, satin-lined and silver-plates,
at L 24, and the soothing drip, drip, drop o 1
the sweet juices of Mother Earth to lull him to his
eternal rest—and then the other style ! Faugh !
Where’s the poetry ? and, more, where’s the profit?
(Applause.) As I said the other day, the creina-
tionists are merely anticipating their ultimate fate.
Besides, we have Scripture on our side. Look
what happened to Daniel’s friends —Sliadrach,
Meshach, and Abed-nego ! Are not we told that
they stood in the fiery furnace and were not
consumed? Take my word, if the King had
screwed them down into three lovely cases I could
supply, and put six feet of good earth ’on them,
he would have had none of that trouble after-
wards. (Hear, hear !) No, Ladies and Gentle-
men, this cremation is merely an offshoot of
French cookery, and its surroundings are too de-
pressing for any British person to contemplate.
(Loud applause.)
Ladies and Gentlemen, I need not tell you
that undertaking is the oldest and most beneficent
Profession in the world. Ever since man lived—
died. He couldn’t bury himself. So when he
died he had to look round and get someone to do
it for him. Then We came in. (Cheers.) We are
m truth and in fact ‘the salt of the earth’—
a noble army of phagocytes, who painlessly
remove Humanity’s sloughs, and add with
embalming* disinfectants a new. and delight-
ful perfume to the odor cadaveris. It is our
highest joy to make the hideous, grinning
death’s head interesting and lovely, and to
straighten and beautify the gnarled and rigplr-
mortis-stricken corpse. As private individuals we
are modest and retiring. In our public capacity
we lead : decomposition follows. To kill is
human ; to inter divine. A man can be born for
nothing ; he can be married, ring and witnesses
provided, for a guinea ; but to our credit I say it,
he cannot be buried under a tenner. (Cheers.)
Certainly the incursions of amateurs and the baby-
farming industry have pressed a little upon us,
but we have not got below our legitimate three-
foot-six and a clay bottom, so to speak. Our friends
the doctors are first in the hunt ; but we are in-
variably in at the death. (Laughter.) We accom-
pany the pilgrim on the last stage towards his eternal
goal, and give him a friendly shove a few feet
nearer to it. We stand in the unique a.nd proud
position of men of whom their clients have never
been known to utter a single word in disparage-
ment ! Can this be said of Medicine ? the Church?
the Law? or, in fact, of any other Profession ?
Ladies and gentlemen, I venture to say that there
is no recorded oase of one of our clients changing
Ins undertaker. (Cheers and laughter.) Then, is
there any other calling that embrace? such a
variety of Sciences and Arts as ours ? Architec-
ture ! Horticulture !• Bacteriology ! Chemistry !
Anatomy ! Poetry ! We plant this poor mortal
body in the bosom of our mother Earth, confident
that it will soon blossom into a luminous and
ethereal spirit on the shores of that wonderful
city beyond the starry firmament. (Loud applause.)
Let cynics speak slightingly of ‘ the blacks and
obsequies’ of Death these things are the silk
linings and the gold fringes to our clouds ; the
plumes on which we soar.
Ladies and Gentlemen, our business cannot
be called a live business, nor a going concern. It
is a, dead business, concerning the gone. Other
businesses make their living out of the living •
their motto is, ‘Live and lot live.’ We make
our living out of the dead ; our motto is, ‘ Die
and let live.’ The name ‘undertaker’ has a
happy and humorous meaning—it means ‘One
who carries out,’ and we are the champions in the
carrying-out line—in fact, we are the Wright-
Heatons of the dead. (Cheers and laughter.)
But we concentrate the virtues of many trades. In
the undertaker you have the hotel-keeper who is
never ‘full,’ who gives beds to all and lets them
sleep'as long as they like without ringing a single
breakfast-bell. He is the kind policeman who
restores the wandering children of Earth to
their mother’s breast. He is the modest waiter
who at the end of the feast of life asks but for the
bones de moj’tuis nil nisi hones. (Loud '■ uigbter. )
We give many a man a bath, a clean shirt, and a
ride in a carriage, who never had such tilings
before ; and though our game is invariably ‘ whist, ’
and our favourite suit spades, we would scorn to
take-away from any man his last trump. (Ap-
plause.) Our noble profession has outlived gilded
dynasties and imperial governments, and has done
more for the closer settlement of people of eve,ry
rank on the land than any law or constitution
ever invented. (Applause.)
“Ladies and Gentlemen, there is one matter
which I touch witli diffidence, and yet with
strong conviction—that is, the attempt of women
to gam a footing in our Profession. It is easy to
understand that women envy the undertaker, for
he is a public ornament. In his official robes,
sitting straight and solemn in the forefront of his
black-plumed chariot, with some dear departed
packed ami labelled for the Silent City behind
ninp and his coal-black steeds w before him—their
bps hanging down in sympathy—the undertaker
forma an imposin'' picture which especially ap-
peals to women. In fact, it is so captivating' that,
as you are aware, it is no uncommon thing to
receive marriage proposals from widows on the
day after a funeral. Women will have heroes,
gentlemen ; and as the dear departed is the her
of the funeral, and she can’t have him, she goei
for his best man—the undertaker. (Applause.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I submit that this is th
true vocation of woman —to be the under
taker’s wife, but not to be the undertaker
(Applause.) What woman of sense will no
jump at the chance of being tucked in for her las
slumber by a husband’s loving hands? one vvh
will see that she is not aged more than 27 on tin
coffin-)date, and give her a gorgeous funera
which will make all the neighbour women wisl
they could be dead on the same terms. (Louc
cheers). But what I say is, Ladies and Gentle
men, that women as undertakers will ruin ou
business. Because they’re bound to have fashions
You’ll be reading in the papers that ‘Mrs. So-and
So was neatly attired in a black silk shroud, with
heavy jet trimmings,’ or that ‘Lady What’s-her
name was beautifully dressed in velvet and real ok
lace, and the weepers were the latest from Paris.
Where will the dignity of our Profession be then
So I say to women, marry us as much as you like
but never bury us ! (Applause).
“Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will be
glad to hear I have just received a telegram say,
ing that orders for six adults’ and three infants
funerals have been left at my establishment for
to-morrow —three of them first-class. (Loud ap-
plause. )
“Ladies and Gentlemen, when I cast my eye
around the festive board, and see happiness and
mirth glowing on every face, I see in these signs a
tribute not only to our host’s excellent luncheon,
but also a testimonial to the joys which our Pro-
fession is naturally calculated to afford. Cer-
tainly, I know that outsiders catalogue us as
sombre, morose—the most dismal of mortals. For
why ? They always see us respectably sad and
becomingly grave, and think that the facial
appearance, is an index to our habitual frame of
mind ; not knowing that a grave exterior may
cover a heart brimming over with jollity and con-
tentment. Show me a country where Under-
taking is flourishing, and I can show you one that
is prosperous and happy. Where undertakers are
oftenest pulling long'faces, at remunerative rates
per pull, you will see most smiles and happiness.
Why is this? Because a nation must be pro-
sperous to be able to pay our bills, which
are designedly made large in order to take
people’s thoughts off all their other sorrows,
and thus to relieve a little the weight of public
woe, iis it is our duty as men and Christians to do.
The immortal Burns says ‘Man was made to
mourn.’ What he evidently meant was ‘ Man was
paid to mourn.’ (A voice— 4 10 s. 6d. a head;
weepers extra.’ Loud applause.) So I say,
Ladies and Gentlemen, I scorn and despise the
slanders that are flung at us by ignorant people.
Let them say we are a glum and sorrowful crowd
—let them say ! If he laughs best who laughs last
then we laugh best of all. For we end all; we are
the apotheosis of sentiment; we consider every-
body’s feelings ; and when we send in the bill—
that’s where the laugh comes in. (Cheers.) So
I ask you to drink success to our glorious profes-
sion. I say ‘ glorious profession ’ because, the
paths that we daily travel are paths of glory ;
seeing that 4 the paths of glory lead but to the
grave.’ Now, “ Success to Undertaking !”
The toast was drunk with musical honors; after
which all joined in singing 44 We won’t go home
in mourning.”
The picnickers returned to Sydney at 6 p.m. in
a special funeral train, having spent a delightful
day. ' , ,


ELECTRINE.
as s&rrss^fs
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and y°u can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/0, Post i ree.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-082 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wkea4e6.
s9leu) Widcodery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
""baRCOO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ VVoolloston House, Castleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING,M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. VV. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir ; —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
savs it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, \V. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is.
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sa. azid 7s. 6di. Eaclo.
IS?"'Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —-
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its he-t reeormn'Ticln tir-Ti.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER6RATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlic constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-' 1 /*has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
-fllll BY CHEMISTS AIA THE WOHI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
w. JNO. BAKER’S
BOUNDARY RIPCR’S
KIT
With Knife Sheath
and Steel
(lOin. overall.)
Plain • • • 6/-
Capped - « * 7/6
Oriental (as per sketch) 10/6
per set complete.
Post Free —any Colony.
WRITE!
FOR
W* Jno* Baker’s
FREE
Illustrated Catalogue
oe
Registered and Unique Designs in
CUTLERY
w. JJSTO. BAKEtt, Cutler,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE :
WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co
* T TTUTT^TTI
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes—Central Whakf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Life of the System.
irko iKimnlwrs saddles.
BRUSH
M*krr
Natural Saffron
AND
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
brush
MiHcr
6
Svßutn
i
V •* vrf \V\' v*"
NO. 19. Nu. zi.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin covered Knee and Thigh Pads, witt
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“Brusll, MaKer, Syclney, Registered.’
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit foi
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, .£3 ss; A, 15s; B, £4
C, v £4 10s ;D, .£5; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired.
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d. _ _
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in JN.S. W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired—No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations ol
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32/6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15/9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Ruga, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweeo
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
m
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants <fc Importers.
our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes.
Natural Curly, from 3/0 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2tlin. Ion?, tfG. all real hair,
CUTTINGS & COMBING*
worked up, i/6 per 02.
\Ve aye 'the cheapeStin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.'wigzgll;
110 William Stubbt,
corner of Palmer-street, y
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country OrdMA
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT EROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be {riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamohlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
88 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
SHIR
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
tar - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. fW' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
i
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE '
(alcp’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Rud. Brelimer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents-
H. 6LEN & CO.,
359 Georg’e Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car©
GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
SANDHURST 0. November 29.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEESALL.
in the above.
Please allot me
shares
Name
Address
CARRIAGrTOA 8. December 30.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
V
Name
Address
SUMMER 0. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


REST
&
“If I could only get
a little rest.” How
many tired women
say this! They
are exhausted,
depressed, dis-
couraged. Even after
sleeping they find them-
selves just as tired as before.
Not a part of the body escapes
from the hard aches and pains. You
should have all impurities removed
from your blood and your nerves
greatly strengthened.
AY«3
aramiia
brings rest and refreshing sleep. Tour
nervousness disappears and your great
unrest passes away.
Of course you know this is so, for
you have heard all about Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. ‘"'Ask your doctor if it isn’t the
best Sarsaparilla in the world. Even
your druggist will tell you “It’s the
oldest and the best.”
If you are constipated, take Ayer’s Fills.
They greatly aid the Sarsaparilla.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lovell, Mass., U.S.A.
L »
©°
\<v*
A©'*
V°
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
m
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring’ Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ANTHOS'»™HAIR
Discoverer, Christopher Mudd. v.L.a., Prince of Wales* Botanist
Rot a Grease, purely Botanical.
Dr. J. Robert Lee. M. 8.. B.S. (Melb. Uni vend tv),
i'TToYi fIML r
ii g e; u
n ol
IS IV( 11
la r al
Lot :!e
8t (
E<r
nthoß.
Vobdei
it ike l
it IheTTait iji < ain it]
' Ant(iok’’ prtv« nt
Irr t
llth\B AQjsp _
k.belnV, add
' —sample
Colonial Representative (or the Proprietors:
Fred. I, E. Phillips, 317 Collins Melbourne.
hi "TT
<3-0 TO HELL-
IUOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
CECURE a Share of the Profits
Of THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by effecting
a Policy with that Office before the close of the year. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the year
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1899 (all bonuses vest
Immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among the
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direot or through the
Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
Dirpnrnrs •—The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman;
A W. Meeks, Esq.; Joseph Abbott, Esq.; J. T. Walker, Esq.; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
BST Send for Price List. 1531
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
((
IKOKOI
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says
“I have need
your ‘ KOKO ’
now eince June
last, and I have
not only stopped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.*’
V-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC-
Uf>Uf> MARICOPAS COYm LTD., 16, BEVIS MARKS^
LONDON, ENGLAND.
: mv hxvh
aoo-o
Jf
r-
all chemists.
*
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
4
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
%
¥
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Plum
th
pfu
THB
Plum ’
A 'I ENTLEMER who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Beint: practical tradesmen ourselves, " e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them iu use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
/Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* 1 in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered, and sent Post Free to any part oi the world.
J Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Price
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
KT.S.W. Carriage & SacldLlery Manf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-inan Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
sent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUE SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
M.L.A* Browne moved an amendment on
Clause 3of the Queensland Protection of Abori-
gines’ Bill to the effect that no permit (to em-
ploy aborigines) be issued to any Asiatic or
African alien. Looks like protecting the blacks,
but Foxton alleges that a Thursday Island depu-
tation to him on the matter consisted wholly of
white employers who wanted to secure a mono-
poly of aboriginal labor. Well, let them secure
the nigger while they can, for he’ll soon be beyond
the reach of monopolists—European or alien.
There is this to be said in favor of the
Lvne Government’s proposed Cobar-Broken Hill
railway. The western lines of N.S.W pay on the
whole, despite the apparent hopelessness of the
outlook, and it isn’t quite certain that the new
enterprise will be a loss. It looks like being one,
yet other sections equally hopeless in appearance,
have turned out well. The western lines are
cheap to build, cheap to work, and though popu-
lation is thin, they have an immense area of
country to draw business from. The Cobar-
Broken Hill line will have about 20 counties to
support it, and they ought to scrape up enough
business among tbem to pay for axle-grease, if
the management is careful with the grease.
Under the Night.
All upon the water’s faoe the peaoe of God was
brooding ;
Washless the silent rooks, glittering and white :
Whence came the tiger thought shamefully in-
truding ?
Wherefore the red deed ruining the night?
O there and ho there !
What shames the water-waste ?
Who feels a ghostly thrall ? Who heard a woman
call?
Oars in the row-locks, and haste, comrades, haste .
Yon goes a black craft round a headland creep-
ing; , i
One sits where two sat —row, my comrades, row .
O, the little fishes, a-flashing and a-leaping!
Would they make a merry time did the fishes
know?
Hark ye and mark ye !
There where the shadows float—
Heard?ye a gurgling sound ? Saw ye a swirling-
round? . . .
Silent the sullen rocks and empty the boat!
Wherefore the stormy deed in this joyous
weather ?
White sails the royal moon, a silver ship above ;
Back oars, my comrades all, and back oars
together !
Strange deeds are done in the sacred name of
Love.
Sighs here and cries there !
Full of sobs and moans the place ;
Winds are on the wing again, all aheave the placid
plain ...
Hither comes a gale of gales to scour the water’s
face 1
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN
Fancies.
I.—The Gouien Years.
The old creek sings of the Golden Years
The dull lagoon, the oft-trod way,
The bending reeds, have voice to-day;
The ring-barked trees are dead, or dying
Gray, spectral forms —I catch their sighing ;
The lazy swans are homeward flying
They tell me, too, of the Golden Years,
Their fluted notes are as sad as tears.
Ah ! then his soul was holy ground,
Where not a vagrant tare was found.
’Twas sweet with blushing Love to wander ;
The joyous heart of Life to ponder ;
His song had thrill, and Love grew fonder ;
But where —ah ! where are those Golden Years ?
lI.— A Winter’s Reaping.
A Hermit sits in his dungeon cold,
In darkness crying for the light,
When all the world around is bright,
And Friends are true and Love lies weeping ;
He finds no soothe of rest in sleeping;
Alone he mourns a Winter’s Reaping
Of faded flowers in a garden old ;
He digs up dross where he buries gold !
Of faded flowers that hermit sings,
And strikes a harp of fretful strings.
He had his kindly years of Gladness;
He had one ashen night of Madness ;
He has his withering days of Sadness.
The flowers all fade when the heart grows cold.
HI.— A Voice.
Come out and sing with the birds of Spring I
They call again to you, to me :
What might have been, perchance may be.
The Night works but the Day’s refining ;
The Light of Love hath no declining,
Through mists of Earth may dim its shining.
How green the leaves from the ashes spring !
How sweet the scents that the night-winds bring 1
It may be ours to wring from pain
A goodly recompense of gain.
Come out and sing while Love is waiting ;
In wild-flower air the birds are mating,
Their ecstacies in song relating.
Come lie with me in the lap of Spring !
V.
ANDREW SARD.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
222 CANNON ST. HniiQr
, . London, E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FR-A-NTIS: JARVIS
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
■AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Seeretary of Mines) Blie-h-street qvr>TJEV
& a l™ S wn C 2 K l E &C 0 ’ Q ue en-street, BRISBANE. g SYDNEY *
Es q- 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
mf
Tariff, 10s. per Day.
£3 per Week.
SYDNETS PERFECT HOTEL
IS
TTERSM’S
PITT STREET.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
THE .. ..
Condon Qental
Institute.
Dit. 8. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and M'lt. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its livanehes
Deyitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY -98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SB
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH&COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
4
NOBEL-6 LASKOV; EXPLOSIVES
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
a
<2
/
Jr
gADEMAR
DM
C OSO^
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITC.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
m
I.TE
J h
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPOUTING BALLI&TITE won over ,£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
nam in April and May, 1899 ; or over <£looo more than any other powder. —Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PAR VO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Snooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland , Messrs. Brabant & Co.
LAID ON GALVANIZED
WIRE NETTING
CNEAPE
mi
Wti
mi
SRI
w
■
m
EROIP
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
bU. III!
FOR
WEST


The Bulletin
Registered at the General 1 1 ost Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Tost as a Newspaper*
You 20.—N0. 10:9.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1899.
Prick Gd.
The latest manifestation of this
’Anglo-American amicableness is made in the
semi-official announcement that the Govern-
ment of the . United States only remains
neutral with respect to the British-Boer war
so long as no other Power interferes between
the combatants. The meaning of this is,
assumedly, that if another Power does inter-
fere the United States will claim a right to
come into the quarrel and see that Britain
gets fair play—in other words, that she may
■become a British ally.
THE ENGLISH-SPEAKING PEOPLES AGAIN.
BRO. JONATHAN : “ By Gosh! Blood’s thicker’n water—especially when it’s the top dog!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6“ 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which, you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct. reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; S reel
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.—/?. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Eout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside " N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1899.
War Literature and Other Matters.
Evek since these Seven Provinces resolved to
rise up and hit an enemy who already had the
biggest empire in the world on top of him,
and whose entire numbers (men, women, and
children) are about equal to the population of
Adelaide, or about three times that of the little
town of Auckland, or about one-third of that of
Melbourne or Sydney —ever since this valiant re-
solution was arrived at, the pouring forth of anti-
Boer sentiment in Australasia has been a misery
and a great flood. There is something pitiable in
the hysteria which builds so much frenzy on an
unpleasantness with a handful of Dutch farmers.
And when it is remembered that there are in
England alone (saying nothing of Scotland, Ire-
land, Wales, and all the rest of the empire) 17
towns, the smallest of which contains more people
than the Boers of the Transvaal and the Free State
put together, the hysteria looks all the more
squalid. The literature which this hysteria has
produced is about as abject as the cause thereof.
The average man isn’t logical, and he is least logi-
cal when he is shaking a large battle-axe in the
columns of a newspaper, and calling out for Blood.
And the country which never saw any real war,
and never did any real fighting, and never waved
anything in actual strife more desperate than a
cotton umbrella, is much more desperate when it
starts at this kind of literature than one which
knows something about real campaigning and
which has waved much deadlier things than the
harmless seven-and-sixpenny brolly. Tasmania,
which is sending about 125 men to help get on top
of the Dutchman when he is down, cheers about
125 times louder than Britain which is sending
some 80,000 troops.
* * * *
The indictment which the press of Australasia
lias presented against the Boers is very large and
very angry. Also it is very loose and promiscuous.
Melbourne Age, for example, in its leading article
of 21st Oct., goes on like this :
As it has been with agriculture, so also has it been with
minerals, which are of surprising richness, not alone in
diamonds and gold, but in coal and copper and iron.
Those things might have lain under the feet of the Boers
till the Day of Judgment, and no human being would
have found employment or benefit from them. Yet
within a decade and a half of the first chance diamond
being picked up at Kimberley the Consolidated de Beers
Company was annually taking diamonds out of the
ground to the value of £3,250,000, and paying 12J per
cent, on its capital to its shareholders, besides disbursing
from £7 to £3 12s. per week to 1261 European workmen,
and from 30s. to 17s. 6d. per week for 5250 natives.
With the coalfields it was just the same. Coal is found
in Cape Colony, in Orange Free State, in the Transvaal,
a u j n Natal - And > what is more, it is found in great
abundance. But the Boers would never have found it,
or, if they had, would never have used it. The backward-
ness of its development may be gauged from the follow-
ing comparisons, given in Worsfold’s book on South
Africa:—
Estimated Sq. Miles Annual Output
„ , of Coal Fields. in Tons.
South Africa 56,000 ... 600,000
New South Wales ... 25,000 ... 3,500,000
United Kingdom ... 4,000 ... 180,000,’000
That table shows the difference in placing great natural
resources within reach of the unprogressive Boer and of
the enterprising Anglo-Saxon. It was just the same with
the gold. . . . In the interests of humanity, the Boer has
no more right to lock up these great resources of nature
than had the Bantu race which he displaced.
By the Age’s own showing, the Boer hasn’t looked
these things up ; the biggest diamond output in
the world started on Boer territory, and the biggest
gold output in the world is on Boer territory now,
and, with these riches being dug out as fast as
men can extract them, the hysterical Age wants
to go to war with the Boer for “ locking them up.”
And the same paper points out that in South
Africa, where Britain bosses about four times as
much territory as the two republics put together,
coal-mining is shamefully neglected; and, as
the Boer has neglected coal-mining in the
Transvaal for about 50 years, he should be thrown
cut to make room for the Anglo-Saxon, who has
neglected it at the Cape for about 90 years.
The smallness of the South African coal output is
all put down to the Boer, as if he owned all South
Africa. _ And if the fact that the Boer slept on
top of his gold and coal deposits for 50 years shows
that he should be fired out of his own country,
where does the energetic Anglo-Saxon of Wes-
tralia come in ? He slept and dreamed and grew
a few sheep or a bull or two on top of his coal and
gold deposits for longer than the Boer did, and he
is dreaming yet while other people dig his minerals
for him. And he wasn’t distracted, as the Boer
was, by almost ceaseless war, and forced into isola-
tion. And the Boer, at all events, has done about
as well with his country as the energetic Anglo-
Saxon has with the Northern Territory, or with
Newfoundland. In Newfoundland the Anglo-
Saxon has dreamed for 300 years on top of magni-
ficent coal, iron, gold, silver and copper deposits—•
and lived miserably on fish. Isn’t his day of
ejection due ?
* * * *
Sundry N.S.W. papers rise in the same “train
to say that the Boer’s neglect to develope the
great resources of his country shows that he
should make room for the more active Anglo-
Saxon, who will do so. Which is not so
convincing as it might be, coming from
New South Wales, which owns most of the only
great river system in Australia, yet hardly irri-
gates an acre of ground ; which can’t build a single
mile of railway or do a single public work unless
Britain lends the money; and whose great gold
mines, silver mines, and even coal mines are
largely owned by more energetic people abroad.
And all over Australia indignant Jingo papers
complain that the Boers are not moral, and there-
fore should be wiped out. The Boer’s alleged
lack of morality is a regrettable circumstance,
though there is no evidence of it available in Aus-
tralia except the assertion of these papers. But
seeing that, according to statist Coghlan’s latest
information, it seems that half the young women of
N.S.W. are not moral in the conventional sense
of the term, and there is no reason to believe the
other provinces are any better, and considering
that in Brisbane one out of every seven births is
illegitimate, and making due allowance for the
hideous frequency of incest and the like horrors in
this great country, Australia ought to be able to
speak with some authority upon immorality. It
speaks, at all events, as one having a large know-
ledge of the subject.
* * * m
But the loudest curse of the people who want to
go out hunting after Boer-meat is that it is neces-
sary to put down a lawless and brutal race, and to
protect the British population of the Transvaal.
Wherefore the changes are persistently rung on a
few weary anecdotes. Some time ago one Eng-
lishman was shot in a scuffle; also, a long time
ago one Englishwoman was murdered by some
person or persons who were never brought to
justice. Likewise there have been casual scram-
bles, insults, and disagreements in the streets,
and some people have been assaulted and hustled.
Further, it was alleged by the papers that,
after _ the war started, the Boers blew up
a train containing women and children, though
the statement afterwards proved to be a
lie; and another incredible report, which was
never confirmed, told of the Boers spitting on
female refugees. The indignant literature which
has been spread on these matters in Australasia
alone would cover acres. Queensland, which can
show about 25 unpunished murders within the last
few years, and where a policeman was recently
chai’ged with putting out a man’s eye in a prin-
cipal street of Brisbane, has been very angry.
Melbourne and Sydney, the home of the brutish
larrikin who frequently “deals it out ” with a
bottle to the stranger in the streets at night, are
both of opinion that the Transvaal must be a
lawless place, and that the country needs to be
annexed by a strong, law-abiding race. They
have been interrupted a good deal in coming to
this conclusion by the frequent news of “another
push outrage,” and information about how the
ribs of some inoffensive person were stove
in and his head danced on, but it sized up the
evidence and resolved that the Transvaal wasn’t a
safe place to live in. For one outrage in Johan-
nesburg proves that the Boer isn’t fit for self-
government ; while eight outrages in Melbourne
only prove that the force wants strengthening by
the addition of two extra constables at 6s. 6d. a
day. Apropos, the writer of this knows a lady
who lived for a good many years in the Transvaal,
and the very worst thing that happened to her was
snake-bite. Said snake-bite is not set down to
Boer misgovernment. And within a few months
after her arrival in Sydney she was assaulted and
robbed in broad daylight in Surry Hills.
* * * *
But though the indignation has been general,
Maoriland has been, perhaps, the most justly in-
furiated of all the provinces. It was also the only
province where the Premier sang the National An-
them in a hoarse voice all on his own at a public
meeting, and thereby brought his grey hairs down
in sorrow to the level of a street barrel-organ. The
Maoriland press points out strongly as a reason
for interference that the revenue raised in the
Transvaal is burdensome and extortionate (it is
£5 10s. per inhabitant per annum, against Maori-
land’s own £7 2s. Id.), and is “far beyond the
legitimate requirements of the country.” Also,
the Maoriland press has gone mad over the fact that
the big absentee gold-mining companies of the
Transvaal contribute such a very large proportion of
the revenue, and yet the aliens at Johannesburg
haven’t a vote. And it speaks solemnly about
how these aliens have “ made the country.”
Which shows how different a thing may look
when viewed from two different sides. When a
foreign corporation in Johannesburg makes, say,
£500,000 a year out of the strangers’ country, and
pays, say, £50,000 in direct and indirect taxation,
and has £450,000 for itself, it is one of the props
of the country, and ought to have a big share in
the government because of the £50,000 a year it
leaves in the country as a contribution to the
revenue. And when it does the same thing on a
much smaller scale in Maoriland it is just a plain,
ordinary, accursed absentee, which should receive
no consideration at all because of the money it
drains out of the country, so Maoriland hits it
with an absentee tax and speaks of it as an incu-
bus. And Maoriland, which prohibits the alien
from even digging gum until a lengthy period has
elapsed after his arrival, is grieved—deeply grieved
—because the alien in the Transvaal isn’t abso-
lutely on a level with the burgher. And the M.L.
Lower House which approved of a Bill for the
most wholesale and general exclusion of every kind
of immigrant that the Government could possibly
regard as undesirable, was shocked beyond expres-
sion to hear that the Boer Government exercises
the power to expel persons who are regarded as
undesirable citizens.*
* * * *
The anti-Boer literature of Australasia is a
lamentable thing, taking it all round. It is mostly
a bitter complaint that the Boer does exactly what
the people of this country do every day, only they
call it one thing when the Boer does it, and
another when they do it themselves, and they don’t
notice that it is the same thing all the time.
Australasia tries to ruin the commerce of her
suzerain by heavy duties, just as much as the
Boers do. It refuses aliens a vote, just as they
do. It takes aliens without giving them any
Parliamentary representation, just as they do.
When it objects to any special variety of alien,
regarding him as in any way dangerous to the
State, it. goes even further than the Boer, for it
refuses him naturalisation on any terms whatever.
It refuses to let the alien be taught his own lan-
guage in the public-schools. It is more lawless
than Boer-land, only instead of calling its law-
lessness an indubitable evidence of its own inca-
pacity for self-government and of the necessity for
its subjugation by a superior race, it merely
alludes to it as “ larrikin disturbance. ” But the
wildest humor of the situation lies in the attempt
of the Australian to convince himself that he is
lashing himself into this military fury out of pure
love for, and attachment and loyal devotion to,
Britain. Australasia on the whole loves Britain so
well that if it can oblige Britain by doing anything
that it would much rather do in any case, tnen it
is more than willing to oblige Britain by doing it.
And the cordiality about ends there. Britain
asked Australia in bygone days to kindly make
room in its vasty wastes for a few shiploads of
convicts, and Australia promptly and justly
replied that it wouldn’t. Britain further asked
Australia to admit British goods free to its
markets, and the affectionate son again said he
wouldn’t. The mother-country suggested that
Australia might at least give its goods a preference
(it is a concession which would cost Australia
nothing, for where a province now charges 25 per
cent, on British and German goods alike, a
preference could be given to the former by putting
the duty on German goods up to 40 per cent.);
and Australia, so far, has cordially replied that it
would see its aged mother hanged first. It was
requested to let some of the “submerged tenth”
settle on Australian soil, and it replied that it
wasn’t taking any British cripples. Two of the
Australias go out of their way to specially tax the
British capitalist here as an absentee and a curse
and a parasite. The Briton who comes out here
is taxed from the day of his arrival, but he is an
unclean being, and not fit to vote until he has been
purified by a considerable period of residence. In
several of the provinces he is declared quite unfit
to enter the Upper House until he has been puri-
fied by a very long period of residence. When the
consumptive British citizen comes here to recover
his lost lung, some at least of the provinces tell
him to go and die elsewhere —which is brutal
language to throw at any invalid. Australia cer-
tainly pays a small sum for naval protection, but it
is a very small sum, and paid most reluctantly. If
there is any case when Australia’s alleged affec-
tion for Britain induced it to do anything for
Britain’s gratification and advantage that it
didn’t want to do, the address of that case is quite
unknown at this office.
* * * *
But when Britain invited sundry Australian
politicians to go to London and have a lovely razzle-
dazzle and holiday at Jubilee time, these politicians
rose up unanimously and said that blood was thicker
than water, and that owing to the deep affection
which Australia bore to England, they felt it
their duty to go and have a good time. And when
sundry politicians found an opportunity to adver-
tise themselves and probably get titles, by sending
a contingent to the Transvaal; and when a lot of
people saw a chance of a free trip, and the plea-
sant excitement of travel, and good pay, by being
a contingent; and the sporting instinct of a com-
munity which loves to go out and shoot some-
thing saw some excitement in view; and there
was the joy of wearing a uniform and a feather,
and letting off a gun with a loud bang ; and the
commercial community saw in the contingent a
good opportunity to put in a claim for fat army
contracts —Australia’s alleged love for Britain
blazed forth anew. Britain, so far as appears,
didn’t much want the paltry little contingent,
which will probably be rather in the way than
otherwise, but the love which Australia’s poli-
ticians bear to England urged them on to gratify
themselves inthematter, even if they did somewhat
inconvenience the alleged object of their affections
in the process. So Henry Copeland, the N.S.W.
staunch Protectionist, calls to Australia to gratify
Britain by sending a little burlesque force that
Britain apparently doesn’t care about. And in his
overwhelming loyalty he also wants to put a
heavy duty on all British products so as to keep
them out, and damage Britain’s commerce (which
she does care about) as much as possible. And
Lyne is built the same way. Ditto Seddon and
Turner, and Braddon, and Kingston and Dick-
son and Bigjohn Forrest. Ditto everybody, in
fact. Blood is thicker than water right enough—
our own blood, that is.
The Digger in the West.
It is only six years since Fat Hannan pegged
out the first Kalgoorlie claim. To-day the
Great Boulder and other co’s. are burrowing
below 700 ft., and are talking about 1000 ft.
Work that has occupied most mining fields at
least 20 years has been packed into five in the
West. The conflict of alluvial diggers and
lease owning companies formed to work lodes
is a consequence. Elsewhere when alluvial
and reef have occurred together, the “dirt”
has been skimmed off before the reef has been
seriously touched. In Westralia the leases
were taken up and big co’s. formed almost
before the dry-blower had paid the last instal-
ment on his machine. Again, J. Bull was the
principal buyer of leases; and Bull. a
passion for big tracts of country —the mi
that doesn’t consist of 80 or 100 acres is
small for him to see. Country remote from
reefs had therefore to be included to sa is >
John’s earth-hunger. All of which and more
made things worse than usual for the digger,
and rendered a clear law with regard to bis an
the leaseholder’s respective rights all the more
necessary if conflicts were to be avoided. Anc
the law was as clear as mud. First, however,
there was no law. Then, in ’94, the law salt
that the digger might go on lands that were
applied for but not granted under 1 ha ,
of course, gave him only a few months’ grace.
Then, in Oct., ’95, the law said :
Any miner may, subject to the regulations, enter upon
any land the subject of any application for lease already
made or hereafter to be made, or the subject of any 'ease
granted after the passing of this Act which is not held
under miner’s right, to within 50 feet of any reef.
The average digger who read that and tried to
understand it heard strange noises in his head
and saw specks before his eyes, and had other
symptoms ; so, without struggling with it, lie
proceeded to dig up to within 50 feet of any
reef.. Meantime, however, another difficulty
arose What constitutes alluvial ? as
“ pug ” alluvial ? There were good arguments
on either side. One thing certain was that the
cos. had in no case been formed to work this
sort of formation. That fact was recognised,
and the trouble was patched up.
* * * *
But the diggers had hardly got their second
wind when the provision quoted was flung at
them. The wardens held that it meant
that diggers could not go on to any land
the lease of which had been granted before
Oct., ’95. This practically shut them off three-
fourths of the oldest and richest parts of the
fields. An appeal was taken to the Full Court;
and the Warden was upheld. The diggers say
that this interpretation is in the teeth of the
intention of Parliament ; and mostly for that
reason, but partly for a few others that have
squeezed in sideways, there have been
“demonstrations,” and some hotheads have
been mentioning Eureka Stockade. The Bul-
letin does not know what Parliament’s inten-
tion was. But if Parliament meant, as the
Full Court holds it did, that “ any miner may
enter upon land the subject of any application
now pending or to be made in the future and on
any lease to be granted hereafter,” this paper,
in its charity, believes Parliament would have
said so. What, however, it did say, clumsily
no doubt, was that it didn’t matter
whether the application had been made
in the past or was to be lodged in the
future—the digger might still go on. The
Court, however, apparently holds that when
an application has been once dealt with it is
not an “ application already made ” any longer.
In the same way, presumably, when a young-
ster grows into a man he ceases to have been
born. It is, possibly, a fact that an applica-
tion that has been dealt with ceases to be an
application ; but the fact that an application
has been dealt with does not alter the other
fact that the application was made. But The
Bulletin is not a Groper Full Court. ’S’onah
Onslow,, who is part of it, declared that “ in
the absence of very positive language on the
part of the Legislature, this Court must not
curtail the rights of the lessees ” ; and Brother
Stone also thought that “ the Legislature has
omitted to provide in express words for the
alluvial miner in regard to leases granted
before the passing of this Act.” Still, Judge
Stone had some doubt about it apparently, for
he said that “ if the Legislature has not used
plain language ... it is our duty ... to
give the leaseholder the benefit of the doubt.”
And the third Learned Brother concurred.
* * * *
If the alluvial miner were a parasite
this extreme solicitude for the leaseholder
mostly a big company—might be under-
standable. Bub though the digger is not,
as a rule, much afflicLed with the sorrows
of wealth, he is a person of very great
account to the community. He is the lease-
holders’ John the Baptist—he goes into the
wilderness and lives on tinned dog and grubs,
and things, locusts and wild honey not being
plentiful in those parts. Men who know, men
like Manager Hamilton, of the Boulder, are
his readiest champions. They know that to
the men who rocked the cradles on Bendigo
and Ballarat Victoria owes the great and per-
manent industry which set her on her feet, and
has kept her up several times since when she
has been very groggy ; and they know that the
man with the shaker and the blower has done
the same for Westralia. It may seem a smart
thing to take from these men what has been
the recognised reward of their labors in America,
and in every province of Australia —to lock
up the alluvial from them so soon as their
followers, the men who are after the
reefs, show on the scene. But if that
is the game then the digger will give his
old occupation best; and he would truly be a
fool to do months of “perish” in order that
others might come and reap. If there is any
doubt, then, it is the digger who should have the
benefit of it, both as a matter of public policy and
on custom, which is no doubt founded on public
policy. Still, as the Full Court does not think
so and has used its opinion to hack up its read-
ing of the clause, the sooner Parliament makes
its meaning clear the better. And then, Par-
liament having made its meaning clear, if
public opinion is still dissatisfied, all it can do
is to sit. down and wait for a general election—
or, better still, stand up and wait. And if it
goes to sleep when the general election heaves
in sight, as it has done before—well, that will
simply be its own funeral again.
The Disgrace of the Transvaal War.
On Saturday last crowds lined the streets of
Sydney to watch the passage of the N.S.W.
soldiers who are being sent to South Africa to
fight the Boers. There were flags, and cheers,
and the music of rniiitary bands, as through
the pouring rain the men marched for embarka-
tion. And every man who marched, every
man who cheered, added another dark spot to
the dark stain of dishonor with which this ex-
pedition, and the other expeditions like it,
blot the scutcheon of Australia.


For what is their justification ? what is their
defence? There is none worth the name.
Australia has no quarrel with the Transvaal.
Australia has no excuse for becoming a catspaw
of greedy Britain. Australia, with a military
force raised for defence, not defiance, should be
the last country in the world to take arms
against Boer patriots fighting for wife and child
and home, national freedom and independence.
* * * •
Let British speculators gorge themselves with
plunder if they will. Let British politicians
bring town after town, and State after State,
and country after country, within the Imperial
clutch. Let the British drum roll ever round the
world, with its echoes of cant and tyranny and
bloodshed. What affair is it of ours ?—save
to express contempt for the methods, detesta-
tion of the means. If we sympathise, let us
at least sympathise with the patriot, not with
the bully ; let us assist the men who fight for
their fatherland, not the men hired to realise a
bloodstained dream of worldwide empire.
• * * *
The Australias are nominally vassals of the
British Empire ; but they owe it no more than
a nominal allegiance. There is upon us no
constitutional incumbency to defend that
Empire, tottering beneath its burden of ill-
gotten spoils ; no incumbency to aid it in
stealing their country from the Boers in the
Transvaal. Nor is there need : the navies and
armies of Britain are more than sufficient for
the destruction of 30,000 Boers. Without con-
stitutional compulsion, without the sentimental
excuse of necessity, we are sending troops to
aid Britain in an unjust war. For the quibble
of the franchise has already been thrown aside;
and Britain’s reasons are set forth with naked
effrontery—revenge for Majuba ; greed for the
Rand mines; extension of the Empire in
Africa, at whatever cost of human life. They
are reasons discreditable to Britain ; but that
Australia should yield to them is infinitely
more discreditable.
» * * •
The Sydney crowds were delighted with the
spectacle, and deplored the depressing rain.
Ihey have not to pay the piper. That is the
share of the men on the land—the wool-growers,
farmers, miners, and other producers—from
whose industry at the last comes every penny
squandered to gratify Jingo politicians, or to
amuse the Sydney crowd. In this matter, as
all others, the bushmen have no voice. Over-
grown Sydney decides; and Sydney news-
papers. And the metropolis’s lust for sensa-
tion, the military desire for action and dis-
tinction, have led the country to a folly and a
shame worse than those which accompanied the
Soudan contingent.
• • • •
Who believes that the Australian troops are
going for love of Britain ? They are going for
excitement, for change, for vainglory and the
tawdry lustre of military honor ; and because
the man who professes to be a soldier, who is
trained to the soldiering business, naturally
wishes to test his courage and his weapons.
Without war, he conceives that he has wasted
the time spent in preparing for war. It is to
the undying disgrace of Australia that the
Governments should have yielded to the
military clamour—in such a shameful cause.
* * * *
History, proud to chronicle the defence of
the little Swiss republic against the empire
of Austria, will not fail to mark the dis-
honor to the British Empire of the similar war
of aggression against the brave little republic of
the Transvaal. And though Britain may extend
her empire farther than Rome dreamed of, may
depopulate States and destroy communities in
her campaigns for Greed and “ Glory,” upon
her also each fresh aggression will recoil with
ruinous force, and each new conquest will carry
with it the seeds of deserved disaster. The
measure which Britain metes to weaker peoples
will some day be meted to her. Her Goth will
come.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
On. Brigands and Things in General.
“ C.J.” empties forth his contempt for British
righteousness, Australian loyalty and Holman’s
pluck:—
Chamberlain told the Yankees that the British inter-
ference in the Transvaal wa3 similar to that of the great
U.S.A. in Cuba. The U.S. interfered there to release the
reeoncentrados from the intolerable tyranny of the.
Spaniards, and they did so by blockading the island and
promptly starving the reeoncentrados out of existence.
Britain has gone to war to redress the grievances of the
Uitlandersand has ruined most of them in the proceeding.
Truly it isn’t as bad as the great U.S.A. example, but it
is bad enough. Holman complained that the war is un-
just. Nearly every war that the British have fought has
been. The scrap that Hengist and Horsa forced upon
Vortigern was unjust, but it was the first day of the
English in England. John Morley’s earnest appeal to
his countrymen not to be a nation of brigands was mere
rubbish. His nation IS AND ALWAYS HAS BEEN a
nation of brigands. The Brigand Nation in fact. We
started in the Imperial business by robbery and murder
on the Spanish Main (previous attempts were mostly
failures) and we made our national fortune by the whole-
sale and complete robbery of India, which was accom-
plished by more awful murdering. England herself is
stolen property, and the whole empire the result of
robbery-under-arms, and Morley appeals to his
countrymen not to be a nation of brigands ! Surely
the little man was talking sarcastically. It is our nature
and nothing to be ashamed of, and this writer is quite
proud of the fact that he can go to no part of the world
without meeting a man to whom he can say pleasantly,
“Oh yes, I know you, we did you bad at So-and-so,
and got away with a good swag! ” The other
nations would have done it if they could, and when
they get the chance they will make up for lost
time by devouring us—the boss robbers of all
time. We must eat or be eaten, and the only unpleasant
thing about it is that whenever we eat anyone up we tell
him it is for his good and not ours, and that it is only a
high sense of moral duty that compels us to do it—and,
worst of all, we tell ourselves the same old lie and make
ourselves believe it. It is time this race knew its real
character and kept the cant for the outside world. Let
us be frank to ourselves—but the truth of it is that the
Briton can't help snuffling arid canting. He has a small
but tougb-in-the-fibre conscience, and it worries him,
and the only way he can keep it quiet is to drug it with
cant. Therefore he cants horribly. He declares that
his plundering expeditions are to set the captive free
and spread the Gospel of Christ, and when he can’t
make his conscience drunk he pleads that the spirit is
strong and the flesh is weak, and asks pardon for the sin
he is about to commit and cannot live without com-
mitting. With a “God forgive me” on his lips he sends a
hundred thousand nigs, to Hades, and kneels down and
asks for Heaven’s forgiveness alongside the couch of his
friend’s wife.
The Briton is wiping out the Boers to-day chiefly be-
cause there are a few' hundred millions of tons of treasure
in the land which he feels he cannot live without, and
because he can never forgive the common farmers who
beat him black-and-blue at Majuba Hill and Laing’s Nek.
As for Australian loyalty, we are indeed the sons of our
fathers. We shout that we are sending this handful of
troops to show our devotion to the dear old Motherland.
Rats ! We are sending them as carpet-baggers. They
are merely the latest style of Australian Slate com-
mercial-travellers. We are sending them to take their
chance of death by bullet and dysentery because loyalty
to the Empire just now means fat orders for Australian
produce for the invading army in South Africa. There is
going to be a boom in tinned meats, chilled beef and
mutton, fodder, flour, bacon, and many other things that
men and horses eat and drink. We can afford to spend a
few hundred thousand sovs. to get those fat orders and
the splendid advertisement, and lay broad and deep the
foundations of a permanent market. When this “ job ”
is over, someone may rise up in London and point
out that the true Imperial policy is to do without
Chicago stuff and feed the army entirely on Canadian
and Australian produce. Hurrah for loyalty when it
means a boom in tinned dog. All the talk about the Dear
Old Motherland stops suddenly when there is no boom of
guns in places where Australian fodder and tinned dingo
are in big demand. In the piping times o t peace, when
the naval contribution is before Parliament—well, it
gets through, but utterly without enthusiasm and very
grudgingly. But for the fact that it is looked upon as a
sort of national war-insurance and someone benefits a
little by the expenditure, it would probably have been
blocked before now. There is not one scrap of loyal en-
thusiasm about paying the naval contribution.
It was quite refreshing to hear Holman get up in the
House and declare that because he believed the empire to
which he belonged was wrong he hoped it would get
licked. He really believed that when the jingo bishop
prays to God to defend the right he means the right, and
had not grasped the full significance of the British motto
“ GOD and GUIi RIGHT.” Holman’s straight-out
declaration was like a long beer in a weary land, and
would have done him a lot of good as a man with the
courage of his opinion but for his beastly explanation.
His “ mistake ” was magnificent, but his crawl-out was
hideous. He hadn’t the courage of his opinion, and
while he failed to placate his enemies, he disgusted his
friends. In fact he made a horrible mess of it, and, instead
of a statesman, proved himself to be merely a hot-headed
youth whose eloquence runs away with him. All the
hysterical whitewash that, Henry Lawson and the rest
of the revolutionary poets can pour over him won’t cover
the ugly fact that he is a most eloquent young man who
can be upset by the most casual, straight-forward, obvious
question, and that having kicked current-opinion right
in the diaphragm he is frightened at the row that proves
how much the animal is hurt. Holman’s explanation
that what he meant was that in the long duel between
the Boers and the Chartered Co. he hoped the Boers would
win, was the thinnest and most miserable thing he ever
attempted. It was not proposed to send troops to aid the
Chartered Co. and the C.C. was not even mentioned till
Holman dragged it in for his own damnation. That
“ explanation ” and Henry Lawson’s apology are suffi-
cient to convince everybody that Holman is a blank revo-
lutionary cartridge- that he and his friends feel con-
vinced that he has committed some sort of crime, and that,
crime or no crime, having said an unpopular thing, he
had not the courage to stick to it. Still with all his fail-
ings this writer would sooner see N.S.W. Assembly filled
with failures like him than contain two such jingoes as
—ooh !— Sleath and Meagher.
♦
The White Slaves of Victoria.
A Bendigo mining co. (and not a particularly
poor one either) was, through its manager,
charged the other day with failing to provide
decent ventilation. The Govt, doctor presented
a long report on what he had found in the
workings. The surface temperature was
60deg. At 2415 ft. the temperature was
86deg. In a winze below that it was
90deg. At 150 ft. in another winze the tem-
perature was 96deg. “ The air was abso-
lutely still, except when the rock-drill was
working. The sense of breathlessness was
almost unbearable, bordering on suffoca-
tion. ... A wild and irregular pulse. ... A
throbbing sense of confusion about the temples. ”
In more than one working he found a diminu-
tion in the amount of oxygen in the air and an
increase of carbonic acid —“ the gravest evil
to which a practical miner can possibly be
exposed, and to which he mostly succumbs.”
The doctor (Burke Gaffney) “examined men
working both in the levels and the winzes.
They were not engaged in laborious or violent
work. In each case both the respiratory move-
ments and cardiac impulses were very consider-
ably increased beyond the normal limits. Each
man examined had a peculiarly uneven and
irregular pulse, and a most shallow respiratory
movement.” A heart in a normal atmosphere
contracts 32,000 times in eight hours; the
doctor says that the contractions in such an
atmosphere as this would amount to over 50,000
in the period. By way of comment on this, a
couple of days after it was written a man
dropped dead at his work in a neighboring
mine. This particular co. was not fined or
anything of the sort; it was, instead, given
three months in which to improve conditions,
though it was admitted that six months pre-
viously the department had given notice that
something would have to be done. Meantime,
the work in the bad sections has been knocked
off; and it is added that the men complain of
being thrown out ! What a workman’s paradise
indeed in which the power that closes such
places as these is cursed by the workmen them-
selves !
Bussell’s Council Beform.
Maoriland Tory party goes to the country
at the ensuing general election with a pro-
gramme in ten items, whereof Item 1 sets forth
that the said Tory party advocates “ Reform of
the Legislative Council.” It is further explained
that the improvement is to consist in making
the Council elective instead of nominee—which
is a most valuable reform, if the Council is made
elective the right way. If it is made elective
the wrong way then “ reform of the Legislative
Council ” may make the Council twenty
times less reformed than it is now. At
present, the Council doesn’t represent the
people and has no mandate from the people.
Its members are appointed by the Ministry,
for seven years ; so they have more than twice
as long a lease of power as the people’s repre-
sentatives ; and, as they are salaried, the ap-
pointments are a most useful piece of Minis-
terial patronage. If it is proposed to
make Councillors elective by universal
suffrage then the Tory party’s proposed
reform is a reform. If it is proposed to
make them elective on a property-qualification
or any other kind of restricted or Fat Man
franchise, then the proposed reform is merely a
device whereby to surreptitiously fasten up the
Maoriland people with chains that they may not
be able to get rid of in the next 50 years. The
party which says it is in favor of an elective
Council without saying what kind of election is
to be resorted to is just in the position of the
doctor who promises to relieve a patient’s suf-
ferings, but doesn’t say whether he intends
doing it by curing the patient or by killing him.
Premier Seddon, meanwhile, says that he is
against the elective-Couucil idea, and favors
either a continuance of the nominee system, or
else no Council at all. And one of his principal
organs, the Canterbury Times, backs him up
thus :—
Perhaps the best reform, as the Premier himself
suggested, would be to reform the Council out of
existence altogether. The elective system has not
proved, a success in other countries, and there is
no reason to suppose that it would do so here. If
the two Houses of Parliament were elected, as they
ought to be, on the most perfect franchise and the most
desirable term that can be devised, they would be practi-
tieally the same Chamber. To make one franchise more
liberal than the other, or one term longer than the other,
would be to create an artificial difference which could not
be logically defended. It is not easy, indeed, if we must
have a Legislative Council, to suggest any great improve-
ment upon the present method of appointing its mem-
bers.
This is the argument against an elective
Council put in the shortest possible space—and
it is a fool of an argument. Its reasoning is :
Because the existing elective Councils, chosen
on a narrow property franchise which makes
them representative of the rich only, are a
failure, therefore all elective Councils must be
a failure and the idea should be avoided. If
these provinces had reasoned in the same foolish
way when they were ruled by Assemblies
elected by a property franchise, and decided
that, as a property-franchise-elected Lower
House was a failure, then every kind of Lower
House, no matter how elected, must also be a
failure, they would have got back by now to.
the status of Crown colonies, or else to anarchy.
The nominee Council is certainly a failure, and
no really civilised country has any use for
such an institution. The property-elected
Council is just as bad as a property-
elected Assembly. The idea of having
no Council at all means leaving the whole power
in the hands of the road-and-bridge fiend in
the Lower House. The idea of having the
Council elected on the same plan as the Lower
House means having two Houses full of road-
and-bridge fiends instead of one. The idea
that has never been tried yet—though it will
be as soon as the Federal Parliament starts—is
that of having an Upper House elected by the
most liberal possible suffrage, but by the whole
province voting as one constituency. That is
the only vacant billet that a democratic Council
can fill; and it is a billet that badly wants
filling. As things are, the only place in Maori-
land which has no Parliamentary representa-
tive is Maoriland. There is the member who
•is returned for Waihemo, and whose duty it is
to watch over the interests and culverts of
Waihemo; and the similar members for Wai-
taki and Waipawa, and Wairau, and Waite-
mata—but there isn’t a soul who is returned to
watch over the interests of Maoriland as a whole.
It is a piecemeal business ; instead of having
an army of 100,000 men to defend a country of
100,000 square miles, there is one man allotted
to defend each separate square mile as best he
can. The only way to make a useful and
absolutely democratic Council which won’t be a
mere duplicate and ditto of the Lower House,
is to make it the House that represents Maori-
land. But that, it may be safely assumed, isn’t
the kind of Council reform which the Russell
party is dreaming about. “ Reform ” is a
vague term ; some people would call a return
to absolute monarchy reform. Also “ elective
Councils” is a vague term, and it has no real
meaning until it is fully explained who is to do
the electing. The Russian Council of State,
for instance, is elective—the Czar elects it
himself.
The Maoriland press still seems to be of
opinion that Federated Australia will be only
too glad to arrange for the free exchange of
products with Maoriland, so that the latter can
have all the commercial advantages of Federa-
tion with none of the responsibilities. But the
idea is utterly hopeless. One great object of
Federation is to keep the Commonwealth’s
market for the Commonwealth. Among them
the Australian provinces can produce every-
thing of value that Maoriland produces—bar
kauri gum. And everyone of them has joined
the Commonwealth for the express purpose of
having free access to the other provinces for its
special products while the rest of the world is
shut out. The Commonwealth, in fact, says to
each separate State : “ Join us, and we under-
take that if there is anything we want to buy,
and you have it to sell, we will buy from you in
preference to outsiders, and will only buy from
outsiders when you have no more to sell.”
That is what Freetrade inside the Common-
wealth and Protection against the outside world
mean. And the Commonwealth isn’t likely to
make a present of its market to any outsider.
Australia has always bought more from Maori-
land than the latter province has bought from
Australia, so Australia will be a gainer if the
trade closes up. Why should it reciprocate ?
N.S. Wales Socialistic organisation lately
uttered a blast against the degenerate Eight-
Hour demonstration of the day, gibbeting it as
a prostitution to the advertiser. And it is
time to think wheb a country paper talks like
this of the local display in a way-back N.S.W.
town, reckoned a strong Labor centre :—
The procession was only redeemed from absolute
failure and contempt by the brave display made by the
local brewery, whose lorry, heavily laden with hogsheads
and small casks of the excellent beer which Mr.
has made the most popular drink in the town, bore aloft
a bold emblematic figure of a red lion, whose kingly pose
seemed to indicate scorn for the poor brief procession.
And according to “ Mr. James’s ” weekly, some
big casks of wine were the things most worthy
of illustration in the Sydney Eight-Hour show.
The cable syndicate, by means of which the
newspapers have formed a corner in foreign
news, keeps the Australian public in ignorance
concerning any point of news but that favored
by the Melbourne Argus office, which works
the wire at the London end. If Chamberlain
gives utterance to any Jingo fustian it is cabled
out at once, but no attention is paid to such a
fine and memorable argument as the speech of
John Morley (reported in the last mail’s
papers) from the Radical point of view.
Morley protested against England be-
coming “ an empire of brigands ” —a
phrase strong enough to deserve cabling,
coming from a leader of English thought. In
fact, the cable news supplied to the Australian
public is systematically and grossly “ cooked.”
Any regular reader of English files must be
amazed, not so much at the news that is cabled,
as at the important facts that are excluded by
the Syndicate. With Federation, the time
comes for a really Radical Australian daily,
which will fight the cable-ring, not by entering
on the hopeless task of putting down pound for
pound against it, but by now and then in-
dulging in expensive messages at appropriate
times.
4.
“ Falcon,” of Newcastle Herald, the loudest
screamer for blood and Boer-meat in N.S. W.,
and the same person who wrote to The Bul-
letin last week about its ignorance because it
didn’t make the same absurd mistakes that he
did, breaks out again like the sun from behind
a cloud :
As was stated by the writer before—that is the usual
newspaper way of talking—Majuba Hill was no criterion
of either Boer marksmanship or Boer fibre. It is an easy
thing for a couple of thousand men to pot a handful,
said handful being two hundred feet below them, but it
is quite, another matter to meet a legion of the same class
on something like even conditions and with artillery to
aid their inherent daring.
History has so far been under the impression
that the British were on the top of the hill at
Majuba and the Boers below them —but no
matter. “ Falcon ” apparently belongs to
that desperately mean variety of Englishman
who manufactures his history as he goes along
in order to malign a brave enemy, and though
the existence of that kind of mean Englishman
is a trifle rough on England in general, still
such very aggravated specimens are com-
paratively rare. Apropos, by the way,
of “ Falcon’s ” screaming letter pub-
lished last week, in which he claims that
the Transvaal is naturally British property
because it was part of the original Dutch
colony handed over to Britain, it is interesting
to note that the boundaries of that Dutch
colony as they stood at the time of the British
occupation only extended east as far as the
Great Fish River, a little east of Port Eliza-
beth ; and the furthest N.E. limit was marked
by a beacon on the bank of the Plettenburg or
Zeekoe River, where the town of Plettenburg
now stands, about 40 miles south of the Orange
Free State and 200 miles south of the Trans-
vaal. And when Victoria ascended the
throne in 1837 the boundaries were practically
the same. The jubilee maps published with
the Statesman’s Year Book for 1897 show the
situation very clearly. The yarn about the
Transvaal being a part of the original British
South African colony, graciously bestowed by
Britain on an ungrateful Boer, is about the
meanest of the many lies circulated by Jingo
liars in Australia.
♦
Just by way of letting the Australian con-
tingent man know what he is fighting for, these
are the demands of the Uitlander Council at
Johannesburg, as published last July :
1. Simple and immediate enfranchisement of all who
have lived or shall have lived in the Republic for five
years.
2. Representation in the Volksraad reasonably propor-
tioned to the electorate.
3. No distinction between the vote for the Raad and
the vote for the President and Commandant-General.
4. The re-establishment of the High Court as one
branch of the delegated sovereignty of the people.
5. The admission of English to an equality with Taal
in all public functions.
6. The abolition of all distinction between old and new
burghers, both in the central and municipal governments.
7. The restoration of all Government arms to Govern-
ment arsenals, to be re-distributed to volunteer corps,
formed according to local distribution, and without
regard to race.
8. The grant of full control of local affairs to munici-
palities and districts, reasonably determined according
to population, this to include the election of local officials.
9. Government grants in aid of education in proportion
to school attendance, and administered by local boards.
10. Local control of police.
They want to be read slowly. No 1 means the
enfranchisement of the alien majority without
any need for the alien to become naturalised,
to become a Transvaal citizen, or to abjure
allegiance to his own foreign country. No
country on earth gives a vote to the unnatural-
ised alien. This demand means the handing
over of the whole Government to foreigners
who don’t even profess a desire to become
citizens. No 2is to make dead sure, by a care-
ful redistribution of seats, that the foreign
element can command a majority in both
Houses of Parliament. The abolition of all
distinctions between old and new burghers
(clause 6) is a demand that even the Presidency
shall be thrown open to the foreigner, who
refuses to place himself under any allegiance
to the State. Clause 7is a demand for the dis-
arming of the national army and the arming in
its stead of foreigners and citizens indis-
criminately. No. 10 (local control of police)
is a thing unknown even in Australia, and its
most obvious purpose is to enable the Johannes-
burg foreigners to maintain under the name of
police an armed force of their own which would
be wholly uuder the control of said foreigners.
With their wealth they could easily raise a
force which would hopelessly outnumber the
little State army. Considering that the en-
franchised foreigners would command a majority
in both Houses, and practically boss the State
army and the present national police, this extra
demand sounds remarkable. Altogether there
is no painful modesty about the Outlanders of
the golden city.
Never a parson in Bananaland had a word to
say against the iniquity of sending troops to
assist in the Transvaal butchery, but the
moment it was known that the Queensland
warriors were to embark on the Sundays, howl
of parsonic execration went up that well-nigh
rent the welkin. No objection had these gen-
tle disciples of the lowly Nazarene to the
mowing down of their fellow-creatures bv
Maxim-guns, sent at the beck of the South
African Chartered Co. and London Stock Ex-
change ; never a jot did they care if their
fellow-Christians were blown up in scores by
Christian lyddite ; but as soon as the news
spread that the Northern pirates were to
start for the scene of operations on the Saw-
bath, then the trouble started. Letters of pro-
test from indignant devil-dodgers poured
into the Courier ; Ministers of the Crown were
interviewed on the matter; and eventually
parsondom was successful in having the time
of departure shifted on to some day a little less
sacred and a little more in keeping with the
Devil’s business. Some of the clerical letters
were ludicrous in the extreme. “ Let us be


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq.. M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHaA K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
1 General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
a W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F. 5.8., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
STAMPER
BATTERIES.
American or Australian Type.
10 to 100 Head. From 600 to 1250 lb. Stamps.
FRAMING EITHER TIMBER OR IRON.
PACKED IN PARTS
To facilitate Economical Transport.
CAMS, TAPPETS, SHOES, DIES, etc.,
of Unexampled Durability !
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY V?
Clyde Works, Granville.
y 9
'gm-.
loyal to God as well as to the British nation,”
wrote Clergyman A. in a fine fury, “Loyalty
to Britain ” evidently signifies helping Britain
to butcher; “Loyalty to God” —sending off
the butchers with a cheer, provided they don’t
go on the Sunday !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Ma Mie Rosette.”
Lyceum “ Little Christopher Columbus.”
Criterion ** Man to Man.”
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Brough Comedy Co.
Theatre Royal “ Our Native Home.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
St. George’s Hall Dante and the “ Theatograph.”
Alexandra “ Vengeance is Mine.”
Town Hall Trebelli Song Recital.
About the middle of last week a small,
unobtrusive advt. set forth that, to oblige the
French consul, the rather pointless story of Dree-
fizz and Extra-hazy would not be played at Sydney
Criterion after Friday night. It was necessary,
of course, to find something to replace the thin
French shock, and partly from necessity and
partly to gratify the Argentine consul, who, along
with the Peruvian consul, was very anxious about
the matter, “Man for Man” was revived on
Saturday. The present writer hasn’t had time to
see the Bolivian consul since the change of bill,
but he has reason to believe that that gentleman
is much pleased, and that the consuls from
Arabia and Babylon are so overjoyed that they
haven’t been to bed for three nights. Also the
Assyrian consul is drunk. “ Man for Man ” isn’t
quite new, but it hasn’t been played for a long
time, and it is a live piece with a large railway-
accident in it which can bear repetition ; so the
new bill, besides giving pleasure to a large number
of consuls, has some artistic merits of its own. In
the very early days of this story it appears that
Mr. Ellerton’s wife had a son, and after the in-
scrutable manner of the dramatic woman she
promptly swapped him for the baby of Kate
Noel, gipsy. Apparently she lay in bed, very
weak and ill after the birth of her child,
and in a faint musical voice gave orders that the
baby should be swapped, and he was swapped
accordingly. When this lady died the gipsy
woman left the swapped infant on its father’s
doorstep, and he took him in from charitable
motives, and the bogus son planted stolen docu-
ments in his pocket when he grew up, and he was
arrested on his wedding day, and got 14 years.
• * * •
After that the story leaves the ordinary
paths of drivel, and becomes a vigorous and
energetic drama. George Rignold turns up as
a large humorous friendly murderer who has got a
life sentence to go on with ; and when Mr. Diver
arrives to start his 14 years the affable murderer
is chipping at the adjacent rock, and greets him
with a cheerful dash and curse. They escape
together later, on a snowy night, and the large
murderer, being a man of resource, wrecks the ex-
press train in hopes of finding a much-needed
disguise among the effects of the dead. It is a
very fine wreck, and when Bill, the Homicide,
finds some clothes and brandy and a cigar in
the wreckage he is more than satisfied. The hero
also finds his wife and his enemy, the man who put
the papers in his pocket, in the ruins; and Bill,
the Homicide, puts the latter by violence into a
broad-arrow suit, and gives him up to the law.
Thereafter things move rapidly, for the will, or
the indenture, or the protocol, or something (they
are all much the same for dramatic purposes) is
found on the bad man’s person. Also, the bad
man made the great mistake of kicking his mother
(he didn’t know she was his mother, but a man
in a drama ought always to remember that every-
body is liable to be his mother, and shouldn’t kick
anybody), and she rounds on him. And every-
body rounds on him, and everybody proves to be
Bomebody else, and all things go kite nigh.
• * • *
The new piece was put on at the shortest
notice (as soon as it became known that the French
consul objected to the previous piece), almost
without rehearsal, and by a company which seems
to have the influenza badly. Rignold, in particu-
lar, is one large cough and sneeze, and a physical
wreck, and his performance of Bill, the Homicide,
is very creditable indeed under the circumstances.
There are many possibilities about Bill, and
Rignold makes good use of some of them. He will
probably make good use of the rest also when his
cough becomes less tremendous, and he knows
more of his dialogue. Diver plays the hero for
once, and, as is usual with him, he plays the first
act nervously and the other four well. A new
man named Cross does remarkably well as the
worst villain; and Miss Lilian Wheeler faints
beautifully. In a pictorial sense Miss Wheeler is
beyond reproach, and when she lies insensible
after the railway accident, with the limelight on
her, she is a vision whose radiance almost sets fire
to Act IV. If she had done so, and the conflagra-
tion spread to Acts 111. and V., there is no know-
ing what might not have happened. Miss Barton
is another vision. The ladies of Rignold’s company
act only moderately at times, but as a vision this
co. can give points to some much more pretentious
combinations.
** * *
The ever-welcome “Ma Mie Rosette” is
due at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Monday (Nov.
6), and the king will have nefarious designs on
Rosette for five nights only. There are few operas
to which Sydney extended a warmer welcome than
to “Ma Mie Rosette’’—but that was in the
glorious days when Brownlow was the King of
Navarre, and Nellie Stewart sang “ I was Dream-
ing.” Now there is no Brownlow, and a different
girl is Dreaming where Nellie Stewart used to have
visions on the straw in the farm yard and leave
her lovely form around to be stepped on by the
passing cow. With Pauli as tli6 white-plumed
monarch, and Kenningham in Tapley’s old billet,
and little Florence Perry where the stately Nellie
Stewart used to be, things will be so very different
tiiat Sydney suspends its opinion awaiting develop-
ments.
* * * -#
At Sydney Lyceum the criminal dwarf
with bow legs will be captured on the Embank-
ment by John Sheridan (disguised as an apple-
woman) to-night (Thursday) and to-morrow; after
which a very cheery production that isn’t more
incoherent than usual will leave off. The bur-
lesque of “Little Christopher Columbus” is
announced for Saturday, and the sn ail and plump
Graeie Whiteford is to be Columbus. The
lamented mariner is in two acts, and is the work
of G. R. Sims and Cecil Raleigh, music by Ivan
Caryll. He had a very long run at the Lyric
Theatre, London, and the Lyceum management
presents him with high hopes and a bounding ’art.
* * *- *
The forlorn Sydney Opera House opens
on Saturday with Charles Faning’s “Powerful
and Brilliant Company ”of variety artistes. Why
the powerful and brilliant company wants to waste
its. glory in the desolate barn down King-street
this paper knoweth not.
** * *
On Friday week Cinquevalli ended bis en-
gagement at Sydney Palace. When he finished
whirling his travelling kit in the air and catching
it, and the nimble cigar was at rest, and the army
of billiard balls had ceased from revolving around
him, Cinq, came out and spoke a little piece in
Continental English, and promised to come back
again in 1901. The Palace is invaded this week
by quite an array of new faces. The audience
usually encores Arthur Hahn enthusiastically, but
sometimes that young man does not boom quite
so well as others. His rendering of “ Asleep in the
Deep,” and “Deep, Deep, Down,” go well, but his
“Soldiers of.the Queen” fall flat. And in this
jingoistic period a jingo song has to be desperately
flat to do that. Tom Costelloin uniform boldlypokes
fun at the jingoes. As the warrior, he measures about
6ft. something, and later, as a cockney, he seems to
be 4ft. and a bit. Then he re-appears as a well-to-
do gent who was to be married to-day, and whose
intended wife sent her husband round to the
church to say she had changed her mind. His
last appearance is as a dishevelled Flossie, with
the battered hat, frowsy hair, lean blouse, and
skimpy red skirt of the unprosperous Flossie as
she is in Chinatown. Altogether this writer likes
Thomas.
** * %
“Our Native Home ” which is the latest
drama at Melbourne Royal, will command some-
what less disrespect than “ The Merciless World.”
All the same it is a shockingly illogical drama,
and a sad waste of energy for the eo. Two tall
villains, one of them being a deluded mortal as
regards the other fellow’s sister, conspire to cast
the same old suspicion on Mr. John Saunders,
wherefore that patient hero walks about with a
warrant on his track, and goes to a ball in a flaxen
wig for the purpose of discovering the real culprit or
something. But the villain who adores the wicked
sister stabs hiiiis-' 1 ; with a carving knife before he
has confessed the truth about the stolen notes, also
the other villain gets partly confounded by the
funny man, and none of these events seem to make
much difference to Saunders. The warrant still
holds good (although a policeman tore it up for
the sake of his poor old mother), consequently the
hero goes away and starves on the Wide Ocean,
together with two mariners who propose to kill a
little boy and eat him raw. The small child prays
to his Father in Heaven and the Lord drops a
mail steamer from the clouds to rescue the hungry
ones. After which a casual convincing dredger
dredges on behalf of the management, and is
loudly applauded, and the drama wanders into an
unsubstantial Court of Justice, where the sur-
viving villain is found guilty, leaving Saunders to
marry a blind heiress.
* • * *
Miss de Winton, as the afflicted young
woman, looks very nice, but gets very little oppor-
tunity to shake up the show, neither does the
innocence of Saunders arouse much human in-
terest. “Our Native Home ” is chiefly remark-
able for the dredger, and the sudden mail-
steamer, and the fatuous bank-clerk (W. J.
Montgomery) who stabs himself at the ball. Some
of the “comic relief” is grotesque enough to be
amusing in one or two places, notably the place
where Frank Hawthorne, a stable-boy, appears as
Macgregor, the money-lender, in a kilt. The
Bulletin can’t remember any previous case of a
bogus bill-discounter in a kilt. Macgregor is re-
ceived with thanks. Also the aged villager who
E resents a bouquet and a long speech to the blind
eiress is a meritorious sketch, and the kind feel-
ing that prompts the younger villagers to form
themselves into a birthday-ballet deserves every
encouragement. C. R. Stanford remains much
the saine inflexible villain as before, but taking the
acting in the lump, it seems to be too good for the
story.
** * *
The Comic Opera season at the Princess’s
ends to-morrow (Friday), and the Brough Comedy
co. will be welcomed back on Saturday. The last
time Brough went away from the Princess’s he
thought he had breathed his last before a Mel-
bourne audience, but Sydney circumstances
softened his managerial resentment, and now he is
returning to produce “ Gay Lord Quex ” and
other high-class goods. Melbourne is in real need
of some bright comedy these times, so the Brough
co. can hardly fail to flourish with particular
vigor for the next six weeks. The campaign
opens with revivals of “The Liars,” “Lady
Ursula,” and “ Lord and Lady Algy,” and on the
following Saturday, when Melbourne is about
tired of getting 1 excited over the horse that seldom
wins, Quex ” will be duly set up.
** * *
Last Saturday’s change of bill at Melb.
Bijou introduced the veteran song-writer, G. W.
Hunter, who patters better than he sings, and is
somewhat like George Wood the “somewhat dif-
ferent comedian. Also Paul Pelham reappeared
in a state of gaspy patriotism suitable to the recent
departure of the Vic. Contingent. One of Pelham’s
weird, peculiar warbles was directed against
Kruger and the Boers whom he finally sent to
U 1 in freedom’s cause, after which a large un-
sober section of the audience demanded “Rule
Britanyer,” and Pelham, arming himself with a
Union Jack, scored a distinct success by remarking
that the flag had never yet been wiped out.
When the fervent jingoes in front had shrieked
themselves thirsty, they mostly went off to avenge
Majuba at the ’freshment bars, where they charged
their glasses again and again until every Boer in
the Transvaal lay dead and buried. It was a great
night for England.
* * *
Fitzgerald’s Circus also contributes testi-
mony to the honour and glory of England. Old
friend Martyn Hagan has been laid on as a musi-
cal clown for the occasion, and Martyn,
perched upon the boundary of the arena,
appeals to Himperial sentiment in very tune-
ful style. Otherwise the Circus is as strictly
Australian as usual. Lizzie, the elephant, is now
a naturalised native, likewise the performing lion
and tiger and other beasts of prey. And several
young Australians who have been growing up with
the show—Daisy Shand, Rosie Aquinaldo, and
the bright darkie youth, and others—are artists
who reflect credit on their country and threaten to
rival the elephant as popular attractions. The
Circus will boom for another week or so.
JK a? * $
Dante the Great is returning with his
burnt lady and whole bag of tricks to St. George’s
Hall (Melb.), for a brief season. Dante’s neat
entertainment, which is due on Saturday (4th),
will be supplemented this time by a series of
biograph pictures, showing how Grace got out,
and Noble hit a sixer, and Syd Gregory placed
balls to leg in the five test matches. The “ Fight
for the Ashes ” is said to be very clearly illustrated
on the sheet, and unless the “loyalty” of Mel-
bourne revolts against any spectacle wherein All-
England gets rather the worst of the contest, the
new “ Theatrograph,” as it is called, will prove a
great assistance to Dante’s business.
_ To-night (Thursday) Mdlle. Trebelli is to
five one more farewell song recital at Melb. Town
fall, and The Bulletin herewith advises all per-
sons who are “ up for the Cup ” to seize the oppor-
tunity for hearing a delightful artist. On Satur-
day there will be a Town Hall concert for the
benefit of Mrs. Doubleday. Also on the same
horsey date the Alexandra Theatre will re-open
with a thrilling drama—“ Vengeance is Mine”—
to be performed by Augustus Glover, Miss Tasca-
Page, and a co. of respectable calibre. A few
side-shows likewise will break out in sundry
Melb. places, owing to the rush of visitors from
afar off.
At Poverty Point.
“ J'm Pan” : Of Arthur Hahn, the new basso at Syd-
ney Palace Theatre, Signor Hazon said some time ago
that Hahn’s was the best untrained bass-voice he had
ever heard, and that it would have made its owner—had
he been caught young— world-famous. Hahn lias a fine,
manly presence ; and his voice compares most favour-
ably with that of Gerard Miller, of MeAdoo’s Georgia
Minstrels. Not long ago, Hahn was driving a baker’s
cart in Sydney.
The Orangemen of Brunswick fMelb.)dreamed of boom-
ing Lili Sharp on the yellow ticket, as a set-off against
Amy Castles. No money in that game. The Orange
sentiment is purely antagonistic, and the voice of a
“ good Protestant " doesn’t touch it at all. Anyhow, it
doesn’t touch its pocket.
Near Castlemaine (Vie.), recently, died Mrs. Rodger
aged 84 years. She was mother of the late J. It. Greville,
comedian.
John Prouse, the fine resonant singer who help to make
the Trebelli Song Recitals go, is an interesting unprofes-
sional sort of artist—a prosperous Maoriland merchant in
the first place, and a first-class baritone afterwards. Miss
Florence Harding, who acts as pianist to the two singers
(except when Mile. Trebelli plays her own accompani-
ment) is the daughter of John Prouse, and there are four
sons who all promise to rival their bearded parent as plat-
form vocalists. The chances are against any of them
having so fresh a voice as the “governor’s” when they
reach his present age—whatever that may be.
“Mac.” : The Princess management, which counten-
anced the introduction of a topical “ loyal ” verse intojthe
“Queen Bess’s glorious days” song, in'the second act of
“tolanthe,’’ al owed the repetition of a line utterly
meaningless to Australians only a few seconds before.
Strephon’shopes with a certain bill are being discussed
when one lordling interjects, “He’ll carry it, too, he’s a
Parliamentary Pickford ;he carries everything.” Ever
since “lolanthe” was produced at Melb. Royal in
’B6, that line has been repeated without a smile acknow-
ledging its meaning. Nobody has ever thought of sub-
stituting the name of some big Australian firm of carriers
corresponding with the London Pickford. [But there
isn’t an Australian Pickford. The line should he cutout.
It was omitted from the American productions of
“ lolanthe,” no doubt.— Ed. B.J
At one Australian variety show a wildly Jingo songster
lately demanded in verse revenge . n the Boers for the
death of Gordon—the Khartoum man who perished long
ago by the Nile ; and declared with a wild top note that
the time had at last arrived for Kruger's brutal slaughter
of that patriot to be visited by horful r-r-r-r-retriboosh’n !
Lovely sentence from a Sydney Freeman’s Journal,
reference to Maud MacCarthys fiddling. “That her
playing has not been overrated was the general verdict
of till who listened, enraptured by the wonderful playing
of this gifted girl. One can well understand, after hear-
in<j her play, how great masters are a ® ec^ d
hear her marvellous playrnt 7. By the w a X*. lr of the
Quinn, we are told, has not been appouued editor 01
Freeman. Looks as if the Freeman now edits
The veteran E. VV. Royoe C'Blueskin’' of the
Bouoicault “Jack Sheppard ) has J"f fc ™ p d t ?„.s Paul
“ Biseoquet ” in a successful revival of pla " ql,e J* a i )o ut
Jones,’’at the Grand Theatre, Fulham (London), anou
the most swagger of the new suburban houses.
Dear Bulletin.— -Be the theatre-hat nnlsano .®; , as “ve
discovered that Woman is not such a selfish animal as w e
thought her what time we were imploring her U ‘ '
castic tone) to kindly take off the gaudy piece « g ‘ e
which shut out our view of the stage We made the mis
take of hurting the sex’s vanity, therefore out h ,
innuendoes, ami rude protests failed eyer> • ■
took it that we didn’t like her fashionable head-coy ei mg
(and indeed we didn’t), so she giggled spitefully a
us to do the other thing. Being a Woman, though, she
was disposed to srrant the favor as soon as we y
of asking for it. And she is very imitative 111 hat matters,
as you know. The other night, I was in the stalls at the
Princess’s, Melt)., gazing disconsolately at a most con-
spicuous red straw, with many flowers and feathers
attached, when, to my astonishment, the wearer «
off “on her own,” just as the band began to play, i e
disappearance of that red obstruction was the signal 01
fully 25 other women to shift their millinery into their
laps, and these again had imitators. When thecuitain
ascended, all, or nearly all, the hats in the stalls had
ceased to be a nuisance, — Mere Man.
“Shifter” : Be tragedian Burford at last getting on to
the stage-door. One of his old acquaintances was Beau-
champ, stage-doorkeeper at Melh. Royal, 40 years ago.
Beauchamp mysteriously disappeared. He turned up in
Melb. years later as Elder Beauchamp, a Mormon
preacher! Burford was in the cast of the “School for
Scandal,” with which Melt). Royal opened.
“Timi” : Death of old-time actor Charles Burford
awakens interest in other ancient mummers still to the
fore. “ Jimmy ” Hasker, a familiar figure, in King-street,
Sydney, with his single eyeglass and curious head-gear,
will be 80 next birthday, and looks sturdy enough to
nibble his way into the.nineties. As a youth he worked
as a qiiarrymari in the construction of Cape Otway light-
house, and his connection with the stage dates from 1847,
when OU.v Deering’s father, then in management, gave
him a “shop” as property-man at Geelong theatre. It
was, however, several years later before he actually took
to the boards. Old j. J. Walsh —spelt that way,- but
pronounced Welsh —is clear-minded and active, despite a
weight of years. He tecolleets clearly the announcement
in Sydney of the death of William IV., and first appeared
on the stage in 1851, in the old Victoria Theatre, Sydney,
under J. G. Griffiths’ management. The only surviving
member, of that co. is Mrs. Stewart—Nellie Stewart’s
mother—then Mrs. Guerin. Burford first appeared in
Australia in ’53, and in ’54, at Melbourne, he created
the part of Evelyn in the first Australian production of
“ Money,” J. J. Walsh appearing as Sharp, the lawyer,
and making one of his earliest hits. Ol lier members of
this cast were Charles Young, his wife, now Mrs. Her-
mann Veziri, Johnny Hydes, the great Rogers, Hooper,
Webster, Mrs. Thompson and Charles, noted for his ex-
traordinary resemblance to the Duke of Wellington. Of
the first “ Money ” Mrs. Vezin and Walsh are now the
sole survivors.
“Cockaigne”: Burford recalls Denvil, the original
Manfred,, at Drury Lane. When Phelps acted Manfred
there, Denvil was checktaker in the pit.
The beauteous Maud Jeffries is getting very fat—and
Wilson Barrett doesn’t like his leading ladies fat.
All the Gilbert and Sullivan operas want editing for the
present generation. In the old plays there used to be a
person representing “ Prologue,” who came on and ex-
plained the action. In “lolanthe” there is needed a
character who might be called “ Asterisk, ’ to stand down
against the footlights and explain allusions, many of
which are now obscure. When the chorus sings the retrain
“Oh, Captain Shaw,” how many .present-day Australians
know that at the time the opera was composed, Captain
Shaw was chief of London Fire Brigade?
History repeats itself : the British troops
in the Transvaal appear to have sustained the
preliminary reverse which it is always necessary
for John Bull to experience ere he girds up his
loins in earnest for battle. It is cabled that in
the course of a fight at Ladysmith in which about
20,000 Boers and 12,000 British were engaged,
a couple of battalions of Imperial regulars —
apparently detached from the main body—were,
with a mountain battery, captured by the Boers.
The latter need to make the best of the advan-
tages at present at their command, for with the
advent of England's big battalions now nearing
African shores, the last hope of the Re-
public disappears. The Transvaal is doomed :
Britain’s command of the sea utterly precludes
either foreign interference or the replenishment
of the republic’s admittedly-defective war sup-
plies. A transient success of the Ladysmith
order will make no difference in the ultimate
resu 11.
From recent S.M. Herald :
Cold steel is a weapon which the Boer dreads. Thus
we read in the accounts of the engagement at Glencoe
that though the Boers faced the artillery and rifle fire
with great determination, they fled at the sight of the
bayonets.
Now, as the Boer does not usually carry a bayonet,
it would be interesting to know what Sir jam es or
any other magnate of the God-fearing Herald
would do if he found himself on a bare hill side
with an empty gun in his hand while another
fellow with another gun, and a bright bayonet on
it, prepared to jab cold steel into him ?
The first cable story about Boer
“treachery” in firing upon the British from
one side of a hill after a white flag had been
hoisted on t’other side of the hill was soon fol-
lowed by news that British prisoners were getting
kind treatment from their “treacherous” foes.
The alleged brutality of the Boer is simply a
newspaper invention, as far as his quarrel with
Britain goes. Whatever brutality he may have is
reserved for the blacks, whose inferiority to w hite
men is an old-established principle in Dutch
colonial government. Probably the Boer’s
assertion of the right to hustle his nigger tends to
make him all the more self-respecting in conflict
with men of his own color.


The Mariner, 15th July, 1899: “The total
charge for management expenses of no fewer than eleven
offices and various agencies of the Colonial Mutual does
not exceed t'33,000, which proves conclusively that the
Society’s management is not extravagant, yet sound.”*
The Western Mine, Zeehan, Tasmania, has cut
six inches of first class ore at No. 7 level in the south
drive on the main lode. A complete Luhritr concentrat-
ing plant on the gradual reduction principle is erected at
this mine with a capacity of 100 tons per day, and consists
of stone breakers, trommels, rolls, jiffs, classifiers, Luhrig
Vanners, etc. Since the erection of this mill the company
have paid about £106,000 in dividends and the mine still
promises to continue its prosperous career. Luhrig
machinery may be obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill. A two-to-
five ton experimental plant is erected near Melbourne.*
Tim Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melbourne, have delivered the first set of electrically-
driven triple double-acting plunger pumps for Ihe Junc-
tion Deep Leads. These pumps are a fine sample of
colonial manufacturing skill. The total weight of the
pump is close on 100 tons ; all the gear wheels, which are
Bft. diam., and 12in. face, have machine cut teeth. The
Otis Co. had to design and build a special machine to cut
these wheels. Two other sets of these pumps have to be
built to go down tbe shafts on adjoining mines. They
will all be operated front a central power plant, now near-
ing completion.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase,. “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Ta.vlor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., Ac.*
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc.C.E., is visiting the Cool-
gardie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
The Engineering Works of Mephan Ferguson
are at present fully occupied, giving employment to a
large number of hands, in the different colonies. In
Western Australia, the patent rivetless locking-bar pipes
for the Coolgardie Water-supply are now being delivered.
The South Australian works are busy manufacturing and
supplying pipes for the Bundaleer Water Scheme, and at
the General Engineering Works, Melb. orders are being
received for bridge work, pipes, fluming, earth scoops,
forgings, refrigerators, machinery and ironwork. A large
number of patent Nelyambo scoops or tank-cleaners are
being manufactured to meet the increasing demand.*
A. E. 60LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLIMER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
nd particulars apply
S. ZOLT.NEII,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
q Smoke the Latest <r>
Wm VAN DYCK
CIGARS ( NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR i/-
c /GA/i$
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mrlbournk ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st Adel. ;$7 Eagle-street,
Rrisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, A'.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Vic. Leg. Council has passed the second reading
of a Bill for the abolition of discount coupons, which, con-
sidering that body’s usual tenderness towards capital and
vested interests, is a remarkable circumstance. There
are some thousands of pounds invested in the coupon
business, and the Council’s action tends to “ drive capital
out of the country ” and to “ interfere with private enter-
prise,” and other things which it usually views with
abhorrence. It sets one wondering which member of the
House of Landlords keeps the warehouse where the
coupon co. ought to have bought its prizes and didn’t?
» * * *
The National Bank of Australasia (Melb.) re-
ports a profit for the half-year to 30th Sept., 1899, of
£19,246, which is a solid improvement as compared with
last half-year. Also it is a very solid improvement as
compared with every previous half-year since 1894. The
profits during the last six years has been as under :
March, 1894 .. £31,312 March, 1897 .. £14,712
September, 1894, £25,231 September, 1897, £18,275
March, 1895 .. £15,126 March, 1898 .. £15,471
September, 1895, £13,763 September, 1898, £17,602
March, 1896 .. £10,523 March, 1899 .. £12,324
September, 1896, £11,706 September, 1899, £19,246
Preference shareholders get their usual 5 per cent, divi-
dend which absorbs £7645, and the other £11,601, added
to the £52,117 brought forward from previous half-year,
leaves £63,718 to carry forward. No addition is made to
the reserve-fund, which still stands at £50,000 ; whether
the balance is kept loose with a view to an extensive
writing-off some time soon it is difficult to say. At all
events, the earnings, despite the great improvement,
only amount to £1 ISs. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds, and if these are really all the earnings the
natural inference is that about £700,000 of the capital
wants to be written off as lost. That would make the
profits equivalent to 3 per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds, and most banks nowadays can earn more
than that if the funds are all real. The National Bank is
somewhat of a mystery in this respect. The Bank of
Victoria, for instance, with half-a-million less capital,
showed a net profit last half-year of £27,637, and its
earnings were at the rate of £3 11s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds. Which is a very wide
difference.
The National Bank has now paid off all the
per cent, reconstructed deposits, barring a trifle of
£473,790, which will be set free very shortly. Its deposit
business has diminished a little during the half-year, but
that is probably owing to the large repayments of the old
4J4 per cent, deposits ; and it has £2,606,000 in cash and
liquid securities—equal to over 38 per cent, on all
liabilities to the public. In fact the National looks ex-
ceptionally sound from a depositor’s point of view. From
a shareholder’s standpoint the most solemn fact at present
visible is that to pay even 2]/> per cent, to ordinary share-
holders after the preference crowd has been provided for,
and making no provision whatever for reserve-fund, the
half-year’s earnings need to be increased to nearly
£29,000. Or to pay 2* per cent, with the earnings at the
present rate, the ordinary capital requires to be written
down by fully £700,000.
* * * «
The great South British Insurance Co. (Maori-
land) finished its year on 31st Aug. with a net profit of
£27,560, and paid its usual 17* per cent, dividend
(£11,310). Some recent records of the South British :
Profit. Dividend.
1892 .. £24,699 10 percent. = £6,463
1893 „ 22,841 10 „ = 6,463
1894 „ 31,504 12* „ = 8,078
1895 „ 29,500 15 „ = 9,694
1896 „ 7,559 15 „ = 9,694
3897 „ 27,611 17* „ = 11,310
1898 .. 5,930 17* „ = 11,310
1899 .. 27,560 17* „ = 11,310
£177,204 £74,322
The South British has thus got nearly t‘103,000 further
forward in the last eight years ; in fact, though it is 27
years old, the great bulk of its large reserves were accu-
mulated in these eight years. It has now a paid-up capi-
tal of £64,62S and £197,082 of reserves (reserve-fund,
£lOO,OOO ; reinsurance-fund, £76,000 ; and profit balance.
£21,082.)
* • * »
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co., for the
year ended 31st Aug., 1899, shows a profit on its fire,
marine, and fidelity business of £18,126. A dividend of
10 per cent, on the nominal capital of £125,000, or of 25
Eer cent, on the capital of £50,000 paid up by the share-
oiders (the other £75,000 is capitalised profits) absorbs
£12,500; £3OOO is carried to depreciation account; and
the other £2626, added to the old balance of £13,666,
leaves £16,292 to carry forward. The record of the Aus-
tralian Alliance for the past eight years has been :
Dividend on capital of
Profit. £50,000 actually paid up
by shareholders.
August, 1892 ... £25,832 40 per cent = £20,000
„ 1893 ... 23,003 „ „ = 20,000
„ 1894 ... 17,351 „ „ = 20,000
„ 1895 ... 10,011 27* „ „ = 13,750
„ 1896 ... 19,978 30 „ „ = 15,000
„ 1897 ... 15,384 „ „ = 15,000
Loss.
„ 1898 ... 14,792 15 „ „ = 7,500
Profit.
„ 1899 ... 18,126 25 „ „ = 12,500
£114,893 £123,750
The Australian Alliance has evidently been doing a good
deal in the way of writing down its inflated assets during
the year. At 3lst August ’9B the amount of contingency
fund was £20,287 including £lO,OOO added from reserve.
It is now only £6105, so over £14,000 has evidently been
absorbed during the year in writing off depreciation.
Among other things the old item of 127,578 for shares in
the Australasian Insurance Co.—a concern whose whole
capital is only £2s,ooo—has been reduced to £22,578. Yet
even after all this writing down the £233,000 of mortgages
and £95,000 of real estate are still carefully specified as
being put in at book value. Apparently no attempt is
made to re-value them and see how the figures set against
them agree with present prices. The assets now yield
about 3J per cent, all round on their nominal value, so it
seems fairly evident that they haven’t been written down
too much.
In 1803 the Australian Alliance had £2125,000
paid-up capital, £llO,OOO reserve, £24,723 profit-balance,
and £10,366 depreciation-fund, so the shareholders’ funds
were then £270,089. They are now £225,397, so the co.
has faded by nearly £45,U00 in seven years.
The A.A.’s life department still does a very
email business at a very great cost. Last year it issued
four new policies, and the income from premiums on new
policies and from annuities sold—the whole income from
new business, in fact—was £797. The premiums on old
policies were £l6,lol—total, £16,958. And the expenses
were £373l—say, all the new premiums and all the money
received from the sale of annuities, and over 18 per cent,
of the old premiums. In other words, about 22*
per cent, of premiums, or 13* per cent, of total
income, goes in management charges, and a concern
like this, which does practically no new business,
should be managed for less than half the outlay.
This life branch, by the way, is one of the relics of the old
group of proprietary life offices which were practically
killed off by the uprising of the great mutual societies.
Four of them —the Adelaide Life Assurance Go., the
Australasian Insurance Go., the life branch of the Austra-
lian Alliance, and the Victoria Life—are doing practically
nothing now except waiting for their last policy-holder to
die. And meanwhile the proprietary idea has come into
fashion again, and four new concerns—three of them
vastly less solid than any of the old proprietary institu-
tions—are lurking round in search of premiums. It seems
strange under the circumstances that none of the four old
veterans think it worth while to go into active business
again.
• * * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania,
which for many' years only published an annual statement
of assets and Labilities, and kept its revenue intensely
dark, now issues an income and expenditure account like
any other office. It is a very good-looking account, too.
Profits for year ended 30th September, 1899, after writing
off £l9l, were £5223. A 7 per cent, dividend (t 2625) and
dividend tax (£131) absorb £2756 ; £lOOO is added to re-
serve, making it £ll,OOO, and £lOOO to contingency fund,
making it £2390. The remaining £467, with £3020
brought forward, leaves £3487 at credit of profit and loss.
The Mutual of Tasmania is an amazingly strong com-
panv for the size of its business; it has a paid-up
capital of £37,500; reserve £ll,OOO ; contingency fund
£2390 ; reinsurance reserve £2762, and £3487 at credit
of profit and loss —in all £57,139 of shareholders’ funds ;
with £150,000 of uncalled capital behind them ; and all
this for the better security of a business which is repre-
sented by r an annual premium income of £5525. In other
words, it has 11 years’ premiums on hand. The year’s
income is £8461 (premiums £5525 and interest £2936) and
for such a small institution to make a profit of £5223
shows either remarkably good luck or remarkably' good
management. The income from investments alone is
sufficient to pay' 7* per cent, dividends, which is an
unusual circumstance ; and the year’s losses are only
£BB4, whence it may be inferred that Tasmania is either
too damp to burn or too beastly honest to set itself on
fire. A good many institutions of six times the Mutual’s
size would be glad to be doing half as well.
• • * »
The County of Bourke Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) presents its first balance-
sheet since it came formally out of liquidation and re-
sumed business. The County of Bourke went the way of
most other big land-dealing institutions in the days when
the boom rolled by—in other words it suspended. But
being sounder than the average, it paid off its depositors
in full, with interest, and then had a large balance left
for the shareholders. So it wrote its capital down to
£96,970, and started business afresh. Its balance-sheet
for the year ended 16th September, 1899, shows a balance
of £6634 to credit of profit and loss, made upas follows :
Business profit for y'ear .. .. £4BSS
Received from debts previously written off
as bad .. .. .. .. 472
Profit on sale of properties which fetched
more than the written-down value .. 1274
£6634
This means that the business made a profit of £4BBB.
And in addition £1746 of the capital previously written
off as lost came back. This item is not ordinary profit;
it only means that when the tremendous writing-down of
capital was made £1746 was written off which, as events
proved, should not have been so treated. Therefore, the
obvious course now, as it can’t conveniently be restored
to capital account, is to put it to reserve fund. But the
management treats it as ordinary profit, and declares a
fine, large 6 per cent, dividend (£5889), so that the whole
of the profits and £lOOl of capital goes in dividend. Then
there is a small balance of £745 to carry forward. There
was sufficient profit to cover a 4* per cent, dividend with-
out using the recovered capital for div.-paying purposes,
but the County of Bourke directors were in haste to
begin booming again, and didn’t mind much how they
did it. When the co. resumed business £10,466 was set
aside out of capital to cover contingencies, and £BO6 of
this goes to pay for rates, reconstruction expenses,
sewerage connections, &c. As the co. has taken £BO6
from its contingency fund, and has added £745 to profit
and loss, it is therefore, on paper, about £6l worse off
than it was a year ago. This premature rush after
dividends isn’t a promising feature.
• • » •
It was stated in evidence in the recent big case
at Perth that Gov. Jerry Smith’s Ooolgardie pub., the
Australia, cost £9OOO and was sold for £6OO, and that at
the same figure the furniture, which cost £4OOO, was
knocked down. This, in fact, was what most of the row
was about—the defence said that the security had been
sacrificed.
• * * * ,
The Briseis (Tas.) tin-mine, which has lately
been producing 40 tons per month (with 30 men, the
shareholders receive £l3B per month for every man
employed) appears to be improving much as the centre
of the lead is approached. Recent rough weather caused
some damage to the head race, delaying tin-raising
operations for a few days, but with the improving richness
of the faces the monih’s output should be little dimi-
nished. It is stated that the Briseis directors have secured
the Krushka Brothers Home mine, with what object
is not yet known, but an amalgamation of those mines
should have taken place years ago, the Brothers Home
(which has produced £750,000 worth of tin from a com-
paratively small area worked) being the natural outlet
for the Briseis lead. From this latter mine 17 men raised
17 tons of tin last month. The Brothers Home Ex-
tended is also raising good tin ; nine men w'orking on
tribute raised nearly nine tons of tin last month. The
Extended is about to be floated in Scotland.
Tasmanian G. M., 1690 tons 2402 ozs. Eitliera
mistake in the figure—tonnage apparently too small—or
the mine has suddenly gone down in tonnage and up in
average ; Is. div. It is probably the wettest mine in
Australia.
• * • *
The Mt. Lyell chairman, Bowes Kelly, is now,
with director “Joe” Syme, in America talking to the
copper-combine people, Marcus Daly, Rockfeller and co.
Mt. Lyell has become such an important copper-producer
that it has been invited to join the ring. Last week cop-
per mysteriously fell over £2 : perhaps it was a little jerk
given by the copper trust to indica'e to Kelly and others
what it could really do with the market if it laid on the
whip and how necessary it was for the self-preservation of
a mine turning out, 10,000 tons of copper annually to take
a hand in controlling the world’s production and con-
sumption.
• * • •
Reported that an offer has been received from
London for Girilambone mine—erstwhile the Sydney
brokers’ joy. By the way, it would he very hard indeed
to say what the Sydney brokers’ joy is just now. They
have no joy.
Pambula Mines Limited (N.S.W.) has done one
sensible thing at last— reduced its capital from £115,000
to £50,000. Better still if it could increase its yields. It
has been a big disappointment for several year# to the
English shareholders. Found some rich gold in a narrow
streak recently, but it was always the will-o’-the-wisp
mine in a will-o’-the-wisp camp.
• * 0 •
Mt. DrysdaleAt last an important dis-
covery is said to have been made in this mine at 275 ft.
The assay is marvellous in gold and silver ; but the differ-
ence between assaying a sample and crushing a ton is in-
finite. Still, a mine that has turned out as much gold
from a pipe of ore as Mt. Drysdale did four years ago lias
always hope of getting another, and this mine has been
long enough looking for it, goodness knows. You never
can quite tell what may happen at Mt. Drysdale.
* * * *
N.S.W. Govt, proposes a Bill this session to
regulate dredging, which is practically hung up pending
a decision on the many lease applications already received.
There is, however, a force to be reckoned with that
dredging promoters, genuine and bogus, have never
thought of—the Leg. Council. What odds that that body
will not throw out the measure? It excluded copper
from the Mining on Private Property Bill in the interests
of the western squatters, nnd the chances are that it will
throw out the Dredging Bill in the same interests—on the
pretext that the few good water-courses of the country
will be irrevocably impaired. Also the squatters’ repre-
sentatives, as they nearly all are, will pose as the fossicker’s
champions. The d{-edging outlook is ominous.
• • * *
Turon Tliver Dredge:—32oz. of gold for last
week ; 6hares £2 each. Confidence or a “ corner 1 "
a • • •
“John Turon ” returns to the charge :—“ What
a lame apology is ‘ Maori Tyke’s ’ for the comparative
failure of Turon dredge! In‘ALT.’s’ own words: ‘The
Turon dredge has so far only been feeling its way.’
• M.T.’ conveniently again ignores or designedly omits to
notice the main issue, lie harps upon the co.’s capital as
30,000 instead of 42,000 £1 shares. That’s not the point.
The directors invited applications for the subsequent
OOOOshares, not at the original £l, but when the shares
were about £3, with rights for original holders ; and at
this latter price all the shares of the co. stood at the time
and at that price were bought by the public. And at this
price the capital of the co. must be valued by the hun-
dreds who invested their money and expect a correspond-
ing return. Surely this is now clear enough for anybody 1
* • • *
MiJburn Creek (N.S.W.) ; The old copper-mine
of sinister memory has been un-watered and cleaned out.
“ It is estimated that there are about 60,000 tons of ore in
sight assaying from 10 to 30 per cent, copper.” Then why
on earth was the show left so long unworked ? Surely
somebody must have known about things. Is it reason-
able to suppose that the people who last worked it were
such abject fools ? From a surface examination, Milburn
Creek mine would seem to consist of a number of short
shoots of ore, but to imagine that 60,000 tons have been
placed in sight by un-watering alone is too ridiculous.
« » • »
Paddy Lackey Deep Levels, N.S.W. — “Samples
from the reef struck in the shaft at 450 ft. assay 4ozs.
lOdwts. per ton. Going to the north, the reef will run
into the Paddy Lackey mine 50ft. from this shaft, hut on
the south side the Deep Level Mine ha 3 a continuation of
the reef for 20 chains, with backs gradually increasing
from 150 ft. to 450 ft." So far very good, but not quite
far enough. Where is most of the gold-shoot—to the
north or to the south? It cannot be both ; it isn’t long
enough for that. If to the south, and this yarn is cor-
rect, the parent mine has no future, and the owners have
been idiots enough to allow the side-on ground to re-
main unpegged for many years and then to be collared by
men having more judgment than themselves.
• • ♦ *
N.S.W. Govt. Geologist says that the successful
working of local aluminium deposits will depend upon the
establishment of works for the manufacture of the metal
—wholesome advice which might be applied to other
metals having no settled value, such as wolfram, anti-
mony, quicksilver, etc.—metals whereof the consumption
is limited and usually controlled by some all-powerful
combination.
« * • •
Geo. Brookman and Do Rose, the Boulder
originals, have been scooping up some of the pick of
northern S. A. copper shows—some old, some new. One
group, at Weedna, has been turned over to the Asso-
ciated Copper Trust; and smelters are already talked of,
thoush T. J. Greenway, general manager of Broken Hill
Block 14, who has been up reporting, will most likely
advise more prospecting first. Weedna is said to lie in a
basin—and basins sometimes bottom unexpectedly.
C. n. Beaumont, once of Menzies and before that oi the
Pinnacles (B. Hill), is developing the shows.
* • * •
Latest copper-market letters from Europe ex-
press surprise that the anticipated increase in production
has not come along ; and they add that it seems no nearer
than it was six months before. It must come, they admit;
but meantime people who want copper are tired of wait-
ing, and are buying at the higher prices. Transactions
have been made for delivery up to February at September
quotations.^
Woodlark Island Co.’s shares a fortnight ago
were down to 3s. ; a week ago they were 20s. ; they have
now gone back 50 per cent. Next week ?
• • • •
Some of the big Kalgoorlie mines have joined
forces to bring water in from Cane Grass Swamp, Hamp-
ton Plains. Marvellous the quantity of water produced
from the mines themselves, and how long the supply has
kept up. ,
Chaffers, Westralia: “ Another change in the
management has taken place.” No change in the mine,
unfortunately.
- m m m
Another meeting of Plunderderry shareholders
in London, and Lord F'introll foolishly kept away from it.
Always go to a mining meeting in London. Your pre-
sence will silence a multitude of tongues. In his absence
one shareholder remarked that though the noble Lord
had redeemed his promise in giving up certain interests
in another mine as a refund of his Londonderry promo-
tion profits, the shares received were only worth 3d.,
while the stamp-duty to get them transferred cost Iks.
Myrincr, formerly a N.S.W. rabbit-inspector, another
Plunderderry promoter, last year promised the share-
holder* a deal by way of refund, but ha* performed
nothing to date. Myring had one defence anyhow—he
was not going to adu inault to injury.
W. R. Dunstan, the English scientific coal-man,
haa, at Bigjack’s request, been testing Collie coal. lie
describes it as having an excess of volatile matter; “such
coal burns and disintegrates too freely.” Ash ranges
from 1 to 7J per cent.—small as to weight, but singularly
voluminous. The coal does not coke. The calorific
quality is “rather below the average shown by the best
steam coals ; more Collie coal is needed to convert a given
weight of water into steam than is required by the ordi-
nary steam coal used in England.” He sums up that
“allhough it cannot be put in the first class, it will prove
to he very valuable in VVestralia, where coal is scarce and
wood very largely depended on for fuel. As a steam-
raiser it is greatly to be preferred to wood and also to
many coals of better composition which produce much
smoke when burned." And it will he valuable for domes-
tic use, as it "quickly makes a hot and non-smoking
fire.” The Prof, does not think much of its gas-making
prospects.
Bad luck has befallen the Forrest public-
battery scheme. Prospectors curse both Govt, and
batteries impartially, charging latter with robbery
(gold lost through imperfect treatment) and former
with extortion. Govt, reply by raising crushing
rates to 15s. per ton minimum, and sliding scale
according to ore value, on the ground that the
batteries are not meeting expenses. Truth is that
Forrest entrusted the inception of the scheme to political
deadbeats who, secure from official observation in way-
back hamlets, “played up.” “Looking for water” was
the customary explanation. And it was true enough—
they were after some to mix with their whisky. One
prospective gathering seriously discussed laying a pipe-
line from the local pub. to the battery site to save
manager’s time perambulating to and fro. In other cases,
batteries were erectod where the existence of water was
unproved. Then some of the “plants” were bought
from friends ; while contracts for cartage and erection
were let to other friends, and still other friends were ap-
pointed managers.
» * • •
Southern Cross, upon which the Deeming Curse
has been lying, proposes to shake it off, if it can, with the
help of cyanide. The Central, which has a big tailings-
dunip, is putting up a good-sized plant ; and Fraser’s is
making a call with the same object. Fraser’s 8. Ex. has
got a battery running ; and the Day Dawn has been re-
suscitated.
* * • *
Westralia has a nickel show now —nine miles
from Kalgoorlie and 90 and 9 from a dividend; for it
gives only 3 per cent, assays, and is far far away from coal
and water.
» * * «
Brown Hill, whose yield before ’97 was very
small (it had dealt with only 967 tons of stone altogether),
had produced 4tons 7cwt. 2gr. gold avoirdupois by the
end of Sept. Its monthly out-turn has been kept very
steady this year—never but once under 72500 z., and
never over 75000 z. But there is the old tale for the people
who are promised in prospectuses that “ the lode will
improve in depth’’—the’97 average was 6oz. 13dwt. per
ton ; the ’99 something under 2oz. ldwt. And Burbank’s
tells the same tale. Average in ’95, 6oz. ldwt. 22gr. ;in
’96, 4oz. 3dwt. 23gr. ; in ’97, 2oz. 2dwt. ; in ’9B, loz. 7dwt.
llgr. ; in January, ’99, loz. 6dwt. sgr.—and a further fall
every month to loz. ldwt. in Sept.
The Australian Gold Recovery Co. recently
started a big list of actions in Victoria for the wrongful
use of the Cyanide process, and that against Hans Irvine,
claiming £‘lo,ooo damages, has been compromised—no
doubt much to the indignation of those who propose to
fight.
• • • •
At Bendigo the Lazarus has got its shaft down
below 3430 ft., and is now opening out at that ; overcoats
are not worn there. Shenandoah has a reef running to
15ft. wide at 3134 ft. deep ; not much gold, however.
Still it isn’t only stone in which there is gold staring you
in the face that they treat at Bendigo. St. Mungo has
just put through 240 tons for 220z5., and finds that covers
more than trucking, hauling, and milling exes. Koch’s,
too, of which good things were promised, has slumped
badly, and gets only 670 z. from its last 440 tons.
• *
The lately-issued Q. Mines’ annual report shows
that Northern goldfields still give many accidents. The
Towers alone gave eight fatalities and 23 cases of serious
injury. Carelessness was responsible for several disasters.
One man was using a heavy copper tamping-bar, and
vigorously driving home a plug of dynamite. Result—
one man killed and two injured. Out of 1268 men em-
ployed in coal-mines, notone was injured during the whole
year.
Big .Tack Harvey was at Coolgarra (Q.) recently
and pegged a number of tin shows. The sandfly of the
field, who looks on all newcomers much as the Sand-
gropers of W.A. regarded the Easterners, objected to the
pegging. The sandfly said he had pegged the ground (an
easy matter as he makes his descriptions hazy and shifts
the' pegs to take in every new discovery), but he had
“ forgotten to apply for the lease.” To this Big Jack,
“You blanky miserable scoundrel ! Next thing you’ll do
is to put one peg in Cape York and another in Kalgoorlie
and collar the whole blessed continent."
* » * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re your advocacy of the ap-
prentice system in mines, I know an Australian mine that
has taken apprentices, or cadets, with £2O premium, at
ss. a week for first year, 10s. for second, and the final
year 15s. per week—guaranteeing in return tuition in
theoretical and practical mining. Sounds well enough,
but how’s it carried out? For the first few months the
youths were in charge of a manager, who was supposed
to instruct them in theory and practice—about which he
knew absolutely nothing himself. He was followed by a
competent man, but since the latter left, after three
months, the ’prentices have had no instruction. Also,
underground, they are left entirely to their own devices—
not even shown how to put a hole in, or to break away
dirt to best advantage. Further, two “cadets” are put
in a face together, instead of each one being with a good
miner, and the youths do almost as much for their paltry
6s. per week as some of the men do for 455. Some time ago
the ’prentices applied fora little more pay in considera-
tion of their not receiving any theoretical instruction,
but the proposal is—and is likely to remain—“ under con-
sideration." These facts speak for themselves.— ln The
Know.


A
d
A NEW DEPARTURE
|n Orient Suit to measure at 635,
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR i
ORDER TRADE.
mr pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea- 1
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted. .
DA¥ID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
V g.p.o. ;
SYDNEY
Latest INTe'ws!
20,000 Britishers Shot
within the next few months with one or the other of
HARRINGTON’S SNAP-SHOT CAMERAS.
We could fill a whole page of this paper in describing our IMMENSE ASSORTMENT of
UP-TO-DATE CAMERAS, but space does not permit us to more than mention some of the
kinds we have in stock. The VICTOR ; PREMO in all grades ; SCIENTO; LANCASTER
in various styles; KODAK in all kinds; OPTLYIUS; ERENA; PRIMUS ■ RUBY •
AMBER; DUPLEX; CLIMAX; GOERZANSCHUTZ, etc. ’ ’
Just now THE PHOTOGRAPHIC WONDER IS . . .
The Federal Camera & Outfit for 5/-
Post Free, 5/8
Complete with Chemicals, Materials, and a simple Book of Instructions ; takes photos, 2 hx 2i in
See that your Camera bears our name—it is a guarantee of its genuineness and quality.
Harrington & Co., Ltd-, Photographic Merchants,
G 6 KING STREET, SYDNEY (near George-street).
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Is the Australian utterly humorless ? On
that wet Saturday, when N.S.W. was shipping
117 men and nine officers and some horses to help
the 80,000 British with their Transvaal war (ship-
ping them, too, when the war was already half
over), the streaming ’busses tore up and down the
street with inscriptions such as: “The lion and
the kangaroo will quickly put old Kruger
through.” The lion and the kangaroo, observe.
Ihe German army assisted by John Smith!
A case of the Russian empire and Goat Island
declaring war. Yet nobody laughed ! The damp,
goloshed multitude took it all in the deadest of
dead earnest.
* * * *
N.S.W. is the only Australian province
which sent a parson with its contingent to the
Iransvaal. The other Govts, point blank refused,
truth to tell, the presence of a clergyman aboard
ship will not be very welcome to “ the boys,” who
a poiled ng <£f ° r a P ' Cnic ’” and don ’t want sport
* * * ,
This Transvaal Contingent idiocy has
struck Queensland in the solar plexus, and
Queensland grovels accordingly. One intrepid
patriot came from the North to join with half the
AT A COUNTRY STORE.
TRAVELLER : “ Have you any current literature? ”
THE OLD LADY IN CHARGE : " No, sir; lam
sorry I sold the last tin this morning .”
wealth of the township hanging about him. He
was banqueted many times by the municipal
bodies, toasted in wine at every bar, covered with
gew-gaws by alleged friends, and farewelled in
great style at the railway-station, where all the
single girls struggled for one last tearful kiss.
After many demonstrations he reported at the
camp, and a brutal medical officer rejected him
because of a stoop in the shoulders. And now
this hero wants a Govt, job in Brisbane—he sim-
ply daren’t go back to Cowville.
* * » .
There was actually included in the S.A.
Contingent— only 125 altogether—an “ awkward
squad,” consisting of men who knew nothing
either of drill or of rifle-shooting! So much for
the war-spirit in the land of the Oroweaters.
There was much jingo hurrahing, even in Parlia-
ment, at the announcement that one country
company of Mounted Rifles had volunteered in a
body; but the subsequent discovery that they
stipulated for higher pay than that offered was
dismissed in a whisper.
A circus shared the camping-ground with the
S.A. Contingent while the latter was waiting for
the Medio. It was also observed that an un-
attached donkey would hang round the tents. At
last it was run out and stoned up North Ter-
race towards Parliament House —the nearest
approach to a military operation some of the men
had apparently ever undertaken.
W-and other cables come through in a
th re T« d f ° rm ’ and the imaginative mem-
bers of the staff are set to work to amplify them
consumption with the following awful
Sydney D.T., Thursday,
Oct. 26.
THE BATTLE OF GLEN-
COE.
Russian press refer-
ENOES.
“ LONDON DOGS UN-
MUZZLED."
London, W ed nesday.—The
Russian press, in comment-
ing upon the encounters
which have taken place be-
tween the Boers and the
British, refers in laudatory
terms to the bravery of the
British soldiers.
“The London dogs were
unmuzzled on Friday” is a
phrase in which one import-
ant Russian journal referred
to the British victories at
Glencoe.
S.M. Hkrald, of same date.
MUZZLING OF DOGS.
London, Oct. 25.
The law requiring- the
muzzling- of dogs in London
as , a precaution against
rabies has been abrogated,
and on and after Friday
next dogs will be allowed in
the streets unmuzzled.
A departmental commit-
tee appointed by the British
Board of Agricultuie in
1896 to inquire into and
report upon the working of
the laws relating to dogs
reported during 1897 that
while muzzling is the only
practicable means for the
extermination of rabies, the
powers of muzzling as exer-
cised since 1892 by local
authorities were inadequate
to eradicate rabies, and only
resulted in temporary and
local checks to its spread.
It must have been the lobster. Aus-
tralian Star s war news (23rd October)
in T «To° P f*« i f 8f a “ ackof the Boers had almost succeeded
in the effort. The troops under Commandant Meyers
Q S iif den y a . tt . acked hy the Boers, and were soon in a
' ery serious position and in danger of defeat, when Com-
mandant Erasinuss arrived from Hatting Spruit, a
settlement to the north of Glencoe, with a column of
first'hJfadon 6 ,ffh Ve T battery - These troops, with the
first battalion of the Leicestershire Regiment, promptly
advance. ® enemy ’ a " d checked their victorious
1 here has been nothing like that since the British
S? , b 7 Napoleon Bonaparte, charged George
Washington and Oliver Cromwell at Khartoum,
near Gibraltar in 1666.
* jfc
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Morning Herald
administers a Dignified Reproof to this irreverent
paper:—
ihw'ln T f the ® ub l ect one may remark that this is a
Syd , ne A P a P ers understand-the proper
placing- of names and the proper way to speak of titled
persons. Thus, for instance, P We a/e constantly seeing
H p P ™' e ,p? r8 T ? anie . ln i )a P er «nder the heading of
Personal. There is nothing of the “ Personal ”in the
representative of the Sovereign ; he is a national
character, and so should go under a distinct heading,
such as Vice-Regal. ’ Also, the papers are perpetually
saying that His Excellency was “accompanied by” the
members of his staff ; instead of “attended by.” The
Governor is accompanied only by his guests and equals ;
he is merely attended by his officers and escorts. Yet
another mistake is made when referring- to a visit by the
t 0 ® om ? country town. We repeatedly' read
that he was introduced to the aldermen, instead of that
the aldermen were introduced to him. These are little
breedi !r° nS ’ th ® non -° bserva nce of which shows bad
It is all so painfully suggestive of Achilles Tatius
the gorgeous Greek general in Scott's “Count
Robert of Pans. Achilles didn’t fight when he
could help it; but he was justly severe on Here-
ward, the Varangian, because when he mentioned
the most holy and sacred name of the Emperor he
didn t raise his hand in salute to the crest of his
helmet. And he was also shocked to see that the
Varangian vvasn’t so shocked as he should have
been when it was mentioned that, at a great crisis
during one of the Emperor’s campaigns, the lamp
of the Council was not fed with sacred oil, but
with a common article unbecoming the imperial
dignity.
* * * •
The Australia Hotel, Coolgardie (W.A.)
over which Gov. His Excellency Knight Smith
has come to such serious grief, was a 14-rocmed
building with three bars and five or six bedrooms
And tins small band-box was floated into a com-
pany with the Governor and the Governor’s aide-
de-camp and secretary among the shareholders
and in some way or other about c-69000 was spent
on its construction. Even then the roof leaked
shamefully. It had a board of directors, and a
managing director at .£4OO a year; and the 14-
roomed structure contrived to get up an overdraft
of £5762. And when it went broke all the furni-
ture, drink, billiard-tables, &c., were only worth
about £750. Governor Smith, coming to a new
and cat-haunted country, might have been ex-
cused if he came to grief over a wild cat, but to
fall over a kitten of this size was a very humble
proceeding.
* * • *
During the Spanish-American war it was
surprising how many people you would meet in
Sydney who spoke with a nasal twang and had
“ only just arrived ” from the States, or Cuba, or
Manila. Just now, however, the bogus American
lias slumped, whereas the bars abound with men
just back from the Rand.” If Jamieson didn’t
have a force of many thousands, every one of his
followers must be at present in Sydney.
• * * *
By leaving out a “ t ” the comp, who set
a Sydney quack’s advt. struck a great truth th e
other day Consult doctor So-and-so and he
will relieve you of all your roubles .”
* * * *
A Sydney undertaking firm advertises that
it has “the largest and most up-to-date funeral
plant in the colonies.” “ Plant,” in this connec-
tion, is “ very excellent good ! ”
. ® ve n the proffered bribe of ss. did not,
it is printed, draw a Sydney newspaper man re-
cently to leave out a name in a divorce case. If.
this is so, then the average Sydney reporter is
getting too b:g for his boots, and it may do
him good to be told of the “ good old days ”
when the inky-fingered were not quite so
Stuck-up—the days whenMcElhone used to
y6il in Parliament that any newspaper re-
porter could be bought “ with a leather
sandwich and a pint of soldier’s joy.” In
those times the present writer reported
far tho Eveotng News, at the Water
Jroliee Court. One morning' a very
small boy was charged with a very
small offence, and his distressed
mother approached the reporters’ table,
and under the gaze of the apprehend-
ing and hungry constables and thirsty
reporters, laid half-a-crown on one
scribe’s copy paper, and in a choking
voice said, “For God’s sake keep my
poor boy’s name out of the paper! ”
irerha,ps it was on account of a scowl
or a disappointed look on the writer’s
lace that she said “ Isn’t it—sob—
enoiiglij I’m sorry—sob—sorry ; it’s all
1 ha ve. My dear woman,” exclaimed the
scribe, it would have been enough, but just
look at the crowd I have to divide it
amongst —waving his hand at the rest of the
reporters. And then he regretfully handed
back the half-crown.
* * * *
Curious are the ways of divorce Judges.
An Australian one recently refused release
to a woman who sought it principally on
. g r °ond that her lord wouldn’t
ablute ; and now an American one has
granted a divorce on the ground that hubby
had tor five long years insisted on the wife
taking three cold baths daily, the evening
plunge being invariably iced.
,8 ev :v5 esle y an Watkin is the most rabid
ot the Melb. war-advocates, and in a recent raven-
ing sermon based on the education derivable from
Age leaders he declared that the sword was God’s
instrument. “ The congregation was at times
almost carried away by the fervor of the speaker.
At the conclusion of the service, Bugler Bottle and
Private Robin, two of the Victorian contingent
tor bouth Africa were presented with small
pocket Bibles by the Rev. W. Presley.”
‘Tis ever so ! When England runs
Aspiring foes to throttle,
She sends with rifles, shells and guns
The Bible and the Bottle.
* * * *
“ Colocynth” : Was in a Sydney hair-
dressers recently when a stout, well-dressed in-
dividual waddled in and exclaimed with an air of
importance, “ Shave me quiok ! Pm going to a
ON SHEEPBACK.
MISS TRAFFORD DE PUNKINS (one month off the
English mailboat): “Oh, Mr. Wayback, I
would so love to see you riding a jumbuck.”
ball at Government House.” Felt somewhat im-
pressed, and perhaps my face showed it, for when
the customer had departed, the barber turned to
me and said, “ I’m going to the same ball as that
bloke.” I looked a trifle incredulous. “ True
bill,” continued Figaro. “ It’s a ball given by the
’Ouse servants to the tradesmen. The fat cove’s
a butcher’s traveller.”
A SYDNEY FAREWELL.
“ Well, good bye! Expect you'll be back again
before the George-street tram passes.”
Grov. Beauchamp is going to be vtry care-
ful for the future. When he had groped his wav
out of the Darling duststorm that had been raised
in his honor, some papers thought they were safe
in saying that, what with drought and dust and
Cobar whisky, the trip had been somewhat un-
pleasant. But they must have heard from His
Ex., for thei’e was a singular emphatic intimation
in next issue that His Ex. had had a most pleasant
time indeed—the people were so good ; it was only
the dust that was not altogether agreeable.
* * • *
The Salvarmy is nothing if not thorough.
Several of its Melbourne horses wear knee-pads.
The most brazen part of the
Scotchbyterian claim to control the
Melb. Hospitals is the assertion
that the church gives ,£5OOO or
£6oooayear towards the manage-
ment of the medical charities
yet has no voice in their
control. As a mat-
ter of fact, the
church pursues
its usual policy
of never giving
a brass farth-
ing to any-
body. The
.£5OOO or
£6OOO referred
to is the Hospi-
tal Sunday Fund
which, even by
the wildest
stretch of Cal-
vinistic imagina-
tion, cannot be
regarded as
“given ” by the
churches. Before
you can give a
thing i t must
belong to you,
and the churches merely act as
collectors in regard to the Hos-
pital Sunday money. They re-
mit it to the different institu-
tions through a general fund,
but have no more to do with
the giving of the cash than the
postman who delivers the
cheque. The money is at no
time the church’s property.
Under existing circumstances,
however, the churches seem
to hold all the cards in the
present controversy, for there
is nothing to prevent them
following the threatened
policy of paying in the cash
in the form of guinea subscriptions
to each hospital. Then, with dummy subscribers
representing each sovereign, the kirk will be able
to control every hospital election. The end of the
matter will probably be the burst-up of Hospital
bunday, and the churches will have the grim
satisfaction of wrecking another successful
humanitarian institution for its impioty in refusing
to be ruled by the retailers of dogma.
* * * *
Sydney Sunday Times hints that The
Bulletin envies its respectability. Wrong. The
Sunday Times’s respectability has been arrived at
by too painful a process. 'The Times, before
becoming entirely respectable, tried the other
thing—published the Dead Bird.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color,
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer,
bottles Is. everywhere.* .
“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
Wonderful business—beaten all records.
Great demand for the Federal Water Zetz. No
one who values good health should be without
Zetz Spa Water in their homes.*
Lock-
Largo
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
-L LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter into
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very-
low prices :
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... £1 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
pONDY’S
u Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is Magical.
All Substitutes are Inferior.
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.”
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according-to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33j- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOTJNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane Gland.
HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed
- lazy, and shiftless; to have no'appetite :
to sleep badly; to have what you eat feel like lead in’
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC *>•-
per post, is 3ti. SULPHUR PiLLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
..0n...
Mr. Fraok Scijior,
Of 246 Gcorge-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Chemist.
To Melb. Paunch the other week came the
news that “ amongst, the unfortunates at Johan-
nesburg are many Melbourne girls who went over
at the end of last year.” The poor girls, it
seems, are unfortunate only in having gone to a
place where business is in a bad way just at pre-
sent. Nothing worse than that.
A BETTER CARVER.
BOARDINGHOUSE LADY : “ Mr. Johnson, will you
kindly carve the duck? ”
JOHNSON (stammering): “Better ask the new
boarder, madam — he’s a retired blacksmith.”
The Bulletin is glad to see that N.S.W.
Photographic Society is steadily extending its in-
Huenoe. This year’s exhibition of photographs
was the best yet held ; though in the desire to
gain support the committee admitted many
crudities which a stronger society would have un-
hesitatingly rejected. But the larger number of
photographs were well worth exhibition, and
formed a very interesting show. For the en-
couragement of amateurs it may be noted that
some of the best work was shown in the small
size of quarter-plates ; the percentage of failures
was larger among the more ambitious efforts. Yet
some of these were both technically and artisti-
cally good. By way of criticism it is suggested
that the society make a clearer division between
the classes of work in the room ; and let the cata-
logue numbers run in numerical order. In the
show just held the task of disentangling a given
exhibit from the irregular catalogue took as much
time as an interior exposure on a rainy day in
winter.
* » * *
He was a wily Yictorian, whose wife had
disregarded his repeated requests to return
from a protracted holiday, and he adveriised
over his name in the local paper : Wanted,
Housekeeper. Must be young
and good-looking.” His
wife wired him to meet
her by that night’s ex-
press.
Apropos a well-
known Sydney
lady recently
deceased.
Husband and
wife mutu-
allyisepar-
ated, the
former
from
choice re-
siding in
’Frisco, the
latter in Syd-
ney in business.
As plaintiff in a
suit before Justice Faucett she was informed that
her husband must be joined with her as there
was no legal separation.
She was asked if
she could produce
him if the case
were postponed _
until next sit-
tings. She could.
It was in the days of
Hall's steamers to ’Frisco. The lady went
in one steamer and returned per next
bringing her husband. She «as allowed to
amend her plaint by joining the husband
and won her action. Then the long-separ-
ated pair went their several ways again.
Recently, when a
crowded excursion - train
stopped at a N.S.W. sta-
tion for refreshments a
young woman climbed out
of a second-class carriage
and returned same way
with a cup of tea, which
had cost 3d. Then a weary
woman with two small children asked, as she
couldn’t leave the carriage, whether the young
lady would mind getting her a cup. Latter said
there wasn’t time, and compromised matters by
selling half her cupful for 6d.
* * * *
Whenever any member of the Q. police-
force gives evidence in any way damaging to the
reputation of his superiors, some official rises and
tells the Commission that the man is a bit cracked.
Moved to wrath thereby, Chairman Unmack
finally suggested : —“ Do you recommend that the
Govt, medical officer go round and examine the
men in the force, because this is the third man
represented as being off his head ? It'is probably
because they have not given evidence that pleased.”
* * *• »
Olcl-man Panton sniffs contemptuously
when Melbourne Mayor M‘Eacharn mounts the
police-court; bench arrayed in full municipal fig,
and never misses a chance of sitting-on the gor-
geous one. Said Mac., the other day, to the
Chinese complainant in an assault case, ‘ I don t
believe a word you say.” “And I believe every
word he says,” snapped Panton. And the two
glared at each other. But the majority sided
with the Mayor. Great is the power of drapery !
“ Malle ” : Seeing a big crowd in Oxford-
street, Sydney, the other night, I asked a
small boy what the trouble was, and
was informed “it’s only a bloke
tryin’ to get away from ’is bit o
skirt.” Sure enough all the
ruction was caused by a small
woman upsetting her hus-
band’s little picnic with an-
other “lydy.” He jumped on
a moving tram and, finding
the wife ,did ditto, off on the
other side, but so did she.
Then he, after walking beside
her in a for a
while, suddenly made a bolt
round a corner, but had not gone
10 yards before she cleverly col-
lared him. Then she favored the crowd
with her name and address, a concise but
spirited account of her family history, and
her opinion of “ that cat.” It's the big strong
woman who sits at home and weeps over hubby’s
misdeeds, but it’s never safe to fool with five-foot-
nothing. 9
Clearing up a much-discussed matter :
Dear Bulletin. —Re the statement that an alleged
“Batman plate” had been taken from the wall of the
A.M.P. building in Collins-street, Melbourne, and sup-
planted by another plate “ advertising the virtues of the
A.M.P. Society.” It seems that a Batman plate never
existed outside of that writer’s mind. For many years
a copper medallion inscribed with the Society’s coat-
of-arms was fastened to the Collins-street facade of the
A.M.P. building. Immediately beneath it was the inti-
mation cut into the stone that John Batman, founder or
Melbourne, built on this corner. The stone probably
looked to be a foot-piece to the medallion. Then a dividing
wall was removed from the interior of the buildinir, anda
window was let into the place where the medallion had
been, the medallion itself being shifted a few feet further
to the right, in between two windows. The inscribed
stone was left untouched, and it now serves as a sill to
the new window. The copper plate, which is not sup-
planting another plate, but is just the same old plate all
the time, bears no testimony to the virtues of the A.M.P.
It merely bears the Society’s name and trade insignia. F.
* * * *
A budding novelty in the hotel line in
Sydney is “ Ladies’ private bar ” in gold letters on
the side door. At least one hotel expresses satis-
faction with the experiment.
* * * *
Sydney Jxchange, the directors of which
have been authorised to add two storeys and
thoroughly modernise the building, was first
opened by Gov. Denison in Dec., 1857- The
foundation-stone was laid by Gov. Fitzroy in ’53.
Many old historic associations are interwoven
with the life of the commercial structure.
PRESSING A DEAL.
DEADBEAT: “Give me a pint and I'll give you the
two absolute Cup winners.”
BARMAN : “ Don’t want to know them.”
DEADBEAT : “Do what I ask and Pit chuck in the
Derby.”
“ E.0.E.” : The lady who dusts my desk
(yearly contract) is a buxom jingo of the goriest
type. For weeks before the war she forestalled
every movement of “ that ’orrid old Kruger,” and
breathed patriotic pseans over Chamberlain. Sh 4
gets her paper an hour earlier now, and on Monday
when I came in was swishing the duster angrily)
about the inkstands. “Well!” she said, with)
compressed lips and flashing eyes, “ they’ve got
it this time —them Boers.” (Swish.) “The
British officers suffered terrible, though.” (Dusting
suspended.) “I see Major Symons got ’it.” I
threw in a crumb of sympathetic interest —“ Yes,
he’s badly hurt evidently ”; and was immediately
corrected”: “ Well, the paper said ‘ seriously
wounded in the groin.’ I see the Queen has con-
ferred another honor upon him.” (Dusting re-
sumed.) “I see the Leicestershire regiment
stormed the ’ill. Climbed right up under cover
and killed 500 of ’em.” That’s what they get for
fitting Major Symons. And serve ’em right.”
(I here saved an inkstand from destruction.)
“ They say it’s the best fighting been seen since
the Russian-Persian war of ’7O and ’7l. And
there’ll be a lot more of it too. Fancy them
Boers standing up against the British army ! It’s
like their imperence.” Here the patriotic stop
MIS IDEA OF FUN.
BILLY: “ Wot oh, Paddler; y’ave missed some
alright fun. Two battlers ducked yer old man
in the water-trough en near drowned ’im;
then ’e stouched yer ole woman, an’ she stouched
the trap; en now they’ve both got shot in! ”
was turned full on, and I sought refuge with
the office-boy, who “got the straight griffin about
.Dewey an’ never backed it.”
* * * •
The pathetic story of a Hebrew conva-
lescent. The scion of Israel is in the pawnbroking
and ole clo’ business in Melb., and one warm
afternoon, about a month back, a poor-looking
stranger wandered into Nosenbloom’s shop, carry-
ing over his arm a black frock-coat of ancient cut.
“ How much ? ” asked the customer, throwing
the coat on the counter. Nosenbloom pawed
the article professionally. “Fife shillids,”
he said. “Ten,” said the customer. “Fife
shillids—nod a peddy more.” “ Seven-
an’-six,” said the customer. “ ’Tain’d vort
id.” “Not worth it! . That was my old
uncle’s coat. He gave four pounds for
it, an’ never wore it more’n a dozen
times.” “Can’d help it,” exclaimed No-
senbloom, “ fife shillids is my price.” The
man took up his coat again, and began
to enlarge on its many virtues, and the
magnificent quality of the cloth, trying it
between his fingers as he did so. Sud-
denly he easecd talking, feeling anxiously
at a place under the arm ; his face paled ; he
hastily drew a knife from his pocket, and
Nosenbloom watched him with much concern
whilst he cut the lining. Both uttered exclama-
tions of amazement as the seeker drew forth a
small roll of notes. “Fifties !” he gasped—“ four
of ’em ! ” Then he turned and fled the place.
Nosenbloom took to bed ; for a time his life was
despaired of, and, although he is now convales-
cent, he never expects to be the same man again.
* * * *
The proposal to shift Adelaide’s burying-
place ten miles out of the city evoked a double-
barrelled protest from Labor-leader Batchelor.
He complained that it would make funerals too
costly, and also that it would be inconvenient for
people “ desiring to visit the graves of deceased
relatives.” Plaint No. lis a good reason in favor
of cremation ; burials far outside the city are
costly, and burials inside it are unhealthy, but
cremation inside the city is both cheap and
feasible. Plaint No. 2is also a reason in favor of
cremation, for the morbid practice of “ visiting
the graves of deceased relatives ” is one of the
saddest of the small habits of civilisation. Low-
spirited mooning among the tombs, and study-
ing the inscriptions over our own and other
people’s dead, and being buried in thought
on cold gravestones are all objectionable
customs, And even to people of Batchelor’s
turn of mind the practice has objections. It
may be beautiful goodness knows why —to
visit the last home of our own dead. But it
isn’t at all beautiful to think that objectionable
strangers go and lunch on the mound, and paw
the monument, and teach little Bill a reading-
lesson from the inscription, and leave half a sand-
wich on the grassy covering. Writer once
wandered through a Maori'and cemetery and
found a pale, fat, shiny-faced boy of 17 or so
trying to make it up with his girl on the grave of
the only acquaintance he had there. The fat boy
and his girl had quarrelled, and the girl sat on the
grave and scorned him. When one considers that
burial means putting one’s friends under a green
mound which the butcher, and the tax-gatherer,
and the publican sit on when they have a holiday,
there is no poetry in it.
* * * *
N.S.W. Coroner’s Court jurors are in
future to be paid the same rates as jurors in the
Civil and Criminal Courts. Altogether a levering-
up has taken place in these classes of employment.
For each day for three days the juror will get Bs.,
for the fourth and every subsequent day on same
panel, 12s. Bystanders sworn on any trial, Bs.
per day. The travelling expenses have also been
liberalised.
• • • *
The employes of Sydney Water Supply and
Sewerage Board have established a horticultural
society and held a show. Interesting to know if
the members of the society are harassed like other
people by the Board’s inspectors, whose instruc-
tions would appear to be to prevent, as far as
Eossible, all attempts at horticulture by gmall
ouseholders.
In Warwick (Q.), the W.C.T.U.
and Y.M.C.A. combined in an endeavor
to Christianise the local Chows, and soon
had a fine crop of market-gardener pro-
selytes. But, later on, came some smart
frosts, doing much damage to the gardens,
and, incidentally, to the “faith” of the
Chow-owners. An assurance that the
frost was a “blessing in disguise,” how-
ever, served to soothe matters over until
a severe hailstorm came along. Then the
“converts” relapsed in a body, on the
ground that their new Joss was altogether
too skilful in disguising his “ blessings.”
* * * *
A vendetta of more than Corsican
intensity rages between two traders—
once partners in the same business,
but now rivals. A little while ago one
of the partners set forth on a tour
abroad fortified with complimentary
testimonials signed by a member of the
Ministry. Then the friends of the
erstwhile partner got in their fine work
with the politician, and official letters
which rendered the testimonials
nugatory were sent forth broadcast.
Skin and hair and knuckledusters may
be expected when the exasperated
tourist returns to Australia.
Melbourne Y.M.O.A. has presented every
member of the Victorian Boer-slaughtering con-
tingent with a testament, and on each testament
is a beautiful and appropriate inscription, “ By
love serve one another.” It is probably a mis-
print for—“By Jove, shoot one another.” The
Bulletin devoutly hopes that the Victorians, at
all events, will never come within 10 miles of a
Boer gun. If they do, our children, and
our children’s children, will be afflicted in
ages yet unborn by long-bearded clergymen
with a tale to tell about the good little man
who carried that testament over his heart, or
in his hat, or somewhere; and how, after the
battle of Potchefstrugerskloofdorp, he found a
bullet in it, which would otherwise have been
fatal, and how he thereafter gave thanks, and
married, and had 45 children who all went to bed
regularly at nine o’clock, and never tasted strong
drink. And against this will be set the awful
case of the other fellow who swapped his testa-
ment for beer, and was killed. These dreadful
yarns can be seen afar off, even now.
• * • •
Victorian warriors bound for the Trans-
vaal are officially warned that those of them who
have artificial shop teeth must take spare teeth
along with them in case, the original set drops out
during the campaign. And unless a shell lands
right on the waggon-load of Victorian spare teeth
as it lumbers behind the advancing column, the
precaution will probably pan out all right. A
patriotic Melbourne dentist has offered to supply
the extra teeth gratis. Probably when the whole
375 warriors call round for their free molars that
toothsmith will be sorry he spoke. Apropos, the
Victorian military authorities seem to be strong
on teeth. A recruit, otherwise physically perfect,
was found to have one hollow back eater, and was
informed that it was so urgently necessary that
only the very best specimens of gumsucker should
be shot on the veldt that he couldn’t go. When
real war comes this way Australia’s military po-
tentates will probably be less particular; and the
disreputable, the drunken, the bald-headed,
the people with warts and ingrowing nails, the
hump-backed, and even the procrastinator, and
the uncivil, and the people whose Greek
pronunciation is imperfect will be all roped
in together, so long as they can carry a
rifle and shoot. There is a legend about
how Bivas Palacias, in the Mexican War of Liber-
ation, forcibly shoved the whole contents of a
monastery into his ranks when he was desperately
short of material to put up against the French
shooters, and drove the fat peaceful fathers into
battle. But that was a time of bitter stress, when
even a paralysed recruit in a wheelbarrow wouldn’t
have been rejected without serious consideration.


Victor Daley, whoso name stands first
among those of current Australian verse-writers
is to lecture on local poetry this (Saturday) even-
ing in Sydney School of Arts. As there is no one
better qualified to speak about the subject The
-Bulletin expects to see a good attendance
llie many enterprising women who are
anxious to dress the wounds of the smitten Trans-
vaal fighters will not forget their duty to them-
selves in the matter of dress, which is to so en-
hance their natural charms that all warriors may
be smitten by a nicer smite than that of bullet or
bayonet. Which explains, perhaps, why the
present demand for P.D. Corsets is a little more
furious than usual.*
« £-ntry readers would do well to try the
Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires no trimming ”
saves oil has no smell whatever, and it is almost impos-
sible to have an explosion of a lamp in which thevare
used. Messrs. Chambers and Seymour, of Collins-street
have one window entirely devoted to the co.’s goods!*’
SpriQS BOdS Ijatfc BOrst
MARK FOY’S!
A Riot of LoVlipeSS.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
Running
{£y/lN c /c
5 _ MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J.W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
Dress Fabrics
Millinery
Costumes
Gloves
Sunshades
Underwear
Latest Fashions
Good Value
Reliable Work
TTIiTTE
on
GO
TO
THE
LEADEES
OF
FASHION
w. T. WATERS A CO
Ladies' and Children’s Outfitters,
King it, Ceori;e Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS wo ***
Atcherley & Dawson 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 31, 1899.
My Dear Myee.—
Of course, last week was given over to the war-
fever, body and soul. At the shipping offices for
the E. and A.S.O. wharf it was a wild farce on
Friday to see the swelled heads of all the little
clerks and office-boys, refusing wharf tickets for
the setting out of the troops. The little boys on
sixpence a week put on the airs of the big boys in
frightfully stand-up collars, and the boys in the
frightfully stand-up collars put on the airs of the
managers, while the managers themselves kept
out of sight behind locked doors, and the office
was full of indignant female shrieks in fifty dif-
ferent sharps and flats, down to “yous boys, don’t
know a lady when you sees her ! ” The collar-
boys poured forth much cheek, and there was
nearly a scene when the Sydney woman whose
name stands for gold was told by an underdone
errand-hoy, “ Can’t let you have a ticket, madam,
but / shall be knocking about the wharf, and
might get you in if I see you.”
Saturday afternoon saw the war-fever at its
height, although women and babies began to pour
into the town from early in the morning. Any-
thing to mako a day of it, even if it's only to see
Tommy Green or Jimmy Jones going out to be
slaughtered. That’s quite enough excuse for Mrs.
Browne to get out baby’s new pelisse, and the
children’s starched frocks, and her own red hat
with the green roses under the brim, and lock up
the house, and go forth with a bottle of cold tea,
and some mutton sandwiches, and stand all day in
the rain, all for the sake of making a day of it.
The Quay abounded with these little coteries,
rain-sodden and wailful, come to the bottom of the
cold tea, an hour to wait before the soldiers would
pass where none of the Brownes could see them,
the baby crouping, the children crying, the mother
tired and a bit uneasy about Bill’s tea which she
hadn’t prepared, but all understanding that these
things had to be when it was a day out.
. The wharf agents sent out four hundred invita-
tions for a lunch on their wharf. I hear it ran to
a guinea a head, but his Ex. presided, and all the
leading lunch-eaters came along, and the air of the
lunch shed was heavy with champagne and
loyalty, so the wharf-agents got some return for
their guinea anyway, to say nothing of the ad.
As soon after lunch as possible (considering that
things were already a little sodden) the rain began
to fall. It came down in torrents, almost without
ceasing, for hours. Women tried to scramble up
on board the Kent, but a water-policeman coura-
geously drove them back. Everything was as
badly managed as possible. No shelter, a great
fuss over tickets, and everyone regarded as an
interloper. It was quite a study in good inten-
tions (that always lead their owners astray) to see
the frocks and hats women were wearing. Nearly
everyone had dressed for a fine day, with an eye
to the fact that all the soldiers were men, which
also included the thought that there would be
crowds of women about. White frocks and leg-
horns punctuated brown hollands and flower-
toques, and blue and mauve parasols rained blue
and mauve streaks down their wearers’cheeks in
the weirdest way. Item : If you must take a
colored parasol out on a wet day, let me implore
you to let it be pink. Pink splashes can even
be made use of with a handkerchief artfully em-
ployed, but blue drops—and, above all, purple
drops— are death to any complexion, from milk-
white blonde to burnt sienna. I noticed among
the wives of the departing, Mrs. Roth and her
three children saying good-bye to that popular
medico, Dr. Roth. Local artists sent the doctor a
special farewell in the shape of cigars and sketches.
“ Banjo ’’Paterson, going as war-correspondent
to S.M. Herald, looked a little glum about it
I thought, but it might have been the natural ex-
pression of his face, which is awfully lined and
worn-looking in repose. Then there was lovely
Horace Dangar, strewing the way behind him
with broken hearts.
His Ex., in a thin, grey coat and bell-topper,
boarded the Kent about 3 o’clock, and stood in the
rain for half an hour. Women admired the reck-
lessness of Captain Wilfred Smith, who came
without an umbrella and let his top hat go to pulp
in the rain. After half-an-hour these two thin
young men found their smiles drawing near a
close, and departed, as there didn’t seem to be
anything for them to do or say. I thought you
might like to know that the crowd cheered wildly
as His Ex. drove away down the avenues of
people. It hadn’t leaked out then that H. E. had
fired off a little more poetry at the lunch, but His
Ex’s, last quote was on the safe side of everything,
though it looks dangerous when you glance at the
front line only :
“ Slips of the stock there is no up-rooting,
Talking the tongue no tyrants gag.
Like young lions to help the old one,
Swift of footfall and firm of poise.
By Jove that foeman will be a bold one
Who'll face us banded, my boys, my boys.”
(Loud cheers, and everybody beginning to breathe
again.)
“ The Kent ” itself was in a wild state of con-
fusion. Everything half-finished, the horse com-
partments stdl being builded, carrots and wet
straw lying all over the place. When the troops
went on board the crowd on the wharf raised a few
cheers, but enthusiasm was not the leading feature
of the send-off. On the whole, the troops had a
cheerful air, which must not be altogether at-
tributed to their stout hearts, I fear, as whisky
figured largely in the proceedings, and many men
lost their sea-legs before they got them as ir, were.
Towards the last, before the boat moved off, there
was a good deal of weeping among the younger
troops. Onopretty boy named Reggie was hugged
openly by 15 girls in succession, and mingled 15
lots of tears, but the knowledge that the boat was
going to anchor down the harbour till Monday
morning rather took the edge off the farewells.
And some hearts failed them at the last.
The news of General Symons’ death is said
to be responsible for tho scare ; but, any-
way, quite a number volunteered and ac-
cepted “sojers” wero found missing at the
final moment. At the same time our Colonel
Smith is known to be eating his head off because
he can’t get out to the war. He had the hard
luck to got his Colonial Commission just in time
to prevent him going with Kitchener to Khar-
toum, which he has openly lamented ever since ;
and now the chance of slaughter has been snatched
out of his hands a second time. They wouldn’t
let him go from Sydney.
Probably the war scare has had something to do
with Maud MaeCarthy’s concert tour, which
hasn’t been the wild Hibernian or Horsetralian
boom anticipated. Her audiences have been
moderately large only. Wednesday's matinee
drew the best house, composed of women in rose-
pink or turquoise-blue hats. Maud doesn’t fiddle
away the heart and soul and body and legs of her
houses, leaving palpitating masses of millinery in
the chairs ; her playing is not the sort to rouse
uneasy demons, and paint dazzling red lines
across the eyeballs ; but it induces you to shut
your eyes, and listen quietly to interpretations
that satisfy the mind and keep tho emotions
gently gratified. And her freshness is a charm
which cannot be discounted.
Also, Maud Macarthy has been robbed of her
birthright of talent by the wild, red-headed
Hibernian advertising that lias gone on outside
her concert management. A pamphlet was
scattered through the R.C. churches, printed in
green letters, and headed, “The Divine Maud
Macarthy.” One gemtny passago ran : “If in
olden times, when Ireland was famed for its
Musical Culture, Erin’s harp shed the soul of
Music thro’ Tara’s Halls, that soul has come down
through generations to descend upon this little
girl-genius whose genius sheds that soul of musio
in the Town Hall here. Let it not be said here-
after that the Irish people here were insensible to
heavenly strains such as produced by this sublime
artist.” That alone was enough to empty the
house of musical Australians.
Another sufferer from the War was “Dreyfus” at
the Criterion last week. r lhe war scare put him
out of time. A month ago what a sensation that
play might have made ; but a month, and what a
difference! That great chameleonic beast, the
Public, had turned away from the Dreyfus case,
and the play would only crawl for one week. 11 was
said to be taken off out of respect for the French
Consul’s corns, which must be enormous growths
as there was always plenty of room for them to take
their ease in the d.e. Lilian Wheeler as Madame
Dreyfus had the irritating qualities of a picture
without any perspective. To play a woman who
is alive and ordinary to look at, without mimicry
or caricature, is like throwing uncooked vegetables
into the teeth of the audience. Luckily, Miss
Lilian Wheeler always dresses well, and in a lovely
Frenchy-looking black cape with steel pailettes
studding the surface, and a little red and yellow
toque on her head, she carried out admirably
Stead’s portrait of Lucie Dreyfus : “ A lady, tall
and majestic in stature, with large expressive eyes
and luxuriant hair.”
But melo-dramatising the things of the day is a
dangerous experiment, generally resulting in bur-
lesque. For instance, one scene shewed Dreyfus
on tho “lie du Diable,” going through horrible
tortures. Enter the brutal minion with some-
thing in a bottle, “This’ll do for him,” says
he, “ I’ll put it in his bed, and when it stings he'll
rush out, and the guards will think he’s attempt-
ing flight and will shoot him on the doorstep.”
He goes over to Dreyfus’ bed, turns back the
blankets, and tucks away carefully a scorpion. This
is too much for the house, whioh goes off into fits
of laughter.
If all you hear is only half untrue Society
didn’t get much change out of a late venture,
when six Society women tried to stop a town man
from maurying the girl of his choice. They called
on him in a body, clad in their sweetest smiles
and best frocks, implored him to think what
an awful thing lie was doing in marrying a
girl none of them knew, don’t you know, and
insinuated pitilessly that their visiting cards could
never, never by any chance find their way to
her card tray. Result—what might have been
expected. Wedding duly came off. Of course
you can’t expect Society to know all about any-
thing so poor and naked and common and con-
trariwise as human nature. Otherwise the inter-
fering parrots would have urged on tho marriage
all they knew by way of stopping it.
Which reminds mo that a Sydney girl—young,
fascinating—went out into the garden with a Ger-
man officer, who inquired tenderly as they reached
the lawn, “Mees, are you married or single? ”
“ Single, ” she said. He immediately turned round
and led her back towards the ball-room.
Time to turn round and say “Do” to those
about to marry when a round-eyed German
officer, quite underdone and harmless, won’t flirt
unless his partner is married. By the way, the
man who made that London Punch joke, “Don’t,”
got £~) for it, and is still bving in Melbourne. And
his name is Stiffe, if anybody wants any excuse for
the dearth of proposals to Melbourne society girls
lately.
A wedding came off in Sydney last week that
was rewarded with two thousand pounds worth of
silver presents from one jeweller’s alone. Which
suggests the highly moral reflection that tho Jin-
de-sdicle marriage is an awfully losing game for
those who are out of it.
The latest engagement is very young and very
theatrical. Carrie Moore and Sydney Bracy, if
you please.
Paling and Co. send me a rather belated waltz,
“1 he Marguerite,” as simple as a daisy verily,
anti rather sweet. From the same co. conies
“ I ho Wheel Waltz,” by Lydia Larmer, dedicated
to the Cyclists’ Union, a well-written waltz and
spirited enough, to stir a biker to lap in double
time. Paling and Co. send also “Sons of the
Empire,” a good, loud, patriotic song which shouts
for “ Defence, not Defiance,” and puts to tuneful
music every sentiment for the crushing of Britain’s
foes.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Victorian Contingent had probably gone
through all the hardships of its campaign when it
reached the Medic on Saturday, and hastened to
rest its poor feet. ‘Our Boys’ had had a tough
day, and had suffered many trials and tribulations,
and the greatest of these were ‘ Old Tom ’ and
new boots. ‘Old Tom ’is the irreverent appella-
tion bestowed upon His Excellency by ‘the mili-
tary.’ After mooching about for hours in a parti-
cularly atrocious brand of Govt, boot that pinched
all the enthusiasm out of the troops, the unfor-
tunates were stood on end in a grilling sun in the
barrack yard and talked at till kingdom-come by
* Me Bud,’ whose speech was like the murmur of
innumerable bees. Commandant Hoiled-Smiill’s
short, sharp ten words following sounded very
like a stinging reproach to His Ex., but his lord-
ship ‘was not taking any,’ and for the rest of the
day radiated self-complacence like a little pink
sun.
“They worked the show well up to time, how-
ever, and the Medio moved olf from the pier to
the tick, as per advt. The great boat seemed very
many sizes too large for the job, and when the
two contingents—Vic. and Tas. —ran aboard, they
were almost immediately lost in the immensity of
the terrific steamer. The lot might easily havo
been stowed in her funnel. The engagement of
the Medic was a mistake from a stage-manager’s
point of view ; that thin streak of drab along her
bulwarks, and the dots of red scattered far and
wide on her acres of deck, provided a ruinous
anti climax as the boat put off—the whole silly
business was reduced suddenly to its proper pro-
portions, and nobody on the pier had spirit enough
left to wring out the feeblest cheer. The sailors
on the flagship at some distance cheered to order,
but not one solitary spontaneous whoop signalised
the departure of the saviours of an empire.
“I witnessed only one touch of true feeling
throughout the day, and that was supplied by a
dusty, grey-haired, shabby woman leaning against
a ring-post on the pier, apart from the push, weep-
ing desolately. Other women wept, but they were
nicely dressed, and wept beamingly and with due
consideration for the spectators. That dreary,
sunburnt, weary woman by the post provided a
genuine note, all the rest seemed garish, fussy,
stertorous, red-faced, and somewhat drinky
pretence.
“Like most melodramas, the departure of the
contingent relied upon its comic Irishman for
humorous relief, the part being taken by Dr. Tay
Pay Mclnerney, warden of the University senate.
Dr. Mac’s younger brother (Tim, bedad) was a
lieutenant of infantry and while he headed the
contingent, the fond doctor marched alongside
with expanded chest during the whole route of
the procession. In his right hand he held his
brolly at the ‘carry’ and in turning corners he
marked time with the rest of the men. His black
frock coat and belltopper caused most of the
spectators to regard him as the official undertaker
and the obvious fact that he was the proudest man
in the procession was understood to be due to
business prospects. At the Treasury, a battered
vagrant who had somehow broken through the
cordon of police, didn’t see why there shouldn’t be
two civilians in the show and chipped in behind
the Mclnerney brothers until a dutiful policeman
threw him out.
“ A fig for the romance of war! An over-
womaned world is poor soil for sentiment. These
soldier-massacres entomb men and romance ‘in
one red burial blent.’ Trained nurses, univer-
sally respected nowadays as champion husband-
snatchers, promptly recognised the danger of this
military exodus and volunteered to go marching
with Johnnie—a preferable role to that of the
girls Johnnieleavesbehind them. Talking of attrac-
tive nurses, one of our metropolitan hospitals
habitually sees its junior surgeon woo and win a
member of the nursing-staff, which entails eva-
cuating his position in favor of an unmarried suc-
cessor. One of these victims is now hastening
back from his American home to the side of his
fiancee—an Australian ministering angel. •It
would seem that there are more uncongenial
spheres for women workers than hospital wards,
judging by the fact that a beautiful ex-nurse tired
of her new commercial venture after a month’s
trial.
“ Perhaps it was the absence of Lady Brassey
that caused the Mayoral hop to go joltingly. Lord
Brassey explained that her ladyship, sickened
with a hum—haw—cold, and Lord Richard in the
same set stereotyped phrase, assured the nunierou
inquiries of the Clan, “just a cold, don toner-
know.” Then society felt chilled, and not even
the strong fizz of the Mayor’s heavily-laden base-
ment banquet tables warmed them to any degree.
So they “got” early. The hall was completely
cleared of ail notables at half-past eleven, but the
bob-tail crush hopped till Gorsave threatened ex-
tinction.
“ Social item from a Melbourne comic paper
‘ Lord Brassey and the members of his suite wore
button-holes of lily-of-tho-valley to Caulfield
races ’ —which, translated, means that a certain
shop or shops sent button-holes to the Vice-Regal
chappies, who graciously wore them ‘on the
ncvah.’
“ There’s an epidemic of influenza, and a deso-
late dearth of dressmakers’ hands. What this
means will be understood when it is stated that
one establishment had 500 dresses on order for the
Cup.
“The sudden death of white-vested Zox,
M.L. A., didn’t come as a great surprise to the
Melbourne people who had noted his sick and
shrunken appearance some few months ago. Zox
seemed to pull round again, but when a man of
his habit has once “ broken down ” —in the ordi-
nary bon-vivanl way of speaking—he dies easily.
Rubicund Ephraim succumbed to pneumonia
through not having gone to bed with the influ-
enza. His bachelorhood found him out. Had he
been married his wife would have rushed him
into taking care of himself, and the historic white
waistcoat of.a cheery old'identity would not now
be vacant. Mr. Zox was never married, but 18
years ago—good Jew that he was—he cast a
roving eye on a handsome ‘shikser’ girl—daughter
of a British army bandmaster who served in
Maoriland —and refrained from making her his
wife only because he feared his heart-trouble
might leave her a widow at an early date. But
the Juno-like Nellie MTlrath died many years
before the kindly Hebrew who loved her.
“There was an odor of calico-dressing in the
Princess Theatre on Monday night, when a couple
of thousand counter-jumpers crowded in to create
the funniest function of the wholeyear. A starved
lion in his native lair is a mild and unassuming
animal to the average sock-seller when he gets
loyalty had, and the patriotic softgoods youths
amused themselves by bawling the following pro-
gramme, which is well worth giving in full':—
* Sons of the Sea,’ ‘ Soldiers of the Queen,’ ‘ The British
Lion,’ ‘The Battle Eve,’ ‘The Death of Nelson,’ ‘ Com-
rades,’‘ Hoys of the Old Brigade,’ ‘ Let Me like a Soldier
Jail,’ ‘T'lmny Atkins,’ ‘ Remember AJajuba,’ ‘Rule
Britannia,' ‘ God Save the Queen.’
In the interval the brightest joke of the whole
evening took place : The curtain rose and Robert
Reid, M.L.C., and a thin, anaemic-looking young
man in a badly-fitting JChakee suit were “dis-
covered ” in the middle of the Palace of Henri of
Navarre. Strangers in the house thought it was
an “introduced” music-hall item, and they pre-
pared to laugh at Reid’s rendering of “Casey’s Cat”
or something; butitturned outthatthe M.L.C. was
in dead earnest. It was his function to agonisingly
high-falute. about “ the snows of Canada and the
heated Hi ma!ayas,” and to present a silver wliisky-
flask to the anaemic young man.
. To the door of St. Peter’s (Melb.) a prayer-box
is affixed, and into this you may drop a slip of
paper on which you have scribbled your special
need, and then ‘ the prayers of the congregation
are desired and your troubles are carried by
deputation before Heaven. It saves time, of
course, and gives weight to the fact that your soul
is in need of repair or that your body is in poor
trim. For several weeks prayers were desired for
the success of a certain tea-room !
Once upon a time the male sinner always
traced his ruin to “Wine and Women!” The
latter has lost her nip, or man has found an anti-
dote thereto, for the present-day Ulysses is
calmly callous to the siren, whatever form she
takes. It’s nothing new, though hard on the well-
brought-up spinster, that eligibles no longer fre-
quent churches or ball-rooms. But even the stage
h.ouri must content herself with feminine adora-
tion, these times.
\ ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
&.GKNTS Wanted. General Manager.
Q
U 1 .
_ H* 111
z ww
<Ldujtt
OCfIhLL
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thoroughly matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity ?*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
The Elixir of Life. Have you tried it ?
Purely natural. Take it with your meals. Zetz
Spa Water.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made iu London.*
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia:
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/G ; Drab, 25/0 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MQU.NTCASTLE 8s SONS, Sole Manufactuiers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
David Syme’s double in Melbourne is a
doorkeeper at the Princess’.
Ex-Premier Mcll wraith, of Queensland,
was seen lately in Hyde Park, London, hopelessly
paralysed.
Four N.S.W. District Court Judges now
receive pensions of .£7so—Forbes, McFarland,
Dowling, Wilkinson.
A NIGHT MEMORY OF THE LATE E. L. ZOX.
The widow of the first Bishop Selwyn, of
Maoriland, celebrated her 90th birthday, at Lich-
field, Eng., last month, four generations of
Selwyns being present.
Of the seven Australasian Premiers one
only—Lewis, of Tasmania —received a University
education. Several University men are found in
the rank and file in all the provinces.
“Bill” Lane leaves Cosm6 (the revised
New Australia) at last. He is “ still in sym-
pathy,” etc. ; but prefers to take his chances in
Maoriland —as a sort of half-way house, no doubt.
One Legislative Councillor wanted to go
to the Transvaal under arms, or said he did—A.
R. Addison, of S.A., who volunteered as a sub-
altern without pay. A good shot, but aged 57, so
they passed him bv.
Dr. Andrew Oar ran, member of N.S.W.
Public Works Committee, ex-Vice-President
N.S.W. Leg. Council, ex-editor S.M. Herald,
will reach his 74th year, Nov. 19. He arrived in
A ustralia 48 years ago.
Chairman of Metrop. Board of Works
Fitzgibbon declares it to be “ a gross slander upon,
and a disgrace and wrong to the colony ” that the
necessity for an enquiry into the workings of his
Board “should have been suggested.” Every
idea of Fitz’s. is an iipmaoulate conception.
Among the newly-appointed N.S. Wales
Js.P. is Daniel Mayne, Esq., of Windsor—who,
by the way, is one of triplets. Dan is a native of
that town, but for many years resided in Bathurst,
where he' owned the intensely decorous Sentinel
newspaper. Jaypees are indeed a mixed lot.
The Lyne Government is likely to be
known as the “ Testimonial Ministry,” on account
of the many letters one Minister appears to have
written testifying to the large number of fatal
complaints of which he was cured at different
times by the use of somebody’s Aggravated Pills
and Ointment.
“Redspinner” Senior, the best-known
angling writer in England, has just retired from
the command of the staff of London Daily News.
He was the first chief of Queensland Hansard,
and writer remembers him in London as a quiet,
iron-grey, kindly little gentleman, very much
inclined to talk fish.
Ernest Giles, on his last exploring expedi-
tion into Centralia, 15 years or so ago, took with
his party a youngster, of whose pluck (they had a
brush or two with the natives) he afterwards
made much. The boy turned up the other day as
an applicant for more shooting—he is Major
V. H. Edwards, of the S.A. Artillery, now. But
his rank, for one thing, barred him.
“G. 8.”: In Bulletin par. dealing with
Tasmanian Premiers, it is stated the late Richard
Dry was not a native of the island. Error, His
father, exiled for ’9B business in Ireland, married
in Launceston, where Dry was born.
Bishop Stone Wigg, of Papua, walks in
the footsteps of “ martyred ” Bishop Patteson, of
Melanesia. He does a little carpentering from
time to time, helps the natives to lay out their
houses, and now and again washes and dresses the
little niggers. This last used to be Patteson s
regular morning’s work.
N.S.W. now sports two ex-
Premiers —Dibbs and Reid. Victoria
hobbles along under five—Berry, Gil-
lies, Munro, O’Loghlen, and Sbiels.
The reopening of the discus-
sion about Hargraves and McGregor,
and other such persons, credited as the
first discoverers of gold in Australia,
should, if the subject is ever to have
an end, suggest a division of titles.
Then there will be a lot of “firsts,”
and the descendants of all will pro-
bably feel satisfied and let the matter
drop. Eor instance, Hargreaves was
the first discoverer of gold in such
quantities and conditions, that N.S. W.
Govt, circulated goldfield regulations,
and proceeded to treat gold-production
as a national industry. No doubt
Mr. M. Cohen is correct in saying he
handled McGregor’s gold in 1847. But
Tolmein was before that with a nugget
(in 1844). Rev. W. B. Clarke handed
over to the Legislature gold found by
him in ’4l. Count Strzlecki found
some in ’39, and convicts found some
at Bathurst in 1813. All these and
others may be made “ firsts ” in such
a controversy, but to keep the contro-
versialists from merely beating air,
each should further define his meaning
of the word “ first.”
At the time of Kipling’s visit to
Australia, he was banqueted by a pro-
minent Melb. club and the late Pre-
mier Patterson, who was then in office,
was invited to preside. On the morn-
ing of the banquet Patterson button-
holed a couple of Age men, and asked,
“ Who is this Kipling ? ” He was told
that the visitor was a poet of Imper-
ialistic tendencies, and, in the re-
porters’ room of the Age, a brief
discourse on his work together with
a few eloquent notes were given to
the Premier. Eight hours later he
turned up at the gorge and delivered
an excellent address, embodying most
of Kipling’s notable points and “ prov-
ing himself,” as one of the reporters
aforesaid stated in his copy, “ a keen
and thorough student of the writer’s
works.” Patterson really carried the
assemblage with him, such a brilliant
bluffer was he, and though he had
really never opened a single book of
Kipling’s his speech, from the opening
quote “ What should they know of
England who only England know?”
down to the final pathetic reference to
“ The Light that Failed ” showed
that he knew his Kipling from A
to Z.
The passing out of Ephraim Zox, M.L.A.,
didn’t eclipse the gaiety of Melbourne, for in the
first place Melbourne was never very gay, and in
the next place punster Zox was not at all an up-
to-date humorist. But it may be said that the
city where Zox lived for 47 years (he was a boy of
13 when he landed there) felt a twinge of regret
on learning that its old acquaintance would never
again straddle up and down Collins-street with
his hands in his trousers’ pockets. Everybody
knew Zox as a much paragraphed and caricatured
identity. Many people knew him as a good
Samaritan in private life, not less than a useful
public character. The name of Zox, the Jew,
came to be respected in connection with all
political work which smacks of what is called
“ Christian Charity,” and though he was but an
easy-going philanthropist who took much liquid
refreshment on the journey he contrived to cover
a good deal of ground. A cockney by birth, Zox
was, among other things, president of the Mel-
bourne branch of the Anglo- Jewish Association,
hence the fervent jingoism of his last speech in the
Vic. Assembly. Naturally enough he barracked
for the Hempire that has been least inhospitable
to the Chosen.
“G.B. I was fellow-passenger once
with Sir John O’Shanassy on a coasting boat. “Big
John ” was then Victorian Premier, and I was
not a little astonished when, having picked
the bones of a fowl in aboriginal fashion, he
threw them on the cabin floor, to the
ineffable disgust of the prim and dandified
cockney steward, who presently picked up
the bones and calmly placed them on a
serviette beside the knight’s plate. The old
warrior looked at the bones, then at the
man—“ Don’t bother yourself, me good mahn,”
said he, “ Oi’ve done with them.”
How old is Wilson Barrett ? The London
Dramatic Peerage recently set the year of his
birth down as 1838, whereat the old mummer
protested that he is ten years behind 61. The
Bulletin will only swear that Barrett has a very
elderly voice, whatever the age of his head and
legs may be.
There are now in Australia several persons
practising both law and medicine at the same
time : among them Dr. Todd, the Sydney deputy-
coroner. The combined enterprise, however, is
not new. Forty years ago Dr. Belinfante dealt
in law and medicine at Mudgee and thereabouts.
He practised both assiduously, going from
the courts to his patients, and sometimes
when he was wanted critically as a phy- ,
sician obtaining a stay of court pro-
ceedings till his return. He tried
to spread into a third sphere (Parlia-
ment), but David Buchanan knocked
him out. Dr. Belinfante fell into the
river at Cudgegong and was drowned.
The champion name for undeciphera-
bility is Cummings. Everybody who is blessed
(or cursed) with this monniker seems to run all his
letters together into a meaningless succession of
mere curves.
On Oct. 21 there died at Richmond,
N.S.W., Mrs. Mary Ann Search, aged 99 years
and nine months. She was a Hawkesbury native
and believed to be the oldest. She was the
mother of 14 children, three only of whom survive
her. Her eldest son, now in his 80th year, is a
resident of Mitta Mitta, Victoria.
Willoughby Andrew having completed
nine years in N.S.W. gaols, chiefly Darlinghurst,
for shooting Bartlett, the King-street draper, is
now pressing might and main for release. The
change of N.S.W. Govt, appears to have inspired
him with fresh hope, and acquaintances and others
are assailed with importunate prayers.
The eldest son of Slangdon Bonython, of
S.A. Advertiser, volunteered for anti-Boer ser-
vice—mainly for the encouragement of the others,
it seems; for the fearfully patriotic newspaper
knight was grieved at the slowness with which
the local slashers come forward. Young Bony-
thon is a lieut. in the Machine Gun Corps.
To a papal official newspaper’s remark—re
the scaly Dreyfus business—that Catholics were
right “ not to espouse the cause of a Semite
accused of treason,” London Times makes the
crushing reply that the Catholic Church claims as
its founder “a Semite accused of treason.” A
more perfect “counter ” was never delivered.
A Sydney D.T. London correspondent
says that had not Sir Michael Hicks-Beach
“ crabbed ” the British Government’s proposed
guarantee of the .£15,000,000 Chinese loan which
Pritchard Morgan had fixed up so nicely (the
Chancellor of the Exchequer was the only dis-
senting member of the Cabinet) Pritchard Morgan
aforesaid would have pocketed .£980,000 commis-
sion.
ANOTHER HERO.
HERO: “ Yes, I volunteered for the Transvaal, but
the doctor said I couldn't go because my heart
was weak.”
HER : “ Your heart! My goodness, I always
thought you suffered with your head! ”
“ A.A.A.” : A
certain N. S. W.
Judge (who isn’t a
Gentile) was on the
THE WAR FEVER IN
SYDNEY:
“ Rule Britannia! ”
bench at a re-
cent sitting when a
witness (a horse -
dealer) admitted
that he had bought
some (stolen) horses
on a Sunday, where-
upon his Honor
“felt it his duty
to severely repri-
mand the witness
for such a gross
breach of the Sab-
bath.” “Well!”
replied the horse-
buyer, “ people say
I’m a ‘regular
Jew,’ and so I al-
ways keep up my
Sunday on Satur-
day.” Soilence in
the court 1
Two weeks back Melbourne Age scoffed at
the Boers as cowards. Now, the Leader man in-
forms the largest circulation in Australia that
they are undoubtedly brave men. By-and-bye,
when these ignorant savages chance somehow,
just by way of a change, to win a battle, they
will be discovered to possess considerable military
genius. David is the king dodger, nowadays.
Time was when any statement once appeared in his
paper, it was held to, though proved to be a lie as
big as Papua. But now —the chameleon isn’t
in it.
The late E. L. Zox, speaking one time at
Melb. Federal Palace Hotel (nee Coffee Palace),
on the question of maintaining temperance prin-
ciples (at a loss) in the management of such
places, remarked that a Gentile director who
objects to supplying his customers with whatever
drink they wane is as ridiculously uncommercial
as a Jew director who might want to debar them
from pork. The harmless old joker never missed
a chance to give a Hebrew turn to his argument.
He played the part of a liberal-minded Jew, and
did it very well.
Lord Hopetoun, travelling in Vic-
toria, was once entertained by a blunt old
farmer, and expressed himself in the usual
after-dinner fashion as hopeful of some time
again enjoying his host’s hospitality. This
brought the farmer to his feet in an in-
stant. “Oh, no, you don’t, my lord!” he
exclaimed. “Once is good enough for me.
I’ve done my best for you, and done it
willin’; but I’d just like you to remember
as there’s plenty of others in this ’ere town
better able to stand the blanky expense
than me. You just give one of them a turn
nex’ time.”
“Dick” : Have often heard my
grandfather (still alive) relate his first ex-
perience on reaching Melbourne, early in
1836, with Gov. Bourke, in H.M.S. Rattle-
snake. A party from the vessel was rowed
up the Yarra Yarra. The first place they
struck was Batman’s shanty, where the pre-
sent railway offices stand. My grand-dad
called for drinks—five brandies —and handed
Batman a Sydney pound-note. He replied:
“Five glasses brandy and two shillings ex-
change. That’s right ; thank you, gentl’inen.”
John D. Cave, who died the other day,
close upon 80 years old, was about the best-known
and physically, perhaps, the biggest figure in S.
Aus. municipal politics outside the city. For 30
years he was at the Burra, for some time as the
colleague of Treasurer Holder, who got all his
financial experience as the local town clerk. Also,
he was an expert flower-raiser—a chrysanthemum
and some other things are named J. D. Cave.
Died, the other day, Philip Sellheim,
Under Sec. for Q. Mines. Sellheim was an Aus-
trian born, of aristocratic lineage. Arrived in
1855 and took his first lessons in colonial experi-
ence on the Dawson. Went exploring in ’59 in
the North (Kennedy), and was appointed warden
of the Palmer in ’74. Served successively in this
capacity at Ch. Towers and Gytnpie, and, finally,
in ’92 received position of Under Sec. for Mines.
An able man, thoroughly versed in mining
matters, and widely known to diggers as a decent
fellow.


psosro
GRAPHS & GRAPHOPEEOIffES.
Edison Sell Consolidated Phonograph Co. Ltd., 39 Charing Cross Road, London.
Sole Proprietors of Phonographs, Graphophones, and Accessories in Australasia and New Zealand.
TNJUNCTION obtained sth September, 1899, in the Supreme Court of New South Wales, “That the defendant be
-1- restrained from selling 1 , or letting on hire, or offering: or advertising 1 or exposing for sale or hire, any machines
or phonograms constructed in infringement of the plaintiffs’rights under their letters patent. Defendant to pay
15 Der cent, on all stocks on hand ard to arrive, and the costs of the action.”
Solicitors for Company: MALLESON, ENGLAND, and STEWART, Melbourne.
Attorney and General Representative : A. J. CHAMBERLIN, 114 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
Hotel
flnctvnlir. —,
Kates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
TOURISTS
from all parts of the
world are unanimous in saying
that “ The Australia ” Hotel
is the best thing in Austra-
lasia.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
.The Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOR, and See that You GET,
Franz J osef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Morgan and Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence - street, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Bulletin artists (a correspondent sug-
gests) should be invited to give us a new edition
of the bush parson. Writer has been taking stock
of the good shepherds of the long-way-back ; and
not one ancient person with an ancient moke and
a monkey-shave is so far down on the list. Three-
fourths of them go about on bikes (most of the
machines are named “The Truth ” or “ The Gos-
pel Bearer,” or something), and four-fifths of
them are comparative juveniles either too
young or too illiterate for regular churches. The
allowances made to these by the bodies that send
them out would shame the devil. One, whom
writer got a pannikin of tea from lately, had
run out of coin and shoe-leather and bike-tyres
simultaneously, and had taken a job with a drov-
ing party as cook—the proper cook had, it seemed,
a touch of snakes. He reckoned he would be able
to start in the vineyard again inside a month, and
looked forward hopefully to plucking the cook
from the burning a s a start.
* • • *
“ Snell ” : An identity revives tor me
an early-day Vio. tragedy. An old swagman,
one of the first of his class in Gippsland, had been
engaged for a few weeks on a cattle run, and after
a week there were strange rumors amongst the
men about a bag of gold that the stranger carried
with him. The old man was exclusive,
but he was seen at night in his hut count-
ing a heap of sovereigns. Then came a morning
when a convict named Elliot was missing from
the station, and the old man was found lying in
the hut with his throat cut from ear to ear. On
the table and about the floor were scattered scores
of “sovereigns”—clumsy brass tokens with a
brandy advt. stamped on one side, and the King’s
head on the other.
• * * *
Cockle brevity of speech : Ist Cockle
(leading miserable-looking horse): “Mawnin’l”
2nd C. : “Mawnin’l” Ist C. : “What did ye
give that ’orse o’ yours when he ’ad the gripes ? ”
2nd C.: “ Kerosene ! ” Ist C. : “ Mawnin’ I ”
(strolls off). Two days later, Ist Cookie comes
again. (No horse this time). Ist C. : “Mawnin’ !”
2nd C. : “ Mawnin’! ” Ist C. : “My ’orse died
when I gave him th’ kerosene.” 2nd C. : “So did
mine ! ” Ist C.: “Mawnin’ 1 ” 2nd 0. : “ Maw-
nin’l”
Some figures from a small Victorian farm.
Area, 109 acres (crop 22 ; grass 87) ; distance from
Melbourne, 75 miles; cattle and horses carried,
54 ; also a small herd of pigs and some sheep.
Milk alone in ’9B realised, <£536 7s. 7d. ; each cow
(40) averaging .£l3 Bs. The sale of fat cows,
calves, bacon, eggs, fowls, and fruit gave another
£ll7, making a total of £653 for the year.
Through careful breeding and culling, the yield
and quality of the milk is steadily improving; so
the owner is sanguine he will do much better this
year. Pays his own girls and boys, who help
work the place, the ruling rate of wages (a sensible
idea that is spreading amongst Vic. dairy-farm-
ers). Originally a ganger on the line ; he has now
got a much better “ collar ” and deserves it.
* • * *
The amendment by Brown, M.L.A., for
Croydon, on the Aborigines Protection Amending
Bill lately carried in committee of Q. Assembly,
prohibiting the employment of natives by colored
aliens, will legislate against one of the most crying
evils in the North. In many parts the Chinese
literally own whole tribes of aboriginals, body and
soul (what there is left of them), the secret of their
influence being, of course, opium. The native will
do anything for the drug, and the women are as
crafty after the inferior charcoal as the men, with
extremely edifying results. One of these is a crop
of virulent diseases among white Northern
nomads that would appal the public, if statistics
were available. No wonder the patent-pill man
flourishes. But what will the next generation be
like?
• * * •
A Two wharves Tragedy. A canecutter
and a timbergetter quarrelled about religion. The
latter unyoked his set of false teeth and gave them
to a friend to hold. Then he jumped into the fray,
which was peculiar and protracted. In the ex-
citement of following the fight, which covered a
few acres, the teeth were lost. After the fight,
victor and vanquished looked for the former’s
teeth. The plate was found at last, badly crumpled
up, and minus several molars. “ Wat can I do
with these?” “ Well, I dinno. Ya might hang
’em on ya watch-chine.” “ I mite hit ya unda th’
ear.” “Ya might not.” “Well—thereyeare!”
And at it the pair went again. This time the
canecutter flaked a win, and later on the com-
batants retired to the Canecutters’ Curse Hotel.
A hawker gave “five bob’’for the plate, and a
beer-chewing contest wound up the situation.
A “steep”
yarn. “G.P.S.”:
Re the branding of
aboriginals in Wes-
tralia. On a N.W.
station I have seen
several niggers
branded with the
initial letter of their
master’s name. The
branding is usually
on the chest (sex
not considered), but
in one case I saw a
mob of blacks bear-
ing a big “ V ” both
on breast and back.
They were “o w ned ”
by an ex-minister
of the Crown.
* * *
Amongst a well-
known Coolgardie
official’s numerous
crammers he relates
that once, when he
was walking on the
Lighthouse Cliff at
Fremantle, his dog
gave chase to a goat
which made off
down the Cliff with
the dog after him.
Blank scrambled
down himself as best
way could, and
found the goat had
taken to the water
and was making for
Rottnest Island,
the dog swimming
gallantly in chase.
Not wishing to lose
his dog, Blank
promptly stripped
and followed, but
had to cover three
miles or so before he
overtook the pair,
which he did just as
the pup had got its
teeth into the goat.
Blank seized them
both, swam back
with the pup under
one arm and the
goat under the
other, and the
moment he reached
shore again was ar-
rested for bathing
in a publio place—
a charge that cost
him £5.
A TOUGH PROBLEM.
Here are Dr. Bolus from -, a remarkably healthy place, and Dr.
Pellew from , which is notoriously insalubrious. Now which
is Dr. Bolus, and which is Dr. Pellew?
“ Yangan Be matters missionary (“ Von
Kotze”and “Old Soldier”) I say broadly that
the system is wrong, (but so are the men—and
more so the women. Admitting bona tides in the
majority, what qualification has the average
missionary ? Merely a laudable desire to do good
combined with a knack of doing incalculable
harm. Also, let me ask, is N.S. Wales so superior
to Heaven that while we cheerfully subscribe to
pass the Chow into Paradise we charge him <£loo
a-head for admission to the province. As for the
girl-missionary, it might interest her to know that
Chinamen (amongst whom I was brought up)
i,rgue that no marriageable girl reniains un-
married without very good cause. A girl-mission-
ary who loses her life in China has her martyrdom
well advertised, but the missions keep a discreet
silence when something that should be even more
precious goes a-missing. John has only one name
for all unattached females —“ prostitute,” so the
girl-missionary’s moral influence may be gauged.
To sum up, hundreds of sincere men and women
in China are simply wasting their lives in stirring
up strife, thereby retarding civilization, making
the lives of lay residents harder, and producing a
crop of absolutely bogus “ converts.”
• * * *
Dear B. —Re alligator-eating (“F.P.,”
B. 21/10/’99), I have often tasted “ally” in
Borneo and found the flavor, as described, like
ling, but with a musky twang. Swore off alliga-
tor, as well as off Borneo wild pig, after I had
seen both eating dead Chinaman. By the way,
Bulletin writers often confound alligators with
crocodiles. The true alligator, outside America,
is only found as a small species, recently dis-
covered in the Yangtze River (China). I person-
ally remember the capture of the first specimen
near Shanghai in the ’Bo’s. It still puzzles scien-
tists how the alligators got “into than galley.”—
C.
* * * *
“A. J. Mac.” ; It is usual up this way
(Grafton, N.S.W.) for the bullock-puncher to give
his dray a fancy name of some kind, and I have
seen one labelled “ Oura Voir” (evidently intended
for “ Au Re voir ”).
* ♦ * *
“R.W.S.”: Cured a biting horse of the
practice by putting a dummy man into his stall.
This bogus person he attacked vigorously, and was
so ashamed at being “had” that he never after-
wards attempted to bite.
• • * *
“C.R.” on the tick question :
Queensland Minister Chataway says he is not aware that
ticks are being carried by sheep and horses, and is now
applying to the inspectors for information. If N.S.W.
Stock Department has any doubt on the question let a
man endowed with common-sense (no expert required) be
sent, say, only to Rockhampton, and then travel down to
Maryborough and examine the horses en route. I doubt
if he will find many free from ticks. I have not seen
many free. Writer sawa“ticky” horse to which the
owner (in order to take the animal to Sydney by boat)
gave a hard 3-mile gallop, after which, when presented
for examination, no ticks were visible, and the horse was
thus passed. As soon as a horse gets up a good sweat the
ticks either drop off or crawl on to the rider. They do
not thrive as well on horses as on cattle. At present the
N.S.W. authorities have the matter in their own hands,
arid any loose dealing now will be nothing short of
oriminal.
* * * *
There was trouble at a Gippsland bush-
wedding the other night. It began when the
bridegroom rushed from the centre of revelry and
smote a tall man standing out in the moonlight,
and it was busy for about 15min., during which
time the bridegroom and his enemy wore each
others’ clothes off, and worried each other in a
manner shocking to see. The wedding-party
gathered around to see fair-play, and they watched
the tornado in a kindly and impartial spirit. At
length the bridegroom arose up out of the small
duststorm in a dismantled condition, with his
clothes in strips and his features banked up and
inverted, and he shook a mighty fist over his
fallen foe, and gasped, “ That’ll teach you to sing
‘ Ain’t a-goin’ to Tell ’ at my blanky weddin’ 1 ”
* * * *
“ Bucan ” : Be recent talk about Boer
marksmanship. Near Mt. Jacob, recently, I saw
a youth drop consecutively 12 topknot pigeons
with a Winchester rifle, in every case cutting, or
nearly cutting, the head off. This would take
some beating.
* • • •
The cunning of foxes is exciting remark in
Victoria, and instances have been quoted in the
Leg. Council in support of a heavier scalping fee.
A very cunning animal was met with in the
vicinity of Hamilton. She used to steal fat
pullets from a local hen-roost, and distribute in-
criminating feathers about the hut of a neighbor-
ing Sin Fat. When the Chow was tried for
stealing the chickens he declared that the fox wa3
the real culprit, and that she scattered the
feathers about his hut because he had discovered
and destroyed her litter. Sin got four months
just the same, but it is noteworthy that there
were no feathers to be found anywhere about his
hut during the term of his imprisonment. Pro-
bably the revenge was complete.
• • • •
“H. J. Mac.” : Says “ A.S.R.” (B.
14/10/’99), “I once killed a female native cat
which had in her pouch nine young ones . . .
securely attached to teats.” The native cat
hasn’t got nine teats. There now 1
THE PRICE
O'WEAT
FOR THE BULLETIN.
The price o’ w’eat’s a-failin’ down, a-failin’ to the
devil /
A-fallin’ like a parachute that’s punctured at the
top !
That’s what’s the matter here about ;
The only thing we fear about.
There's something to look queer about
When the price o’ w'cat goes dop l
We try to make a do of it about the half-crown
level.
At two-an’-six a bushel you can mostly pay yer
way
For plowin', solvin’, startin’ it,
An’ reapin’ it, an’ cart in’ it j
But can yer put ycr ’eart in it
Wen the price is one-an’-tray ?
The autumn rains come splendid for a good an’
early seedin'; ,
The frosts is ’oldin’ over, an' it's near the end o
May —
And, nearer to the town a bit,
The green’s above the brown a bit,
An’ wantin’ rollin’ down a bit,
But it ain’t a-goin’ to pat 1
For the price o’ w’eat’s a-f'ailin’ down ; a-faUin',
failin’, failin’ /
But as for understandin’ WHY — I don’t make no
pretence /
Pve ’ad a goodish spell with it,
An’ seemed like doin’ well with it;
But now / Well, there I to L with it
When the price is fifteen-pence /
S.A.
NIL.


BEAUTIFUL
NECKS^^
Pearls, in 15cfc. Gold,
15/6 each.
Are enhanced in charm by the present simple yet extremely elegant and fashionable Pearl Ornament.
These are in the greatest possible demand in the fashionable English circle, led by H.R.H. Princess of Wales.
We have a lovely display of them from 15s. 6d. upwards to 60s. in Pearls. In Diamonds they range from
.4 to 20 Guineas.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS
Jewellers by Special Appointment to His Excellency Earl BEAUCHAMP, K.C.M.0.,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
“M‘Goosley,” from North Queensland: —
At last the “ very tired” inhabitants of the Gulf Towns
mo.) have taken up a big J-pen and through the press
have aired a grievance which only the people of the
Gulf would have stood so long. There was some trouble
over the mail-contract with the shipping co’s., and the
consequence was a strike on the part of said co’s. There
has been no direct communication with the Gulf from
Brisbane for the last six months. If you wanted to go to
Noruiantou, Croydon, or Burketown, you took China or
Jap. boat to Thursday Island. Then came the picnio.
The only craft plving down the Gulf from the Island was
the s.s. Adelaide. In comparison with the Ade-
laida a North Shore ferry-boat is something like
an ocean-liner. Conceive a little river tub with
no deck accommodation, and a little square-box of
a place termed a “ saloon.” Ye gods! if I could only
describe a passage (taking three days) down the Gulf, in
the saloon of the Adelaide 1 About the size of a decent
room, with shelves (bunks) all round, and a table in the
centre. The table pretty well takes up the floor-space,
and you can squeeze in between it and the bottom
“shelf." No screens or covers to get behind. I dressed
on the table. “Keep your singlet out of the butter!”
After meals (served on enamelware), I climbed back to
my shelf— nowhere else to go. Tucker I! 1 Weather
generally rough. Verily, he who took passage by the Ade-
laide deserved the Victoria Cross; and yet they stood it till
last week, when I see, by Cooribr, the A.U.S.N. Co.
etarted the trade again.
Wait a Bit. Dewey treated with scorn.
The idea that there was any better House for up-
to-date Hardware Novelties and Household Iron-
mongery than McLean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., of
Melbourne or Sydney. A safe investment. Ice
Safes, Meat Safes. A few fizzing moments.
Defevres Genuine Seltzogenes, 5-pint, 18s. 6d.
Something for nothing—Exhibition of practical
cooking, with the Primus Chief Cooking and
Steaming Apparatus, at our respective ware-
houses. Don’t forget the Front Firm— McLean
Bros, and Rigg, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne,
and George-street, Sydney.*
An exhibition in Acetylene Gas lighting
took place on Saturday last, at the warehouse of
Brandt Bros., Lamp Manufacturers, 236 Pitt-
street, Sydney, when some powerful Buggy,
Coach, and Table Lamps were shown. The firm
point out that they can alter any ordinary buggy
lamps so that either candle or acetylene gas can
be burned. A large display of their Hand Ice-
Making Machines, Ice Cream Freezers, and But-
ter Coolers were also shown ; also the Jupiter and
Primus Kerosene Gas Cooking Stoves.*
COLEMANE Artb SONS
VjUUUiTi/niTi; Mnu r vvi vw
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
THE ONLY PURE IN THE Y/GRLD.
MELBOURNE: 2G9 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers'
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Kuppers
Elberfeld Lager.
Interesting to shearers. According to
sttriciTY electrical shears are going to wipe
out the old article entirely. Electricity is em-
p'oyed to make the “cutter” red hot; you push
the cautery along the surface of the skin and the
red-hot knife rapidly mows down the wool, lho
operation is so quick that the heat injures neither
wool nor skin. A boy can, with practice, easily
do a dozen skins per hour. Look out, ye ringers !
Dear B ulletim . — Be various
recent snake-inquiries (1.) I lie small-
est Australian snake I know of is
Pseuddaps Kretfiti, common in the
Tweed district and on the south coast
of Queensland. Adult specimens are
often only 10 or 12in. long. This
snake is venomous; not so largest
Australian snake, Blasts childveyil, of
K.Q. and W.A., which sometimes
exceeds 22ft. in length. (2.) The
green tree snake ( sp.) is
non-venomous, but it isn’t a “ whip ”
snake. The whip snake (Diemenia
reticulata) is a highly venomous dry-
country snake, which doesn t climb
trees. (3.) A snake certainly con
throw itself upwards or backwards to
at least the length of its body. I
once jammed a retreating snake’s tail
to the ground with a paling shorter
than the snake, and in less than a
second it had bitten the hat off my
head. (4.) The “seven-inch death
adder” mentioned, could not have
been an adult, and there is only one
species of death adder in N.S.W. (5.)
Scale-shedding proves nothing, as
snakes, young and old, are continu-
ally shedding their skins when in
captivity.— H. J. Mac.
* * *
“J.C.Gr.”: Recently met two
swaggies—one carrying “ Matilda ” in
usual fashion, but the other wheeling
his portmanteau in a decrepit bar-
row. A pet lamb followed the pair.
Also, once saw a sundowner on (Jrana-
road with two emus for company.
Another time I met a married couple
on the tramp with two children, and
the family belongings loaded-up on
three goats!
“Yamba ” on the population question :
About The Bulletin’s recent query as to why the births
in this young and vigorous country are at a standstill. I
live in a prosperous country district in Victoria, and I
have come to the paradoxical conclusion that it is this
prosperity which is responsible for the trouble. The
young men are strong, comparatively wealthy, and above
the average in intelligence. But their homes are so com-
fortable, and their recreations so varied and absorbing,
that there is nothing but the sex-instinct to impel them
to matrimony; and, curiously enough, this seems to be
quite dormant amongst them; a fact probably due to
thiir healthy lives of physical exercise. Illegitimate
births—generally in inverse ratio to the marriage rate —
are in this district practically unknown. (Only one in 14
years, and, by the irony of fate, the father was a married
man witli already a full quiver.) There is very little love-
making, on either side ; and although the young men
and women enjoy each other’s company, the feeling ap-
pears to be one of ordinary comradeship only. At any
rate, nothing further comes of it. The girls, who are
most ly Scotch, come up well to Paraguay Lane’s standard
as to breadth of hip and depth of bust, and are tolerably
good-looking as well ; yet the only people in our district
that get married are the milk-boys—almost all Irish —who
are employed by the marriage-avoiding Scots. McDonagh,
in his recent hook on Irish humor, says that the
Hibernian marries poor and young, because be character-
istically reasons that he can’t be any poorer ; whereas the
canny Scot declines to exchange a present and positive
amount of comfort for a problematical increase thereof by
marriage. Prudent personality, no doubt, is bad for the
community as Scottish old maids are becoming alarm-
ingly plentiful, while Irish old maids are as hard to find
as the bunyip.
* * * *
It is easy on Zeehan (Tas.) to pick out the
grades of “society.” Chesterfields, &0., denote
THE LATE SIGNOR FOLI.
the clerk, com t r and other “ swells ; ” navvy
wears the “ bluey,” while the miner can generally
be distinguished by his being armed with a
“gamp.” Asserted that the A.N.A. hall is the
only place in Zeehan possessing an umbrella-
stand.
“Ferny Flat”: Was recently astonished
to be told by an old Queensland resident that the
local crocodile is quite harmless and lives en-
tirely on fish. By “ crocodile ” is meant the big
fellow with serrated back and cavities m upper
iaw for reception of lower teeth. If any of your
naturalists will settle this point, I should like at
the same time to be informed whether there is
any snake or lizard in Australia having the pro-
perties of the chameleon ? I once shot a small
AMBIGUOUS.—IN ISLAND SOCIETY.
FIRST ISLANDER: “Hello I Twig the boss's latest
wife. Does he think much of her?”
SECOND DO .: “ Dunno quite. Says she’s one in a
hundred."
snake near Gymprt. which, before shooting, looked
like a whip-snake, bub afterwards turned yellow
and then brown. Whenever I tell this people
smile significantly, so I should like some corrobor-
ation. Perhaps if your tame corroborator is on
the premises he will oblige me.
Dear Bulletin. —I forward the two latest
atrocities received from N.S. Wales Registrar-
General’s Dept. They are NOT exaggerations.
Query to district registrar :
Why were no deaths registered in your distriot in April
last ?
This was an easy one. Thus :
I was not aware it was against the Regulations; I
have requisitioned for a gun, and will be careful that in
future there shall be at least one death in each month.
Query II.:
Mary Ann . Your returns state that this woman
has been married 11 years and has only two children.
Explanation required.
Answer:
Her husband is a 16-stone man, from whom It would
not be safe to geek an explanation, and the woman herself
is absent in Sydney, but I will try and get an explanation
from her when she returns I
—Verus.
There has been serious trouble at Ballan
(Victoria) over the Marquis of Bute. Not the
gentleman cow of that name, but the noble sprig
of British aristocracy. Plaintiff is a teacher of
literature and languages, and also a professor of
music. He was employed by a gentleman who
combines a bakery business with a phosphate
agency (great Scott!) to teach his son and
daughter general culture. While he was wait-
ing for his pupils to gird up their brains and com-
mence their education he had a little discussion
with the man of bread, who said, apropos of some-
thing or other, that the Marquis of Bute was a
blackguard and a low skunk. The man of culture
was inexpressibly pained at these coarse re-
marks, and he reproved the bread man, and told
him that he must not talk like that about the
Marquis of Bute. The Marquis was a personal
friend of the cultured one’s family. Had patted
his head when he was a boy, or reduced the
rent, or something. The man of crust said the
Marquis was something unprintable and the
teacher a toady. Then, the teacher said, the
baker and agent struck him. The bread dealer
said the teacher tried to pitch him into the
fire, or to decapitate him between the chair
and the table. Also, the man with the long
hair had a very dirty left. The baker said
he was quite dazed when the knife-box new up
and hit them both, and cut them, and generally
behaved in an uncivilised way. Just about here
the baker’s finger unfortunately got into the
teacher’s eye. It was force of habit on the part
of his finger—he was not responsible for it—it
always did that whenever he had any little “argu-
ments.” The literary man said the yarn about
the knife-box and the accident was quite unre-
liable. And about here the magistrate felt tired,
and he rose up and smote the baker with many
expenses, damages, and fines, and generally nn-
pressed him that assaulting friends of the Marquis
of Bute must be put down with a strong hand.
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. Gordon, manaj
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W.A.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Yamba : Much Boer literature crowded out
Bo : There is hope for it A.T.D. : Scheme for exhibit-
ing Oom Paul in a cage in the Chamber of Horrors at 6<i.
a head admission is simply shocking and disgusting, as
well as ungenerous and unmanly. A shilling is the very
lowest price that should be charged, and Tuk Bulletin
is inclined to think eighteenpence would be a fair thing.
L.B.E. : Labored joke F.B. : Jockey stories too
much alike—the fast ’orse that could win but was running
stiff, and the other 'orse, and the pot, and the boil-over,
and the blanky J.T.R. : Too precipitous. .. The
Maniac : Five awful puns about eggs to hand Hermit:
Joke must have hidden itself behind the story. Con-
cealment of joke perfect J.E.O. (Semaphore): (1)
The A.M.P. Society. (2) Maoriland Govt. Life Insurance
Department does no business outside its own province.
(3) The Collins-street medico you mention is a duly-
qualified man Splinter: Declined with enthusiasm......
San Remo : You work up and up and up to a great poetic
climax, and when you get there you deposit a penn’orth
of irrelevant ox-tail on the glittering summit and quit
Zeddy : VVe don’t want to drivel about the gentleman’s
books Maorilander : Would pass in England ; weprefer
humor less diluted ...P.L. : To be noted also that
Prophet Booth admires Prophet George but thinks his
remedies a little out of date. The Big Drum and the
Saving Blood are the only reliable nostrums in the
market!... C.R.P.: Put it upside-down—Wineshops are
licensed in Australia : why not beer-shops ? It is because
the big breweries with their huge vested interest in
“tied” houses, control so many Parliamentary votes?
H. Mac : If the gallant squattah should get shot
while leading his squad to victory we will duly drop a
tear. But not in verse. Let it be clearly understood that
no sentimental verse on the subject of Australian bush-
rangers shot by the Boers will appear in these columns.
C.P.W. : You borrow your “ facts " from Ex-Premier
Yes-No Reid who in his two hours’ speech about the
Transvaal contingent supplied the staggering informa-
tion that the Transvaal contained “ 15,000 Boers and
60,000 Uitlanders Constant R. (Tam): Thanks...
Ccelebs : The ideal is said to be a soulful of sentiment and
bodyful of blisses. VVe dunno ; we’re married. ...Bounder :
Bulletin pays for everything printed, if you'll paste
printed items on a slip of paper and send to accountant
St. B. : The trail of the tyro is over it all Sleigh G. :
Firm touch, but not story enough Cudgenbil :Isit a
drunk—or what ?. ...Hismate: Neat enough; but the trite
moralising is fatal... G.G.: You “ six or seven more
peices like this.” Alas !... Austy R. : Its spirit may
carry off its crudity H.C.C. : “Ike” well-written,
but long-winded. Will consider Kate M. : Sorry not
quality enough in any of them Sa. P. : Neat and cor-
rect and grievously tame and dull Laura C. (S.A.) :
Lacks the dramatio force the situation requires
Cainiro : Good idea; may trim-up and use
H. R. M‘C. : Terse and strong ; will probably print
Ernest W. H. : Long way below the mark Layam :
You seem to have been imitating several different styles.
That won’t land you anywhere Margaret M. : A weak
beginning may sometimes pass ; a weak end —never......
Joe K. : “ You are nothing if not humorous.” Nothing
it is, then Florence E. : Thanks; may use
H.M.L : Kitten-yarn ancient ; other, may fix up
Tarantula : That’s nothing ; imagination is half a “ war-
correspondent’s” outfit Frank P. : Has some decent
SCORNFUL CITIMTINE : “ Well, if they picked you
for the Transvaal I reckon it’s becos you
want killin’.”
verses, but, as a whole, not up..... Julian M.: Will print—
Chas F (W.A.): Notart enough to redeem its hideous-
ness A.A.0.: All very laborious... .Won Hi: Maga-
zine "rates (lid.) are charged on all papers published
outside of Victoria, and re-posted within that province
G.B.D. : “Down a Gully” too horrible A.A.U :
Handed to Mr. Sam. Smith Raful G.: Apply Sydney
agents, R. A. Thompson & Co., Pitt-5t.......L. : Bulletin
never said the Transvaal was the “ richest and most
desirable country.” It only said it had the richest gold-
field .Mrs. L.R. : Subject thoroughly dealt with
already Paronni: That name or another; dash!
TE (R.): Thanks P.M. : Hold your own
post-mortem Philip Ray: After much hard con-
sideration "Guardian Angel" goes among the lost
Henry Mak (\V.): Quite out of our line
Harrv M’O. : Yea, verily, you were libelled . Vinegar :
Too slight H.G. : Better await further developments
in that little game of Church grab ... Vic. : The splen-
dour of the Manor and the Mansion seems to have got into
your head. Or did the lordly proprietors liquor you up ?
FAB.: Yes, it is quite true that a man lately got
three years in N.S.W. for stealing a tin of baking-powder.
Box 1334 : Ancient theme, ancient treatment
Asmodeus : Good. But you don’t send your name..—
Bendee : “ Woolls ” too long-drawn for interest Wirra
(or something) can’t even pretend to read such M.S. Are
ready to bet that you can’t read it yourself B.G.D. :
Not quite up .... A.A.C. : First offences are worst
\V.O. : What a fierce little mouse you are 1 A.T.C. :
Song would ruin any cause. ..Gowvie: Not bright
enough .. Camiro : Skill lacking ...6YH: Q. M.L.A.
Plunkett is credited with the remark that the bushmen
are “the dingoes of civilisation.” Fai : nt... Henry
G. : They don’t gee, Henry Paronui : Delicate little
sentiment —too delicate Col. Nor. : Only one pathetic
line in your “Mailman” poem—where he passes the
deserted pub... .Coreen : Very poor verse Adolphus :
Nelson Illingworth’s Latest Statuette : A N.S. W.
Mounted Rifleman.
J.P, yarn good—and also somewhat precipitous
Uloola : This paper will soon have to call for tenders for
the cartaee of Boer poems off the premises S.A.S.^:
“My only Bludge” rejected. For heaven’s sake don’t
bludge any more Meteor : That’s all right.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.W.O. and “Cruel”: Will consider H.VV.H. :
Drawing hopelessly crude and subjects old A.R.W. :
Don’t see the point... .Alf. K. (M.): None suitable ...
Jas. M. (M.L.): Many thanks. Vide memo, posted
Unavailable: V.R.8., Dab, W.H.D., 0.M.D., H.Z.T.,
Plugger, Robert J., T.N.W., Fab. 2. (advise you to study
drawing), Red, S.H.P. (D.), Thomas Cam. (Bal.), Alf.
MacL., R.I. (M.A.).


Some months ago
" The Age" made an inqiiiry whjfity
showed that in 1696 this eolony provided
for no fewer than 4212 lunatics* at an
annual cost of £lOO,BBl, or an average
of 0/4* per week per head..
d'/rfa? Cory*'*?*' A 7 / 5 /_
KncW, W e 4 £/* & e P%- \
ivtfe pxrKs forlfe fytZ- \
Gy*»k «fa w \WJ \
Lx/e. feet 1?P rc
Cell. If tfkf WfPvW'SS
wJ/*Piis ? "
' V t& f &
'Vtc-ior'iXv? 'JoXotffer \ /
"Vex' DeKr ! tjov/tlvfc^Je,
t W 4.
y^rr
JxT^c\
Ifcsjj^t u fcte^'^:i lQ ®™ ¥‘«
One maii. lost''a
•bis morning. He said it must have
been stolen. Now. wlio would steal at*
iron lieel-peg? Another man lost Ms
haversack, ami another man had packed
his .haversack away. One man was
paid t!ie other day: he signed the pay
'sheet (jnite'-cheei'fully. and then walked'
array leaving his pay on the table.
;Biyonet&.UeJte,.everyfhiug have been left
'about , hi the j&n}.
fro*?
tip 3 -
r ' Ce >
'fo&'tttil
s|>eccjr
TESTAMENTS FOR TROOPS.
'THE GIFT OF THE Y.M-.C.A.
The Melbourne branch of the Yqung
Men's Christian Assoeiatiou whl present 1
to every member of the Victorian eon*
ftngeut a '‘marked" copy of the _N'ew
Testament, of convenient size* ana fitted
to a suitable ease. These "marked l
i copies are 'published'tflEh' P&fesageh TO*
dlcnteil by red lines, and on the front
page it Is stated tbiit "the verses mark-
ed iii this testament will, under tlfo
Holy Spirit, help to make plain Ood’s
way of salvation through Cbrjsfc"
# l oo *s, %
Ves'oWe <W
l+"
oiUef^ r
* tey f
J 7S.,
v'4jhz-
/JT
d \"
1^;
c=*jnT
ELBOURNIANA.


1
The, Reverend Footballer MuUineux goes as chaplain.
fie will astonish the Boers with some high kicking.
CcudHie Maf/ofi
11 1 tun oq[qo j
T l\ers Merstodlq arj ?
y j <r*
ffjerj beanj fo g/W
J\V Vie goffi put iti sonje lucmt Seed,
So l ktiinLgat time for to go an bleed
'J\s only apicnu Some on mSay -
trip ther 1 cm faaetf Mj yntijiyk fo pay
yilt ywmuihV tom into Mfillj agra/eytirdCou^'
'One foot itv The yraite an-’Totter shot off -
/in’ minus an eye atj’ ay arm, or 'Mn
Jl yiee jorf o’ pmii tljtiC fojr gw 1
In nmftm' (jisTry they cdlsrf,l)tyl _
ljjis lufhrj 1 Streamers for reg tar pay.
k)eff (jist’ryts rycecte tgoretiap tjorogt -
Ift ryade kliflj a joe aj & gwj
ief jtljerfrolj jutotlfij foffij' lyalSj
Istopj-at 'onje in njy .filter.-paftl) _
lef Aft (onj-fonjs heat at)' Hje htrjjoet
J donT fall ig 11 Said ryaq f|e beK^
°X\%
' \W-
V\*v
\\W
\%y
*<?*
,V"‘ h T J
4 i 4
p/if L
S'
c i PCULAT/OM
2 ]f(Win k
kii *'<7
Editor op Great Daily :
“So you wish to go as
our war-correspondent,
and you tell mo you havo
had experience ? Allow
me to ask what experi-
ence you have had of.
war 1 ”
Applicant : “ Well, sir, 5
I have lectured about
it!”
Sydney school-girls were to have presented a battle-
flag to the contingent, but it was found that the flag
was not in accordance with British army regulations.
The above is a picture of proposed flag—doubtless
more or less imaginarv.
It is a well-known maxim
in military matters to always
\ keep something in reserve.
\ Well, N.S.W. has kept
\ this.
‘ Darling,” he cried, “ farewell! Should
1 come back alive but maimed, my limbs all
shot away, would you still marry me 1'” !
“George,” she sobbed, “if there was
only enough of you to bold your heart
I d marry you ! ”
An Australian’ horse-poet is going as war-
correspondent.
And, by the way, why not try the effect of Australian
horse-poetry on Oom Paul 1
Hung out to dry since Saturday last.
WAR-FEVER ITEMS.


A. SAUNDERS’
They are “ Lovely,” and Prices Right.
V'-
'V,
A. Saunders,
BUTTERS, as above, 15s 6d;
Large size, 20s.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. Saunders.
OAKE BASKET, chased, 18s 6d; plain, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, and £2 10s.
We guarantee the quality. Send for Illustration.
A. Saunders.
EGG CRUET, 4 Cups, gilt inside, and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated on hard
White Metal, 21s, 255, 30s, and 355.
Almost Half-price.
CRUETS, 4-bot.tle. Square
Bottles, 30s. Similar, 21s, 255, 355.
A. Saunders.
OAK BISCUIT, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 15s 6d;
Fluted Bands, 20s;
Shield only, 12s 6dL
BREAKFAST CRUETS,
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
TRY US.
Four o’clock TEA SET, with COVERS, gilt inside, pure
Silver-plated. 20 years’ guaranteed.
£2 10s ; worth £4 4s. Other styles, 355, £2.
LADIES— KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR DISPLAY.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
Pure Silver-plated Rim and Knife, 21s.
Other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
Useful and Handsome Present,
SPOONS and FORKS. Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons and Forks, 4s half-dozen.
Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-plate, on hr.rd White Metal, Table Spoons
and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s : Tea, bs 6d. These are guaranteed to
give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 6s and 8s 6d half-dozen •
the very best Sheffield steel. TRY THEM.
BUTTER KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s.
Pearl Handle, 3s 6d ; extra mounted, 6s Cd.
JAM SPOONS, same price. Two in case, 7s 6d and 10s.
A. Saunders.
Hot Water TEA KETTLE, 33s 6d ;
Embossed, £2. Others charge £2 10g
and £3 for same article.
We guarantee the quality.
A. Sa under#-
Pure Silver-plated SUGAR SCUTTLE,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders'
Four o’clock TEASPOONS and TONGS,
15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons, without case, ss, 7s 6d half-dozen.
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255.
With Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Handsome and Useful Presents.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12 6,15 s, 20s, 255, 355, .£2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £6 6s.
Send for Illustrated Book.
ENTREE DISHES, 4 pieces, pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6cL
Others charge you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES nowadags want to see a Display cmd Assort-
ment worth seeing. The Old-Time Prices and Small
Stocks are a thing of the past. LADIES, we can show
you £20,000 worth, of Jewellery and Silver-plate—a
display seldom seen like it.
A PERSONAL VISIT ONLY WILL CONVINCE YOU OF THE MAGNITUDE OF OUR STOCK.—-DO COME.
A. 8A UN DEUB, Jeweller,
WILL
PROVE IT.
815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite Railway Station).
EVIDENCE THAT CONVINCES.
Clements Tonic is a Scientific Specific.
-A. TBTTTHFUL IsTABRATIVB.
Hope and Succour for the Afflicted.
The Case ef
MRS. MARIA HAPSOOD.
Reported Jor the “ MarrickviUe Express.”)
The reporter had no difficulty in finding
the residence of Mrs. Maria Hapgood at
No. 60 Shepherd-street, -Vlarrickville, as it
is not far from the Enmore tram terminus.
This lady, a well-known resident, was
busily attending her well-kept flower
garden, in which she takes a great pride.
In answer to an enquiry as to whether she
had not greatly benefited by the use of
Clements Tonic, and would she object to
giving her experience, Mrs. Hapgood
replied :
“Certainly not; I owe so much to that
remedy for all the good it has done to me
and mine that the least I can do is to give
my testimony, and I recommend it ia every
case that I think suitable.”
“ Ho .v did your own sickness arise ?”
“ I do nob know the cause, but three
years ago I began to experience a number
of distressing symptoms. My digest ion was
seriously impaired, so that my food caused
ine pain and distress At night I could not
rest, my sleep was broken and irregular.
Then I had a terrible pain in the back
across the shoulders, and I was nearly
crippled by neuralgic pains in my hands
and wrists, so that it was with the greatest
difficulty I could struggle through my
housework. But there was worse to come.
There was a painful enlargement in my
throat, and the back of my tongue became
so swollen as nearly to fill my mouth, and
joined to these troubles I had great depres-
sion of spirits. I did not seem to care how
things went. I went to a friend, a chemist,
and lie recommended me a much puffed and
advertised remedy, also a mixture of his
own compounding ; but though I took them
both as directed neither did me any good.
My husband insisted on my going to our
family doctor, of whom he had a very high
opinion.”
“ What did the doctor say ?”
“ He gave me no hope or encouragement,
and though I told him all my symptoms, he
did not tell me his opinion of my case or
I what was the matter with me, Of course
he gave me a prescription, which I had
I made up and took without any benefit)
whatever. Then it chanced that I came
across one of the pamphlets of Clements
Tonic, and although I could see no case
there just like my own, it appeared to me
Clements Tonic would be likely to do me
good. When I called on a ohemist to
purchase a bottle of Clements Tonic he
strongly advised me not to do so, and urged
me to take what he called ‘my own tonic. ’
I knew better, he only wanted the extra
frofit; I had been had that way before, so
was resolute in my determination and
insisted on having the genuine article—
Clements Tonic.”
“ And what happened ?” *
, “To my great surprise, I derived great
benefit cot ouct j and I may say that, practi-
cally, that one bottle cured me. All my
distressing symptoms disappeared as though
by magic, the pains in the back, across the
shoulders, the indigestion, the want of
appetite, the neuralgia in the hands and
wrists, even the painful swelling in the
throat and mouth were subdued, and I
knew at once I had found a master for my
trouble. I had been worn, weak, and
miserable ; but now my good spirits and
energy returned; it was the most sudden
transformation I ever heard of. I said one
bottle cured me, but let me add I have
taken more than that. This sickness I tell
you of was three years ago, and I find by
keeping a bottle of Clements Tonic in the
house and taking a dose at the least sign of
my ailment returning it is effectually warded
oft and my naturally good health preserved.
I noticed when I was sick that my distress-
symptoms were largely aggravated by
the hot weather, and it is now during hot
spells that I keep on my guard and protect
my health as I have told you, and you may
judge how my health is restored. You
have seen my brother and heard his case, so
you can understand the faith I have in
Clements Tonic, and why I have persistently
recommended it to my friends.” I
r ‘ And you are willing that this testimony
should be made public * ’
“If it is of value do what you think best,
you have my full permission ; I am only too
pleased to assist any sufferer on the road to
recovery and point out the genuine remedy
against the h ">st of quack medicines now so
freely advertised. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Maria Hapgood, of 60 Shspherd-street, Marrick.
vnle, in the Colony of hew South Wale*, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three folios
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way ; and I make this solemu
declaration voluntarily, and without receiving
any payment, oorscientiously believing the tame
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions erf an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the reign o!
her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the mor-
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and
m&de in the various Departments of the Government
of New Mouth Wales, and to substitute Declarations
in lieu thereof, far the suppression of voluntary
and extra-judicial Oaths ami Affidavits."
Declared at Marriokville this 16th dav of Maj
1899, before me,
JOSHUA J. FARR. J.P ,
“ Cora Lynn.” Marriokville.
ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
queen.
Ask for
WbiSky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SOPAWATER, Sr.
Ask for
Brafydi?
‘ScS)W€pp€
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
" DOW RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Am> GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure*
BIIVIVB w the famous hemehy eoh
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
U UIXKJj , ittt rnTTscm in?Tum\Ti? rw ATTSTRATJA.
HAS THE
LARGEST sat.tc OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have subjeet to Cold, on
Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Sufferers trom any inv>luablej as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soreness in
never been known to exist where
and a -Complete Cure is certain.
’the'ciuTt'""experience delightful and immediate relief 1 and “ “JS Xwa“ Cough or7s“hmrto become'chronic,^’nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
lavinu irritation in the throat“f —» U % ** h 6Bl ™" 6 ' * “ " ?
B€WAR€ OF COU<aHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULH
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUBE.
m, WG. Hearne.-Dear Sir,-I am writing to tell you
the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
about the won J x beiran to cough. At
K'Ja» it gradually got worse,
and 1 became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
ana i Decauie j quantities of phlegm. On
L a verl? occasions’there was blood in the expectorated
matter. Ihad been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
' Oonsumntion, and various other treatments
Keen trM?”?ho°ut benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to yoa ior
1 course of the medicine. When it arrived 1 was too ill to
lpave mv bed but I commenced taking it at once, and
JfrnHmUv improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure. * or
which accept my very best thanks.-Yours grateWUy^
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEABS’ CASE.
RKTTFVED at once and completely cubed
RELIEVED AIBRONGHiTIS CUBE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatmenffrom different sources, but derived no benefit
untUlusedyour Bronchitis Cure, which gay® me relief
at onbe and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”-Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TEEMKLBitJN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFEBEB FBOM BIBTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEAENE’S
BEONCHITIS CUBE.
Mr W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, -Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soonaspossiMe,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and.
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. BAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
«‘ Dear l am very much pleased wit* t*®
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of n W chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half * bottle
cured her I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medic.neofthat kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
‘‘JOHN S. MORTIMER.
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
YouiMette'r and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
a.s 1 was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
tfme it arrived had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went m the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir, « Yours very truly,
“M. MORTTMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
TTF.R. DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE
The extract runs as follows“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. 1 feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong
“ 1 must ask you to send me six bottles more of tne
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could da He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since 1 commenced to take it. 1 used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months 1 was
as weak as 1 could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more 1 must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she.
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the b unday
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that 1 thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have Borne of my next supply.
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
•• air My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most'distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors,
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ,
but 1 am happv to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. 1 remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully, WILLIAM CROCKKTTf
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.’’
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. 1 am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
A Seven Years’ Case.
expectorating blood and matter.
COMPLETELY CURED.
‘•Mr. W. k*. neariio. ....
“ Dear Sir —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr Alex J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne 8
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883—15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states‘ I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the proprietor,
w. G. HEABNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. * Post t 0 any "* M
(LIMITED),
Illawarra), near SYDNEY
DAPTO (Lalse
SMELTERS.
•• • •
REFINERS.
PR.ODXJ CBR.S
or
FINE SILVER.
I
MAKERS Off
s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAVARRA”
.* BRAND OF. ,
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER.,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD ana COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REPINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Eor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A.
Weinbeeg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.
r,ap r rn T<r s w.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
'Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of nil Wholesale T 1 oases.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Books! Books! Books!
History of Australian Bushranging, by C. VVhite. Fran i
Gardiner, the King of the Rond, and his Gang, Is 3 ,
Ben Hall and his Gang, Is 3d ; The Caloola Robbers ana
other startling incidents, Is 3d. TTndpr-
The New South Wales Banditti, or Donohoe, Under
wood, Webber, Clarke, and their Gangs, * ” a 0
three very choice books Is 8d each. Popular E »
in 8 vols./fB for 265. Write for Catalogues; all books
sent post free. R.
seller, 106 Geefclereagh et., Sydney. Telephone
Valuable Books*
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOE 6d. IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
W. H. J«ok'OS.
41 Stephen Street,
. . Melbourne.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 165.,
265. and 40s. money order or London draft.
It. GKNNERT, 49c rue ST. GEORGES,
PARIS. FRANCE-
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, curious,
and laughable books.
As advertised in the Illustratbd London Standard.
Post Free from
| Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-si , Sydney^


Songs in Public Schools.
Statements appearing in the press that the songs
jn our public schools are set in too high a key
brings to mind a report received from Mr. Geo.
M. Massing, a State school teacher, Hadden Bush.
Southland, N.Z., which is actually a song of
praise, and one that is universally used in all the
Australian colonies. He writes : “I am pleased
to testify to the great benefit I have derived from
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure, when a few years
ago I was suffering from kidney disorder. From
H. Macalister, Chemist, Invercargill I
obtained my last case of Warner’s Safe Cure, and
it completely restored me and put me into grand
form. . Not only in public schools, but in private
life this song of praise is sung in every key, and
can be heard on every hand all over this fair land.*
“ The Patentees—Macmven and Cameron, Ltd
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL ’
for their excellent inventions,”— Dover Chronicle
The Waverley Pen The Pickwick Pen
„ :■ The Owe Pen The Hindoo Ten
hold at all Stationers. Waverlev Works, Edinburgh
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
mg extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
iftE Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo. Roe&c?s
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEACHER&C? cvmlcv
82 A PITT ST, SYDNEY'..
ASK
FOR
brandy
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER ORADL€Y # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION <&, FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
13?" Sales Held at Hie Auction llooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Pradley & Co., 324 George-st.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Carbolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
land rS P 3 , 7 ™ embera Present in Maori-
“ ?° uncil wl ?en the Transvaal Contingent
SotJ md ft and ° nly one man - old
oeotjand, had the courage to vote “no.”
mitte°e S L Va J e (N ; S *. W *> has appointed a com-
“Sg*, to T s d Jocate its claim to be the Federal
Moss Vale • nder . t,)e 100-miles-from-Sydney clause
butTb do!L«f aS h ° P tf sly out of ic as Jerusalem,
oub it doesn t seem able to realise that fact yet.
SKETCH IN GEORG E-STREET WEST.
SYDNEY.
This lady requires two trays to the station !
F>oodlewraith malcontents are looking for
» o scent chance to cross the floor. More than
“ "JL a £Zt’2 1 r„ t 0 the Bud “fTpeth"
or mat part of it which doesn’t provide enoue-h
money to. keep the crooked Brisbane River from
Foiled are a g eVe,? % h ? fc - Mac Paterson and
Foirest are sharpening their tomahawks.
and stowed away to America. So, if thecane
grower wsh to be philanthropic, they can- do
f ”' v
oojd-country people oan JtantTthi olhiTt'e of trop?
oal Queensland, there is no earthly excuse for not
employing the local white man. 7 se tor nofc
It is alleged that some of the more
ignorant Boers really believe in a great fish story
calculated by parties unknown, to the effect that
,i them country is conquered the blue-eyed women
ara to be handed over to the British soldiery and
present land titles would be valueless—or too
writer next door neighbor
“toe 9 oT ]nSt , the Bill because It pro-
minera s ” colonies would get all our
N. S. W.
Colonial Sec-
retary See
boasts that
in the long
list of .hon-
orary magis-
trates lately
gazetted
there is not
one publi-
can. But if
Boniface be
excluded,
what about
the man who
owns the
house in
which Boni-
face trades ?
The list is
A “ BRITISH ” PATRIOTIC DEMONSTRATION.
Cabled that a special ferure of the Cockney Jingo demonstration at the Gu[?]kall, last week, was "a procession stockbrokers
from the Stock Exchange."
blackberried with such property-owners. Where
is the essential difference between directly and
thus indirectly dispensing tanglefoot ?
N.S. W. Assembly passed a resolution over
three years ago in favor of uniform penny letter
postage throughout the province, but nothing came
of it. The necessity for carrying newspapers free,
-to placate the rich newspaper proprietors of Syd-
ney, keeps the N.S. W. postal department so hard-
op that it can’t afford penny letter postage. When
the subject cropped up again the other day, P. M.
G. Crick gave the usual answer ; it would mean a
loss of £60.000 a-year, and the sacrifice* called
for serious consideration, See., &o. Yet the sacri-
fice of <£40,000 a year in carrying newspapers gratis
nomehow calls for no consideration at all.
If ® tead 8 P ar t of the Review op Reviews
kicks ” shockingly with Fitchett’s over the Boer
usiness. Fitchett’s part demands to know
whether the Labor-parties can call themselves
3 at,c an y more - “How could those who
wanted one man one vote, who held that one man
of Itfi? das pother, that flesh counted as clods
_ mall T> ’ oon * end , thafc ah power should centre in a
small Boer ohgarohy ? ” So the Labor-men’s stand
H« glar,n .? ly^ndem ? cratic ” and “ flagrantly at
oaritfl lth J h i e, j P rinc, Ples.” But the Labor-
d-d advocafce giving a vote for Essen-
™ . Fle JP ,n ? ton to every shark who goes to
the Cup, in the hope of making a bit there and
ofthleJ f C o ea fh ng - f jS aboUt the position
of three-fourths of the Uitlanders.
Melbourne Chamber of Manufactures
(Derham’s little show) issues a furious manifesto
against the renewal of the expiring Factories Act
howVtn a!!? 11 £T'K age P roviso - The Chamber
howls to the effect that the Act hasn’t improved
the positmn of the worker or reduced sweating in
ini fe? 0 ' ° f ?° Urse ’ if ifc hasn,t reduced sweat-
ing, that can only mean that the manufacturers
get as much work out of their employes for as little
wages as they did before there was any Act-and
idT h h atare i hem \ d
Act Th ?r n,fe8 '° alsodec lares that the
C • redaced the number of hands employed.”
Cons denng th e fc increase in the nu^b y r of
semi ®™ ployed sbown , m the State statistics, this
Bomewhere gge h ther6 18 a V6ry large Ananias
Dear Bulletin,— R e the alleged cruelty
practised upon Dreyfus at Devil’s Island, cannot
the same charge be levelled against the English
Government for the treatment Michael Davitt
received in Portland prison ? Davitt says he had
during the term of his incarceration, to “lap his
back 'ln d t°h g V ° nly arm being tied be hind his
with Art fc , hafc be was compelled to “ associate
with criminals of such a loathsome type, that he
never spoke of them afterwards save with a shud-
thl' tp rl. u’ iT’ tor a Poetical offence ! Yet
the English shuddered at the treatment of
Dreyfus! Similarly, Anglomaniacs will grieve
over the cruelty °f Boers to Kaffirs ; bu/when
f ng -r Sh u y '! am ,' ted the caves where Mata-
womi heS i h c,t ken , refu f? e - a nd buried men,
women and children ln a living grave, who
bothered his head about it ?—J. R.
The N.S.W. Govt Advisory Board on
the unemployed, proposes, in connection with
assisted settlement, that improvements on land
taken up shall be paid for at their value to the
assisted selector. Thus, if a selector takes up
slake 2fi C onn b OCk ? tank ° n . ifc sufficie "t to
slake 20,000 acres, he only pays as if the tank were
big enough for the smaller area. This also is the
present law with regard to selections generally
It is fair enough, no doubt, to the selector—for
there is no reason why he should be made to pay
for a big tank when he only wants a small one';
but it is pretty hard on the man who made and
owns the tank. It is this, in fact, more than any-
thing else, that has put the brake hard down on
the improvement of country out back. And it is
this non-improvement of naturally-deteriorated
country which makes stock losses in such bad
seasons as the last three or four so disastrous.
“ Constance Clyde ” writes, and The Bul-
letin stands by and supplies the Amen:—
The arguments against the Old Age' Pensions idea still
occupy columns in the dady papers, and certain gentle-
men are still insisting on individualism, and “self-
reliance, and the wickedness of being too charitable
not realising that individualism pure and simple got its
death-blow some centuries back, when the man-ape dis-
continued shaking his aged relative off a tree because
there was a scarcity of cocoanuts in the primeval forest
e i_? esuelldan k s kh ese apes at present seem uuite
unable to understand that it is not a question of feeding
the aged ones or letting them starve, because owino- to
the beastly humam-tananism of this degenerate age we
actually give them skilly, and a blanket, and the pleasing
society of other aged males and females in large cold
stone residences put aside for their benefit. The issue
does not lie between providing for the old folks and
heaving them out into the gutter, but between providing
for them in the way that hurts their feelings and providing
for them in the other way that doesn’t. Bruce Smith in
a long effusion to a morning paper, quotes Herbert
Spencer and his creed of individualism. Spencer bv the
way, is the philosopher who objected to the State edu-
cating children because this would not be teaching the
P a f' arit |, se J f '. re ] lance - . But this argument cuts both ways
If the State is to remain passive then it has no business to
teach relf-rehance, and something must be done to it
when it is found behaving in this officious manner.
Dicksons ejection from Q. Premiership
may occur any moment. If E. B. Forrest and the
Labor-party have hit it off, it may have occurred
ere this sees print. Labor wants two or three
portfolios; Forrest will be Premier; and Groom
is actually to be a Minister at last ! What with
disaffected Dicksonites, Opposition, and Labor
the majority is waiting; the country is sick of
Dickson and Co. ; and the only question is a
question of terms. The Bulletin advises the
Labor-party to get one democratic foot in and let
the whole man in by degrees. Q. Labor-men have
been singing out “all or nothing!” quite long
enough. Take the half-loaf and grab more when
the time comes.
A newspaper mostly gets the sort of letters
vlrL an A S r? r -? rints the sort < anyway. Yet, though
Docn Adelaide papers cheered the local con-
ingent proposal, the healthiness of S. A. sentiment
t!L 8 r'j' the flood of opposition letters.
Labor-leader Batchelor, who led the opposition in
Barliament, did not improve matters by his hazi-
■ regarding bafriean history; but the temper
or his speech was good.
i-k-wV 3- ou . nc ‘l is much hurt at the way
v, • ovfc ‘ 'k over S. African contingent
was not consulted in con-
n non fin Wltl the Imperial message, and conse-
y was not afforded an opportunity of con-
°®er troops with immense
enthusiasm and musical accompaniment. The
fWtoto- Wa - also r °bbed of an opportunity of
rfrioa s b 1 ng i ts tan before the “Imperial autho-
•n y *? as keen tearfully protesting ever
n Co ' I here is a dreadful impression abroad that
Victoria and Albert Edward may begin to
entertain doubts about the existence of the Council,
and overtook, u; when the inevitable baubles are
passed round.
Many W.A. grants
and land titles contain
a valuable proviso that
the State may, at any
time, resume without
compensation, land need-
ed for roads, canals,
bridges, and other works
of public utility and
convenience. This has
saved the State a large
expenditure for compen-
sation when public works
were under construction.
But lately the Govern-
ment resumed land with-
out compensation for a
recreation - reserve, and
there was trouble. The
C.J. held that this pur-
pose came within the
terms of the grant, but
the Full Court upset the
decision, and ordered
Govt, to pay compensa-
tion. If this decision holds before the
Ir’rivy Council, other “ resumed ” peo-
ple will probably awarm like locusts
on top of Bigjohn.
Some Big Scrub jingoes, wishing to
arrange for transmission through the local press
te^ T e - ra P h '° news re the Transvaal war, vetoed
the North Coast Beacon, because that print ex-
presses its belief that the reforms asked for by the
genuine Uidanders (who intended to become loyal
subjects of the Republic) could have been peace-
ably secured. v
‘‘Colonial” Jingo: “To think an Aus-
tralian must live 14 years in that Boer coun-
try before claiming the right to vote for both
Houses! Old Victorian: “I’ve lived all my
life in this free country and can’t claim that yet."
Fact. (N.B. Over 100,000 adult males in Vic-
House ) 6 n6Ver had a V ° te f ° r th ® U PP er
le .^y ne (N.S.W.) Government’s Early-
closing Bill has the usual disappointing blot. It
is to be applicable to Sydney and Newcastle only
but it may be extended gradually to other placos
if a certain number of people apply for its exten-
sion. Ihe Lyne Government recognises that
early-closing is a good thing—yet it is afraid to
apply its good thing all round. Various NSW
ministries also recognised that Local Government
was a good thing, but they were afraid to apply
it all round—or even a tenth of the way round.
Similarly the Shops and Factories Act was applied
to Sydney and Newcastle, and left at that.
The Lyne (N.S.AV.) Government starts its
career by spending =64500 of loan money on forest-
thinning, so apparently it has just about as bad a
financial conscience as its predecessor. It is
alleged, in excuse, that the work will be repro-
ductive. But as nothing is said about applying
the product, if any, towards paying off the debt
incurred, this doesn’t seem to make things much
better. If the country borrows a million for a
reproductive work which pays interest on the
borrowed money and something over, but the
something over isn’t applied to pay off the debt •
it is just plain swindle, and nothing but swindle. ’
The Venezuelan boundary question, re-
cently settled much in favor of Britain, forms an
interesting parallel case to the row over the Rand.
Nobody apparently troubled about the Schom.
burgk Line till rich gold was discovered beyond.
Ihe small republic would have been bullied out of
her territory long ago, had not the U.S.A. taken
up the cudgels on her behalf. Strange, very
strange, how the British national honor and
pocket always have coincident interests. The
apparently abandoned Venezuela in pav-
!n h e f. for Britain s moral support against Spain.
Ihe boundary was fixed by a British and U S
gave Britain not only all it
asked for, but a little more.
Edward Mulcahy, Tasmania’s new Lands
Minister, promises as an important feature of the.
programme of the Lewis-Bird Government, that
it will spend no more loan-money on repairs and
renewals. And it is notable that every member
of the new Ministry voted against this rotten and
thriftless system of finance when the subject
came up last session. If the Lewis-Bird Ministry
will go a step further, and abolish all loan-money
expenditure on unproductive works, it will be not.
only Tasmania’s best Ministry, but the best Min-
istry in all Australasia.
A MORE OR LESS “SPLENDID
OFFER.’
BUSINESS MANAGER (of co. of street-singers): "I
say, mister, if yer'll come and sing ‘ Soldiers
of the Queen’ for us we’ll 'elp yer with a
chorus, and give yer ’arf the collection
Norman Cameron, the Nemesis of Tas.
ex-Minister Miles and the Braddon Ministry
made a brave showing against the new Lands
Minister, Mulcahy, at Hobart, polling within 240
of the Minister in a 3000-vote constituency.
Cameron was handicapped by the fact that he is
a JNorthern man, and therefore a traditional
enemy to Hobart interests ; also he is a novice at
politics, and was out-manoeuvred by Ministerial
electioneers. And Hobart, which is more Irish
than Scotch, dearly loves to be represented by a
Minister of its very own town pump variety: and
further, it isn’t yet quite sure that the man with
a mania for exposing the crookedness of Ministers
and others, would be quite a desirable person to
have about the premises. Cameron stays out of
las. politics awhile, but will contest a federal
seat.
The Seddon Ministry is obviously hard up
for a new and thrilling war-cry for use at next
election. It has done so many reforms that it has
left itself rather short of possible promises. And
yet the loudest and most thrilling war-cry that
Maoriiand has ever heard is available if a great
financier would only take it up. The man who
went to the country with the promise that he
would complete the North Island Trunk line, the
Midland railway and the Otago Central inside
tour years without borrowing a single penny of
the money at interest could make the whole
province s hair stand up in gratitude and astonish-
ment and admiration. And it could be done by
making bank-notes a State monopoly, by requiring
the banks to keep, say, half their local reserves in
btate notes, by running a State lottery in place of
the private Tattersall, and by a rigid refusal to
let go one penny of current taxation, with, possibly,
a temporary special effort in the way of a few
extra imposts.


Ao iQVitatioi)
Turn Dotvn
The Corner
In your Memory
Then you’ll Remember that
PALING’S
IS THE BEST AND CHEAPEST
HOUSE FOR
PIANOS -
ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
R.S.V.P
Call or Write
For Catalogues
W. N. PALIN6 *C» L TP 338
<SEOR<SE STR€€T,
sypNcy
And at
Brisbaije
New cattle
EVERY HOUSEHOLD AND TRAVELLING TRUNK OUCHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE OF
END’S 6 FRUIT SALT ’
A Simple Remedy fop Preventing* & Curing* by Natural Means
0
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
forln^eSSdh^
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable i • ‘Fruit
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to thei use of Eno a trrnt
Salt ’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health ca
over estimated.”— A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
WUkmt a
Prepared only by J. C.ENO, Ltd., at the' FRUIT SALT* WORKS, LONDON, by J.C.ENO’S Patent.
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
HOMOCEA
m
m
TOUCHES
THE
SPOJ
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PART .
For all Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCEA
MBROCATION. Sold in Collapsible Tubes.
Of all Storekeepers, General dealers, arjd Chemists .
SUeUs
■Ly&dfte
:.iu\V 11l
TJev/
Trie
1
£
# W.[ Lops **"£&
Pa*® 11 ® 1 411000 e on
Case hod »" imP ° B fdec»ao Ivss been
L nUeno"'en
«g£s^
b , e ""»,rt » otß ".traction *»t ‘ coKll )eti
Ik is
SSf & ??c°
< vr-'“ r 4^
. „ () f tlvi u t v e ttiarKei-, t \ vA t " ab
uon on v -i t\io ty re , t a
been P n C ty TES
away, '/ retnJttJ' 8 RjqoXJS \
%“JSi^ 01, iefe55 O SB>WO
rW
Li« -
iw TJ**"®^* 84
« fflon fhB.
£
The Qunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of ]|us. [!d.
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
IDont de pief@ (Jo.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST., *7A
SYDNEY “
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
hills discounted, advances made on
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department ®s' E nS°nce.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The C'ty Mutual pfe
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^2*
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gbuarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fnip. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CIiYNE ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar.. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED .. . . 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
„ „ « Years, 5%
>. » 3 Years, 6%.
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
- LJ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loqcloi) & La oca Shire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL -- - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, ±500,000. Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Tie gank of Qorth Queensland
LI All TED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £,709,000
U ipitul Paid-up ... ...£100,00(1
R-'serve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
- Shipp ng.
THE HOWARITsminTNE.
TO
West Ik South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Foi- MELBOURNE',
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
VVAERNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, hat., Nov. 4, 12 Noon.
Kotioowarra, Tues., Nov. 7, 5 p m
Leura, Sat., Nov. 11, 12 Noon
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
POET PIE IE
POET AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., November 28, 5
p.m.
alrany
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., November 28, 5
p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROOKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., Nov. 4, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tues., Nov. 7, 5 p m '
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 11, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tvrian, Sat., Nov. 4, 2 p.m
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 11, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT i
geraldton L
CAIRNS. & e . (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carfro
booked throutrh.
r „ argo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Pares and Freights to all Ports
Return Ticket" Available for Six Months.
R ™ interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker A Co. or Messrs. M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Wy„yard tU sle L ets e Buildin B s . George and
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, & c.
TV T rS,
AND
Con>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
capital laid-up IBED o
RESERVE LIABILITY .7.' 000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
trustee' ® 1 Department > Mr - L - I- Barker registered
Sn^i r h eC F,n : n\f R o G , odfr 7- Es( l-> Chairman :R. Murray
|"‘ th 7, Es v ?-’ n C 2-. M ' G ‘’ M ‘ L - A > Vlce Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq., C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager
no. 412 coiiS^a, AB3istant Manager -
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2 000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. __ 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 50o|o00
Total Capital
.. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . *4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . „ *3,150,574 15 0
Directors;
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; llon. W. IF. Embling, M.L C •
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nieol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office:- Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Kishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar. "
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong) New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
THE—\
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765 - assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager,
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 Pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBKIiT KHltli, Managkk.
The\Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .£1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Ric-hard Jones, M.L.O. •
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; YV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
COLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
, Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
kyaney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 11,916 tons, November
And will be followed by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
vessels ' y 18 c rawn to tlle splendid equipment of these
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class oidy, and
consists ot two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
Derths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dinim'
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character,
burgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
ror rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, Bent Street, SYDNEY.
VIA AMERICA
by the
American A Australian Line
(A. & A. LTNIS>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer. Tons.
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
3158
4000
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Nov.
Dec.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Franoisoo,
Nov.
Dec.
3158 !Jan. 17Llan.
27 Dec. 15
25 .Tan. 12
22 Feb. 9
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Oanada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
F°r time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
(I)‘|luiraith, S go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotai ions, apply ’
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL-
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
WILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M ‘Bryce, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neaie Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
United losdraocc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
liates very Zoiv.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Marine Risks
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
I 0 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5,6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending 1 you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they,require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New Mouth Wales* Barbers* Supply House.
680-082 Gnonon St.
SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(r.IMITI’.D.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Cintra, Friday, Nov. 3.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, Nov. 18.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to
VAS.SE, dongarra,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Ointra, Friday,
November 3.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
November 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
November 3.
Best d Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
G. S. VOILE and CO., (/J’D., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
BRITANNIA
INDIA
VICTORIA
AUSTRALIA
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
—No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
f l ??y, e ™ n ’ ent > calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
L^, I ? E ’ J^ LBANY ’ COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
Will HP OlOnotnLorl AATTTTr 17 f-li .
uooaeu to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
. SPOKEN ON BOARD.
arnval . at T Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
et nLI?TXT a * i 0^ CC S I SS? ny them t 0 Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
9°™P any ’ or by * he Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S. S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE
are d e spa tch ed fro 111 Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals-
AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pm’ Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.L
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161963
Passengers and carrying- 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. 3. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, .Alackay,’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unriddled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 bridge Street.
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTI.F. and PERTH I). Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


STEWART DAWSON & CO
_ - v \ in t» • -Li ~ //>. ▲ UnoiTiocc TioUxr TnpvoQcinor
Everywhere Reliable.^-
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS!
Business Daily Increasing
Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No. E 6721.— Elegant Bird Brooch,
Whole Pearl, 16c. Gold, £ll6s.
No 155. —Artistic Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires,
£8 10s.
No. E244B.—New Design, Bird and Amethyst
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 12s. 6d.
No. 660.—Elegant Brooch, 21 Fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £8 7s od.
O Jd ©
:„
No. E6629.—New Lucky Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 103 6d.
Diamonds 2 Sapphires,
No. 208.— 15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s. 6d ;
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 206.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, 11s 6d.
No. 214. —Neck Chain, 90. 18s 6d ; 15c. £llss.
No. 213.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, £1 2s 6d.
No. 215.—Pearl and
Ruby Heart, 9c. Golift,
16s 6d.
No. 141a.—9c.
Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2los.
No. E 6206. —9c. Gold “ Prince of Wales - Long Muff Chain,
irinpssf-. make. £2 17s 6d , 15c. Gold, £o 10s.
No. 282.—Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s 6d.
Shoe Lift to match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
No. E6203.—9c. Gold Long Muff Chain, £3 ss;
160. Gold, £6 16s.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Hair Brushes,
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355.
As Illustration, £1 2s 6d.
Silver Mounted Combs,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d.
As Illustration, 10s Cd.
9c. Pearl Initial Brooch,
any Letter, 6s 6d.
No. 271a.— Solid Silver Hat Brush,
64m. long, 11s 6d.
Glove Stretcher, Solid Silver Handles, Ivory Points,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d.
As Illustration, £1 2 6d.
No. 173. —Finest White
Diamond, £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds, 18c.,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 261. —Medal.
9c.Gold, £1 Is ; 16c.£117s 6d
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 168a.—18c. Band
Bing, set Fine Diamond,
from £3 to £6 10s.
Bilij
No. 171a.— 18c.. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
Silver, 14s 6d.
Double, 20s.
No 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9c. Gold, £3 3s ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller Sizes in 9c., 85s and 50s.
Smaller Sizes in 15c., 65s and 87s 6d.
No. 175.—Carved Half
Hoop, 5 Fine Diamonds,
£l7 10s, £22, £25 to £5O.
18c. Gold Wedding
Rings,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 60s.
No. 231 A.—150. Gold Locket,
set with 3 Diamonds and
4 Sapphires, £4 10s.
No. 182. Marquise
Rings, Fine White
Diamonds,
£lslos, £2O, £25-£4O
No. 167.—1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 ss.
9c. Gold, £2 17
9c. Double, 3 17
Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
!, £3 3 0 15c. Gold, £4 17 6,
5, £4 15 0 150. Double, 6 16 0,
£5 17 6
10 10 0
Silver, 8/6
Double, 12,6
No. 179a.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, £1 Is. 15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s 6d.
Silver Plated Serviette
Rings, hexagon
design, 5s
No. 193.—Set Links.
9c., 15s 6d ; 15c„ £1 10s.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Gent's Gold Albeits.
15c. Gold, £6 6 0
15c. Double, 9 10 0
:)e. Gold, £3 17 6
9c. Double, 6 6 0
Silver, 15s 6d
. Double, 21s.
No. 196a.— Set Links.
9c. Gold, 17s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llss. Silver, 4/6
Silver Plated Serviette
Ring, semi-circular or tri-
angular designs, ss.
No. 200a.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 18s 6d. 15c. Gold,
£ 1 15s. Silver, 5s 6d.
Fine Silver-Plated Shaving Mug and
Brush, 35a,
New Design Toast; Back, Silver-Plated,
lGs fld.
finest Out-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
37s 6d.
Pair Silver-Plated Knife Rests,
Silver-Plated Out-Glass
Butter Dish, with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
r?.
o~
AW*'*
m
J
m%
>*)
c*s
«er/
S-2
C‘
G )+
m
/y C^)*L r £i
-Si
full Set Combination Brushes and Manicure instruments,
Solid Silver, Mounted in Handsome Case, *o.
Dainty Serviette Holders,
Solid Silver, 3s 6d. Silver-Plated, Is.
No. E 4086.— Silver-Plated Sugar Bowl, with
Sifter, 15s 6d.
Silver-Plated Egg- Frame, 255.
Marmalade Jar and Spoon.
Out-Glass and Silver-
Plated, 6s 6d.
Kf
Out-Glass Scents,
Silver Top, 11s 6d,
21s, 255, 30s.
No. E64l3.—Silver Mounted Cloth Brush.
Elaborately chased, 12}4in- long, £2 10s.
■
i
S/'
Handsome Toilet Set.
Finest Out-Glass and Solid Silver Mounts, 5 Pieces, £lO.
BBSS-S MS
No. B3732.— Combination Spirit-Stand and Cisar £5
Handsome Oak Frame, Nickel Silver Mounts, Finest Cut-Glass Bottles,
rr"r-r
Silver Fruit Knives, Pearl Handles,
2s Gd, 3s 6d, is 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each.
II 111 l 111111 111 l 111
No. 340. —Elegant Silver-Plater! Ink Stand, llin. long, 2 Cut-
Crystal Bottles ; Emu, Kangaroo, or Horse, in centre, -tl lus.
S p ““ s purob “ 9 "
ixquisite character of the goods, any of which will bo
NOTE. —The various lliustratiqns snown " -r. ” OF Specialties (80 pages) Post Free. _ ,t W « TIT
STEWART BAWSON & CO., 412 George Street and Jtand, Sydney. HAW.
T.OTXTPOKr. MBLBOXJRKTK, _A_"U"G3£SI


I3r. LAW’S
COUGHBALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
WHEN you RIDE FIRST CLASS ON the Railway
you take a first-class carriage.
When you ride first-class on a Bicycle you select
A MASSEY-HARRIS:
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
P f op L e either B?mg themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising l burglars’ har
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—ulate
street fbaek a o P f e p a V etC ‘7 at a h ! 6 S ? dney Safe deposit, Ash-
a elv hri L k I ™’"*? ’ and bl,s,ness there is proportion-
artly biisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
for storaee Pe °Saf he " ,aSSive Va V ,tS ' and terms
tor stoiage f sates may now be rented upon reduced
at rates a * d }OXeS recelvod for Bt °rage at very moder-
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet
des, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp!
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Lmide a shark recently killed at Wharis
tav w found a woman’s leg, comnlete
““ ired *
Ihe latest wholesale thief-paper is Lon-
rio-ht PH BITS ’ w - hich stea]s ori £h>al and copy-
right Blllei’in pictures and stories without
acknowledgment.
O* T* 7K K 7*
bC'SI SiCZtLX
M feature of Merit.
Found Only in
1900 Model
Red Birds.
.Another new feature, which is most important on account of its
composed of *** Bird S6at post fastener ~
anlTo^isi<Et?^ W ?k^^/®^ u k?^ as^^S^ttier n
superior‘to other eye"® ° f **“ " , °" jr little features makes The Bed BM “st'rijht and
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
'PJJ “od pioog sqQ
Factories:—
Brantford, Canada.
Hgeuts—everywhere.
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st., Sydney, Heao Office in
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Australia
AGENTS
WANTED EVERYWHERE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
At time of writing Oxenhatn’s Gauleon on the
Cup to f' S C u U r eld is favorite for Melb
Cup at 8 to 1 . with Cocos, Le Var, Mora and Dewey
twelees” and Wait-a-bit, Voyou, F.eet Admiral, Wa!
Go I and Balhstite all being- backed at prices ranging from
fifteens to “ twenty-fives." The amount of cash that
keeps going on Mora is surprising, and she promises to
stai tas warm a favorite as she did at Caulfield Fleet
Admiral is another on whom the coin is stenHiii, 1 •“
drib filed. Two outside bets that look worth tiki ng'arf
33 and 50 to 1 respectively about Clarion and Lee-\leUord
Both nags are fit and fast, and it will be strand if
don t both shorten greatly before the race * they
*** * *
All the years The Bulletin has ha hided
pees and their chances in the V.R.C. Derby and Jkdf,"
Cup it has never known the atmosphere of reasonable
supposition to he so hazy as now. To be<»in with thp
wi e se ,^e a ; ,tfiCult race t 0 discuss b > a way will’look
JJ se °f ter } he event. Last year this scribe felt quite safe
i that. Cocos was the only animal likelv to
a** 0 , ? dl, T» r,rl u in ~" an<i Cocos did heat “ Bobby *by
arf-a-ead. This year there is no apparent excuse for
naming any one candidate as a ceriainty for even a
plate. Cranberry, Scorn, Dewey, Parthian, Tremar-
den, Lancaster, Gungadin, Iteviver, and Merriwee are
likely runners for the Derby. The two that looked most
dangerous three weeks ago—Cranberry and Scorn—are
objects of suspicion at time of writing. If the bi«- son of
Cran brook were in the “form” which won the
S.\dne\ Derby and Wycombe Stakes and landed him
second for the Metropolitan Handicap with 7.12 on his
young hack he would, luck permitting, capture the blue
ribbon at Hemington next Saturday. But Cranberry
gallops on the track as though something had gone
wiong with him. He is sore—lie is lame—he has a curb
likewise a liver or a cold on the kidneys, say the touts’
Then there is a shrewd guess that rheumatism is the
matter with this brilliant colt, the result of t
r.nsferred from warm Sydney to wintry Melbourne.
The weather tlipre has been wintry nearly all the time
since Cranberry changed his quarters; and a sudden
arrna of summer might make a wonderful difference to
him -hut who knows? Scorn is a fine colt, and probably
fSi 1 , mt . the fact that he ‘‘ shut-up ”in the
Caulfield Cup race doesn t prove him inca, able of run-
ning gamely under Derby conditions. Dewey threatens
to start first favorite for the w.f.a. event, nevertheless
fhn<f e f lf0r, "?r oes 0f l>a >' ten ' s colt have not been great
wli- t a u He ,. camw < b-l'-l in Caulfield Cup. Well
thP n i ' VO !' f ~'e , .' e race WILh 7 - 3 - and afterwards failed in
the Dei by If Cranberry and Scorn can gallop their vert-
best next Saturday they will manage to beat Dewev
Treinarden, Merriwee and the improving Parthian are
also possible winners ; anyway,-good judges prefer them
to Lancaster, Gungadm and Reviver. Exnectimr ih»
Derby hero (whichever it may be) to get a place for the
Cup T.ik Bulletin takes Cranberry to beat Scorn
Parthian and Dew ey. Should Cranberry after all run up
to his Randwick reputation in the 3-vear-old event he
will ook a “ good thing' for the Cup, whi4 is more than
can be said for any of the other youngsters
*** ’ *
„-J. n t P ' ckinp “ I d f' vl birds ” from the crowd of old
well-known candidates for Melb. Cup, the proverbial
m.ui-in-ihe-street shows an idiotic contempt for the
handicapper, who makes a business of tryin<» to nut all
the seasoned performers on equitable te,-ms From
handicapper Dakin’s point of view every old identity has a
chance to win the Cup. Several of the fancied ones this
year have already had a go for the big stake and the
man who makes a selection from among them must try
r r eauSH why the others are not just as trusG
Wm-PnH Co^°®- G .a»' us ; The Chief, Wait-a-Bit, Clarion,
Wai God, and April tool have travelled the 2-mile course
and of these The Bulletin- prefers The Chief, Wait-a-Bit’
wm Zttl G ,°h d ' Pr ? bab| y the Melbourne Slakes running
will settle the question as to their present relative merits
but at tune of writing the answer can only be «riessed at’
Cocos, who van a good third in the Cup last year, would
ba „ e a ,? reat show this time if he were quite fit.
Clever punters assume that Cocos might have gone
rj,V.°h' Var< fit Caulfield if his stable companion, Dewey,
hadii been winning, but, as a matter of fact, the big
chestnut was ridden hard in all of his recent
r a ;' e *. a i altbou k r h he seems pretty certain to get
eienik e “ hrst n ?, xt * Tu ? sda y. he doesn’t look suffi-
nin nt i vvounfl ‘ u P , to win. Gaulus is now 8 years
old, and not, perhaps, in the condition which landed him
a 111 ' • His stable companions, The Chief
and \\ ar God, are said to be better than Gaulus lint
there is no doubt that wily William Forrester has had
some trouble with both of them. They seem mbe now
improving daily, and inasmuch as War God (a maiden
horse) is the more certain stayer of the pair, arid has but
7.10 (four pounds mote than he carried into fourth place
last year), and is all the better for being five years old
considering that the Carbine stock “comes on” at that
age, this scribe expects him to win. Wait-a-Bit the
unlucky horse in last Cup, has to hump 121 b. more than
w_hen he nearly beat, the Grafter, but if he gets fair luck
this tune WaU-a-Bit (on latest assurances from Ballarat)
wil! run into a place. The doubt in his case is as to
him h ThP, e p e h Xtra i Wel ~ hfc Will not be a little too much for
Ballarat horse ** Seemed t 0 be a vveak spot in the
A while ago The Bulletin fancied Fleet
Adn ! , , ral ff F Cup, with the hope that his cloven hoof
would heal rapidly. Unfortunately it didn’t heal much
and the beauteous steed is still short of condition. Le
Var, Cranberry, and Balhstite in the same stable may be
expected to beat F A If one of them is to actually win
the Cup it will probably be Cranberry, for although Le
Var must run well, the mare. Contrast, on recent
*°*i! n , sb ° illb beat him. Mora, Voyou, and Dirk Ham-
"a,rerbal?d n° n • appeal to , the of this writer, as
far as the Cup is concerned. The only thing against La
Carabine is her appearance.
Nobody can deny that La Carabine should run
prominently at, Flemington, but nobody cares to back a
mean, weedy-looking mare to do the trick outright
Ganleon s second to Dewey in the Caulfield Cup, iudo-ed
in the light of the fact that he is an own brother to two
Cup winners, built of the stuff that improves with a«-e
places Oxenham’s horse one of the first in everybody’s
fancy. He must run well. Tiie Bulletin’s tip is to
begin with, Gauleon for a “shop.” Then War God
Gauleon Uait-a-B.t, Cranberry (if he takes the Derby),
The Chu*f, Contrast, Cocos La Carabine, and anv Derby
liero other than Cranberry as a lot, to beat the field ! ft
is an absurd thing to venture a guess at this year’s Cuu
result, a week before the race, so the prediction had
better be expressed in preposterous verse.
Protesting they would ne’er be Slaves
Our sogers sailed last week,
Because Britannia rules the waves
And cant stand Kruger’s “cheek.”
The Briton and the pious Boer
Have got their danders up;
Our fancy in this time of war
Is War God for the Cup.
In ninety-eight, The Grafter won,
A peaceful ’orse was he :
’Twixt him and gallant Carbine’s son
Came Wait-a-Bit anti C. (Cocos)
We’ve waited and we ll see, no doubt,
The Bull-dog “ blood ” his pup,
And in the meantime we will shout
When War God wins the Cup.
c fl nTe ou^of d S 1 X ' e ?’ F, ° ddon and V °y°u,
Phoenix Handicap “"2 fi , rBt \" d Be ™" d «»
Valley (Vic), Saturday A i"ead on. r J° nSS) at , Woonee
Both are much fancied for Melh PnX B ?P arated them.
has done splendid track wort 1 a,,d - tllou^h each
alo njf better thanan%S?efe£ «*ttlng
form of neither was un .h» < * l ?, n—the P ,,b lio
twice heavily backed dunng the Daslffew v V °t° U Btarted
more than disappointingly Vovou Hv« V m k V nd ran
on -Saturday, but in Melh r„ v # °/ ou Save Hoddon 4lbs.
ASKS; SQ&TMU r " e, rs e
ey-owned and trained nags tao home. P ’ S ’ d *
mo.)
if there were no other starters e. h „ a and ach,eveui ents as
reported last week that Sweetheart Krt Sf 00 "!* U « aa
“ Tom ” Muir, whilom owner EZfu ,^ e . n bo,, Sht by
clinkers. AJr. Muir's colm-s h-^° lth Bnttsh and other
course since his dispute with the^i 6 not T fi ~" red on any
little better than a year S?™ 0 " 66 . Va ! le -V steward's
should have -ot home at ihe fivs & t ? " e ’ ', 8n r ' H - that he
fresh start, ami on tLat particular tract I* *" his
was gathered in over the result. 1 k A k ° od stake
hi >W Wr™. the
institution in other parts of fhZi°K S re ' est ablish his
and at last the histor c f' n mn ’ hav e been defeated
wherein to lay its odds ollln ffwood tote has no place
the^nli, was seen
out a finish in the Stewards’ ..^ ln,s ters horses flghting
lion.‘‘Billy ” Crick’s Poll n M,le \, Tbe "eddies were
sal s Murraf led" nZ fh V°"' u Tom ” Has '
°*zi w "“''
” Tw’oodio back
the States 12 months, "he’s a rX&d JZ-'Z ° nly j"
down Easter “Sav »r ■ dyed-in-tne-wool "
says. “ Streuth footer bZw id v . e h f e ’” he
where de dough is, never saw an vth?n rl' S °? ? de P ,ace
the Prince of Wales ain’t in it " v tbln ~ ,ke it in me life ;
—spring chicken and a cold h„ h aS ,mn is concerned
what sort? And them Frcich d-' 6 CVPr - v !“">< eh !
five hours at ’em ; hli me if I ain’VfeeHn’ hn'd 6 USef } t 0
dose guys across dere, dev are the j d ov . er leav,n
Sat St^eSST-
and lived like a fUrhtincr coct- f £ l V" fi ' bts and lo - q t three,
rhage of the lungs and feeding on liquor VX hn!‘T
got on over the death of prizeXhter j ,n °u he
he was seconding at the time “Oh ' , " h ? m
Tweedie; “my girl out im "i nn’dci° h .’ ", rl r ,li ' ht ’ re P»'<? d
was square wicl oSilS'. & V" d [
are yoircXteZ?’ n and'rd osay 0 say “"‘' V’ ‘
’Frisecblake my "tip.” lookin ' ' for no betleZplacZXn
* * •
Mmm
Brfnkliiy. JlAve.l H.S? SS ’SSJA ’Si
realise what’had' ha°ppe^ed? V 'RefweZdlcfaZl’TheTht
srwa-jrsi
* * » ,
Westralian feather Tom Cox and “Kaffir”
2 ' 2 ," m ' ut : es hofc work at Golden Gate AO
(Sydney) Saturday night last. Fight extended u» to
about close of first minute in eighth round when Cox
ir p r ra r; njr s . tiai - ht ,eft fai| - °n the “point*
J b ? k a L- k Bbook fronl bead to heel. Though hadlv dazed
and .broken-up generally, he gamely struggled to keen
upright, but was roughed down twce-omeor? and
next 9 secs On his feet again, weak and tottering
L ss!er caught a vicious viinful smash fair on the “mark" 1
which sent him to the boards doubled up. It was such a
blow as that wherewith Fitzsimmons snatched the world’s
championship from Corbett, and, as with the latter then
so with “The Kaffir” on Saturday night-he knew M
had happened and what was happening, but could do
absolutely nothing-no, not if the destiny of millions
hinged upon his rising. Cox led in the first 4 round"
tired perceptibly in the sth and 6th, and came Tam
towards the end of the 7th. Excitement was at Z er-
adniission"fee? Ut ’ a ” d ab ° Ut B °° people paid double UBU al
«< *• * * *
“Old Timer”: Saw Cox and “the Kaffir”
f ° bt at n Go,d ? n Gate A.C. (Sydney) on Saturday night
last. Foi mer is a dead ring ” for his brother, “ Snowy ”
the jockey. Referee M‘Donald stated that Cox scaled
8.7, and the colored chap 8.2. On appearances. I’d like
to use their scales for selling, but would want others for
buying. Think it simply finding money to wager that
Cox pulled nearer 9st. (if not more) than 8.7 and that
another 41b or 51b. would almost hit “the Kaffir's”
poundage. Cox looked readied to the hour-a mass of
elastic musde. Sydney hasn’t had a more taking sftie
of fighter since the days of Dawson, Maher and co • he
uses both hands freely and effectively and lands
clean. Lefts were jabbed in “the Kaffir's” mouth or
hooked on his jaw almost at will, while the rio-hfc
f ayed about the ribs cr-uelly and occasionally attended
to the poin t. Cox was a man on wires all through—head"
rln"h anC | e^B k e Pt tf 01 ng to jig-time ; his much-longer
tumrh fp P rt? ha m e ? ln ' «' l ; eatPr height made things very
!?»- b f . o ,', tb f, black. Re the knock-out blow on the
ba ? ke wK J Vnter often wonders why latter-day pu<>-s
overlook hat part, and go solely for‘the face-whePe
there s only one vulnerable spot, the point of the chin
Have seen men swing or “cross” 50 times in a fi.'ht
without getting home fair, while from the chest down
was as open as could be ; one square punch round
the short rib would settle th 2 strongest man as^ oZ
pletely as Cox did “the Kaffir”; besides, look at the
cffin-po'hit? 06 presented as coa ' Pared with the inch of
* * * *
„? K ” A : lu Sa 'y most decisive knock-ont possible at
Sydney Alhambra. Salmday night. “The Poet” who
met Ctnuller" ’’wJ'^ dra "' " it,h Mnorilander’Crihb,
mer, uhanuer. Two stiff savage rounds passed* then
early in thud,3 mins the man of verses “cross® d’’’beaut 1
fully on the point with the right, and as “ the Poet’s”
n-flZi 11 8t “ Perhaps) was behind the blow, Chan tier
h-fnk f° VVn '7i th a I’esoun(lm 1 ’ esoun(lm - th ud and actually bounced
ma'inpit three niches before stretching out; he re-
mained oblivious to everything for a minute.
* * 9 *
t yT°!!, r !r Ton ? Malone > son of Old-timo champion
T.M., promises to prove a chip off the old block At the
Commonwealth Sports (Sydney) on Saturday the voi.n.,
s L ei won the 100yds for boys under 12 and the 15Owls for
boys under 14. Old Tom, in ’B4 ran loivds in '
136yds. in 12Jsec. : and 350yds. in 37 2-ssec. 11 ec ' ’
tt !! ? nP ,° f , Lea ,- ue ” (Whit« Cliffs): Druids’ Lodge
Hote undoubtedly, as the sports are beim- promoted bv
that bodj*, and they find the prizes.
* * * *
«SJ« K!‘
18-footer Donnelly, to which she was conceding 4inin
* * *
Said that the offer of a good berth has lured
umiTr P ” 0 a n r"d V^^ l e avn^ reddi , e ’’ Lane "laying “down
feaSS 5 %£
ir.hrSnfWWa?
°‘ # And no 0,^ e comes along to till the breach.
siS&Ss a *‘“«
* • * ,
land^° sa T er t e h cheered three times in Eng-
J, ’ saj the returned Australian cricketers “and
ah theTn G th l° oC - aB . ionS 0f our three defeatL After
soonet the 7'• one -^ ed ” llle «°rld over, and the
sooner tiie tact is recognised the better. The Aus-
tralians can take credit for viewing the fact more
time° S 0 tha "i'f id Ranj-il Stoddart and co. last
t alia -is , ! l B ]' 10 d, fferenoe between England and Aus-
,w ‘ Jo ° ’***•" **•»
* • * *
foaSl 8 . °[, * he , next English team
T ide, Rh f -—Hayward, Jackson, Ranji, Maclaren, try,
A O ’iSiM X 0"" n’ Bradlev > -t'ownsend, J. T. B.’ovwi
a. u. Jones, Lockwood, and Storer or Board. Joseuh has
A*s lo Albert 6 “Vi* 18 Enfrlish papers’ impartiality,
tbout A h ’ LT U ;u lllere ls ,10t the slightest doubt
about his being the best bowler in England The
bow int"- 16 ! 1 se f ,n t 0 know anything about his
bowling , Australians knew more about his tricks ”
* * * ,
'- h °- Wa , a , £ ivin S his opponent half the
f, a ‘ !® d " ni'imgall the way, made a break of 463 on a
sJrokes ba e rred. la the ° ther Week ’ ot a,ld P ush
* • *
School^of EubLETra —.2? e y o Ur statement that the
School of Aits Chess Clud has, in the name of JVS.W.,
tha Ns w it’ t 0 A a "' atcll - in Januar y, let me point out
havoCntt’ , G , h ? SS Ass °c'ation is the only body winch can
nave right to use the name of the province in such
a . case - u- , e Association is supported by about 30 N.S.W.
"'h |Cl > clubs have authorised the Association to act
£ho,u J’Ti! UV u • ,nt matters, and as the
School of Aits Club is one of these you must be in error.
As to the further statement that Sydney Chess Club has,
in the name of the province, challenged Queensland to a
match in Nov., the Chess Association has constantly pro-
tested against Sydney Gliess Cluh usurping the rights and
privileges of all the other clubs and unattached players,
and presuming and arrogating to itself the right to select
an Intel-provincial team.-R. Hodgson, President, Chess
Association of N.S.VV.
* * * .
Taking the full list of batting and bowling
averages lor the last English cricket season (down to the
end of August), it is hard to figure out a reason why the
Australians didn’t have the worst, instead of somewhat
the best, of those five test-matches. The averages repre-
sent the form of the rival champions under practically
equal conditions. All Kurland men had to bat and bowl
at one tune and another against counties, picked teams,
and the Australians, whilst the visitors were uieelin***
counties, picked teams, and All England. Compare the
nine best Australian averages for all matches with the
same men’s performances in test-matches, leaving deci-
mals out of the calculation
All Matches. Test Matches.
23 Innings 40 runs 60 runs
Darling ... 53 ~ 39 „ 27
Noble 46 „ 38 „ 52 ,
Worrall ... 37 „ 36 „ 45
Tru m per ... 45 „ 36 „ 35 ’
Iredaie ... 35 „ 34 ~ 25 ”
Laver 35 „ 30 „ 12
Trumble ... 47 „ 30 „ 38 ,
S. E. Gregory 47 „ 27 „ 23
310 317
They averaged 317 runs per innings in test-matches as
against 310 in all matches. Now take the bow-ling figures
omitting the case of O. M‘Leod, who played in only one
test-match for a baiting average of 108 and a bowling
average of 1 wicket for 131 runs, and of Laver, who took
4 wickets at 17 runs per wicket.
All Matches. Test Matches
Trumble 139 wickets 18T8 runs 15 wickets 25-4 runs
Jones 116 „ 22-30 „ 26 25'23
Howell 94 ~ 22*40 ~ 8 ” 43*25 ”
Noble 81 ~ 22-59 ~ 13 ” 30"61 ”
Jones, the most destructive bowler in the tests, was very
litile more expensive to his side than in all matches-
neither did Trumble and Noble fail in the tests. Now let
anyone look at some comparative averages among the
Englishmen, and try to find solutions of the mystery.
Here are twelve names, picked from the crowd who
played for All England in one or more of the five Rests.
The four last men on the list are not counted as batsmen!
Batting.
All matches. Tests.
_ .. Innings, rims. runs.
Ranji 55 65 .. 35
Hayward 46 59 .. 68
Townsend 50 65 .. 17
Jackson .. .. ..42 44 43
C- B. Fry 65 44 23
Storer 47 30 . 3
Lockwood 38 36 24
Brockwell .. .. ... 47 33 !! 20
Bowling.
All matches. Tests.
r , . wkts. runs. wkts. runs!
Lockwood M .. .. in 20-04 7 14-8
Bradley .. .. 142 19- 6 38’8
Rhodes .. ... ..163 16-95 13 27‘7
Mead 146 1810 1 92-
Young .. _ .. .. 134 21-42 12 21-
The explanation of the Australians’ success in test
matches lies in the bowling figures, no doubt, but how is
one to arrive at it?
* • * •
Boxing, which for eight years had been as dead
at Broken ILII as last year’s mushrooms, has sprung- into
vigorous life again—chiefly as the result of the importa-
tion of mine-hands from different provinces, and the
return of others from the West. It was Broken Hill ’alls
in their palmiest days that gave Joe Goddard his first
championship ; after he went everything seemed mild
• * * »
The magic number. Seven bulls-eyes in seven
shots, at 700 yards, was the remarkable score put up the
other day, at Mudgee, by Private Walsh, N.s.W. volun-
teer for the Transvaal.
* * * *
Religion has many eyes for the “gambling evil.”
In Roman Catholic France the bookmaker and the tote
h t side b.v side at Sunday race-meetings. 111 England
the home of bookmaking, the law snorts at the idea of
legalising any form of gamble, and sniv.Jsome Noncon-
formists would even “ put down ” racecourses if they
could. In the Transvaal, where the Government to
bed with a Bible under its pillow, the Luth ran conscience
finds 110 fault with the tote. Let Aust aiian punters bear
in mind the fact that Paul Kruter allowed the Uitlanders
to tote as much as they pleased.
Disappointed backer (to beaten cricket-team):
“ ’Oo sez yer'r the best team wo could pick? Picked i—
you was never picked ! Yer’r blanky windfall s / ’
• • * •
“Asmodeus”: How to win prizes at rifl i
meeting's : At the Butts lay the marker a bit to nothing
and use blank cartridges. This is a decided improvement
upon all other haphazard moth' ds. -
“Gipsy Jones,” the noted purse-fakir, obituar
ised in nearly every N.S.W. newspaper, is still alive at
Forbes and ready to let any churchwarden or Sunday-
school superintendent have three ha’pennies when
the pious plungers hand out a pound sterling for
three golden sovereigns covered up in a purse.
Whenever an immaculate investor struck copper
after bargaining for gold, he “performed” like a man
wholly unacquainted with the ten commandments, and
generally called in the police. “Gipsy "would then ex-
plain that he sold the purse with its contents, and if the
purchaser thought he was stealing a march on Jones he
was mistaken. The police only smiled and recommended
the purchaser to open the purse in future before invest
ing. And the crowd laughed. If a prosecution followed,
Jones always produced a hawker’s licence and the case
was dismissed.
» • • *
Yum-Yum, an old-time Sydney trotting maro
—she must be 11 or 12 years at least —unexpectedly won
a trotting race at Auckland (M.L.) the other day, anti
paid to each of the three investors on the tote (10s.) £B3
One of these lucky ones was a Chinkie who had backet'
her by mistake.
* » * *
Result-slip of “ Tatt’s.” No. 1 Melb. Cup sweep
shows curious spokes in the wheel of blind chance. Many
investors, singly or combined, take fancied numbers Oi
buy bulk lots. An order reaching Tatt. for 3014 ticket-,
when 4729 had just gone would strike a snag : not a horse
in the whole boiling—their only solatium being £195 in
various cash prizes. As a counterblast a luekv gambler
taking three consecutive tickets from 11,912 would get.
Uvo horses, Strath joy and Snapshot; 14,000 and 15,000 no
horses, and only i 65 in small cash prizes. Any takfer of
the last thousand would get £l7O in cash prizes and five
horses, including three probable starters, for his £250.
* * * •
An outsider that- may be beard of in the Melb
Cup is the 6 year-old Blue Metal (7.11), a horse who hat
hitherto done good track-work, and mostly put hir
backers in a hole.
* • • *
Looks as if the mother province is going to scoot
the pool in Victoria this year. Caulfield and Moonei
valley hig events already belong to Sydney, and
Maribyrnong, Melbourne and Williamstown plums 100 l
particularly well for N.S.W. stables. Last year Melb
Cup was the only solace—a substantial balm certainly,
but nothing to what seems available this spring.
“ Wa J ”: Bulletin, *2B/10/’99—“A fighter is the
poorest judge of a fighter’s capabilities.” That’s rmht
Peter Jackson had a wonderful opinion of Tom Kelly auc
Paddy Ketle.v, neither of whom could put a dent in a
pound of butter. Jackson also brought out Steve O’Don
''ell, and thought he could bfat George Seale. Seale met
O Donnell twice, and on each occasion simplv smothered
the big fellow. Another bit of bad judgment on Jack-
son -s part was the matching of Paddy Moran against
Jack Hall. Moran, at the time, was a clever youngster
without ring experience, and Hull was considered by
many the smartest light-weight Svdnev had seen Hall
gave Moran a terrible drubbing, and it was touch and-go
that an inquest was not necessary. Moran was the
makings of a first-class boxer, but Jackson’s bad judg-
ment tn putting him against Jack Hall at the outset of
his career cowed him, and the ring knew him no more
* * * *
An Eng. sporting paper, in speaking of New-
haven.says;‘‘Meman’s victory over Newhaven in Good-
'V’P'L Cup was fully expected. . . As a matter
of fact Newhaven is not half a stayer, and it now has been
that . he . do< | s n °t r- lish a distance." And
this of the Australian idol Newhaven, who won his Melb
Cup, 2 miles; his Champion Stakes, 3 miles; his Vic-
mightyfallen! AJC ‘ St ‘ Leger - Uow have
* * • •
Several Sydney cycling scribes have been busy
proclaiming Dick Mutton, winner of the auto-cvcle-
paced tournament at recent League sports, as a ‘new
f Before ranking him with Bilmartin and co"
it «ould be well to remember that theonepacing-machine
won every heat, the other either breaking down or failing
X? h! 6 u P e I ,0 u sfl ? pace t 0 kee P the rider behind ir warm •
SHr fc r°hi h n C uck f ? pet ,he " 00rl "'"chine every time!
FWtn hl L e 2 ,,al l lacln " against, say, Maoriland
Foibes, whom he beat in the first heat, and see which
man the public cash goes on !
* • * *
Bar one, which shouldn’t be hard to guess
Sjdney betting-shops are decidedly cronk. Though all
profess to record scratches exceptions are made and
moment ° S r ° n “ pubho fancies left on the list till last
_ * • .
N S w eS Lrlp9 aul n el ? ”• Wa ? the sevent h won by
JN.h.W. horses. Reckoning from ’Bl, ten have been
by Tasmania Oui C of'n'vi" 6 Q« e ™sland, and another
\v.,i L a a 'i ° utof 1? Moonee Valley Cups, New South
\\ ales has only secured two—last Saturday 's and that of
two years ago per medium of S. Hordern’s Mirella
* * *
Remarkable how the name of old Carbine has
! 1 - ve i m th ® hea rts of Australians. A victory by one of
his descendants, even if a rank outsider, in this year’s
Melt). Cup would be wonderfully popular. Amongst
others, Lee-Metford, Clarion, George Frederick War
“Old - e ’ f^ a ,9 arabine > and R'fleite will run for
Old Jack in the big event, and if one of the former
a start* nmn th<3 t 0 f b ' S , Credit ’ Rifleite should, with
a stait, l m a great race for last place. He is about the
most hopeless animal in the event—bar, perhaps the
quadruped known as Leeming’s Boots. P ’
(Continued on page 31.)


m
0
V;
Hf
A “SPANKING
Good . • •
Tobacco!
o
#
Be sure
"you ask for it
IT BEATS THEM ALL.
_l3
*
A
ffRFECI
L»>
>
THE
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEY
Sole PistribfttiQg AgeQt
(for A6StralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-263 Clarence Street , Sydney,
M E M O R Y!
LINNEAN MEMORY LESSONS.
EASY TO LEARN. SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Prof- Brown, 42 Elizabeth-St., Sydney-
Over 600 practical illustrations, showing hoxv to learn,
with rapidity and certainty, history, geography, figures,
dates, foreign languages, chemistry, physiology, ledger
folios, names, addresses, and the theory of music, counter-
point, harmony, etc. Taught hy correspondence. Pros-
pectus, terms, testimonials, etc., free.
Testimonies of those who have learnt it
Dr. B. B. Ham, F.R.C.S., Guy’s Hospital, London.—“l
heartily commend it to every medical student. By it,
the thousand confusing names of drugs, nerves, muscles,
etc., can be quickly and surely memorised. It has been
a great boon to me, and I wish to bear testimony to the
simplicity, utility, r nd wonderful results of your system.”
Rev. \V. E. BromiliOW, Missionary.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory. By it I learnt the
almanac for the year in about two minutes, and could
give instantly the day of any date and vice versa. Its use
must be of great assistance to students.
W. J. Simpson, Council Chambers, Newcastle, N.S.W.—
“ Was very sceptical when I began. You said there was
no miracle about it. But taking the simplicity of your
natural methods and the wonderful results produced as
compared with the old repetition method one might truly
say it is indeed miraculous. I must express my gratitude
for having acquired such a boon for so small a sum.”
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
JA MBS COMBES, formerly of Longley, Tasmania.
To your advantage to communicate at once with
Herbert and Ada Oombes, Longley, Tasmania.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ia
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
■ GEO. W. ELLIS.
Proprietor -
Griffith, M.L.A., on the Boer question :
“ The conduct of the (Jutlanders’ Committee from
start to finish proves that they don’t want the
Franchise—they want the Transvaal.”
Premier Kingston has been dispossessed
of the family mansion in which he was born and
has lived all his life—an old-fashioned place built
by his father, George K., when the latter was
a struggling architect in Adelaide. The son has
now to leave it owing to family litigation and his
own impecuniosity, born of the pursuit of politics
and consequent neglect of his once splendid legal
practice. There is no private subscription to help
Kingston out of his troubles. His political ft iends
—the workers—are as poor as he is himself, and the
opulent class is against him to a man.
James Tobias Ryan—“ Toby” Ryan
who died in Woollooinooloo, Oct. 17, aged 82,
ambitioned authorship in the far past, and had
his hand on a new venture when his career closed.
Re was member of N.S.W. Parliament nearly 40
years ago. The chief value of his “ Reminis-
cences of Australia” lies in the character and
local sketches. Being almost a Sydney native
he was born near Penrith- —lie knew nearly every-
body and chats in a free and easy way about per-
sons and tilings now prominent at head-quarters.
In Parliament he showed some knowledge of
what should be a suitable Land Law. He also
took interest in stock-raising, and though never a
political power earned a reputation for shrewd
sense. In his later life he lost most of the money
gains of earlier days, but cultivated a cheerful
philosophy, and took the end without murmur.
The wail of the Jingo in his agony. It
was at Toowoomba (Q.), and Lieut.-Col. Ricardo
had requested Transvaal volunteers to stand
forth. The “ death-devoted ” were then addressed
by a local major, who leaned upon his sword and
lifted up a voice choked with emotion :
This is the bitterest moment in my life, because I know
now lam not going to South Africa. I lived in hopes I
might at least have an opportunity of proving before I
die l hat I am a soldier, but now I know it is not so. . . .
I know Queenslanders will give a good account of them-
selves, and we are proud to be the first to give support
to the mother country in her trouble. I understand
those who have left the Mounted Infantry will have a
chance of going if they desire it. I envy them, their
ehance. I again say this is the bitterest moment in my
life; I want to fight for my country before I die.
The whole corps was moved to blow its collective
nose, and things looked very damp till the gallant
Colonel, choking down his sobs, seized the wail-
ing Jingo by his sunburnt paw and tried to com-
fort him w th the reflection that there might be a
fight in Afghanistan or Russia and the gory
Kangaroo might bo invited to rip a diaphragm,
and lie urged his dear friend not to despair. But
the strong Jingo in his agony refused to be com-
forted. And yet all his woe didn’t make him pay
his own passage by mail steamer, and be an
honorary volunteer in some of the local corps.
Even in the bitterest moment of his life he
wouldn't shift without having his expenses paid.
The Criminal Evidence Act just passed in
Westralia (though it hasn’t-yet come into force)
allows a prisoner for the first time to give evidence
on his own behalf. Hitherto Westralia has stuck
manfully to the good old idea that when there are
two persons involved—the accuser and the accused
—the accuser should be allowed to tell his side of
the case at full length, and the accused shouldn’t
be allowed to swear to his version of the
affair. It will be interesting to see how the new
idea is worked in Westralia. In Victoria it works
very simply and very beautifully. If an tinin-
fluential prisoner charged with a serious crime
gives evidence on his own behalf and is convicted,
he is prosecuted for perjury. If fm gives evidence
and is acquitted he is prosecuted for perjury. If
he doesn’t give evidence at all, Chief Justice
Madden draws the attention of the jury to the
fact that he has made no serious effort to deny
the charge brought against him, and hints that
he thereby practically admits his guilt.
Captain Miles, Tasmania’s fallen Lands
Minister, who resigned his seat in order to appeal
to liis constituents for a clear certificate of charac-
ter, didn’t appeal after all. Two small nonentities
ran for the seat, but the bluff sea-captain who was
going to clear his name till it shone like a bright
new billy didn’t turn up.
Janies Johnson, lighthouse - keeper at
Nobby’s, Newcastle (N.S.W.), sole survivor of
the wrecked Dunbar, has got six months' leave
with a view to retirement from the lighthouse ser-
vice at the end of that time. He has been 36
years at Nobby’s, and altogether 42 years in Govt,
employment—during which time he has not had
three weeks’ holiday in all.
A Perth shopkeeper has found himself
between the devil (if municipal law and the deep
sea of Parliamentary law. The former says that
he shall not sweep his shop-front after 8 ; the
latter that he shall not employ servants in his
shop before 8. “ Then must I sweep out my shop
myself?” he pleaded. “But the magistrate’s
only answer was—“ Fined one shilling.”
A man at Gundagai wanted badly to go on
the land. The inspector reported against his
application. He appealed to the local Land
Board, which, after a lengthy hearing, granted the
application. Thereupon the man fell on his knees
in court and in loud and emphatic phrases fer-
vently blessed the members of the Board.
A Bulletin paragraph of Oct. 14th stated
that Taverner, Yic. Minister of Agriculture, took
his brother-in-law with him to England at the
country's expense. It seems that Mir. Sherard
(sec. to Melb. Exhibition trustees), who accom-
panied Minister Taverner on his cheerful mission
to London, is not. a brother-in-law. As a matter
of fact, Taverner and Sherard are nowise related
to one another.
Queensland's new Criminal Code Bill, as
originally drafted, made stealing a will punishable
by 1 m prison men t for life with hard labor and with
or without solitary confinement at the Judge s
option. On the motion of a Labor member the
solitary was left out. Concealing a will was also
punishable by life imprisonment, hard labor (ituL
solitary. Demanding property by threats, ditto.
Obtaining execution of a deed by threats, more
ditto. In fact as originally drafted the law was
so comprehensive that if the harmless necessary
tailor demanded property (t.c., the .£4 4s. for a
tweed suit that had been owing for six months) by
the threat that failing payment he would apply to
the debtor’s father, it is difficult to say what
dreadful thing might not happen to him.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wise, at Asli-
field, said that “ whatever this Govt. (Lyne’s)did,
it would never accept power without responsi-
bility. Yet hardly a man amongst the Govt, has
ventured a straight-out opinion upon the Trans-
vaal expedition. At most they have carefully
explained that they only kept the chariot
rolling which had been started along by their pre-
decessor Reid. When the re-action comes along—
which will probably be when the bill comes in
(the real bill), with the butcher’s-bill tacked on to
it, not the temporary advance of =£3o,ooo—the
Lyne Government will lie able to wholly saddle
the matter on Parliament. This is what Wise on
another occasion, and alluding to his opponents,
called “ a complete abnegation of responsibility.”
The Q. Labor-party is reputed at present
to be greatly divided by personal animosities,
resulting partly from the recent Federation cam-
paign, partly from motives of private jealousy.
There are certain members who notoriously come
late, absent themselves from critical divisions, and
wag a free leg generally. Others again provoke
comment by attending gubernatorial banquets got
up in style hitherto considered sacred and peculiar
to the accursed Fat Man. Noticeable also, that
the individuals who thus distinguish themselves
were the most rabid of rabid extremists a few
years ago.
A recent obituary notice in a Victorian
c untry paper sets forth that “ the deceased was a
I splendid specimen of manhood, being over sft.,, in
j height and correspondingly well-proportioned.
Commandant Holled-Smith last week re-
peated Col. Tom Price’s celebrated “Fire low and
lay ’em out ” speech to the contingent, but phrased
it differently. Instead of the historic “ Shoot the
in the ,” he instruct d the piratical band
“ Don’t shoot at a man’s head-fire low. Don t
let your susceptibilities run away with you you
know what I mean.”
A passing sensation was created in Sydney
the other day by the discovery that a largH
Maequarie-street boarding-house was on tire in 37
places. The circumstances were considered so
painful that the only male occupant was run
in. As a rule the police look with a trlooniy eye
on the only male occupant when the house is
found binning in even one place, and the man
whose house takes fire in 37 places is almost
always viewed with a certain amount of doubt.
The law is a perfect kangaroo for jumping at con-
clusions.
The departure of the Transvaal contingent
from Melb. was an event that will he long remem-
bered and talked about. This distinction is shared
by the London and American Supply Stores,
Bourke-street, Melb., which is always reinembere
by purchasers as supplying the best goods at the
most reasonable prices, and is talked, about all
over Australia for that reason. Men s wear of
every description smart in cut and superior in
style, appearance and quality. Send for catalogue,
London and American Supply Stores, .Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
A distressing incident occurred in Melb.
District Court, the other day, when a perspiring
legal person rushed breathlessly into the presence
of the Judge, hitching up his outer garments, and
took up the defence of the accused after the
manner of a man who has missed two trains and
fallen over three dogs in his efforts to make up for
lost time. The case was completed, and defend-
ant let off lightly in consideration of the able de-
fence, and then another person charged with a
similar offence was called upon to face the music.
At this stage the hurried lawyer m m uttered a
wild cry, and kicked himself several tunes m
rapid succession. “ Good heavens,! he said, 1
have defended the wrong man.” Then he caught
up his skirts and went wildly off in pursuit of the
former defendant to gather a fee under a threat ot
proceedings.
A Melb. artist who was in Johannesburg
16 months ago to a Bulletin scribe
“There was no discontent amongst the foreign working
population of the Rand until it was cunningly worked up
bv the capitalists. The Uitlander mechanic is too well
off to desire any change if left to progress entirely on his
own He gets £6 a week, and can save £4. " here can
he do that under the British flag, and enjoy the ad van-
ta*»'es, climatic and social, that are available in the
Transvaal? The mine-owners are at the bottom of the
agitation; the miners did not care a straw about their
political disabilities, and found the laws not a scrap more
irksome than in ‘ Dear Old’ or any of her ‘colonies.
There was not a murmur till the lo<al Cockney Fat men
shut down the mines, and gave the miners and mechanics
distinctly to understand that the closure would continue
until a big demonstration was worked up and a petition
sent to London. Then the men demonstrated wildly, and
petitioned with all their might, but the most intelligent
recognised sadly that ‘ British interference would surely
lead to assisted immigration and a rattling downi of wages.
Nigger labor is plentiful and dirt-cheap, and the mine-
owner wants competition that \vill make the white
worker as biddable and as cheap.”
“Gunner”: Be the battle of Glencoe.
The numbers on each side were practically equal,
but in every other respect the odds were
enormously in favor of the British who brought
into action 18 cannon to the Boers’ 4 or 5 and the
Boer shells did not burst because their gunners
either had no fuses, or did not know how to use
them The whole thing merely sums-up that a
mob of 4000 farmers attacked the same number of
regular soldiers—with the inevitable result. Poor
old Joubert, playing at high strategy, ordered a
combined attack on Ladysmith an 1 Glencoe,
which did not come off. What happened at
Glencoe was simply this : The Boers were drawn
up along the crest of a hill, the British on the flat.
Both sides blazed away with their cannon till
those of the Boers were knocked out. Then the
British worked their way up one end of the hill
and rushed the Boers with the bayonet. This the
Boers having no bayonets, couldn’t face, and they
“got” Meantime, the British cavalry, having
got round the back of the hill, drove off the Boers
horses, and were thus enabled severely to cut up
the retreating enemy ; which sufficiently accounts
for the Boer loss being so great.
Arthur Adams’s book, “ Maoriland and
Other Verses,” now published by The Bul-
letin, will definitely place him among the
first flight of local poets. The book contains, in
addition to those published in The Bulletin,
many charming pieces not previously printed ;
and is issued in dainty style. Price 55., post-free
from Bulletin office.
“ On the 13th, a train was made up in the
usual way, with two trucks'and an engine, and
was despatched some distance out of the town.
The trucks were loaded with dynamite, of which
there is a very large quantity in store at Mafeking.
The expedition was entrusted to the charge of one
man, a courageous engine-driver named Byferry.
As was expected, the train at once attracted the
attention of the Boers, who opened a hot fire upon
it. An appalling explosion followed, spreading
death and dismay among the enemy for a great
distance around. No fewer than fifty Boers are
reported to have been blown to a tom s. Of Uyftrvii t
fate nothin // is known.” —Budded cable.
Dear Bulletin. — lie your quotation from
Canon Tucker at the head of “ The Jingo Par-
son’s Creed ” last week : Either the reporter was
an ass or the parson an unskilful borrower. Rus-
kin wrote of young men in the “Crown of Wild
Olives ” (War, pages 166-7) that he would “ much
rather that they should ride WAR-horses than back
RACE-horses ; and —I say it sternly and deliber-
ately—much rather would I have them slay their
neighbors than cheat them.” —W.
We sing of Byferry, in charge of a train
With dynamite carefully loaded ;
He drove it along on a Boer-studded plain
Till the joke had been fully exploded.
Then the enemy fled, frightened out of their wits
(This yarn sounds remarkable very)
Save some fifty, or so, who were blown into bits,
And we don't know the fate of Byferry.
Perhaps he sped on with his engine unharmed,
And is now lying dark in a tunnel ;
Or perhaps he came back (whilst the Boers were alarmed)
Singing “ God Save the Queen ” on the funnel.
But, whatever his fate, he’s a brilliant success—
O, our true British heart maketh merry
As we read in the daily reliable press
Of the pluck of good driver Byferry.
To shake up one’s liver, there’s nothing like war
The reports are so loud and exciting
As long as Great Britain is teaching the Boer
The beauty of up-to-date fighting.
Let us hope that the victims of lyddit-ful shell
Will be more than their comrades can bury.
Let us hope all the Boers will be shattered to h—l,
Whilst the Lord’s taking care of Byferry.
Come gather, come gather in front of the bar
And rejoice in our victories latest;
For we are qnite llinglish, at present, we are—
Of all the Earth’s people the greatest.
We’ll drink to our prowess in brandy and rum,
And whisky with soda, and sherry ;
We will drink to the cable, although it be dumb
Concerning the end of Byferry.


THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY!
Has
Cured
Thousands
✓
m
And.
Will
Cure
You
Ts Obtainable Everywhere, ss. 6d. and 3s. 6d.
H€»D INSTITUTE : 47 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
w ondeirfttt ■
A TRULY
A SUFFERER FOR MANY YEARS NOW A NEW MAN.
TESTIMONY.
Mr. S. A. PALMER {Abbreviated from Original.]
suffering from congestion of"‘the h > 1 was taken UL M 7 doctor toldme I was
Sswsssffs
only conclusion the surgeons could come to was that I was fufeLl“a OeT/T ”7 1 went into the h <*pital again, but the
came home on the 10th of October, 1892 ; I consulted a doctor atfWict-nn h • 1 doctor m particular said I might never be able to work acrain T
serted a needle and drew a quantity of fluid, and I have now o- 0 t in writing Zn °IY le ?f five mmutes told me J was suffering from Hydatids. To prove this he in-
Ad el aide Hospital, and on November 16 th, 1892, went under an
time. I grew worse, and went under another operation with no better results P AW™t- a fr. t ui / akm §' the cyst aw ay, but only patched me up for a short
in half an hour, and a large swelling under the heart, which gave me o-reat pain I could neffheSV^ 01,6 ] Chnsfa f as ’ , 189g > 1 had another bad attack, two fainting fits
I made up my mind to go away for a changk Befo?eZw T consul ed /k. nor Sle6p ’ and m £act life did not worth living,
friends advised me to try Yitadatio as a last resource. lat first refused as I thought ° perat f£ ;he told “ e nothing could be Sone for me. My
improve ; and since taking Yitadatio I have passed away eight lots of skins, which I have by me in spirits "the result & of Tv ° f persuasio J> 1 took it, and began to
datio. I can assure you if it had not been for this great remedy, Yitadatio I should have been + larg \ and one small bottle of Vita-
I would never come back alive to Orroroo again ; but, thank God, Yitadatio has done for me what no doctor do tp £ me g A° S ° U ?J SGV f al S^tleme n said that
I can eat and sleep, and do a hard day’s work as well as anyone. I feel nothing wrong in health but can trutbfuff d llfe . and cured my disease, and
You are at liberty to use this testimonial as you think best for the benefit of others.—Yours faithfully truthfully say 1 never felt better in my life than Ido now.
Witnesses : GEO. MATTHEWS, H. WALKER. .
Extract from Mr. W letter of sth June, 1899 :-“I am now in splendidlettlj and workin^hJd" orr ° r
~, ®; A - PALMEa > agent general eor Australasia, India, oetlon and japan
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer, W. WEBBER, Elizabeth-st., Launceston, Tasmania. ’ AN ‘
SYDNEY INSTITUTE - 181 PITT STREET (next her majesty’s theatre).
CUT RATE
Consulting- and
eg
w>
UC CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cut Price, 18*. fid.
Dk. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR,
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing arid
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your ease is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Re nvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Tlier. fore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
Vlgorator and destroy the earliest gprins of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladderand kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials at test. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness
lassitude, &.c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys and paves the way to Bright's Disease and
kindred truibles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward si.mi of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
lng sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigora'or.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
time and money consulting 1 a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plamt or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Prict—
One Guinea*
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
And Acts Like a Charm.
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Kelts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern -Science has achieved nothing- more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
cont inuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
np the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.-The action of the electrio
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter. -Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one sol’itary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired?
Voluminous Evidence. -The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured ”
Yes ! what is of more value than health? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belts. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life 1
Postpone old age 1
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Or. Hughes’s Fitsepilep
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one'of the wonders of the age
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects-!
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PyramidL Pile Cure.
TXT ,™ s j specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic
TNA\ ART) or 011 1W AKD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet,
and obstinate character of
Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
We arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
E CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
dress;
A
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Country Trial Order respectfully Solicited.


Washington H- Soul
and Co-,
GREAT DRUG EMPORIUM,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Largest, Most Varied Stock of Patent Medicines,
Chemists’ and Druggists’ Sundries, and Surgical Appli-
ances in the Southern Hemisphere. Nothing but best
quality of Goods kept. Prices are the LOWEST in the
city.
WE EARNESTLY COMMEND to all who wish to
build up their system, banish sleeplessness, give tone to
the Digestive Organs, and receive energy and capacity
for persistent efforts of mind, the Health Invigorator,
Dr. Pettifer’s Compound Syrup
of Kypophosphites,
Small Bottles, Is. 9d. each, postage, Bd. ; Large Bottle,
3s. each, postage, Is. 2d.
NO OTHER SYRUP CAN BE COMPARED TO IT—
it is SUPERBLY SUPERIOR in every respect.
ENCOURAGED by this enormous success, after care-
ful consideration, and the strictest analysis by the
most competent authorities, we have been induced
to place on the market, ALSO AT A REDUCED
PRICE,
DB. SYMES’ EMULSION OP COD
LIVER OIL,
with HYPOPHOSPHITES of LIME and SODA,
a most Nourishing Preparation for chest and lung com-
plaints, Is 6d and 2s 6d per Bottle.
CURE FOR CORPULENCY.
Prepared by F. 0. RUSSELL, of Woburn House,
London.
DOUBLE STRENGTH. Packed absolutely free from
observation, unlabelled, and at London Price.
21s per Bottle ; postage, Is 2d.
Spartan Tonic
will be found a Wonderful Blood Purifier and Stimulator.
Prices, 2s 6d and 4s.
SPARTAN LITTLE LIVER PILLS, to be taken with the
above, Is box.
SPARTAN BLOOD PILLS, to enrich the blood, Is box.
YAALA, for Indigestion, a marvellous cure, price 2s
bottle.
CITRATE OF MAGNESIA, Is bottle.
ITALIAN FRUIT POWDER, 2s.
LONDON HOSPITAL PILE OINTMENT, unapproach-
able, Is 6d per pot.
Dr. ALLEN'S OBESITY TABLETS—an absolute Cure
for Stoutness ; 5s box, guaranteed.
Dr. BUMSTEAD’S COMPOUND EXTRACT OF SARSA-
PARILLA, for Cleansing and Purifying the Blood,
Producing Bone and Muscle, 4s bottle.
CLAYTON'S INSECT POWDER, 6d and Is Tin.
WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, a splendid preparation for pro-
moting the growth of the hair ; price per bottle, Is.
ALABASTER CREAM OF BEAUTY for removing freckles
and improving the complexion ; price per bottle, 2s.
Eczene for Eczema,
An Absolute Cure. Price, 2s 6d, postage 3d extra.
Dr. Pettifer’s Fluid Magnesia,
8d and Is 6d.
Crimpoline for the Hair, Is.
KEEPS THE HAIR IN EVERLASTING CURL.
Clayton’s Hair Dye, 2s 6d and 4s.
DR. FIELD’S BRAIN and NERVE PILLS, price 2s 6d,
postage 2d.
DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER and LIQUID sweetens
the breath and whitens the teeth, Is 6d.
RICHARDSON’S HAIR RESTORER, 2s.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and CUCUMBER, for freckles,
etc., Is.
CLAYTON’S AMERICAN BAY RUM, Is.
THE LATEST IN PATENT NIGHT LIGHTS, 10 in a box
price Bd.
SPONGES, SPONGES, SPONGES, for everyone, all prices,
best \alue.
We offer the best value in
Real Badger-hair Shaving Brushes, Is 6d each, usual
price 3s 6d, bought under exceptionally advantageous
circumstances. Shaving Soaps and Creams, all the best
makes.
Razors.—A beautiful assortment, best hollow-ground,
white ivory handles, highest price 10s 6d ; some at 4s 6d,
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. We stock only the best.
Shaving Stands, with adjustable Mirrors, Cups and
Brush R ick nickel plated, exceptional quality. Shaving
Pots every make and design, recherche patterns, in
Limoges ware, hand-painled.
Razor Strops, the best value in the city.
Military Hair Brushes, with or without Leather
Cases, Swing Mirrors, with Hair and Clothes Brush
attached.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Dressing Cases, all prices.
Xylonite Puff Boxes; Menthol, in giass-stoppered bot-
tles; Bath Brushes, Magnifying Mirrors, Smelling Salts
RAINBOW SILVER-MOUNTED SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLES, the latest novelty.
Sponge Bags in all the latest patterns. ■
Yet another Large Shipment of Sure Catch Fly
Papers. Catch ’em alive, oh. 12 sheets for 3d.
REAL TURKEY CANARY SEED and Mixed Bird
Seeds, 61b. for Is.
Washington E. Soul & Co.,
THE PREMIER CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
1.0 AND 288 PITT-ST-, SYDNEY,
CHURCH-STREET, PARRAMATTA,
HUNTER-STREET, NEWCASTLE.
All Letters of Inquiry Must Have
Stamps for Reply Enclosed.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
m
I
MEDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non;? Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY,
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for <£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duehesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, <£6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated I imusliing Guide Post Free.
Art. Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE- - Our ONLY Australian Address —90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our QUEKY KING
(Note of Interrogation).
18c., set with 11
First-water Diamonds,
£8 and £9 10s.
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from £3 to £35.
Solid Gold
CURB KEEPER,
15s, 20s
—
u
Solid Gold, 10s, with
Amethyst Pendant.
IDES
18c., 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
Solid Gold and 3 Opals,
25s ; Solid Gold and
1 Opal, 15s.
Diamond, 18c. Gold,
40s, 60s, 80s.
18c. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21s; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 ss.
'OMM
Carved HALF-HOOP,
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each.
Any li.it.ial, 9s ;
without ditto, 7s 6d.
2 Diamonds, 3 Rubies,
from 55s to £lO.
14 Diamonds and
Ruby or Sapphire,
18c. Gold, £4 4s.
Gold Gem Set
LUCKY WISHBONE
CHARM, 3s 6d ;
with Pin and Chain,
7s.
Solid Gold
SWORDand CHAIN,
with Bell or
Gem Heart, 14s 6d.
1 Diamond and Ruby,
or Sapphire,
18c., £4.
2 Diamonds and Opal,
18e. Gold, 755.
1 ISc. 14 Lovely
Diamonds and 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, £7 10s.
Any Name or Motto,
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
GS
18c., 1 diamond and
2 Rubies, or 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires, 455;
Smaller, 30s.
1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires or Rubies,
18c., 355.
1 Diamond, 1 Sapphire
or Rubv,
18c. Gold, £llss.
IBC7
Single Stone Diamond,
£10;
smaller stones from
£3 10s.
Fine Diamond,
18c. Gold, £4 ;
15e., Ruby or Sapphire,
21s.
9c., 10s, 12s6d, 15s, 20s;
15c.,205, 22s 6d, 2756 d;
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
With any Name or
Motto, Is extra.
Lovely Opal,
18c. Gold, 355.
IBC
Diamond and 18c. Gold,
40s, 60s, 80s.
Our Wedding Rings and Keepers.
ARE ADMITTED TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALL MARK.
9-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d each
15-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d each
18-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths 15s, 20s, 255, 32s 6d each.
SEND SIZE OF FINGER BY A PIECE OF WIRE OR A HOLE IN CARDBOARD.
Please Send for oar Illustrated Slips
of Novelties.
All Articles Sent Post Free to
any address.
** COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM ”
rTHE!
DEAF
smsj
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing:, and relieve sink-
ing-, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
COX ON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFPER.
on u month only.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4'6,
6/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
FOREIG-KT STAMPS
CJETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg', Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s Cd ; 150, 5s
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Ulus, catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
L^AI
Tf
m
1
Hen*
FOREIGN STAMPS
ARRANGED in Continents—grand value :
50 Africa (all different), Is 3d ; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, Is 6d ; 100 Asia, 5s ;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, ss; 100
Europe, 3s. Many varieties in the larger
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d; 250,
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. Remit P. 0.0.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
. i -i -i 162 Elizabeth Street,
Acclaim, MELBOURNE.
W m.
PHONOGRAPHS
FROM
255.
OP
iL
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . .
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case.
Albert & Son,
1 IS King-st., Sydney.
Manufacturers of the
famous BOOMERANG
Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
Catalogues of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Polyphone Alusic Boxes Posted FREE.
piVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
VT GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design,
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduce
DR. VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One trial
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d, for which we
will forward vou post free one box (three tablets) of DR.
VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved on
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
Arnold’s Balsam of Horeboimd
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
TU'OTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use; rapidly r lieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION.-Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Hilda, on label and wrapper
By post, 1, 6 and 2 6. if not obtainable locally.
Are you Run gorni ?
The present summer promises to be a
severe one. Weak people, therefore,
should fortify themselves by taking a
course of
[j|inerva T®mc
For promoting an appetite, strengthen
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINERVA as “an
admirable tonic,” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australia.
Dkar Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cuie
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.


Mr. W. E. Smith, the well-known Sydney
printer and stationer, who was on his way to
England when the disastrous fire occurred at his
fine establishment, lias now returned to Sydney.
_ If in A. Hall and Co.’s establishment
(SGI-7 George-street, Sydney) you won’t find
‘‘everything, from a needle to an anchor,” it is
simply because neither of those interesting articles
is usually considered an indispensable article of
household furniture. Did a rhinoceros and a
cataract come into that category, however, the
chances are that they would be duly on view in
these spacious show-halls, filled with a diversity
of furniture-goods, in which every taste—and,
what is still more important, every purse—has
been considered. The difficulty with the freshly-
manufactured “ house-father ” would here be, not
so much what to buy, as what not to buy ; and
indeed, without any purchasing intentions at all,
such an establishment as Hall’s will repay a stroll
through its numerous and varied departments.*
Rev. G. Buchanan, of St. Andrew's,
Goulburn (N\S.\V.), preached a strong pro-Boer
sermon, t’other day. “The war was comparable
to Britain mobilising an army-corps, and getting
contingents from India and all the colonies to
give Tasmania a thrashing for the Braddon Blot.”
Though the rev. gentleman openly expressed a
hope that the Boers would wipe the veldt with
the British, his congregation merely gathered
itself into knots to discuss his sentiments in an
amicable manner. Which shows that it is safer
for a parson to tramp'e on his flock’s patriotic
sentiments than to criticise its motives in join-
ing the giddy dance.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
round!d°«d?h infl l , Dlsc >l ar S e otherwise, perhaps sur-
- a 1 infla,H * nat,on ail <l swollen that when von
sion ? If U so fi u S fler?l th \ i " flanu< , l pan " leavcs the impres-
ts remedies you hive if
.|or^ffiT! l !n«» on su ttering nil del. U redoes
Vioer ,ted, th'e rSund'"
»ili >e d ! S ?'’ ° llrc . < ’ or t,lcrc niav lie Wounds • the disease
walk W Yo, ma C v n h nUe V" of the pott to
-iendatoncVhlr “° reaM " for not no "' p eing cured.
ALBERT'S GRASSndPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
«hieh are a Certain remedy for the cure of Bad lees
andl'" Tum'tTrs 6 ’ t I I /' eraltd Joints, Carbuncles, Poisom d
.Bunions, 1
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row J s Ctybrocatioi;
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
Bib AS I. As unscrupulous persons
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
ars
Row’s €n?brocatiof>.
Publications.
“SCARLET 4 BLUE”
Gtand Patriotic Song, by Lindsay Lennox.
Sung- Nightly, with unbounded applause, by Mr. Arthur
llahn, at the Bijou Theatre.
Also,
“ SABBATH EVENING CHIMES”
AND
“THE SMILE ”-P.F.
By Willie Pape.
Played by Special Command of H.R.11 Princess of Wales.
Of all Music-sellers.
W. PAXTON &, CO., Publishers, London & Melboumo.
Catalogues Post Free.
ir.LXJSTRA.TED
postage.
"ITtriTII nmnerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GLIDE.
Every man should read it. and
know the strand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
liein« imposed niton by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 25.,
Postage (sealed) Is. extra. Circii-
lar, explaining contents of hook,
~, „ se °t °'i receipt of 2d. (stamps) for
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Amusements.
rjIIIE
MELBOURNE CUP
EXTRAORDINARY.
ATTRACTION
FITZ3KERAI.D BROTHERS’
Novelty Shows, Oircis and Menagerie,
- - - INCLUDING - - -
HAGENBECIv’S ANIMAL SENSATIONS.
LOCATION: FLINDERS STREET.
EVERY EVENING.
ONLY ONE MORE WEEK!
MATINEES-YVEDNESDAYS axd SATURDAYS.
Continued Tumultuous Success of
THE SHOW OF THE CENTURY !
NOVELTIES FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD!
DAZZLING SENSATIONS and Entirely NEW PEOPLE.
The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act!
The Tiger Riding a Horse!
THE HIGHEST JUMPING HORSE IN TIIE WORLD
“NEWIIAVEN.” ’
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and One Shilling.
J. MORRIS, A^enb.
FRANK JONES, Press Rep.
jgjXIIIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING ; Children—SIXPENCE.
Amusements.
f TTKU MAJESTY'S THEATRE. SYDNEY,
bole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrrove.
mis. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Xreas., J. B. Moutrie.
Farewell Performances of the Dramatic Company, and
LAST NIGHTS of
"THE CHRISTIAN”
tt Monday, November 6, FIVE NIGHTS ONLY,
ZMZIIE ROSETTE ”
By ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. 7
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
QIUTERION THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
Brilliant and Emphatic Success of
3ST 1" O JVC ufV. 3W,
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD as Rill Burkley,
ihe Comedy Convict,
Supported by a Powerful Company.
Prices; 35., 25., is. Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 1u.45.
T. I’ll HATH.E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessess and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
JOITN P. SHERIDAN
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
GRACIE WHITEFORD
GRACIE WHITEFORD
“ When the Lamps
are Lighted.”
By George R. Sims and
Leonard Merrick.
-NextSaturday, “LITTLE CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS ”
Box Plan at Nicholson's. PRICES : 35., 25.. and Is.
flaQd tya^Cartljy,
( The World-famous Australian Violinist.
Ihe Greatest Musical Genius Australia
has Produced.”
Australian Commenced Sydney wed
IO U R - - - 18th October.
JOHN" LEMMOXE, Manager.
A LACE TREAT ItE. SYDNEY,
bole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harrv Rickards.
Splendid Success , Tremendous Success, scored by
MR. TOM COSTELLO.
HOWARD & ST. CLAIR ’
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH
w .„ Alma Gray, George C. Dean
W &r' ,,,!f V-Y rth " r Hahn ' J - VVatts . Elsie
POPF Lawton, Thorne and Dell. “*
p r , bA .\LEIs. and all our Double Company
Plaii at I aimg s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
B'J°U THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Most Enthusiastic Success of
G ' ec *- HI unter
Of MR. PAUL PELHAM.
VTRTo e "n,M S nENK S u' hp Marvellous VALDARES.
IV Go ill °)'.f rS ’ * la J ,lc Eowen, Keenan Bros, Chas
M. Cog, I. Clarence Sisters, and all our Brilliant Co
I lan at Allen s. Matinee every Wednesday.
rPHEATItE ROYAL, M El. BOURNE. ~
* bole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH.
ANOTHER FURORE.
A Bright, Brilliant and Sensational Melodrama
‘OUR Name HOME.”
p »-'ces_Js :j Js^l8 1 6d :1 25., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, WELdtOURNK
" ,LL,AMSOV and Ml'sorovk.
I’OR TWO NIGHTS ONLY I
TH€ MIKADO.”
Being the Last Appearances of the Opera Company.
SATURDAY NJvXT, NOVFMRFT? a t^
•£ LV - the BRoXi A S,tv f 5 r o^.I^ EEKS
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
S Commence Next Saturday, Noddle?? 111 * 2 * 13 -
Dante the Great- Dante the Great-
Assisted by
MDLLE. EDMUNDA AND COMPANY and
THE THEATOGRAPH.
from the London Palace slirmd,,.. . ,
In *h ol R JSOVS ekiVit for the ashes Mof
in the recent test matches in England.
U* J. LOIIR t Manager.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
Melbourne.
«2T Superior Boarding Establishment.
M °atv Ce wS H nd Health y Position in the
‘ " l,hm tlnee minnles’ walk of Town finll
Close trains, trains and theat res. n
Letters and telesrranis promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Airs. AI'CLRLTiAXT)
('tee UOI.GKR).
I"NE WAYS OF MANY WATERS.”
ifffurr ~»=«y e. jt. EtnAr>"2
ASK FOR
O
WHISKY.
BLACK
BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE
COMBINES PERFECTION OP QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PUUITY.
Baron Berzelius’ Report.
\nJi l^ e Arir™. I Tnvn mDiend in DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
uus Die action of Buchu on the human frame is more efTeotual on ail
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant; and it also assists persons suffer-
ing trom bkin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
Read What Medical Men Say About Them.
.. M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
®J n nnence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and its tores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
Toni!?’ ,® CKSTRoa J> M.D. —BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
recommend 6 them StrenStheiUUg 5 a StUnulanfc to th 9 Liver > assisting Digestion. I therefore
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY.
In 1 lb. Flat Oval Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOXR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&$
pc 3
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
EEFEESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 60., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Feltox, Giumwade &, Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
r
*«SB«S
w.
••SOsV*:
These fine store premises are beinc
Sydney aroi.iuei T?° L PRODUCE CO., LTD, at Pyrmont, after a deafen by th
oyuney aM.imt, Mr. HERBERT K ROSS, Equitable Kuildmp., George-street. They are to have a capacity of 30,000 bales.
the well-knowu
O V a* Vi VV|VVV UtUCOi
IH€ CO-OPCRATIVC WOOL & PROPUCC COMPANY, Limited
12 1 7
SKOftKTi&T : WALTER BROOME.
O’ConneU-atreet,
Manaqiho Dikbctok : PETER LESLIE.
Sydney.
Wool Manaokb ;
WILLIAM ROBERTSON.


FICIAL TEETH.
< FULL SETS, £2 10s.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Thorough Masticating Power and beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
D.S.MAIR
ITCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulat' d and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best'quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold engraved Bar Brooches,
English Hall Marked, Name engraved free, 5/- ; usual
price, 7 6
D. S. Muir for Solid 15 carat gold, and first-class Opal
Dress Ring, £1 17/6 ; usual price, £2 10/-.
D. S Rlair for Silver Hunting Keyless Watches, 15/-;
guaranteed 3 years.
Note address— 684= George Street, Sydney.
Musical time
clock.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will jjlay
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “Home, Sweet
Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisy
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Swei-t Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/-; Carriage paid in N.S.W. 1/2 extra;
any other Colony, 2/2. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, money refunded.
6 6 —A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6.
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
(iur*gsinyr about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pe .slant, Charm Penknife to hany on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER &. CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY. .
Medical,
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent, in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
1 ,frfwr_L.' Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
1 N insurance agent in Sydney says that if
t\ anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to Sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOI TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
■ I send this little book free on application to
Savers', Allpokt & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
, SmLtTOiJ’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. , Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tbe B. at)d W.Trcatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying- to
the efficacy of‘this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy,. Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that It becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist.- It is recomni' iided with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The .Value of BRAGG'S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other 'Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
a “ d LOZENGES.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
to tb. even, or te„po»,y incopocitj th W h mm to «rn . Il.olibood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
This is the Latest Type
THIS MACHINE
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cinemato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. >T. y. Oldershaw, Manager. ■ ■
“The R€ALMACKAy”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwootl Sole Proprietors.
ltd
J.
f 4
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING i
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRIC AD APPLIANCES, invented by
' Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
\ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTEI-
Cl AN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
iDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
• LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debilitj', Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
! They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■ brace lip the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
£ s. a.
l’lain Beits, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells ,220
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15srto2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
< rriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
< .iplete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
REGISTERED
Mr
m
IrTT-u-^
SftSSS^
MS
Buchtlmflawed Eyes&lids 1
Weak Eyes Dimness E t . c
S3ICEORCE ST ,
INSYDNE^
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising- from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —^
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, ( Sun-glare,
&e., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc»
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES ne onhJ 0J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, <Scc.
Kent Brewery, SYDIBT.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELT™ •
GENTLEMEN,sSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ng current that can be felt
by the wearer through
ill weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
>ric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not vye will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NOBODY WILLSTEAL THEM
There are two reasons why the Crown jewels art
never stolen from the Tower of London. Thej
are in a strong place, well guarded, and are dan
gerous things to handle when dishonestly come by
Most losses of valuables are due either to care
lessness on the part of the owners or custodians,
or to bribery. Perhaps the burglar’s vocation is
under no circumstances an absolutely safe one.
but not infrequently he chances upon a “job’
which is both easy and lucrative. Ido not men
tion this fact for the unworthy purpose of induc-
ing any of the youth of the land to enter the
profession but solely to throw illustrative light
upon quite another theme. Still, there is a rela-
tion between them, and we shall hit it after we
have talked a bit about the case of Mrs. Mary
Rowlands, who lives in Wales.
The lady says that no longer ago than February
(1898) she had a severe attack of influenza, fol-
lowed by bronchitis. At this point we are con-
cerned to know whether the influenza was in any
sense responsible for the bronchitis, as cause and
effect. If so, why ? It is well understood, of
course, in England, where influenza is so com-
mon, that other ailments do follow it; yet pro-
bably, the majority of us have not settled in our
minds the reason for it.
At all events, Mrs. Rowlands had a low, bad
time. The trouble lingered along as, sometimes,
winter does, away down into the period proper for
May blossoms. She could not seem to get the
better of the throat ailment nor master the
lethargy and weakness left her as a legacy by the
influenza. Her condition may be likened unto
i that of a ship which has indeed survived a gale
but finds herself stripped of the sails needed to
enable her to take advantage of gentler winds.
The lady’s hope of getting back her lost
strength by taking plenty of solid, nourishing
food was illusory. Every meal of that kind caused
fearful distress in the stomach and acute pain
at the chest. Nature distinctly repudiated the solid
food, and almost as strenuously objected to the
liquids, such as broths, teas, and milk. It looked
as if Mrs. Rowlands must starve at her own table.
Then came on asthmatic symptoms, so bad she
was often obliged to gasp for breath. Between
this combination of complaints she got but little
rest day or night. Soon after arose a threat of a
still more serious disease—a threat happily not
fulfilled. I refer to the cold, clammy sweats that
broke out upon her, pointing to a fatal decline.
The fear was natural, as grim Consumption with
his poisoned dart, often approaches by that same
road.
“I became so reduced and feeble,” the lady
writes, “ that my daughter had to nurse me con-
stantly. I could not get into or out of bed with-
out her help. In the house, or to others, I was
of no use at all. The doctor who attended me
left nothing untried that he knew of; but, in spite
of all he did, I grew worse and worse.
“Where I should have been to-day, whether in
the land of the living or not, who can tell, if a kind
Providence had not intervened to save me ? In
some way my husband heard of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, and persuaded me to try it. I began
taking it and soon felt better. My appetite re-
turned, and all kinds of food agreed with me.
With plenty of nourishment I gained strength
rapidly. The asthma and the bronchial trouble
vanished and almost before I could realise it, I
found myself in the best of health, and have con-
tinued so to be ever since. For my remarkable
and unexpected recovery I am under obligation to
Mother Seigel’s Syrup ; and so I tell all whom I
know.”—(Signed) Mary Rowlands, Deri, via
Cardiff, August 31, 1898.
One thing Mrs. Rowlands says in her letter
which I have reserved for this place, namely, that
she was a dyspeptic. Her system was weakened
and her blood rendered impure by indigestion.
That is the main point. That is why she was open
to the attacks of influenza, bronchitis, and asthma.
Her body castle being weak, the precious jewel of
health was stolen.
Keep the digestion strong and the blood clean
and pure, by the frequent use of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup and there will be no soil for the germs of
disease to grow in. The system thus guarded,
protects the health as the walls and door of the
Tower hold safe the Crown jewels.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cu e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. Ail you are asked to do s to
send for a pR c p bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Sa'e Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIGHGDNS.,LONOON,ENO.


(Cellular
For Base,
Health and
Comfort.
“Aeries”
TJnderwear.
aar J DURING SUMMER. TS*
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
CELLULAR, FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNG. ’
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Gaslight Company by payment
°f Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
IRIEIIO
RA.HERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
USB
Spooler's
iROYAL NAVY DRESSIKC
FOR
i BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
I! OF ALU DESCRIPTIONS
fDIRECIIONS FOR USE
ftmiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiamiiuiamaai
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning: and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD- X*lTrfls A CXT
MINISTERING JCI U X y
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURF AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can l>e given in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou, infec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
federal
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation— all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can he paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND OAFE
SPRING & SUMMER FASHIONS
LADIEiS
Beautiful spring and summer weather has come, and
ladies want to wear something seasonable, pretty, and
comfortable. C. G. Hatte’s Home Buyers have despatched
a large and choice assortment of some of the newest and
most fashionable goods, which he is enabled to sell at
prices which are simply bargains. You can get nothing
better than the following, and will have to pay nearly
double the price anywhere else.
BLOUSES.
A Nice Assortment, all latest shapes, both Stripes and
Fancy Patterns, from 2s 3}4d
White Muslin, elaborately trimmed with embroidery, 3/6
Fancy Muslin, in all colors, trimmed lace, 3/11
SKIRTS AND COSTUMES.
Ladies’ White Skirts, trimmed frill and Torchon lace, 4 6
Splendid variety of colored Zephyr Skirts, trimmed lace,
from 2s llJ4d
Ladies’ Black Figured Lustre Skirts, full width, 4/11
Ditto ditto extra wide, 5/11
L dies’ White Pique Skirts, latest shape, 4/6 »
Ditto superior (splendid value), 6 11
Ladies’ Norfolk Holland Costumes, from 7,11 to 18 11
~ Pique Eton Costumes, 15/6
„ Pretty Striped Cambric Costumes, for morning
wear, 4/11
~ Lace Shoulder Capes, from 6/11
„ Lace Threequarter Capes, silk yoke, trimmed with
jet and ribbons, 16/11
Children’s Print Costumes, light and dark colors. 3 n
Boys’ Norfolk Coats, in fawn, navy, and butcher blue,
trimmed braid, 2/11J4
And everything in the way of Parisian Millinery,
Dress Materials —all that is latest and most fashionable—
AT
C. G. HATTIE,
NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYEtNEY MARKET :
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
i£T MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY 00., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. O. YOUNG & CO.
I'll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (Wl.
Sole Agents :
Craig Sc Ait ken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
A,
The Result.
sens
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT'S DISEASE
H.H. WARNER & C? L T °
MELBOURNE, AUST.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
it
I A.St F. PEARS
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Qneen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition.
national Cash Registers.
~ Storekeepers’ CoOpop Register
No. 92.
USERS .
OPINIONS
®
“All the registers we
have had from you have
given tiie utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“ Sydney.”
•
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q.”
31)2
.-S"'
BENEFITS
OF USE.
•
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
•
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
• The Qnly True $ Effective Coupon System •
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to
EiNatioijal Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, Genera! Manager.


SIMPLE WORPS B(it they MEAN a WHOLE LOT!
BIL BEANS CURE BILIOUSNESS
“ They Would Almost Save You From Your Coffin,”
says Mrs. Shergold.
A STRONG CASE FOR BILE BEANS.
The following interview, with a Newcastle Herald reporter shows the value the Aus-
tralian Press places on this remedy : ~ ~
L “ Thev would almost save you from your coffin, said
Mrs. Shergold, of Wilton Street, Merewether, when asked
bv a Newcastle Herald representative as to the genuine-
ness of her cure from the use of Bile Beans for Biliousness.
“I shall ever be grateful,” she added, to the lady who
advised me to try them. I had been suffering for four or
five years, more than I could describe, and these Bile Beans
have cured me. I am now able to do that which I could
not think of attempting before.” . ,
“What were your symptoms? inquired the re-
been bad otf and Qn for near ly five years, suffer-
ing from general weakness and a bad stomach, and for
19 years I had suffered with my head'. A little over a
year ago I consulted a doctor, and he gave me a pre-
scription for indigestion. This gave me no permanent relief.
Then I tried another doctor in Maitland, who said 1
had rheumatics in the head. He, too, failed to do me any
real good and as month succeeded month I grew worse, and the more I tried to
rest the more tired I became. My nights were a perfect misery to me, for the want of
sleeD and when I got lip in the morning I could not eat, and on one occasion I ate next to
nnrhi'nc far a whole week and never could I take a breakfast until very late in the day, my
stomach always feeling sick when I first got up, and many a * in ? e . 8 aTiffiralty
and had to prepare his own meals. I got so bad eventually that it was not on y a difficulty
for me to walk but it was painful to even bow my head. I commenced taking the Beans
about eight months ago. I felt a relief after the first couple of doses, and in a short time I
felt completely well; I can now eat and sleep splendidly, and it is a pleasure for me to take a
walk°out. Yes/’added Mrs. Shergold, in reply to another question, “ you are at perfect
liberty to publish my testimony. It is the truth I have told you, and while I tell the truth
do not care if it is placarded all over Merewether.
■A
f:
*
h ,
£
VN.
An Obstacle to Beauty.
PIMPLES, AND HOW THEY MAY BE CURED.
PIMPLBS are an abomination to a pretty girl or handsome young man. To have perfect
features spoiled by little red blotches all over the face is exceedingly annoying, to say the
least yet nearly all young people of the present day are troubled more or less with this com-
plaint which, by the way, cannot be treated properly by the use of cosmetics, as we will ex-
plain Pimples, face sores, etc., are caused by the impure matter contained in the blood
striving to escape from the system. The skin contains thousands of little blood vessels very
minute in size, which are called capillaries; when one or two of these get stopped up by
foreign particles in the blood, a pimple is the result. On the pimple coming to head, this
refuse matter is squeezed out, the capillary heals, and in a day or two all trace is removed.
It will be clearly seen, therefore, that cosmetics cannot remove the cause of pimples, while
they may hide their appearance for a time. The only real remedy for pimples, therefore, is
the one that will prevent impure matter circulating in the blood vessels, and this can only be
done bv acting on the liver and various digestive organs, enabling them to clear all waste
matter out of the body. This latter is the especial object of Bilk Beans, and acting, as they
do direct on the liver, causing it to create the natural purgative for the body ( i.c ., the bile),
they obtain a beneficial result in the safest, surest, and quickest manner.
Influenza and Colds.
Nothing so suddenly obstructs the perspiration as sudden transitions from heat to cold.
Heat rarifies the blood, quickens the circulation and increases the perspiration, but when
these are suddenly checked the consequences must be bad. The most common cause of
disease is obstructed perspiration, or what commonly goes by the name of catching cold.
Coughs colds, sore throat, &c., if attended to in time, are easily subdued, but if allowed to
run their own course generally prove the forerunner of more dangerous diseases. Nine-tenths
of the consumptives date their affliction from a neglected cold, and the diseases that are
caused by wet feet, damp clothes, or exposure are more numerous than are generally sup-
posed. One of the most eflicacious medicines for the prevention of influenza and colds is
Bile Beans are an undoubted specific for biliousness, sick and nervous headache, indiges-
tion constipation, influenza, colds, piles, female weakness, pale-faced girls, bad breath,
pimples, dizziness, all liver and kidney troubles, dyspepsia, pam in the back and side, fullness
after eating Bile Beans are obtainable from storekeepers and chemists generally, price
Is. lid., per Box, post paid. Australian Depot of the Bile Beans Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt street, Sydney.
Good Appetite ! Good Sleep ! Good Blood !
“ 0.F.”: At recent Sydney poker party,
“ Straddle” held two cards (ace and king of clubs). Of
three new cards dealt him, one (6 of clubs) was faced.
This “Straddle” of course declined, and was dealt another.
On show of hands “Straddle” had a “royal flush (in
clubs)! On former occasion the same “school’’had a
young player who held ace, king, queen and jack of
clubs’(again) throwing to draw' a club. Result, royal
flush in clubs again. The said player saw a man holding
“ fours ” and reckoned he was beaten.
* * * *
A “fly” Sydney punter lately visited a
Northern pony-nieeting compared to which old Sydney
Driving Park was a Gospel-shop, and was induced to bet
vigorously at fives on a gee-gee (say Nosey) which
couldn’t lose. Being afterwards assured, however, that
all the starters (including Nosey) were “ dead,” to let the
committee’s neddy win, he “ at ’ Nosey s rider to let
her go, and she pulled it off by six lengths ; committee’s
horse second. When the Sydney man asked the lad why
he hadn’t kept his win down to about two lengths, for the
look of the thing, the kid sniggered out—“ Why, yer
must be green to this place. If I’d a-won by only two
lengths they’d ’ave guv me second, and the c’mittee s
’orse first. See 1 ”
J • « * *
“ Jonah ” Jones, the lightning S.A. bowler, was
once employed, at Crystal Brook, S.A., by Dr.
Parkinson, a great cricket enthusiast. “Jonah’s” occupa-
tion was nominally that of gardener and curator of the
local cricket ground, which was owned by the “ Doc. ;
but the boys from roundabout had a mortgage on the fast
bowler’s services, at any time. “ Ernest! Ern-est! !
voice from the middle of a hiuf cherry-tree. Yessir .
“ You can stop stowing away those white-hearts, and go
and ‘rock a few’ into the boys on the cricket ground.
This good old medico used to pass away many enjoyable
hours bandaging broken fingers and examining bruised
calves when the gentle Ernest had finished with those
b °y s - * * * *
The modern mania for collecting things has now
extended to historic cricket-bats, and some of those for
which tail prices are asked are bats which have figured
in Anglo-Australian matches. A recent catalogue—
Wisden’s—contains entries and pictures of the bat on
which Johnny Briggs claimed to have made 3500 runs in
first-class cricket. “ I played with it,” says Bnggs in-
scription, “ both with Lord Sheffields arid Stoddarts
teams, and three summers at home. It was the best bat
I ever played with.” Brown’s bat, with which he made
his 140 in Stoddart’s Australian team in 1895, is called
“ Brown’s grave-digger,” and the catalogue says, ‘ Brown
often has a look at it when he is in London.”
The Vic. Church magnates who are preaching
against gambling will find it hard to make converts after
the experience of a youthful newsvendor during the past
few weeks. The lad went to Moonee Valley with haii-a-
crown in his pocket, and managed to back every winner
of the day. He returned regretful only that he had not
“ plaved it up ” and made a few thousands; but, with a
substantial sum banked, he attended Flemington the
following Saturday, and again performed the miraculous
feat of picking the whole card. He now swells it round
in clothes of the newest cut, smokes big cigars, and has
blossomed forth as a full-blown bookmaker, with an eye
on a plaoe in the paddock and a membership in the Vio.
Olub at an early date. Like many others connected with
the press he has deserted his old calling for that of pure
flotion.
* * • •
If a stay-at-home punter decides to have a
sovereign on the horse that will start second favorite for
a certain race, and agrees to accept the market-price of a
certain newspaper, and if the said newspaper reports
4 to 1 each against A and B, and 7 to 1 against 0, which
horse carried the punter’s money? According to the
only rational rule of “system” betting the sovereign in-
vestment was divided between A and B, for nothing can
be more certain than the fact that they were equally
better favorites than 0, who started third favorite.
A follower of the first-favorite system is also bound to
back both A and B, either of them being just as much a
second as a first favorite. To say that, because there was
no distinct-second favorite, the £1 ought to go on 0 is the
stupidest of arguments. How about the followers of the
third-favorite system, if there are any such idiots ?
Their money goes to O without a doubt.
**' * *
“Snaffle”: Recent mention of the South
American jockey in England who rides without stirrups
recalls a feat of Victorian jock., Mick Carey. In a steeple-
chase at Launceston, a few' years back, he was riding a
mare called Rebecca, and at the first jump broke a
stirrup-leather. One stirrup was of no use, so he rode
the race without stirrups, and although his mount hit
almost every fence, he landed her a winner. Writer also
remembershow Jack Smith, after falling and re-mounting,
negotiated a couple of fences before getting his feet into
the irons; and knows a Vic. crack steeple jock, who,
when riding over big timber, always removes his feet
from the irons—but that’s funk. •
“Pug.”: Worth a line or two. Mick Dunn,
winner of recent middle-weight boxing championship in
Sydney, wore green trunks; L. Foley was referee.
Chatting after the fight, Foley remarked to a reporter on
an evening paper : “It w’ent dead grain, 3 _ou
know’—being a red-hot Orangeman—to give the verdict
to a man w’earing green trunks.” An adjournment to the
Metrop. followed; fight was talked again, and a crowd
gathered round.- By-and-by, the innocent scribe wanted
to have his say, and chipped in with, “ Well, one thing is
certain—Foley’s the fairest referee living. What other
Orangeman but he would have decided in favor of a man
wearing green trunks?” Then the audience nearly’
choked.
* * * *
A good spec. Buy a first favorite for a big race
for, say, £2OOO. Let the lambs back him for, say, the
price of him, and then get a goodjiorse for nothing.
A sensation at a recent review at Aberdeen,
Scotland, was the jumping of N.S.W. Lancer Robson’s
horse clean over the ring of spectators ! The moke was
out of hand, and, as soon as the rider got control again,
he returned and apologised to the “ ladies and gentle-
men” he had “negotiated.”
A Melb. pressman, who affects culture, fell in
with a light-weight pug. (hailing from Westralia) the other
day and was astonished to hear the bruiser quote Byron
in support of one of his assertions. Whereupon the scribe
sarcastically began to test the pug.’s knowdedge of the
noets. and was soon led through Shakespeare to Tenny-
son, and from Kipling back to Byron. The astounded
paragraphist was eventually “ knocked endways when
he endeavored to counter with Dryden and received the
full force of a slab of Chaucer on the point of Jiis jaw.
Fact. The manager of a Sydney boxing-club,
advertising regularly in a morning daily, recently asked
the counter-clerk if coupons were given.
* * * *
Field and trap shooting are very different
games. A young and very promising trap-shot went out
with a party from Cooma for wallaby. Trapman was laid
on his beat and game was plentiful, but when a count
was made the crack shot had not made a kill, w’hilst. the
yokels had all big scores to their credit, although trap-
shot fired double the number of cartridges. Judging
distance was the trouble.
Two Auckland bookmakers, recently charged
with omitting to furnish Income Tax returns, ingeniously
pleaded that as their calling was not recognised by law,
they had been under the impression they were not
liable for Income Tax. The Bench at once disabused
their minds of this comfortable fallacy with a fine ot a
fiver. *
• * * *
Swimming-expert Parnell once gave a swimming
carnival at Wellington, M.L., in the presence of Gov.
Ranfurley, when the curiously appropriate misprint ap-
peared in the programme of “ Under Gubernatatonal
Patronage.”
• * *
The big rise in the price of wool promises to put
on their feet some good S.A. sporting men, who for a few
years past have had to almost drop out of the list or
owners. One of the best-known of these has just sold
part of his wool-clip at an advance of 80 per cent, on the
price he realised five years ago.
* * * *
The spieler’s grace before the meet: “ For what
we are about to deceive, may the Lord make us tiu y
thankful.”
• • * *
Some cricket records, framed in the inein-
bers’ pavilion of Sydney Cricket Ground Match
played at Burrowa, N.S.W., Ist April, 1887, Broughtons-
worth School v. Binalong School; Binalong, Ist innings,
total I— a bye ; bowling analysis, Hyde 7 for 0, Sargent
3 for 0 A smilar record was made in Victoria, Brigalong
V. Glenmaggie, playing for a trophy; Brigalong, Ist
innings, 119 ; Glenmaggie, Ist innings, 1 sundry ; bowling
averages, 6 for 0 and 4 for 0. Marlborough, Ist eleven (a
good team) v. Undaunted—Marlborough, Ist innings, 0 ;
bowling averages, 6 for 0 and 4 for 0 account in Sydney
Echo, 15th April, 1876. In Maoriland a team was once
dismissed for 7—all sundries.
• * * •
Foster Rogers, of surplus-wealth-tax notoriety,
the eccentric ex-M.L.A. for South Yarra in Vic. Assembly,
claims to have played in the very first team of cricketers
that met an English team. In 1852 he was sent from
Australia to the Jesuits College at Stony hurst, Lancashire,
to be educated. In ’6l there were 20 Australian boys in
the College, and 230 English. The Australians challenged
a picked team of English, and were beaten after a close
contest. Rogers says that was the first Ang.o-Australian
match ever played.
* * * *
Brisbane now boasts a Chow spieler. A Sydney
detective once told writer that the only really wealthy
spieler in Australia is a half-caste Chinese who owns
several thousand pounds worth of city property, all of
which he indirectly spieled. He still keeps on spieling
for sheer love of excitement. But after all the spieler is
only the commercial type deprived of the cloak of Respect-
ability.
• * *
The swimming boom has got even to Klondyke.
A couple of Canadians, Gleason and Burwash, have crossed
the Yukon River from side to side—a feat ihought im-
possible, the water being icy and the river very rapid.
They were carried nearly three miles bv the current.
And so they show' a few more fools a hard way to die.
An Indian racing authority (back from a visit
to Australia) remarked of Flemington (Vic.) Grand
National, that horses and men fell at every fence, and
ambulances and doctors were rushing around to pick up
the broken fragments. Tackled on the question of the
morality of the Australian turf, he said it was so hot that
grass would not grow on the tracks. He might have
casually' mentioned that Caulfield Cup is sometimes
spoken of as the Undertakers’ Stakes.
* * * *
“Prooshan”: Billowell is a neat-enough con-
traction for trundler W. Howell, but why not “ B’owl ” ?
—More on the wicket, I fancy.
• * * *
J H Abbott, who, a generation before he be-
came a Vic. M.L.C., introduced Hospital Saturday and
Sunday to Australia, is now moving in Bendigo City
Council towards the provision of municipal gymnasiums.
“Ten thousand people here go to see 40 men take exer-
cise. The 10,000 smoke and spit and swear, and they
call that recreation, and we provide the means for. it,
snorts the old battler. ,
Conversely!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He was of studious habits, a scientist ; views
broad, shoulders narrow; and living the life ot
nther men, but wrapped-up in his study, his
books (hit public-house), his microscope (his
th Yet her heart misgave her as she prepared for
tW moonlight flitting with his friend. He was
Sid hi manner, this lord of hers, but there was a
fire in his eye, a fire rarely seen, but when, seen
not easily to be forgotten, showing in the inner
recesses of his nature a strength of passion that
might yet work its will. , . . f .. .
And he loved her—a woman s instinct could not
, nfoiron Tf he never caressed these small
white hands'of hers, or kissed the light curls that
would stray out on her forehead (having been
carefully trained to stray), it was simply because
he felt the shiver of repugnance with which she
rank from every advance.
She hated to give him pain (she belonged to the
soft-hearted variety of bad woman), but she
could not help the repugnance, though she felt
a dull pity for his grief. And now she was going
to leave him. She was going with her only friend
—and his • the one visitor whose coming had
brightened’the dull house of the studious recluse ;
a man younger than her Professor, less earnest,
vet nevertheless with the stronger brain-power
that often accompanies and is dependent on the
greater strain of animality. With him the
brilliance of the scientist was in exact proportion
tn the ardour of the lover.
So with hisstronghand enfolding her weak one,
she left the dreary home behind her ; afraid, yet
glad to be free. . , ~
g Six months later she experienced the same sen-
sations once more, but this time in relation to her
lover. She had snapped the legal tie ; the illegal
one was still more frail—it snapped of itself. She
was not bad enough for the life-and he was not
g °So Te" stood by the Gate of Bondage once
more; would this other, her husband, take her
back •’ If he loved her still, he would, for he was
not one to be bound by narrow conventions. Put
could he love her still ? .
In the darkness of the summer evening she
stole round to the study window. The gas was
lighted, but the blinds were still up.
Of course he would be working in there, work-
ing as he had often worked in the days that now
seemed so long ago, working and forgetting her.
With a chill fear at her heart she raised herself on
a clod of earth and looked in.
He was not working, he was not reading; lie
was sitting by a dying fire, his greying head upon
his hands. Once he raised his face and she saw in
its worn features a look of hopeless weariness and
grief that wrung her heart—and rejoiced it.
S bbing with mingled happiness and grief, she
stumbled round to the front of the house. Push-.
ing open the doors, she passed through the dis-
ordered hall and stood on the threshold of the
room she had been viewing. .
“James, dearest James, forgive me! 1 have
come back ; I shall never see him again.
His startled eyes met hers, and she saw his gaze
look past her, as if seeking the hated figure of his
betraver.
“James, forgive me!
He rose from his seat, and his black eyes
gleamed with one of his rare fits of passion.
“Forgiveyou?—never! If you had gone with any
other man, perhaps I should have overlooked it.
But you have taken away from me the only man
who could sympathise with my ideas, who could
have worked with me. You have used your posi-
tion in this house to steal that man’s affection
from me. Go !—woman! you have lost me my
friend for ever 1 ”
CONSTANOE CLYDE.
A SOPHISTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We poker played, with oats for chips ;
“ Innocuous gambling ” was our vote,
Because the game included both
The poison and the ante’d oat.
J.A.P.


The “ Penny-in-the-slot Gramophone
lately to hand at the Melbourne agents’, is calcu-
lated to reap a rich harvest of coppers for country
hotel-keepers, some of whom, by the way, charge
a penny a time for the ordinary Gramophone per-
formance. The new machine makes its own
charge. After a “record” has been duly fixed,
the sound thereof is prepared to come through
the funnel for a penny, a pen’orth of internal
wheel-work being sufficient to exhaust the
“ record’s ” resources. Then a bolt shoots out,
and the tricky little Gram, refuses to do anything
more until another copper has been slipped down
the slot.
Xmas cards for posting to friends across the sea
arrived and arriving. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st.,
have a magnificent assortment of loose and packet cards
for Xmas and New Year. It is now time to see about
getting in supplies if you wish to send to your friends on
the continent. We can supply all the most modern cards
at economical prices. Loose cards from 6d. to 12s. per
dozen (envelopes included), •post free. Packet cards, post
free, Bd. to 3s. per packet. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
THE WORKINGMAN’S
The workingman’s back is a very important part of him.
relationship to his work that the mainspring of a watch does to
BACK.
Bears about the same
its usefulness.
t
\
*3
\
r(I li
\
Simply an impossibility for a man to attend to his work
properly if he is always suffering with lame back, or backache.
That means, of course, if his kidneys aren’t doing their
duty.
Many a man has lost his position because of his inability
to endure the tortures of backache, and keep up with the
work at the same time.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
make lame, weak backs well and strong: help men to do
better and harder work : make them better, more competent
men. They’re doing it right here in this matter-of-fact, work-
a-day town of Sydney, where success depends so largely upon
a man’s strength and keen, wide-a-wake ability
There’s no need for a man to suffer with backache, or lame
back, or any of the other results of kidney trouble—not while
the little Conqueror of Kidney Ills is so easily obtained, so
sure to bring renewed health and strength.
Here are just two Sydney cases for you to think about:
Mr. John J. Cottrell, of 753 Harris-street, Ultimo, this city, is a
coachbuilder by trade. He says : “ I can say from experience that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are an excellent remedy for kidney trouble, from
which complaint I suffered for a number of years. I had a travelling pain
which extended from the small of my back between the shoulders and
down my lo>ns. At times my back was so sore that I could scarcely move
or stoop over. I tried several remedies, but could get little or no relief.
Finally, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended very highly by
a friend, and I was induced to try them. I took them, and since then I
have been thankful to my friend for his kindly advice, for Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are the best remedy I have ever used for kidney trouble.”
Mr. Mark Tierney follows the occupation of a vanman, and lives at
No. 118 Bridge-road, Glebe, this city. He informed us : “ For some con-
siderable time I was subject to severe pains across the small of my back
(just over the kidneys), and at times round the loins, which caused me con-
siderable annoyance, and, although I tried liniments, they gave me only
very slight relief. The pain disturbed me a good deal at night, and I could
scarcely get sufficient rest. Having read about Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, I got a supply at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street. The first
few doses seemed to do me good, and, as I continued the treatment, the
pains gradually left ine. lam ready at all times to endorse Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are for sale at all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by Foster-M'Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (Sole Proprietors). Branches: 292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King William-street,
Adelaide; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, c/o Elliott Bros. ; St. John-street, Launceston, c/o Fairthorne and Son.
But be SURE they are DOAN’S.
The Transvaal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Morituri te salutant! Turn your thumb, 0
mighty Britain.
For the mob is losing patience, and is howling
for the fray,
And the mercenary grumbles at his leash, with
war-lust smitten ;
Hear the Jewish jackal howling as he scents
the easy prey !
See ! another foolish people who would fain be
left to loiter
’Mong the by-ways of tradition, careless of
revengeful fate,
Standing in the road of commerce, of the syndi-
cate exploiter,
Till the Juggernaut of Progress shall have
crushed them with its weight.
Break them, Britain ! that the jobber may con-
tinue in his gamble ;
That the Stock Exchange may profit, scourge
them with the iron rod !
Head your solemn ultimatum with a sanctified
preamble,
And beneath your declaration forge the signa-
ture of God I
In the name of Light and Freedom—bah ! the
modern convict-collar
That you force upon the vanquished presses
harder than the old.
Oh, the slavery of Mammon ! Oh, the serfdom
of the Dollar !
Oh, the grinding, racking torture of that
shameless Moloch, Gold !
Morituri te salutant l But methinks they see,
O Britain !
In your sweated children’s faces, through the
thunder of your guns,
With the second-sight of death, a gruesome
Mene-Tekel written,
And they fall in the assurance of a reckoning—
for your sons !
At Rockhampton (Q.) Police Court, a ten-
year-old boy was publicly presented by the P.M.
with the Royal Humane Society’s certificate of
merit for saving life, whereupon he handed up the
following written acknowledgment:—
“To Mr. P. VV. Pears, P.M. Dear Sir, —I hereby beg to
convey, through you, my best thanks to the Royal
Humane Society for the splendid testimonial I have this
day been presented with in recognition of my saving the
life of a fellow-creature, and I am proud to say that I
shall ever prize it as marking- an important and eventful
epoch in my life’s history.— John Fraser.’’
The Bulletin would sooner be that boy than the
stodgy prig who inspired the above acknowledg-
ment.
A War-Office in Trouble.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soene War-Office, London. Telephones are
ringing, typewriters clicking, clerks in dozens
rushing hither and thither at express rate. An
atmosphere of feverish unrest hangs over every-
thing. In the passages and lobbies crowds of
military contractors, officials, newspaper-men, and
inventors of patent guns have been waiting for
hours to get a few minutes’ interview with those
in authority. Mounted messengers dash up to the
door every few seconds. In the innermost room
of all a much-decorated military veteran with a
bald head, a grizzled moustache and an eyeglass is
dictating to three shorthand-writers at once, while
clerks rush in and out with cablegrams, letters,
and cards from people waiting. On the table are
littered a heap of lists of troops, army-contracts,
and tenders for supplies, all marked “Urgent.”
A clerk rushes in : “ Cablegram from Australia
offering troops, sir 1 ”
Military Veteran : “ No ! can’t have ’em. It
has been decided not to use blacks, except as a
last resource. ”
Clerk: “But these are white troops, sir—the
local forces. It is officially desired that they be
taken if possible.”
Military Veteran: “Who is the Australian
Commander-in-chief ? I didn’t know they had an
army at all. I knew they had police, of course ! ”
. Clerk : “ There are seven distinct cablegrams,
sir; seven distinct Commanders-in-chief all offer-
ing troops.”
M. V. (roused to excitement): “ Great Heavens!
are they going to take the war off our hands?
Seven Commanders-in-chief ! They must have
been quietly breeding armies all these years in
Australia. Let’s have a look at the cables.
Where’s this from? ”
C. : “Tasmania, sir. They offer to send a
Commander-in-chief and ’’—pauses, aghast—“and
eighty-jive men ! ”
M.V. (jumping to his feet): “ What! Have I
wasted all this time talking about 85 men 1 You
must be making a mistake ! ”
C. : “ No, sir. It says 85 men !”
M.Y. : “Well I am damned! Eighty-five
men ! You cable back and say that I’ve seen
bigger armies on the stage at Drury Lane theatre.
Just wire and say this isn’t a pantomime. They
haven’t got to march round and round a piece of
scenery. Tell ’em to stop at home and breed ! ”
(Resumes dictation) “ At least five thousand extra
men should be sent from India in addition to ”
C. : “ Cabinet instructions are to take these
troops, whether they’re any good or not, sir.
Political reasons ! ”
M.V. (with a sigh): “Well, let ’em come. Let
’em all come—the whole eighty-five ! But don’t
let it leak out, or the Boers will say we’re not
playing ’em fair. Tell ’em to send infantry, any-
how; we don’t want horses eating their heads
off.”
C. (interrupts again): “These other colonies,
sir—are we to accept ’em all ? ”
M.V. : “Yes ! Didn’t I say let ’em all come.
There’ll be plenty of room for ’em in South Africa.
They won’t feel crowded.” (Resumes dictation.)
“ The expenditure of a hundred thousand pounds
at least will be needed to——.”
C.: “ They want to know, if they pay the men’s
fares over, will the British Government pay their
return fares ? ” ■
M. Y.: “Yes ! I should think we would. We’ll
put ’em in the front and there won’t be so many
of ’em left to go back. If the colonies had any
sense they'd have paid the return fares. Now
please go away and let me get to work.”
Ten minutes later. Clerk timidly re-appears.
“ If you please sir, another cable from New South
Wales. They say they would sooner send
artillery 1 ’’
M.V.: “Oh, blast it all 1 What does their
artillery amount to?”
C. : “One battery, Sir.”
M. V.: “ One battery! Well, they’ve got to come,
I suppose. ‘ Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war.’
Stop their one battery if you can ; but if not, let
it come. And now go, and don’t let me have any
more of you.” Resumes dictation, and has just
got to “ the purchase of ten thousand horses,”
when the clerk reappears.
C. : “ Fresh cable, sir ! Two circus-proprietors
in Sydney have presented six circus-horses ”
_ M.V. : Shivering Sheol! This is theclimax ! Six
circus horses ! Didn’t they say anything about a
clown and pantaloon ? Surely they wouldn’t see
the Empire hurled to ruin for want of a clown 1
Perhaps they could let us have a few sword-
swallowers to get off with the Boers’ weapons?
Look here, now—hand the whole thing over to
one of the senior clerks, and tell him to do exactly
what he d well pleases in the matter, but that
if he comes in here to ask any questions about it,
I’ll have him shot ! Now go, and don’t you come
here any more, or I’ll have you shot too ! Take
this cheque for a hundred thousand to the petty-
cash department, and tell that contractor outside
that his tender is two millions over the estimate,
and don’t let me hear any more of this blessed
Australian army.”
Cable message : “ Some difficulty exists in ascer-
taining from the War-Office whether the colonial
troops will be expected to take their own saddles
or not, and whether the officer commanding shall
take one horse or two. It is not definitely known
whether the offer of Fitzgeralds’ six circus-horses
will be accepted. Great enthusiasm prevails.”
B.
Artists and Souls.
“ Maddy M.” sends to The Bulletin this lovely
piece of malice :
Some people are inclined to look upon artists as beings
whose morals are never above reproach. That is because
the males and females mix so much together. They do
the same work, and they have the same affinities, or
think they have. If a male artist paints a picture and
wants to hear what somebody else thinks of it, he will
not take it to his brother artist, as his brother artist is
always his worst enemy, and “doesn’t know a good thing
when he sees it.” He will take it to his sister artist;
and, of course, as she has no occasion to be jealous of
him, she will gush and gurgle over it (to his face) and
tell him she can see his whole soul is in it. (It is a daub,
but she does not mean to insinuate anything against
his soul). He will shake his head sadly and say, “ Ah, we
never realise our ideals ! ” and then she says, “ Are you
an Impressionist or a Realist?” (I think these are the
terms), and he generally says he is an “ Impressionist,”
as an “Impressionist” is a more toney affair than a
“ Realist.” And then they say something about “ Pre-
Raphaelitism ’’—but by this time I have had enough.
At first, when I used to visit my artist friend, Miss
Draggles, I was rather amazed to find her tete-d-tSte at
any hour with what I thought was a man ; but it wasn’t
a man, it was only an artist : and people who don’t
know this will do well to digest it, and not scandalise
these poor harmless creatures as they do.
. ” you will find a
When you go up to a woman’s etuai j th forget-me-
fetching garden-hat, generally trimn „ h w hat she
nots, thrown negligently on the tloort c ity I cant
does with a garden-hat in the heart % kin lying faoe-
imagine !), a volume of Browning or as though
downwards on the couch, and a gfh e, 'a , t he m idst of
the fair occupant had just been distur enough to
her soulful communings. If you are I dust on these
look closely, you will see a fair amount
negligent trifles. „ af home?” Tfl ey
Have you ever been to an artist s “ . people’s, but
are, perhaps, a degree less stale than t-> They are
oh ! those everlasting “ lightning sketc • see j n g an
so uninteresting, I think. I remember llD side-down,
artist turn out Pinchgut by moonlig l muc h to a
which I thought fairly good. I suggest , j hadn’t.
well-known artist standing near ; but i ave me. I
You should have seen the pitying l oo * l , pinchgut man
heard afterwards that he and the inverted l mcng
shared the same studio. ~ . , . • clothes and his
You can always tell a male artist by h men by
hair, and a female artist by her ex P re .| s ‘ ’k ov dress, and
their colorless hair, their half-actor, haU-coWDoy who
their bad complexions. There is only one tr tram . tfMar d |
looks as grubby as an artist, and that. nin}f . s he
A female artist’s expression is deep an Y rat her be
likes to look pale, and would a thousand • There is
thought “interesting-looking” than beaut ifub
a pitiful attempt at Bohemiamsm about
oh, my stars ! how they do eat! . fc jn the
I remember once meeting a man " . Ju at might
parks, and I was so afraid of saying someth g ev JjL
hurt his feelings. He was an artist ! (that e p • „
thing) but how could I mention “shades think
and the different “ effects of sunrise ? ‘ tmrik
I referred to his nightly vigils ! It was at a
-an artist’s “at home.” Said my hostess. Do et me
introduce Mr. Slapdash to yon ! He does P ha
parks, but he is such a nice fellow ! ’ He
been fearfully poor, because I caught hin hplieve
door stuffing his pockets with wh
is splendid for keeping away hunger. ~
An artist is always in want of a soul 1 •
Poor wife ; it is all she can do to keep it and h
gether. She works like a slave to feed hts body,
your “ body ”is not your “ soul ” ! He says she starves
his soul,” and so he has to go to somebody ®^ se , s ... , ■
have it “fed.” Somebody else's wife s husband (if he is
an artist) thinks likewise, and he goes to somebody
wife, and so on. And then people say artists are im-
moral ! Common people who not artists ao
understand anything about “ souls.” „ .
An artist’s wife never “ understands him. >f one is a
good creature, you know, and very fond of me, t
why she is a good creature, I suppose but. I ougnt
have married a woman who could understand me—-a w
man who could have helped to realise My Ideals a
woman like you—” and “you” is probably trymg her
hardest to be polite and not cry with a mighty voice
“ Thank God! ’’—for it is one thing to be the soul-
reader,” but quite another to be the wife, of an artist.


In Bed for Months; Terrible Suffering;
Rheumatism Cured; A Limb Saved; Now Works Hard at 72.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
v
i
&
'■'X
A
S':
Va
s:
“While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good.
“As soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
“ One doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told> me I would have to
lose my legi
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
“I am now 72 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every,
day.”
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.’’
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
AYER'S saw*.
it Acts on the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Coated, Easy to Take.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK-
KMBRACIKO
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTS.
10 Platts. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, bub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only. 7s. 6d.
Spkeches an* Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public; speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Sbcrkts. Post free Is.
How to Becomb a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post tree.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, ls'6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and Hie Cans (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
ChEvasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Sons Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
w?ll
ill! ANDRADE.
[iilajPUßL iSHt-R
liiHll? &imFqrter.
CHEAP BOOKS
PLAIN N
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 200 X'olored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. /This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Evert Man His Own Builder, 224 illustrations, Is 6d ; Metal Working for
Amateurs, brazing, soldering, gas-fitting, brass casting, etc., illus., Is 6d.
Electrical Apparatus for Amateurs, Telephones, Electric Light, Coils., etc.,
illustrated, Is 6d. How to write Signs, Tickets and Posters, 170 illustrations, Is 6d.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 1/6. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Comic Reciter, contains 160 gems ; post Is 3d. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian
Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
01.7 List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL DES,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Ways of Many Waters.
By B. J~- BRADY.
A collection of Ballads and Verses of t;he Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
WORTH
A GUINEA
A BOX.
s.aiuoM
3HI
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver, Female Ailments,
AND AIL
BILIOUS AND NERVOUS DISORDERS,
They brace up the nervous and muscular systems, revive the long-lost
complexion, bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into action
the too-often slumbering energies of mind and body. As a blood purifier
it is not too much to say that they have no equal. They eliminate what-
ever septic matter may have altered the condition of the vital fluid, while
at the same time they induce a new “building-up-force,” the effect of
which is quickly visible in the most marked and gratifying improvement
in the general health. One of the best guarantees that'can be offered to
the nervous and debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have by far the
Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in tne World, being over Six Million
Boxes per annum.
This has been achieved without the publication of Testimonials. The
convincing fact is that Beecham’s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, ENGLAND. Sold
Everywhere in Boxes, 13Jd. and 2s. 9d. each.
BEECHAMS Recommends Itself
It is Efficacious, Economical, Cleanses the
Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and is
a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists,
SHILLING EACH.
TOOTHPASTE
ft[ANON PI AN OS
PIANOS
]yANON PIANOS
A NON PIANOS
ANON PIANOS
CASH or on EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
*
2m
P£KFUUt
m
sesi
Sen-Sent (®.
FARRINGDOH AVENUE
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
cK
STOP THAT COUGH!
HOW CAN YOU STOP IT?
TAK _ WHERE IS THE REMEDY?
Bopoipgtop’s I risb Moss
•———-.♦♦♦♦♦«
Another Voice front Hill grove*
Messrs. BONNINGTON & CO. 26th July, ’96.
Dear Sirs. —I have been recently afflicted with a severe cold in my head, throat, and
lungs Four bottles of your Bonnington’s Irish Moss have completely cured me.
Yours truly, MARY T. GIBSON.
BoooiOgtoi) &
GREAT CURE FOR BILE, INDIGES-
TION, AND ALL LIVER
DISORDERS.


TENNIS GOODS.
Slazenger
at LONDON PRICES.
La Belle, ft/- ; Renshaw, 10/6;
Rackets
as time, 15/-:
G- M, 25/-;
Whitfshouse, 21/-
Boodie,, 25-.
Slazenffer i*>99 i ? allH Uncovered, 6/6 ;
0 Covered, 13/-.
Ayres- - 1399 Balls Uncovered, 7/6:
Covered, 14/-.
(Association Mates to. Members.)
TeiUlis Special Quality Rubber on all our
Shoes.
Shoes Prices from 4/- to 25/-.
Rubber Goods of all Descriptions.
PEEDEIAU & CO.
270 GEORG E-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECT iMCAL KNGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
Asm ..
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THS MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ROBERTS*
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
The dost powerful Driving gelt in the j||orld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features;
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
XL. & J. DICK,
Green head Works ,
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM ... ... 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
S3*
......
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
MO PHTEIIT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents j — mourn.
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
LATEST TYPE OJL ENGINE
REPRESENTED BT
BENNIE, TEA.RE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, and Coolgardie.
ami
Engines
EVERY
Bt.OKS.CaL JL> UTY.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD &
LTD.
BUTTER
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay-’consu.mers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will, deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we nave described is appieciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-Street, Sydney.
THJE VERY F ACT THAT
$
$
&
$
9
been made and sold
it the assurance of long and
500 at the Anaconda Mines. Butte. Mont. 80 at the Homesfcake Lead, South Dakota.
14 by Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J.
'Bp ipua sasßaagui ‘spuQ qoo}
ui pooS si 'jßq) jpj jo q.ti9unpoqtn9 e
ROC K DRILLS
AIR COMPRESSORS
ines, Quarries, Tunnels,
mtract Work, Good Roads.
12 Standard Types and
many Special Patterns.
Agents:
PARKE & LACY CO. LIMITED
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, 'Engines and Boilers.
60 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ENGINEERS’ and nit
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
BIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Solo Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TRADE MARK.
Worthing!
BOILER FEED PUMP,
fir Every Service.
\ BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-nfetal or Iron Water Ends.
Send for Catalogues . .
