

MeE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
B. <3r. WA.TKINS & CO.,
107 Kent: Street, Sydney, '
__. . —for —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2 70
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
: Jy I
m
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Teams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, 9s. per I>ay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
, BATTLE & C°'M Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Ruston, Proctor & t.<i
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS
HAVE IN •:
TRACTION,
AND
STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
PUMPS,
■
ECCENTRIC THRA-SIOJJaG MA.CECI3JTES, SA.W REACHES &c
&c.
[ORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilmirister for the last
Tu eij
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
i
HOBART.
— zm —
Hadley s Orient |jotel.
gECOND-HAND
TffEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.) p SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
60
TEARS DYEING
fob this ladies.
w_ c. ELDRIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 York stree r, Sydney
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
cl/£
CO
860,112 Bottles Sold la One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
m.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINGH
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durabilitv anil Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SOW, LTD.,
UHL *7 "STorls: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY. TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
VAndyck
CIGARS
mi
■" /I V£W
ILO^r/t/IGRA/Vr
SMOK£
PH PfcJ
©I? 8
if@E Is-
•MEUIISw^NLY
The Bulletin
Vol 20. ±W 1015 |
[Saturday, July 29, 1899.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.


Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is 6d each.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
m
sov!.
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Or from the PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland,
for Postage stamps of any Province.
SYDNEY AGENT: S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
tsar They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
UNDER
THE
GUMTREE
the "Poputar" Omar.
( Rubaiyat of Omar
B Khayyam, in Macmil-
■ lan’s new edition at half-
a-crown, seemed likely to
be a great joy, and I sent for it.
I had never read Omar, and
knew nothing about him save
gossip. When I got the book, I
.understood what Matthew Arnold
meant when he complained of
the disgraceful way the journey-
man work of bookmaking is done
in England. The editor is
anonymous. The preface, pp.
1-25, j.s. also anonymous, .and
much of 'it extracted from a
review (date not given) by Pro-
Professor Cowell. After the
preface comes a translation in
though one may conjecture that the author’s name
is Fitz Gerald. As one edition of the original text
of Omar (preface p. 17) contains 464 verses,
one gathers that the “ translation ” is a selection.
And apparently it is a translation in a Shakes-
pearian sense (‘•Bottom, thou art translated !”),
for we read in a note on p. 111, by the anonymous
editor, that the most audacious verse of ali is
essentially invented. Here it is ;
Lxxxr.
Oh, Thou, who Man of baser Earth didst make,
And ev’moith Paradise devise the Snake:
For all the Sin wherewith tke Face of Man
Is blacken'd—Alan’s forgiveness give—and take!
And in said note we find Professor Cowell quoted
to effect that “there is no original for the line
about the snake, ” and that in the last line “ Fitz-
Gerald” mistook the ineaj'iing of a certain verse ;
and ,when informed of his mistake did not care to
correct it!
After the translation we get anonymous notes,
and then, if you please, another translation of
Orftar called “ The first edition. ” Then a sort of
comparative table showing the alterations in the
successive editions; then an editor’s note of half' a
page,; and. our book (111 pp.) comes to an end.
Have I conveyed clearly how entirely anonym-
ous and third-hand»-tohe whole business is? And
may a common person say how the book should
have been written ? First, I would have the editor
give his name, and tell us plainly who Omar was,
not inferentially, quoting a quotation from Mirk-
hond as quoted in Cdliutta Review, but of his own
knowledge. That is, let him go to the original
authorities, as I presume Mirkhond did. Then
let him saywhat language Omar used, and
what are the recognised editions of his ‘ ‘ Rubaiyat, ”
Then a few words about Fitz Gerald ; who he was,,
what knowledge he had of the language Omar
wrote in, and the extent to which his translation
really reproduces Omar. After this, let us have
the translation as finally revised, and all the pre-
vious editions can be dispensed with. Then some
notes. Th9.se. we have are very inadequate in
parts, and in parts rambling and superfluous.
Without notes, Omar, as a personality, is unintel-
ligible by the vulgar; and you must remember
that there is a cheap edition for the million, of
which it is boasted that one shop in the Strand
(London) sold 300 copies in one day.
Let me clench the nail I have driven, by saying
that when we get on page 89 a heading Kuza-
nama, and there is no note, we (the million) feel
insulted and baffled. What can we do? We
don’t know whether it hr Arabic or Persian. We
can’t look it up. A painstaking man can get
at. a French, German, or Latin dictionary;
even a Greek or Hebrew one; but Persian ?
From internal evidence I should say that Omar
wrote or collected; and edited some sets of qua-
trains, not attempting to construct a continuous
poem. On these Fitz Gerald has based a sort of
medley. How much of it Omar wrote himself I
dare not even guess. How much Fitz Gerald
altered it Ido not certainly know. All this the
editor should have explained. That some of the
quatrains stand in the very first rank of English
poetry is, I suppose, as plain and clear as any
matter of literary judgment can be. And, in one
sense, this being so, it matters nothing what
materials Fitz Gerald worked on ; that is, had he
called if an original poem I should not have cared.
But it seems very misleading to use Omar’s name
and put in his mouth modern ideas he would not
have understood. And I do not comprehend the
way Fitz Gerald is kept in the background. We
are not even told his initials, or whether he is
still living.
IGNOTUS.
. [ Ignotus’s” complaint is for the most part
justified. Reverence for Fitz Gerald’s whims or
reasons has been carried too far. His literary
executor and editor, W. Aldis Wright, persists in
regarding the “ Omar ” chiefly as an expression of
r itzGerald’s personality : what we are much more
concerned with is its value as a contribution to
literature. Fitz Gerald’s motives in publishing
anonymously, and in preserving anonymity,
matter little. He modestly or timorously dis-
trusted himself and his work; he was full of fads
and fancies.
... As to the publication of my name [he wrote to H.
Sehiitz-Wilson in 1882], I believe I could well dispense
with it, were it other and better than it is. But I have
some unpleasant associations with it; not the least of
them being that it was borne, Christian and Surname, by
a man who left college just as I went there. . . . What
has become of him I know not; but he, among other
causes, has made me dislike my name. . . .
Further, Fitz Gerald was sensitive; and held
stinging memories of a severe review (of his trans-
lations from Calderon) which the Athenceum
printed six years before “Omar” was issued—a
review followed by the book’s withdrawal from
circulation.
What Fitz Gerald did with Omar is concisely
stated by Nathan Dole—
He ingeniously wove into a life-cycle of agnosticism a
number of originally disconnected and isolated quatrains,
informing the whole with the unity of his own personality
and with the brilliancy of his peculiar genius. He took
the Persian’s thought and the Persian’s manner, but made
it his with just such high-handed, modest, one might
almost say unconscious, art of lordly rapine as Shake*
spe'are displayed toward the predecessors whom he robbed
to glorify.
FitfcG •raid's ifiea-’of a translator's jJrivitegdSrwhs-
partly set forth in the advertisement prc.ixed to
his versions of Calderon. lie wijote—
I do not. btflievh an exact, translation of this poethati:be
very successful; .retaining . . . conceits that were a
fashion of the day ; or idioms that, true and inlclliyible
to one nation, check the current of sympathy in others to
which they are unfamiliar . . .
I have, while faithfully-trying: to retain what was fine
and efficient, sunk, reduced;:altered, and replaced, much
that seemed not ; simplified ‘some perplexities, and cur-
tailed or omitted scenes that seemed to mar the breadth
of general effect, supplying such Omissions by some.lines
of after-narrative. ...
And Fitz Gerald’s “ Rubaiyat ” is neither Fitz-
Gerald nor Omar, but Fitz Omar.
“ Ignotus ” is mistaken, however, in thinking
that variorum versions can be dispensed with,
even in a “ popular ” edition. For Fitz Gerald,
“like the ass of genius he was,” has frequently
revised for the worse—and one naturally prefers
to have the better at hand for solace and quota-
tion. Some persons have re-edited all the editions
for their own satisfaction and private circulation,
selecting and fusing what seemed best in each ;
but there is doubtfully anyone with sufficient
authority, and assurance, to do as much for the
public at present.
In a private letter “Ignotus” confesses to
puzzlement at Fitz Gerald’s use of capitals sq
a note by A. B. Miall, in Lond. Academy, may
helpfully be added
“Speaking of Fitz Gerald’s ‘Omar/have many
of his Readers considered to what a Degree the
Success of his Version, delightful though it be, is
Due to his Employment of Capital Letters ?
Literature now, to its great Hurt, it may be,
appeals little to the Ear, but chiefly to the
Eye ; and whether this he because Reading Aloud
is a Lost Art, as our Elders would have; or that
our Taste is so far bettered' that it will not suffer
this Art in patience, which yet so far subsists as
to make a natural Delivery the Rarest of Things:
however this be, it is often seen that Poetry is
most admired which in Sound is indeed Un-
musical, and Prose which has no natural
Nuance ; for the '.reason that they charm
the Understanding by instantly Impressing
the t: 'Visual Sense, in such Manner that the
Mind has no Need to go searching about to
apprehend the Meaning. This I believe to be the
Explanation of the Continued Admiration of
Many for the Pqems of such Writers as Pope and
Addison, which many others count as poor Stuff :
biit by the Fact that all the Nouns are pointed out
with such Clearness to the Lye, such work will
impress the Sluggish, Mind far more keenly and
vividly than Work which does not so Solicit the
Eye, and thus tbyrp are Persons of feeble Wits
who reckon the Literature of the Last Century far
superior to that of this: as a Woman will con-
sider another Woman’s Letter to be far the superior
of a Man's, as it is so Emphasised, by Italics and
Extravagant Words , as to penetrate the mind In-
stantly : And with Literature it is far other than
with Jewels, for the Generality rate most Highly
that which is Comprehended with Least Pain.
“ This Printing of Words by means of Capital
Letters will also give a Passage a Balance and a
Rhythm which do not by Right belong to it; each
Capital giving the Mind a little Pause : So that I
have seen Passages highly Applauded' by famous
Critics, which stripped of their Nobility of Capi-
tals had fallen into the most vulgar Journalese ;
no more, compared with their former State, than
is a member of society compared with a member of;
Society.
“As a Case in Point, consider the following
Quatrain, done almost faithfully into English
from Omar ’ •
i.
“.Stay me .with flagons, comfort-me with wine,
This amber face make like a ruby shine,
And when I die with wine my body wash,
My coffin wattle of the roots of vine.
ii.
“ Stay me with Flagons ! Comfort me with Wine 1
This Amber Face make like a Ruby shine !
And when I die with Wine my Body wash,
My Coffin wattle of the Roots of Vine ! ”
And that is all about Omar for the present.]
[This is published because, with reservations made,
it has value and interest as representing the lot of
a second-flight journalist in London. For people
• who knew Mr. Martin in Australia it is unneces-
sary to add-one word. To the new generation
which never heard of Joseph, it is explained that (as
might be gathered from recent statements and
commentaries) _ Mr. Martin is a : ■ second
Sladen —a Britisher with ordinary brains, more
than ordinary energy, and super-extraordinary
cheek. Both are. excellent persons in their way ;
but it is not the best literary way.' As editor of
“ Who’s Who, ” Sladen has found a niche where
he writes.2o,ooo letters a year —and no poetry.
He is “ doing' splendidly and as an energetic
compiler Mr. Martin would rival him. He
also should “drop literature,” and persuade some
publisher to place him in charge of a similar
reference-book—say, ‘ ‘ What’s What. ” For Mr.'
Martin’s creative work is of no permanent
account whatever; for the most part it kernels
the commonplace in a husk of crude form. As
journalism, much of it is readable and very little
rememberable. The “Life of Robert Lowe” is
the rubble tomb of a reputation : it is one of
literature’s ironies that “brilliant Bob” should
have been interred by a biographer with
the vivacity of an underdone muffin. Mr.
Martin’s good-natured impudence is shown by
the manner in which he argues from his own ex-
perience to Lawson’s Loudon prospects—-as if he
and Lawson stood on the same plane of power or
possibility! As poet and prose-writer, Lawson
has a streak of dissatisfied genius : Mr. Martin is
complacent with an inferior talent. The one
writer is alloyed gold ; the other, thinly-silvered
brass. Very likely Brass would succeed much better
in London ; very likely Lawson would be beaten
by rebuffs which Mr. Martin, would receive stolidly.
“ You must kno w how to box, ” said Jem. Mace ;
“but that’s only the beginning: Fighting is give-
and-take : you want a Quick Lye, afad you want a
Thick Hide.” 'And the much-advised and
patronised Lawson (nobis baud culpa iiboris)
is thin-skinned for two. That does not alter
the fact that Lawson would attack London with
authentic capacity and a valid performance :, Mr.
Martin had neither. There.is pursuing literature
and there is—pursuing literature ; and Mr.
Martin’s is the other kind of pursuit. Let us
surround with an appropriate brass rule the im-
pregnable moral ivlnch is the conclusion of the
whole advertisement ' fi ■;>
Always cultivate -Modesty oe Soul, with
a Due Amount oe Intellectual Sklk-Oon-
oeit. This is the True Secret oe [My]
Literary Genius.
A. Patciiett Martin.
That is the only really humorous thing Mr. Martin
ever wrote.]
“Pursuing Literature” in London.
When I read Henry Lawson’s jeremiad on
“Pursuing Literature in Australia” ( Bulletin ,
Jan 21st, 1899) —the moral of which is that the
young Australian genius should rush to London or
commit suicide—it struck me that many readers
(including Mr. Lawson) might like to hear a plain
tale of literary and journalistic experience, extend-
ing over some 15 years, in England.
I can vividly recall the time when, m Mel-
bourne, having helped to found and edit for some
eight years The Melbourne Review, with but indif-
ferent pecuniary results (though with infinite local
glory) I determined to transfer my activities to
London. I may add that 1 was never, of a
foolishly sanguine temperament, and not more
conceited than a very young man should be. I
saw that no money could be made in Melbourne
by writing except for the newspapers ; and I was
perhaps unwisely encouraged to try my fortunes
m England by one or two rising English authors,
chief among whom was my constant correspondent
the late It. L. Stevenson, then resident in Edin-
burgh. Moreover, to the genuinely literary
aspirant in all new lands—even in America to this
hour—there inevitably comes the feeling of deep
disgust with one’s actual environment, and the
accompanying overpowering desire to dwell in a
land of literary and intellectual traditions. It
was this feeling, far more than the desire to find a
market for my wares, which drew me to England,
though, no doubt, in my glorious youthful self-
confidence I felt that once in London fortune
would smile upon me. However, neither the
Authors’ Society nor the Literary Agent was then
in existence; and I entered on the great sea of
London literary life in a state of infantile sim-
plicity, with a volume of essays and poems under
my arm, and a very scanty roll of bank-notes in
my breeches pocket.
I found the reality vastly different from the
youthful dream. Yet I cannot honestly say, in
looking back over the last fifteen years, that I
have anything to complain of, or that my lot could
have been pleasanter had I remained with Marcus
Clarke, Garnet Walch, Julian Thomas, Brunton
Stephens, and many lesser-known men, with
whom I had been associated on the Melbourne
Review and other literary ventures. But I dis-
tinctly warn readers that “pursuing literature ” in
London is by no means all beer and skittles, any
more than it is in Australia. Very shortly after
“settling down” in London, I found that my
youthful visions and day-dreams must be utterly
abandoned. Messrs. Griffith and Farran under-
took to issue my book of poems and essays,
“Fernshawe,” for which I duly penned what
'§• 'gnteofttl “ Introduction”
to “the English reader.” This handsomely
got-up work contained what Lawson would call
“ the cream ”of my Australian.literary work ; and,
glancing over it again, after all these years, I
must frankly assert that there :are, some pages
in it of which lam not at all ashamed. Result:
Excellent press notices, many friendly; letters
from distinguished authors; but after months of
weary waiting—a sale of some to, 4o eo,flips;
which, of course, did not' pay the mere adver-
tising expenses. ■
There’s nothing like a “facer.” After my
“ Fernshawe ” experience I was no longer Under
any delusion as to the fortune to be acquired by
publishing poems and essays in London. I .delete*
fully,put away-under lock and key a fresh volume
of rhymes, and, like Dr, Johnson,, “ took a walk
down Fleet-street.” It was evident that I must
seek niv daily bread (to say nothing of the awful-
priced English meat) in what Matthew Arnold,in
his superiority styles the common arena of the
British press. So I took off my singing robes and
threw my harp away, and seized a journalist’s
quill. I had various most unpleasant experiences
—with “Society” papers chiefly, which, in the
matter of paying contributors, are often as un-
satisfactory as Lawson’s workmen’s organs. I did
any and everything —from collecting (or prefer-
ably inventing) fashionable items about the aris-
tocracy—it is wonderful how easily one picks up
the trick in England—to wri ting speeches and
addresses for provincial aldermen and suburban
magnates. One of my efforts in the latter cate-
gory was a most terribly florid and rhetorical ad-
dress on “Enthusiasm” which'l wrote in a
Bloomsbury lodging-house from “notes” on my
unpaid bills. It was delivered to a crowded and
delighted audience of Christian young men in
Liverpool. My price was £lO cash.
I was beginning to make some headway among
the ruck of Fleet-streeters, and had become quite
a. well-known Savage Clubite, where I regularly
dined at the famous (and cheap) Saturday night
dinners—upon more than one occasion presiding
over that august assembly with the weirdly
humorous assistance of E. j. Odell,-who used to
recite my verses, “My Cousin from Pall Mall,”
with rich humour. About this, time, an old Mel-
bourne press acquaintance, Mr. Philip Mennell,
arrived m London to take over the Age agency.
In a somewhat informal way I became a kind, of
assistant to him. We used to sleep in the dirty
old office in Fleet-street—l, on a particularly hard
sofa, while Mennell reposed generally on the floor,
with the London Directory for his pillow !
Having been sub-editor of the. Age,' Mennell
thoroughly understood'what David Syme expected
of him in London. He'Was almost 1 loyal and effi-
cient servant of the paper, working all the hours of
God’s day and night, and, with my somewhat
irregular assistance, maintaining a battle against
all the forces of the Argus, with their staff of well-
paid men, and numerous outside helpers and influ-
ence. We rose usually about 4 a. in. from our
broken slumbers, and at once plunged into the
business off the day, securing our “early” copies
of the Lo ’.cion dailies hot from the presses, and
then toga .her,making up our morning cablegrams,
which yrs took, ourselves into the city and des-
patched from Broad : street about G. o’clock. We
had not only to fight the embattled hosts of the
ATv/ttS single-handed • but we had to compress
the news into about one-third the number of-words
at the disposal of our rivals ; and woe betide
poor Mennell if by any chance (or by design, as
often happened) any small item of news was
absent in the Age and present in the Argus cable-
grams. The great David used to prepare a cate-
gorical list of “omissions,” which we received
months afterwards by post, and pondered over in
bur solitary and gloomy hours. It was an unend-
ing grind—the hours generally from 4 a.m. till 12
p.m. In course of time,Mennell grew very sick
of the Age, and resigned. For many years past lie
has been a prosperous financial man and journa-
list, editing his, own paper, The British A ustrala-
sian, and doing many kindly acts, in a cynical
fashion, to unfortunate Australians in London.
After a while, I began to get my “second wind. ”
My first real success, of course, was the article on
Adam Lindsay Gordon in Temple Bar, February,
1884. I subsequently wrote a number of literary
and social essays in various magazines, and. con-
tributed to the Academy and Athenaeum pretty
regularly. Then the old yearning returned, and I
wanted to bring out- another substantial volume.
As luek would have it, I turned my mind to poli-
ties rather than to poetry this time, and wrote
“Australia and the Empire.” Something caused
me to look up the early records of the late Lord
Sherbrooke, and I opened my new book with a
chapter headed, “Robert Lowe in Sydney.” Lord
Sherbrooke was then out of public life, though he
often attended the House of Peers, but had
become a vigorous literary eontroversalist in the
monthly reviews ; and when he read that early
chapter of his own half-forgotten life, he wrote
very kindly to me and expressed his great pleasure
and, what I valued more, his intellectual appre-
ciation of my effort. Subsequently he made me
his literary executor, and I wrote his “ Life and
Letters,” in two big volumes which Longmans
published in 1893. The book, of course, is not a
popular or great financial success ; but in my
three years’ work I realised some £3OO directly,
and perhaps .£5OO subsequently. The writing of
Lord Sherbrooke’s life also led to my going on the
Spectator staff, under the late Mr. W. H. Hutton,
and to much magazine writing in the National
Review and elsewhere. In short, it gave me more
of an established and recognised literary status
than I could have hoped for.
I have written and published (generally on com-
mission) numbers of minor works, including “True
Stories of Australian History,” for which I got
£3O; and “Over the Sea,” £25. I have in my
rash vain-glory brought out a book of verses (old
and new) entitled “ The Withered Jester,” with a
superb frontispiece by Phil May, from which—
though a £1 Is. edition-de-luxe, limited to GO
copies, sold out, and a fair number of the ss. copies
—I have up to date received not one shilling. The
publishers, J. M. Dent and Co., are not very san-
guine of financial success.
some -time I- edited for ITutehtnsofis, and
aiterwards for Methuen, a monthly periodica]
(■abort Li-erary Opinio%l which is chiefly treasured
by me because* it brought me info relations' with
tlie late Christina •Rbs'setti. She bfcame my chief
contributor, and wrote a deal of her most exquisite
later verse in Literary Opinion. When I knew
Miss Rossetti she was of course at the zpnfth of
her fame ; but she told me that her literary income
for the greater part of her life was always under
£no a year. What will Lawson think of that ?
Remember that CJrristina Rossetti’s name was a
household word in America as well as in England ;
and that, owing to her profound and mystical
piety, such books,as “ Time Elies,” and the sm.J
voliunes of devotional verses, were read by thou-
sands upon thousands for their pure religiosity,
rather than for the magic of the verse. Yet her
earnings were under a pound per week. And
Mane Corelli—ye gods !
I could tell Mr. Lawson of dozens of well-known
English writers who have brought out book after
book, either at a loss, or without a penny of profit.
The fact is, English Literature, like the English
Church, has a number of wealthy “incumbents”
who labour assiduously for honour and glory,
without a thought of personal reward. A great
friend of mine has published several books of nigh-
class poetry from which ho has never received or
expected one farthing. It is said that Aubrey de
Vere —Tennyson’s friend, a most beautiful Catholic
poet—has always actually been out of pocket to
the tune of A,300 annually,'’ on his poetic pro--
ductions. To such men money is of no con-
sequence ; but it does not improve the chance of
the poor struggling rhymester, who not only has
to compete against the long roll of English poets
from Chaucer to Tennyson, but also against a
small army Of wealthy amateurs who are often
men of . distinct literary power, and always of great
social influence.
To wind up this sermon, the' only class of con-
temporary ' literature in England (or elsewhere)
that means big success from: the “gate-money ”
standpoint is popular, up-to-date fiction, and play-
writing. If a man can bring out a stirring story
in print or on the stage that immediately appeals
to the non-literary. crowd and not to the mere
critics and litterateurs, he may make as much
money as a fairly successful stockbroker. Tenny-
son is an exception to the rule that financially
Poetry is a drug in the market—but unfortunately
not the satnekind of drug as Blank’s Fruit Salt,
or !)ash’s Yellow Pills.
My advice to any young Australian writer
whose talents have been recognised (to quote Mr.
Lawson) is to “sit tight,” and stay where he is.
To write hard and diligently for all his soul is
worth, and to send the-best of his surplus to Eng-
land and America. In these days it should be
as easy to do one’s literally business from Sydney
as from London or New York. Write, Write,
TTWte—and fie as Australian as you intelligently
can. The very fact of an Australian writer
.writing from Australia may be his best recom-
mendation, Above all, do not ignore the ever-
hungr.y American market. And always cultivate
' modesty of soul, with a due amount of intellectual
self-conceit.’ This is the true secret of literary
genius.
A. PATCHETT MARTIN.


Medical*
kfkin Wkea6e4.
Meld tyidcctiery
<>f £iymoUiene. "
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
'paprnn RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Surprising cures after years
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it,.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says :
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D."
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sa. and. 7s. 6d. EacH.
KSF’Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
Cramps
l Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup > \
Coughs,\
Tooth- }
ache ,
Cuts, \
Burns, <
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'Pd'mKiUev
(PEBBY DAVIS’.)
W. J. Nl OX HAM & CO.,
wholesale agents,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c.,use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
“ a LOZENGES.
Cures Without Medicine,
A RE you Nervous, Weak,
- cl - Despondent, 111? Have
you tried drugging the
stomach until almost ready
to give up in despair? If so,
why not try Electricity?
Hundreds have been perma-
nently cured by this wonder-
ful remedy as applied by the
great American Invention—
“ Dr. Pierce’s Galvanic
Chain Belt.” Scores of grateful letters like the fol-
lowing are constantly being received :
From Africa : “ Somerset East, Cape Colony, South
Africa, Aug. 15,1898. I am much pleased to say that Dr.
Pierce’s Galvanic Chain Belt acted like a charm with me.
I am now cured and strong.—Yours truly, T. E. Wise.”
From England : “ I am extremely pleased to be enabled
to say that your Belt has had a wonderful effect in curing
me of varicocele.— Thos. Bannister, 13 Richmond Road,
Montpelier, Bristol.” From Australia : “Ism now a
new man, after taking tons of medicine which did me no
good. I was hardly able to walk before I got your Belt.—
D. Cameron, 1 Stewart Place, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.
Wales.” From America : “ Co. H, 18th Infantry, U.S.
Army, Camp Merritt, San Francisco, June 9,1898. Last
October, while in garrison at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas,
I sent for one of your famous Dr. Pierce’s Eleotric Belts
for Rheumatism, &c., and after wearing it only about two
months my complaints entirely disappeared, and I have
not been troubled with any pain or discomfort since.—
Yours gratefully, John P. Anderson.”
Call at Sydney Agency, or send 2d. in stamps for
our New “ Booklet No. 2.” It gives price-list (in English
and American money) and full information. Address—
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market-St., San Francisco, U.S.A., or Washington
H. Soul & Co.. 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi>.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
The Fact that
it is impossible to ascertain the
quality of a plaster by a casual
tsmm
examination should be a sufficient rea-
son for buying a plaster with a repu-
tation.
There is no plaster that has been
before the public so long; none that
stands or ever stood so high; none
so well guaranteed, none whose
guarantee is so substantial and so
liberally interpreted; none so safe
to buy as an
AllcockJs
POStOUS PXASTEH;
It is a marvelous cure for all kinds
of lameness, rheumatism, sprains, stiffness of the joints or
limbs, and congestion in the throat or chest.
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
Allcock’s PUTTER
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
o
V
pc 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
RU§fl
osJX
a
mm
Intending Travellers by Sea or Lane
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 G-eorg'e-street, SYDNEY
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for ou
Goods areLONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE.
BRUSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 33 36
£6 6s £6 15s £7 7s
BRUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 18 20 22 24
Lined jean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
„ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH’S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 55s
DRUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT CASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size 20in. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d each. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
BRUSH’S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap-
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value a
55s up. Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. tob
added to country cheques for exchange,
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.,
MANUFACTURERS ax»
IMPORTERS . . ,
403-405 George-street, SYDNEY
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT E&GS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the aiticle, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO, LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
•Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, fjs. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25'-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy ot Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, forlO/-, trimmings'included.
tWjTSWJ
iIF
FOREIGN STAMPS.
GETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis,
ld ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs,
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Eijvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differeiits (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabetu Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
King Street, Sydney.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
rtln. Ions:, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
up, 2/6 peroz.
we are theeheapestin Au*»
Walla for all Hair Work. r
Send Color of Hair.
W N ~Wigz«ll>
'llO William Street, ,
corner of
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
'Send stamps for full Prioe List- '
Prompt attention giyeu to Country Order*.
FREDCHS’
The Reform Price
Jewellers-^
Watches Cleaned and Regulated, 2/6
Best English Mainspring - - - 2/6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jewellery Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
FRENTCH’S, 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Not a
Grease. Does not stain the linen. Full direetioi.s
each jar. Testimonials from all parts of the
colonies, copies on application. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10.
Chemists or Depots:
SYDNEY—M. Lovett, 60 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE— Harris & Kemp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOURNE— Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins t.
What is Health?
Tfheiimatism, Sciatica,
Jyamhar/o, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
Pd 11K lilt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no metier of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comf-v table.
Worn months without remov'd.
Explanatory Pamphlet Frr"
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers
Pitt-street, Sydney.


TATTERS ALLS
Address 5 Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Adelaide Grand National H. August 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _____shares in the above.
Name
Address -
Spring H. August 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
Metropolitan S. September 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo nhurww in the abova
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
Cupu
Name . .
Address .
£ • *
MELBOURNE a
100,000 Subscribers a* 0L
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares In the shore.
’NTa.mft
ArlHrofig
£ s :
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribefa at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot wa sharea in the above.
Name
Addresa *
£ • «
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Spring H. ••• 25,000 at
Metropolitan S. ... 25,000 at
Caulfield C. ... ... 100,000 at
Melbourne C. ... ... 100,000 at
5
5
5
5
TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . . .. —— —Shares
the Special.
—
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


Anthony
Hordern's
FOR EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get
.THE BEST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US S
AND TASTE OUR
QUALITY.
SEND FOR —-
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney.
PMRoT W
BR6ND”
COU6MS (OLPJ if
[Beware or
/MlT^ri°MS
American Carriage Repository
(24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY)
For All Kinds of VEHICLES.
\
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
“ DOWBXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei>,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS. ... ... ,
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and in eres
extending over long periods. .
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a verj moue-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona fides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests m Estates, w e er
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of te , j.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILIiIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
t
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILIiIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELTSOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Veil ■ les, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
&PKO
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
%Sr 2S'% it<}b.
YC(yfa->o Ciasl j sio
qju. Urut 9
' ** - * -
A*J~£uyy &*> C
KOKO
&
HAIR
',« *■■-*•* J'*rV , .’°tO»PO», tNG:
e/x
I
63
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
t*7 HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
VV LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years experience of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere Iffol heai
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair
P Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
Kiß
Vc
l
52
was quite bald on top o! head, and, to my ?aughS*!*and^lor^vhloh*oumustfols
ago he informed me he was intending tog •' , anc j ;j you can judge my surprise on finding my old corn-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago and.tt you N.S. W. 20/9/97.
rad pEICE! per Bottlers’, 45.! fil.Ms M,Vs 6d Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
E. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb , VICTORIA.
CHE
Plum*
PCD
THB
‘Plum
S A ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
(t trial This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, «e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
ofvears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
* The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s bd.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake. _
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles
morocco leather oa3e, 21s.
in beautiful ease, 30s.
Repistered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
Sole
Agents
IV.S.W. Carriage & Sad.c3.lery Mlanf
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a.
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-fepring Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cheerful spectacle, recently, at Wil-
mington, U.S., was the flogging of 15 offenders
before a crowd of spectators, including many
women, who looked eagerly on at a beastliness
which Delaware State law ordains shall take place
in public.
“Roma”: A tip for the Papacy Stakes.
Before me is the full list of Cardinals for 1899, as
complete as the entries for Melb. Cup, and much
more easily reducible. First, it is useless to argue
with people who talk about anything but an
Italian. That cuts the card down. Next elimin-
ate the aged and other impossibles—the Newmans
of the Red Hat. There are about a dozen left.
The first rank is that of Card. Bishops ; but the
second rank, of Card. Priests, is equally eligible.
The third, and last, rank—Deacons—may be
scratched out, as a rule, for Papal elections. The
first man who catches my eye is Vicar-General
Parocchi, aged 66; next, Secretary of State
Rampolla, aged 56, These two, and Jacobim,
aged 62, are in every tip. Satolli, aged 60, the
successful delegate to the U.S. of America, goes
strong. After this, one only looks round for
dangerous outsiders—like Svarnpa, the brilliant
Archbishop of Bologna and youngest Cardinal,
aged 48; Ferrari, Archbishop of Milan, aged 49 ;
Prisco, Archbishop of Naples, aged 63; and
Stefano, Papal Chamberlain, aged 71.
The New Song.
Hands of a people
Building, and bringing
Her sons together,
Each to each clinging ;
Heart of a people
Exulting, singing :
Our corn is in stook;
And laden the barge
Floats down the river
That meets the sea-marge.
Our welfare is one,
The least with the large.
By our deserts grey,
By the dry creek-bed,
By the girth-high grass
Where our herds are fed,
By the open door
In barriers’ stead,
We have given our pledge—
And our love is sure
While the racing rip
And the tide endure —■
And we front the world
With a Hope secure.
PROSPEOT GOOD.
In Memoriam.
So you have reached the distant shore, my
brother,
While many who set out with you abreast
A re still at sea, and hailing one anoth t,
And battling for the harbor lights of Rest!
Ah, for the hush that fell upon the water
When you had passed the Pillars of the Blest,
And when the pilot saw your bark and brought
her
To moor within the everlasting Rest!
Ah, for the port! And valiant souls or craven,
We all must steer the course towards the West.
We all are struggling for the same great haven ;
We all are hoping for the same sweet Rest.
The gorgeous liner, gilt from keel to spanker,
The crazy lugger, rolling storm-distressed,
Are destined both to reach the port, and anchor
Beside the city of eternal rest.
Be fair the wind, or foul —what does it matter ?
The worse the storm, the sooner ends the quest.
And though the waters roar and rave and chatter —
The port draws near. One thing is certain : Rest!
VON KOTZE.
Errant Wild Rose.
Here by the sliprails,
On the silent, shadowed track,
O, errant Wild Rose,
He waits with the Moon
And lingering evening star —
Star so like thine eyes.
Warm December wind
In the cornfield whispering,
He hears but thy song,
And the boom of kine
To the milker’s distant call,
And the hounds’ far bay,
And the crested dove
Crooning its love overhead
In the green and gold.
Impatient he waits
For thy dove-song in his ear
O errant Wild Rose !
The low star lingers,
And the brave, kind moon is high,
And a heart beats fast.
The sweet wind calls thee,
And the wheat-ears beckon thee,
Tas.
And thou comest not.
BARKIS.


The Australian (JjidoiDs’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Tn^hfoVlMSpeStal' l Pot"cto t ”a^g- all the USUaI forms Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
IL case thr ° U * h UlneBB f ° * livelih °° d -
TT Board op Directors-:
Hod J H . REN f IC T K > M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
n. J. xi. OARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £l,3oo,oOO~^~Annual Income exceeds £215,000
w Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau
CABLE ADDRESS : «««
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned, ** London. iel«ci>ixc3-033 a,■ —*
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
.. . . JARVIS
and°wluf * i * l . e on^es )» an( i is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
.V cceeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. J. Adams, Manager.
Pick out what is best in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
have Tattersall’s.
Tariff— 10s. per Tiny.
£3 per WeeJe.
Pa>iiiless JJentiatry,
Institute.
Dr. 8. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASH EH, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its f tranches
Leyitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN— -
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE.
UNIQUE.
Tariff from 6/- per Day.
Telephone 784.
D. Swiss-Davies, Prop.
(Member Com. Tray. Club.)
STieK T©
GAME©
eiGARETTES
EL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTIC.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
rA
TE
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPOUTING BAIiLX ji'AiiJ won over =£6oo at Gun Club, Notting Hill, in November
and December, 1898 ; or more than all other powders combined. Vide Field, 14th Jan., ’99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: ‘‘Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp.”
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Ealgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
Qtki-
-11 There's a vast difference between an unsup-
ported assertion and a demonstrated fact."
should seriously consider the importance of the
“ demonstrated facts ” testified to below ,
RE
Ruberoid Roofing.
“27 Degrees cooler than iron.”
—Hayes Bros., Albury, JV.S. W,
“Laid on battens, most satisfactory.”
—W. F. Buchanan, Killarney, JV.S.W.
“Cannot be too highly recommended.”
— E. Butcher, EsqJ, Sydney, JV.S. W.
“Dam 9ft. high.” “A perfect success.”
Fred. Harrison, F.8.1.V.A., Deniliquin,
JV.S. w.
p.«B- flampcourse.
“12 Tons.” “No alteration.” “Per-
fectly watertight.”
— Prof. Warren, University of Sydney.
“ Fulfils its purpose admirably.”
— J. Allen Mansdeld, F.R.1.8.A., Sydney,
N.S. W.
“Invaluable.”
—Klegg Kell Miller, Ballarat, Viet.
“Satisfactory.”
—Roive and Spain, Sydney, N.S. W.
P. &B. PAINT.
“Satisfactory protection.” “Exposed to acid fumes.”
—Deputy Master of the Sydney- Mint
“A very great success.” . . . . Carter, Gummow & Co., Sydney.
“Everything you claim.” .... W. H. Bull, Melbourne, Vic.
“ Great satisfaction.” ... . . . . . Rudolph Koch, Zeehan, Tae.
.A.<3KE3:KrTS :
E. RICH & GO. LTD.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
“ Fair girls $ gray Horses/'
yankee Doodle
IN AMERICA.
The Legend.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
general, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York; The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Payette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused
them. Marching with drum and fife
was an oid man, Jeremiah Wynton, and
his sou, and grandson. ' The old father,
vhth silvery flovving locks, sturdily strode
through the field. The son with ban-
daged head fifing lustily,’ the youth,
catching the spirit of his grandsire, rolled
out with him the soul-inspiring rattle of
the drum. Father, son, and grandson
had accompanied the troops as volunteers,
and were ever in the forefront of the
fight. The fierce light 'of battle was m
their eyes, they knew no fear, and many
a wild cheer arose, as on thaWfateful
day Yankee Doodle was heard as never
was heard before or since.
Tobacco Manufacture
in
New South Wales.
Statistics:
RETURNS show
that during 1898, over
60 Tons more of DIXSON’S
Tobacco were sold than that of
any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf.
DIXSON’S used in manufac-
ture over 149 Tons more than
all the other Tobacco factories.
DIXSON’S Brands are —
Yankee Doodle (Dark and
Bright Aromatic).
Champion (Bright).
Conqueror (Dark).
BONANZA CIGARS.
Machine-made; contain the
choicest Tobacco, and are
placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 20.— N0. 1015.
SATUKDAY, JULY 29, 1891).
Prior 6d.
PREMIER REID’S OVERDRAFT: THE AUSTRALIAN STATESMAN’S REWARD.
(See Bulletin leading article.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu letin
Newsp; per Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly 0 W 6
Quarterly... ... ... 0 o b
. NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where. s required—
which you may pay by Post O/lice Order, Postal Ante,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclecd, M a nay iny Oirectoi.
Literary Communications to be addressea j. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ufll carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilacle and While.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 346 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiif. Transvaal :-F. H.
Solomon and Co., 33 Houf-st., Cape Town , South Africa,
Colombo. —lP. M. Smith <t; Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IP estralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on /ntervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1899.
Premier Reid’s Overdraft.
An unsavory little row, with mud and person-
alities in it, which broke out last week in
N.S.W. Assembly, centred to a great extent
round Premier Reid’s overdraft. G. H. Retd,
like most Australasian Premiers, has an over-
draft ; or perhaps it would he safer to say that
he has an overdraft and most other Austra-
lasian Premiers badly want to have one. And
G. H. Reid’s assets are unhappily so very
weak security for any kind of an overdraft that
the charge of using corrupt political devices to
get the money came along almost as a matter of
eourse. Nobody listened to the charge in a
serious spirit, and there was no evidence
wort h calling such behind it, and the muddy
little row dropped again very unobtrusively.
But members gained at least one item of infor-
mation out of it. They learned that Premier
Reid was in debt when he took office ; that his
overdraft has been growing ever since ; and
that he apparently looks at the liability with a
despairing eye, and doesn’t know what on
earth to do with it.
• * • •
Of course nobody who knows anything of
political life expected for a moment that Pre-
mier Reid wouldn’t have an overdraft if he
could get one. Political salaries in Australia
are so poor and squalid that almost all public
men end in something approaching beggary.
What a procession of ghosts in rags they
make ! Think of a few in recent years : John
Robertson, overwhelmed with debt and dying
insolvent, even the charitable grant made him
by Parliament having gone as a sop to his
creditors ! Parkes, pursued by duns and
bailiffs, and dying worth about ss. in cash !
Vogel, living in Ids last, years on a sine-
cure billet at £3OO a year found for him
by the Maoriland Government, and worth about
£5O all told when he went where the good Jews
go ! Berry, subsisting on an annuity reluct-
antly supplied to him by the Turner Ministry
—which Ministry, to its unspeakable shame,
refused to arrange for the continuance to the
wife of the almosfc-nonagenarian statesman,
if she outlived him, of the poor little monthly
dole. Douglas, mouldering as a Police
Magistrate at Thursday Island, at the place
where semi-civilisation ends and plain barbar-
ism begins ! James Munro, collecting rents in
a Melbourne suburb 1 Seddon, who admits
that, after his long term of office, his private
income isn’t up to the income-tax limit ! Reid,
with his hopeless overdraft ! Almost the only
notable Australian politician of late years who
wouldn’t be really glad all over to find half-a-
crown in the street is G. R. Dibbs, and he went
broke when in office, like the rest —only his
country kindly threw him out of the heart-
breaking billet, and he bad the luck to find a
situation in the Savings Bank, and his old and
lengthy bones now rest in % calm haven. But
Dibbs had such luck as comes to few politicians.
♦ * * *
Take the case of the ordinary politician—the
man who isn’t in office. His country gives him
various sums, ranging from nothing in West-
ralia up to £3OO a-year in N.S.W. Subscrip-
tions to charities and the like in his electorate
are a practically unavoidable tax. The expense
of hiring halls wherein to periodically address
his free aud independent supporters ; travelling
expenses—those that are not covered by his
free pass—hotel expenses, small loans to stone-
broke constituents, drinks for thirsty electors,
extra cost of living in town if he is a
country member, are all so much off his little
salary. They probably absorb half of it even
in N.S. W„, where the rate is highest. If he
had a billet, he almost certainly had to give it
up, in order to have time for his Parliamentary
duties. If he had a business, it probably gave
him up, provided he attended to his Parlia-
mentary work conscientiously—only a man like
George Turner, with a capacity for incessant
labor from early morning to early next morning,
can serve two masters and serve them both rea-
sonably well. And when the ordinary member
is thrown out by his grateful country he gener-
ally finds himself beginning the world afresh,
older and poorer than he was before, with his
business connection or his billet lost, and with
this difference—that instead of being Smith,
the rising grocer, or engineer, or whatever it
w r as, he is now only Smith, the broken-down
politician. As a rule he deserved to be thrown
out for not being a better politician. But also,
as a rule, he was as good a politician as anyone
could reasonably expect to hire at the price.
* * * *
The politician who isn’t thrown out often
comes to a worse end. C. H. Reid is a fair
sample of this kind. After a long and efficient
official civil service career he was called to the
bar in 1879 and went into politics in 1880, with
an immensity of ambition hidden behind a mask
of fat and indifference. He spent about a
dozen years as a private member and one
year as a subordinate minister in a cheap
and nasty Government before his chance came,
but he was pursuing the Dead Sea apple of
“ hoffis ” all the time. Therefore he never had
leisure to be a successful barrister. He might
never have been one in any case, but any chance
that there was in that direction he sacrificed to
politics. He never even became a legal hack
of any standing, and consequently small, com-
fortable, legal billets, such as magistracies and
subordinate Judgeships and Crown-Prosecutor-
ships, passed hnn by. When he was tolerably
old, and had become a fixed public institution
as George Reid, the unsuccessful barrister,
the office which three stone-brokers—Robert-
son, Parkes, and Dibbs —had vacated in quick
succession really came in his way. He had
.£1370 a year—probably after paying his share
of the salary of the Government Whip and all
the various charitable and other calls incidental
to his office he had really £BOO or £9OO, or even
less. He was expected to live in a manner
. more or less befitting his high office—
the Premier of an important province can’t
w r ell hang out in a terrace house in Pad-
dington or Waverley. He had accumulated
heavy debts while pursuing the phantom of
hoffis, and he had to pay the interest on these.
He grew steadily poorer ; for, after all, a Pre-
mier can’t live on £BOO or £9OO a year and yet
keep up the dignity which is supposed to
attach to his billet ; and the last shadowy rem-
nants of a law-practice that was never much
more than a shadow left him through want of
opportunity to attend to it.
* * • •
In the ordinary course of events, his career
should be about over now. He is growing old,
not in the best of health, and has been five
years in office. The 12 Premiers who have
bossed N.S.W. averaged about 3J years each,
so George Reid has had a fair innings. And
if he doesn’t find a comfortable, permanent
Federal or other billet his prospect is to be an
unemployed old man, a broken-down politician,
a decayed barrister with no practice, and too old
to begin constructing one, a man with heavy
debts and no income—to put it shortly, a man
who has “ dropped out.”
* • • *
The career of a successful politician is very
often—much too often—something like this :
Seven or eight years as a private member, dur-
ing which period he has to neglect his business,
either wholly or in great part, in order to
attend to public affairs. The net remuneration
is about £l5O a year at the outside. Then five
or six years of office, during which time his
salary possibly runs to £9OO or £lOOO a year
net, and about this time the last vestiges of his
private business usually disappear through
sheer inability to attend to it. And then an
indefinitely prolonged old age—the period of
failure and neglect, when it is too late to start
the world afresh. This is the career of the
successful politician ; that of the unsuccessful
one is much the same, except that the com-
paratively bright interval in the middle is left
out. The country wants its ablest men to run
the Government. It wants to buy the very
best talent it can get, for the difference to the
country, in visible cash alone, between a first-
rate and a merely third-rate Premier and Trea-
surer, may run to a million or two during the
life of one Ministry. And this is how, in
N.S.W. at all events, it bids for the services
of the very best men :
Premier (man who is supposed to run the coun-
try) after paying proportion of Whip’s salary
and other expenses incidental to his position,
say per year, at a liberal estimate ... ...
Sheriff (man who is responsible for hangings) ... <5O
Coroner (man who sits on dead bodies) .. ... ”50
Stipendiary Magistrate at Sydney (man who lines
drunks) ... ... ... •••
District Court Judge ... ... •••
Clerk of the Peace ... ... _ ■■■ ••• '5O
Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol (with quarters,
fuel, light, and servant) ... .. ••• £OO
Chief of Police ... ... ••• ••• 920
Government Printer ... ... ... “00
And so on indefinitely.
• • * •
And these men, it must be remembered, have
life billets, subject to good behaviour —not a
job which is liable to be cut short any day by a
vote of censure or a general election. They
don’t spend years and years working for next
to nothing a-year while climbing up to a poorly-
salaried place, which may only last three
months when they get there. And many of
them have pensions as well. If George Reid,
when he began his Bar career 20 years ago, had
fixed his eye on a police magistracy, or a com-
fortable place as coroner, where he could make
humorous remarks about dead bodies, or
had aimed at being a Clerk of Petty
Sessions in a big town, he would probably
have made a larger average salary than
he was done by aiming at the highest office in
the State. Anri yet his case is a good one
compared to that of some politicians. Con-
sider Edmund Barton, who has let a lucrative
practice go to the four (or more) w'inds of
heaven while he spent his time in trying to
build up an Australian Commonwealth. And
Barton had no official salary ; a great part of
the time he hadn’t even the scanty salary of a
private member or a private member’s free
railway pass.
• • * *
Politics don’t pay—at least for the average
man they are not in the same street with being
a coroner or manager of a branch insurance-
office.
The Snake of Religious Dissension Lifts
its Head in Victoria.
The persistent pressure by religious organisa-
tions to make the State do the work which they
exist to do, and which gives the only justifica-
tion for their existence, has recently climaxed
in an attempt to re-introduce religious teaching
in Victorian State schools. Victorian reli-
gionists have always the opportunity of teach-
ing their own children their own particular
creed ; and since they profess to consider their
creeds of such vital importance, it is singular
that they should wish to transfer the teaching
to the perfunctory charge of State schoolmas-
ters. Moreover, the Victorian religionists
support a small army of professional exponents
of religion, who may be supposed to be
particularly competent to give religious in-
struction in their Sunday-schools and else-
where. Yet it is desired to transfer the role of
instructors to a hard-worked and underpaid
body of men who have no special sympathy
with religion, and who cannot reasonably be
expected to take the least pains in teaching it.
The State school programme is already burdened
with more subjects than the time and energy of
masters and pupils will permit to be profitably
taught ; yet we are perpetually confronted
with the strange spectacle of parent and parson
shirking their obvious duty in a matter which
is considered of vital importance to the
children, and endeavoring to transfer their
responsibility, or a portion of it, to the over-
loaded State 1
• » m m
The leader of the new crusade is Alfred
Deakin, one of the failures of Victorian
politics. Deakin is a kind of minor Glad-
stone, whose intellect is always biassed bv his
emotions, and whose excellent oratory is singu-
larly barren in cold print. In the Victorian
Assembly he recently advocated that elemen
tary unsectarian religious instruction should-
be given in State schools; and, though the
Assembly would not take the responsibility of
changing the present system, it was voted by a
majority of two to let the people express their
opinion on the matter. Possibly it was unwise
to stir up the strife anew ; or possibly it was
wise. The similar South Australian referendum
has definitely settled the question there ; and
the Victorian electors may be relied upon to
give such a vote as will end discussion for a
long time to come.
* * * *
Deakin asks for elementary unsectarian in-
struction because he knows there is little chance
of getting that, and no chance at all of getting
any more. But unsectarian religious instruc-
tion satisfies no sect, as Deakin is very well
aware. Not only the Roman Catholics, but
other denominations also, protest that, if
religion is taught at all, it should be taught
earnestly and thoroughly ; and the patter of
colorless moralities is of no use. But the “ un-
sectarian ” idea is relied upon to introduce the
thin end of the wedge. If that can be gained,
it will be easier to continue the crusade, and,
from religious nullities, to proceed to religious
dogmas. So Mr. Deakin thinks.
* * * *
Victoria is thus asked to sanction the lighting
of the old religious feud-fires, and to make the
machine of Government once more instrumen-
tal in sowing the dissensions which have made
so much misery and retarded so much progress.
It is useless to say that unsectarian teaching
cannot have this result. The Victorian re-
ligious community is divided into two great
classes—Catholic and Protestant. The Catholics
are always pleading for grants in aid of denomi-
national education ; they are always refusing
to send their children to “ godless ” schools ;
they are always, where possible, establishing
their own schools, and declaring that it is un-
just that they should be taxed to pay for the
support of the schools of the State. While no
religious instruction at all is given in
State schools this Catholic cry need not be con-
sidered. The State schools are open to all
denominations alike ; and about history and
geography, or grammar and arithmetic, no con-
flict can arise. If the Catholics refuse to per-
mit their children to attend secular schools it is
their own fault, and complaint is groundless.
But directly so-called “unsectarian ” instruc-
tion is introduced, the Catholic complaint is
justified. Deakin advocates the singing of
a hymn, the saying of a prayer, the
reading of the Bible. But the Catholics
have their own hymns, say their own
prayers, read their own Bible. . Anything
else is anathema ; and their conscientious
objection will have force. If the instruction is
not Catholic, no religious instruction will
please the Catholics ; as their clergy have de-
clared time after time. It is of no use telling
them that the teaching is unsectarian if the
lesson is read from a Bible wliic is not
their Bible, or the hymn is sung or
the prayer said in the way which is not
their way. While the State holds itself aloof
from all religious parties it is safe ; for no
party is justified in refusing to support it.
Directly it countenances any form of religion it
gives an excuse for religious strife and a justifi-
cation for civic opposition. It is not the State’s
business to teach religion ; and it is not to the
State’s interest to set its citizens by the ears. If
Deakin and his followers want religion taught,
let them teach it in their homes and in their
churches. Then they can teach a vital, not a
colorless religion ; they can teach the particular
religion which they themselves prefer ; and they
can still meet the advocates of other religions,
or of no religion, on the common ground of
citizenship upon which the State is founded.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Rich Pauper.
The demand of the Sydney morning papers for
an early “newspaper train” to the north is a
beautiful example of the rich man howling for
alms at the poor man’s door. The S.M. Herald
and the Telegraph are both rich properties;
the Herald especially is one of the richest
concerns in Australia, and its owners are among
the very richest capitalists in the Seven Pro-
vinces. The people already subsidise these
wealthy concerns to the extent of many thou-
sands a year by carrying their papers free
through the post, and by supplying them at
great loss with early special trains to convey
their goods to the country districts. Every work-
man, every tired little seamstress in the big
Sydney “ rag ’’-shops, every widow with a
small annuity or without one, is taxed to
furnish alms and charitable aid and bounties to
the rich Fairfaxes, and the Daily Telegraph
Co., and the other Sydney organs of public
opinion. And now, instead of being grateful
for what they have already received, they
demand more State bounties in the shape
of another early-morning train. The reason
why there are no large and prosperous papers
on the southern line is that the big Sydney
dailies are brought down there early, at the
country’s expense, and distributed in time to
compete with the local publications. The
reason why there are big local papers at New-
castle and Maitland is that there is no early
morning train up there to deliver the Sydney
papers (the country somehow failed to supply one
gratis, and the Sydney press was so accustomed
to being pauperised that it never dreamt
of paying for its own newspaper train as is
done in Great Britain). But now it is cordially
suggested that this lamentable oversight should
be rectified, and that the country should pay
some thousands a year more to help the Sydney
dailies in their competition with their New-
castle and Maitland contemporaries. The
business men and public of Newcastle and
other Northern towns didn’t ask for an early
morning newspaper train. A feeble bogus agi-
tation was worked up by agents of the Sydney
press —that is to say, men were asked if they
would like to have their Sydney papers earlier
in the day, and they mostly said, without
thinking much about the matter, that they
didn’t care if they did, just as they might have
said that they didn’t object to having a full
moon every night ; and this was represented as
the great voice of the North crying out for more
State bounties to be bestowed on the Herald
and Telegraph, and refusing to be comforted.
If the N.S. W. railway department has ,£IO,OOO
a year or so to throw away, the farmer—whose
turnips and potatoes are not carried free by
post—wants concessions much worse than the
already heavily-protected and heavily-bountied
Sydney papers.
The “ People’s Privileges ” in Tasmania.
The most stagnant section of Tasmania’s Par-
liament is becoming alarmed about the Consti-
toosh’n. The Tasmanian Constitoosli’n shuts
out five-sixths of the adult male population
from any power to make or unmake or control
the Upper House, and it also shuts out about
one-fourth of it from any voting power for
the Lower House. Certain amendments having
been recently proposed, the particularly slug-
gish crowd is of opinion that “ this charter of
the people’s privileges should be better safe-
guarded.” It is so much disturbed about this,
and moans so terribly about it in its sleep, that
it lately proposed to enact that the Consti-
toosh’n shall only be alterable if an absolute
majority of both Houses votes in the affirma-
tive on the second reading of any Amendment
Bill, on every separate clause of the Bill in
committee, and on the third reading. This is
such a tremendous order that if it was
enacted it isn’t likely the Tasmanian
Constitution would be altered very often.
There is a fine, large, rich, oily hypocrisy
about the idea that the community’s blessed
privilege of being mostly deprived of all
control over a good half of its own Government
wants safeguarding ; and that the sacred right
of not being allowed to alter its own Constitu-
tion, or decide on its own form ofjGovernment,
needs to be carefully preserved ; and that the
people are crying out for their inalienable birth-
right of being chained up, lest they should
break out and do themselves an injury. Every
time Toryism attempts to do something un-
usually smellful in the way of depriving the
community of its liberties, it says that it rises
in defence of the sacred privileges of the people.
Still, if the people like to agree with it as
to what is a privilege, then the idea is all
right. Everything depends on the definition of
that one word. There was a time, in the long,


long ago, during the had, old convict era, when
certain execrable tyrants, who are still at large,
deprived the people of their sacred right to be
flogged on the mere order of a magistrate, and
this inroad on their birthright has never
been repaired even to the present day.
In fact, the whole history of Australasia
has been a series of dastardly encroach-
ments of the same order, from the
date when the right to be publicly whipped
was withdrawn! from female convicts —the male
ones retained it to a much later period—down
to last year when Maoriland, by its execrable
Old Age Pension Law, deprived the aged
settler of about the last remnant of his ancient
freedom —the proud and valued right to have
nothing to eat in his old age. In view of this
general staving in of the bulwarks of the
Constitoosh’n, Tasmanian legislator Fowler
and his supporters had at least some show of
reason on their side. When so many other
rights have gone, the islander’s right to be
deprived of any vote for his own Upper House,
and to have as little vote as possible for his
House of Assembly, and his privilege of being
thrown out on his ear if he attempts to take
any serious share in making his own laws, may
also go at any moment, unless strong patriotic
fossils rally in its defence. Tasmania, thank
God, is full of just the right kind of fossil to
do the rallying.
Premier Turner's Cowardice.
Immediately the Victorian Parliament met for
the present session, Bromley, M.L.A., intro-
duced a short Bill providing that the hours of
work of the Melb. tram employees shall be
eight, and their wages not less than seven shil-
lings, per day. The second reading came on in
due course, and an irrational and spineless
House wandered vaguely round the subject and
finally put off tlie evil day till 16th Aug. The
co.’s petition against the Bill, which seems to
greatly agitate the Assembly, is a choice piece
of literature. After alluding to the in-
terest hill and sinking-fund which it has
to pay practically its rent —the co. be-
wailed the fact that it has also to keep
the lines in repair—as if any employer could
afford to let his machinery go to ruin ! It
then observed, with many painful groans, that
it had undertaken immense financial obligations
(to its own great profit), and that the proposed
extra expenditure would be forced on the com-
pany in violation of the contract it had entered
into. Which is very plausible, but, so
far as concerns the eight hours, quite un-
true. For section 62 of the original Melb.
Tramway and Omnibus Co.’s Act, 1883, 47
Vic. 765, distinctly provides, in so many words,
that “the day’s labor of any—driver or con-
ductor—shall be eicjht hours ”; and the co.
lias habitually worked such employes ten hours
per day. During the four hours’ discussion
re the second reading, although an authorita-
tive declaration was repeatedly desired, the
Victorian Govt, carefully refrained from taking
any part, and Ministers busied themselves with
deputations and in the lobbies. So the case
stands thus : A grasping corporation has re-
peatedly and persistently broken its agreement
and defied the law, and still continues to do so.
And a spineless Premier and his backboneless
Ministers stand by and look on, refusing even
to take steps to enforce the recommendations of
their own Commission, refusing to enforce the
agreement made with the co., and allowing a
private member to do the best he can to right a
grievous wrong.
The Western Bobby.
“ Wurrym ” on Westralian policemen :
Dear Bulletin.—A par. in “ Plain English” (June 10)
prompts me to ask, “Is the Queensland bobby a more
unspeakable being than he of any other province ? ” The
Vic. force is mostly Dungey in its ideas, that of Maoriland
the late commission shows is not quite all it should be,
while as for the Westralian it is absolutely the most use-
less force on the whole continent. The system of adminis-
tration in this last is unique. The Commissioner is a
‘•Colonel” by virtue of having held such rank in a volun-
teer-force, and his main idea is semi-military display.
Mounted police with lances furnish forth the body-guards
for Sir Jerrysmitii at opening- of Parliament and like cere-
monies. Said Commissioner has issued a book of police-
regulations, in which there are three distinct warnings to
the fooree to have no communication with members of
the press. Militaryism and suppression are the main
points of the administration of W.A. police-force. To the
former idea may be attributed the presence of a number
of officers and men who have had unpublishable histories
in other forces, and to the latter the gross lack of disci-
pline and esprit de corps. Take the following as an ex-
ample of how the force is administered. Constable
C. was charged by two young women with hav-
ing made improper overtures to them on dif-
ferent occasions, and with threatening them and
attempting to levy blackmail. Neither girl knew the
other, and each made her charge independently.
Each identified the man separately, though elaborate
precautions were taken to prevent collusion by the
accusers—far more elaborate than are taken for the
identification of prisoners on trial. And the result ?
Prosecuted, of course ? Lord, no ! Dismissed the force ?
Still No. What then ? Transferred to another district—
that’s all. You can guess the effect on the other mem-
bers of the force. The men worth anything are dis-
gusted, while the hard bargains are secure in their belief
that should they be found out they will be dealt with
like X. This bobby, it is averred, on another occasion
offered a woman t& to come and give evidence in support
of a charge he had made against a man of having
criminally assaulted the woman who was, as it was after-
wards learned, a personal friend of the prisoner, and who
denied every statement made by the constable. The
latter was eventually ordered by his superiors to compen-
sate the old man he had arrested by paying him £5.
There have been during the past year three robberies
under arms in broad daylight in or near W.A. towns. In
one case, four miles from Perth, a man was shot in the
shoulder. Also, there have been two murders with par-
ticularly striking characteristics (in one case the body was
scientifically dismembered and the parts thrown dovvn
different shafts ; in the other, a woman was murdered
within cooey of where several men were working).
Besides these the robbery of £9OO from the G.P.0.,
a number of garotting cases and other crimes
of violence remain “ as they were ” and ever will
bp—in the same tangled state as at the time of their com-
mittal. The three factors which militate against the
W.A. force becoming anything but an ornamental body
are: Too much Jarrah Jack, too much P.W.D.G. billy-
goat, and the employment of good men at second-class
pay, while the bounders of the force draw first-class pay.
As'to the first : the Commission dare not say nor do any-
thing without first referring to Forrest. As to the
second : well, in all Australian forces either that or “ the
influence of the elargy. ” is felt. The third factor is,
I believe, mostly the result of the great reverence felt in
W.A. for back numbers. A man who has been a stolid
ass for 25 years is considered more worthy of promotion
than the active youngster who has only been a year in
the country, and has during that time done more brilliant
work than Corporal Potgut has during his whole term of
service. Not hut what there are real good men of long
service in the force, to one of whom, a native of Westra-
lia, is due a marked improvement in the metropolitan
force of late. But one swallow doesn’t make a summer,
and the local authorities do not heed the gentle strokes
administered by the local papers. It is the nasty things
said in the East that make Jarrah Jack and his following
squirm.
Tlie Victorian Close Season for Votes.
The N.S.W. Federal vote has taught the Vic-
torian at least one lesson. It has shown him
the possibility of having elector’s rights issued
within reasonable Lime of the date of use, and
lias revealed unto him the real extent of his
own sheep-like stupidity, and abject want of
courage, and conservative fear of demanding
reasons. For years past, the Vic. voter has not
been able to obtain bis elector’s right after the
end of November in each year. Occasionally
an additional date has been gazetted as the
closing time for the issue of rights, but this
has been done with no regularity, and it lias
invariably been arranged with the air of grant-
ing some immense concession. Until recently
six months’ residence in one electorate was
necessary to qualify, and the result was
that the man who moved into a new house
in June was disqualified for all elections
for about a year ahead. Why any particular
day of the month should he fixed for ihe
shutting-down of the electoral-rights issue is
inexplicable. It does not benefit Government,
it assists in the perpetuation of no vested
interests, and it conveniences nobody but the
electoral-registrar. The time for the closing of
electoral-registers should be as close to election-
time as is consistent with the prevention of
fraud. Nine men out of ten take but little in-
terest in politics, save when a big question is
being debated or an election is at hand, and, at
the very time when they are most desirous of
talking with force, they are debarred from
exercising their votes.
♦
A Flea for Rotten Ships.
Sydney Telegraph, which is steadily against
every kind of State enterprise, is half-inclined
to suggest that the N.S. W. coffin-ship question
should he tackled—-not by increasing and im-
proving the supervision—but by abolishing the
inefficient supervision that already exists. In
its issue of July 22 it broached t he idea in an
insinuating whisper thus :
There is nothing so dangerous as a system of State
supervision whieh is inefficiently or negligently adminis-
tered. If there were no State guarantee, members of the
public could take precautions of their own. What people
have a right to insist on is that where their own sus-
picions are disarmed by an official certificate, that certifi-
cate should be strictly correct. No Marine Board at all
would have been better than the Marine Board of the
past. Without the Board, ship-proprietors would have
taken care themselves to keep their vessels in order, and
anyone not doing so would be sure to lose his trade, and
to be promptly hanged if he were proved guilty of sacri-
ficing life by criminal negligence.
Now, why would ship-owners take more care to
keep their vessels in order when there was uo
obligation to do so, than when there is at least
a partial obligation ? There was a time when
there was no legal obligation, and the only re-
sult was that the coffin-ships of the ante-
Plimsoll days were a twenty times worse
disgrace than they are now. The public didn’t
take its own precautions ; when the public was
going anywhere by sea it couldn’t dive under
the ship, in the first place, and inspect the
plates and planking of its bottom, and crawl
into the boiler to see if it was sound. And it
didn’t hang the owner of the rotten ship ; when
the law wouldn’t go so far as to order the con-
demnation of a rotten vessel it wasn’t likely to go
so much further as to hang the owner. The
owners didn’t lose their trade ; coffin-ships
were so many that if the public had withdrawn
its trade from them it would have had no trade
left. At present land-boilers are free from
State interference, but their owners don’t,
therefore, take care to keep them in order, nor
does the public take precautions of its own,
nor is the owner of the rotten boiler hanged.
The Telegraph’s whispered plea for no inter-
ference at all with the coffin-ship in the future,
because it hasn’t been interfered with suffi-
ciently in the past, is simply the theory that
because the police haven’t managed to wholly
suppress murder and burglary therefore the
police should be abolished, and murder and
burglary should be left to suppress themselves.
Making' a Madman.
A verdict of Nob Guilty in the second trial of
Emery Medor for murdering one Stevens, at
the Eastern Market, Melbourne, may be taken
to express a fairly popular opinion. The ques-
tion as to whether the deceased Stevens was,
or wasn’t, chiefly responsible for the murderer’s
burst of fury had nothing to do with the case.
At any rate, he knew that he and his wife
were chief objects of the goaded man’s sus-
picion ; but with heartless persistence Stevens
continued to take part—probably a leading
part —in the dangerous game of making Medor
mad, by means of practical jokes. Medor,
coming back to his shop after one more visit lo
an adjacent pub., found a bunch of carrots
hanging from the shop-door. Sundry grinning
traders in the Market were waiting to see how
the crank would act under the influence of this
new jest. He took hold of a gun and shot
Mrs. Stevens, the wound, as it happened, not
being serious. Stevens rushed to avenge his
wife, and was promptly slaughtered by the foe.
Another man, well disposed towards Medor,
tried to disarm him and bring him to reason,
and this friendly interloper lost an eye in the
struggle. And then Medor, no longer mad,
quietly went to prison, where he was true to
himself, extenuating nothing, nor feigning to
be in any way changed from the Medor who
had practised as a phrenologist, astrologist, and
general “professor” in the Eastern Market.
The trial of this nob-very penitent sinner for
wilful murder resolved itself into a conflict of
medical evidence. Dr. Shields, the Melb. Gaol
practitioner, and other self-styled specialists
appearing on behalf of the Crown, testified that
Medor was “legally sane” when he killed
Stevens ; medical witnesses for the defence
held the opinion that, he was suffering from
“impulsive mania” at the time, and Judge
Williams asked the jury to consider whether
tlie persistent “baiting” of this “excitable,
irritable man ” might have wrought him up to
such a pitch of rage as to make him unaccount-
able for his actions? The jury found that
Medor actually was, in a reasonable sense of
the term, mad when he wounded Mrs. Stevens
and killed her husband. It now remains for
the Government to say what shall be done with
the murderer, who is normally a harmless, in-
telligent crank. Neither a criminal, nor a
lunatic, is he entitled to go forth and face the
world again as a salutary warning against
anger, hatred, malice and all uncharitableness?
Some Language from Riverina.
The petition of a number of Western Riverina
residents to the Vie. Government, asking for
railway communication with Melbourne, em-
bodies a loud complaint against the whole
accursed system of provincial railway manage-
ment. These people want a bridge at Cobram
to connect with the nearest Vic. railway, but
the Reid Government has flatly refused either
to join wdth Victoria in building it, or to let
Victoria build it at its own expense, lest it
should divert trade to Melbourne. Also, the
N.S.W. Government refuses to connect its
railways hereabouts with the Victorian lines.
It builds plenty of railways to Sydney, and
gives exceedingly cheap fares, and asks the
Riverina people to be grateful. And they are
beastly ungrateful instead. They reply that
they don’t want to waste time travelling 450
miles to Sydney when they can do their busi-
ness in Melbourne, only 180 miles away ; and
that the ruinously cheap fare for the long dis-
tance to Sydney is higher, after all, than the
ordinary fare would be for the short run to
Melbourne. Also, they want to know why,
seeing that railways around Sydney are built
so as to best suit the convenience of the people,
their railways should be built to give them the
largest amount of inconvenience, simply be-
cause Sydney profits thereby. And they ask
disrespectfully how the Parramatta people
would enjoy it if they were given greatly
reduced fares to Brisbane, bur were denied any
railway communication whatsoever with Syd-
ney.
Where Doctors Differ.
Next election of the honorary medical and
surgical staff for the Women’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, promises to produce a record in the
game of roll-stuffing. From all parts of this
tired continent the hospital committee has
lately been getting hard-cash evidences of a
lively interest in the charitable institution
where unmarried mothers are religiously
ticketed. The great heart of Australia seems
stirred by a desire to do good by stealth, as it
were, for most of the far-off people who send
along twenty shillings or a guinea are so vague
as regards their addresses that they amount to
anonymous subscribers. All they ask is to be
placed on the roll, with the right to vote by
proxy for one or other medical gentleman in
September. In short, certain candidates for
staff appointments, likewise the friends and
admirers of certain candidates, are spending
money to secure their election, and unless the
committee take measures (which, seemingly,
they cannot take yet awhile) to defeat these
enthusiastic schemers the coveted billets might
almost as well be put up to auction. The humor
of the situation doesn’t end here. Among the
medical men who want the billets, but are not
prepared to pay for them, there is a bitter out-
cry against the alleged iniquity of the roll-
stuffing system. These unfortunates contend
that only “genuine” subscribers should have
votes, or, better still, that the election of the
hospital staff should rest with a committee of
“experts,” as though the aforesaid “genuine ”
subs, or “ experts ” could be depended upon to
give professional Merit the preference without
the least regard for private personal claims
upon their votes and interest. The people who
yell the loudest against roll-stuffing candidates
have candidates of their own whom they hope
to get elected on the “merit ” ticket. What is
the gauge of merit among rival medical practi-
tioners, anyway ? The candidates are, all of
them, fully qualified to kill and cure, and the
fact that they are all applying for the privilege
of practising gratis at a hospital puts them all
on the same level of professional energy and
ambition. Some of the least notorious of them
are possibly the brainiest and the most likely
to give satisfaction if they get the chance, and
these may be the chief roll-stuffers for all that
anybody can swear to the contrary. Medical
reputation is very much a matter of luck and
impudence. Reputatiomranks as merit, though
it is not necessarily more meritorious than
cash, which latter benefits the hospital. Then
why not put the billets up to auction?
The Transvaal Syndicates.
Interesting extracts from a letter written by
an English resident in the Transvaal, and re-
cently published in the Sydney press :
The real grievance which is agitating the minds of the
capitalists who rule the subsidised papers is that they are
not at present able to exercise the all-powerful influence
which they did over the diamond-mining industry in
Giiquaiand West. With the amalgamation of the four
mines, Kimberley, Dutoit’s Pass, Bulfontien, and Old De
Beers, the diamond-mining industry practically became a
close monopoly, to the ruination of local trade. Dia-
monds went up from 10s. per carat to 405., but several
thousand miners were thrown out of employment, and
hundreds of tradespeople had to give up business. The
tyrannical influence of the capitalists is painfully appar-
ent even under present conditions. Large groups of
mines are controlled by the directors of consolidated com-
panies, whose sole aim is big dividends. If a workman
should dare to agitate for any alteration in the reguia-
tions-of the companies, he might as well clear out' of the
mining district at once, for his name would lie posted to
all the mines, and his chance of obtaining a job anywhere
would be out of the question.
The habitations which the workpeople have to live in
are of the most wretched description, no such thing as a
fireplace in any of the single men’s quarters, and the
climate of the Transvaal is very different from that of
Australia. The nights are bitterly cold, and the days
warm. In many of the outlying districts as many as four
men are crowded into rooms 12ft. square, and very few
mines are provided with any such thing as bat hrooms f.or
the men to wash themselves.
Such is the rapacity of many of the mining companies
that the men are compelled to board at certain hoarding-
houses belonging to the companies, and the rent of these
houses is regulated by the number of men boarding at-
them.
The one sole aim is dividends. The workmen's claim
to compensation for accidents is provided for by a com-
pulsory insurance, deducted front their wages. The board
ing-houses at which the men have to take their meals are
owned by the companies, and the profits on the transac-
tion divided between the boarding-house-keeper and the
company.
The mining laws of the Republic are the most
liberal in the world, but some of the provisions of the
gold law do not suit the companies. The extent of the
claims in the South African Republio will, I think, oom-
pare favorably with Australia, and is largely in favor of
the companies here, the extent of a quartz claim being
150 ft. along the reef and 400 ft. wide. The claims are not
allowed by law to be enclosed. This provision is very
much disapproved of by the companies, for, although
they ortlv pay 10s. per month claim license, they wish
to treat ‘the land as private property, and deter any-
one from walking over it. Another great grievance
is the Bewaarplaatsen, or undermining rights,
which prohibit the companies from excavating
under towns, gardens, &c., because, as in many
of the coal districts in England where the coal is mined
from under villages, the houses are apt to be wrecked,
and it is considered here a great hardship that the com-
panies mining under such towns should be liable for com-
pensation. in fact, the gold-mining companies desire to
have the gold and the country as well, so'that they may
be the paramount power, rule the roost, and generally
make every other interest subservient to the company
interest ; and they are doing their level best to gain their
ends. The franchise question is simply a peg to hang
their grievances on. In fact, a well-known sporting man
offered the other day to bet a thousand pounds to a jam-
tart that 90 per cent, of the miners would prefer a fire in
their rooms to 40 votes, and it is believed that there is a
great element of truth in the idea.
Poor old Bryan O’Loghlen, the exploded legal
genius of the Patterson Ministry, was moved
to protest in Vic. Assembly, the other day,
against the so-called filching of their security
from the British bondholders by the proposed
handing over of the customs to the Pederal
Govt. The poor old gentleman was terribly
indignant at this act of wholesale robbery, and
declared that “for this reason it was impossible
the (Commonwealth) Bill could pass and the
Qovt. should consider whether there should nob
be another Convention.” The ancient’s painful
concern for the public creditor is a touching
circumstance, and stands in fine contrast with
his exceeding lack of regard for certain private
creditors—those of the Mercantile Bank, to
wit. And, in any case, the British money-
lender is not in need of any sympathy. Thd
customs revenue isn’t one pennyworth of
security to the British money-lender; he hasn’t
a lien on a single copper of it. His only
security is the promise of the Australian people
that they will pay up, and Federation doesn’t
affect that. Still, if the Victorian Tories really
believe the bunkum they preach, they will, of
course, fight their hardest against the reduction
of the income-tax. That also diminishes the
security of the British creditor.
*
Westralia’s Attorney-General (Penneeather)
is of opinion that “ any person not a lunatic,
and proposing to settle in W.A., w’ould oppose
Federation on the terms laid down in the ConG
monwealth Bill.” This paper’s idea is that any
agricultural settler in W.A., not being a howl-
ing lunatic, would fight for the Commonwealth
Bill to the last gasp. Westralia has on thet
S.W. a strip of fertile land larger than all the
good arable county of either S.A., Victoria,
Tasmania, or N.S.W. It has, on that bit of
country, the most reliable rainfall in Australia.
It has cheaper land than any other province, r
because it is the least thickly populated. And
therefore it has a chance, when Federation
makes the other provinces take off their border-
duties, to become the granary of Australia. If
the present rate of progress'keeps up, W.A., in
two years from now, will be hunting for mar-
kets for its surplus grain. Eastern and Central
Australia, in their periodical droughts, will be
its market—if W.A. federates, and thus gets
inside the Federal tariff-line, instead of being
a lonesome outcast on the wrong side of the
tariff-border.
The Truck system is a great and weighty curse
on Labor in Westralia, and John Forrest’s'
half-hearted promise to deal wdth it comes very
late in the day. On many of the isolated saw-
mills and timber syndicate estates the workmen
—especially the married ones—are almost as
absolute slaves as any nigger of ye olden tyme
on an Arkansas plantation. As a rule, the
workman has no money when a job at
one of these places, so he doesri’b ask too many
questions. And he hardly ever by any chance
gets any money after he goes there. The only
store where he can buy anything is the boss’s
own store—-no other dealer is allowed on the
estate if.the shindykit can help it. If the boss’s
store doesn’t happen to have what the
wants he must go without it; he has no busi-
ness to spend his money on things the boss
hasn’t gob and thereby diminish his power of
paying for the things the boss has got. The
prices are anything the boss likes to fix. They
are generally arranged so as to make it pretty
sure that food, clothes, tobacco, &c., together,
with house rent—the boss supplies the house and
fixes the rent —will absorb all the employe’s.
wages and, perhaps, leave a steadily-growing
debit against him. Therefore the man can’t
leave at awkward times—he has no money to
leave with ; and the growing debt and conse-‘
quent liability to have his supplies stopped
keep him humble and quite amenable to,
reason. Besides, if he does leave lie can
always be hauled before the boss as a J.P. for
vagrancy or something—after a lengthy spell
under the Truck system he can’t well get away
except as a vagrant. The “tommy-shop,”
which the English factory-owner used to run
in the ’3o’s and ’4o’s and ’so’s, didn’t die out.
It moved to Westralia and has remained there
ever since.
♦
In Melb. Factory-Inspector Ord’s just-pub-
lished annual report he sets official tradition at
defiance and castigates the Fatman sweater
with a courage marvellous in a civil servant.
He also confesses his inability to deal with the
Chinese, who are such consummate liars, and are
so much alike in name and appearance that the
Ait Cow fined £5 is never discoverable to serve
his sentence in default. The report deals
trenchantly also with the people who snivel
out “ Charity ” as an excuse for paying.star-
vation wages, and exposes the dodge by which
many dressmaking establishments get back as
“ premium ” the 2s. fid. a week they are com-
pelled to pay apprentices. Dressmaking “ ap-
prentices,” it is pointed out, are, in fact, ' not.
apprentices. They are merely employed to do
the mechanical work of the shop at from
nothing to 2s. 6d.-a week. They are not. in’-
dffnturerl ; and are mostly “ fired ” without any
real knowledge of dressmaking. Mr. Ouo is
indeed a rare bird amongst Government officials,
knowing his subject perfectly, and having
the pluck to make use of his knowledge in the
teeth of the powerful sweating vested in-
terests. One result of his interference is that


The E! quit able Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £53,826,927
Increase in Assets during 1898 ... ... ... ... 4,477,706
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 11,918,852
Increase in Surplus during 1898 ... ... ... ... 1,409,857
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 205,657,736
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898 ... ... 7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq.. M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
£
- ' rp «rr»;
sm-
rS#>
FOB. ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole Agents’.
73 Clareuice-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
Ui
CC
>
LU
LU
<
O
CL
Ld
O
O
LU
Vic. law-courts have decided that the dodge of
nullifying the minimum wage-law by taking
the wage back as “premium” is illegal, and
are fining the dodgers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Kings Musketeer."
® OYAL “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”
Lycei'M “Our Native Home.’’
Criterion Curtis’ Minst!® Co.
Tivoli. Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “A Trip to Chinatown.”
Theatre Royal “ The War of Wealth."
B*- ,ou Rickards’Variety Co.
Town Hall (Saturday).. Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
AtiienjEUM Hall John Fuller’s Myrioranta Co.
A drama called “Our Native Home,”
which chanced, or happened, or blew in through
the door being left open, or otherwise transpired
at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday, has at least one
feature about which it is possible to speak defi-
nitely. It is the very worst affair which the
Holloway management has produced up to date.
There are very few things which a drama shouldn’t
be that it isn’t, and it appears really proud of
being all these things. In the main it is a par-
ticularly childish essay on that good old stage in-
stitution—the Incriminating Document. The long,
honorable man with the wonderful hat had copied
someone else’s name in an idle moment, and,
though he hadn’t uttered the forgery, or made
money out of it, and there was no evidence to
show who wrote it, it is understood that he is
thereby completely in the power of the other long
man with the tall boots. The latter drives him to
terrible crimes as the price of his silence, though
there is nothing much to he silent about. They
both concoct a charge against a third man,
vet the latter, with a warrant out against
him, wanders about publicly and takes no
notice of the warrant. One wild character in the
story attempts to butcher a lady at a ball. The
ball in general gathers round, but doesn’t inter-
fere, though he is waving a long knife above the
V-shaped bosom of his victim ; only one person
remonstrates with him, and seems to think it
would be better to take the lady into the yard
and kill her there. Nobody even makes a decent
pretence of being surprised; possibly in that
locality it is common to cut the throat of one’s
partner at a ball when she has been used up for
dancing purposes, and put the body in the cloak-
room, and then select another girl. The hero in
the “Native Home” flies to avoid arrest on a
false charge, but when he comes back nobody
thinks of arresting him, so lie is wrecked, and
goes through great anguish in top boots, all to no
purpose. And the latitude which the law gives to
the bad man is something amazing. Even after
he has shot his son in the presence of a witness,
and embezzled A‘50,000, and chased a blind girl
overboard, the curtain goes up again to find him
being tried for nothing worse than abduction—
with his belltopper on the edge of the dock beside
him.
* * * *
_ There are long scenes of pitiable “humor”
in the Lyceum drama, wherein a person concealed
under a table groans at night to the great discom-
fiture of two other funny men; and a spectral
hand will insist on coming out of nowhere and
seizing the policeman’s beer ; and the witnesses,at
the trial can’t be restrained from bursting out of
the witness-box and trying to personally batter
and stoush the defendant in the dock. It is
difficult to decide whether these cheerful parts 'of
the drama or the sad parts are the sadder. The
jokes are old and primitive—they mostly belong
to that very far back period when' man first began
to sleep on his ear and thereby started it on the
downward path to its present crumpled condition.
Also the plot is of the simple order that the small,
inky boy composes on his slate when the master
isn’t looking, and is caned for afterwards. Mr.
Stanford toils in a hard voice air.id a great waste
of villainy, but he is the kind of villain who spends
years of tremendous sagacity in building up
schemes that go to pieces as soon as the fat
sailor threatens to hit him on the “jore. ”
H. O. Willard is a long, weak, unconvincing per-
son with long hair. Miss Wiuton, also
Messrs. Hawthorne, Saunders and Sweeney, and
the big dredge, and Mr. O’Neill, and the 'really
splendid scenery deserve better luck than they
get. The big dredge faces the situation and
dredges manfully, but Mr. Saunders isn’t at his
best. The painful slush of his dialogue most of
the loud and noble slush falls to his share—
probably gets on his nerves.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) a few nights of
the “ Belle of New York ” are to fill in the week
till the “ King’s Musketeer ” gets over from Mel-
bourne. Oscar Girard has dropped out of his old
character of Ichabod Bronson, and his part has
been filled for some time by- Albert Whelan. The
Australian Ichabod has given}every satisfaction ;
he is as tall as his predecessor, and as thin, and
the uniform which drove the dogs mad in Cohoes
fits him to a nicety. Boor Girard, who was in
lamentably bad health when he arriyecl here, and
has grown no bettor since then—he suffers from that
terrible disease, laryngeal tuberculosis —was last
heard of in hospital at Adelaide, sit is uncertain
whether he will ever appear on the stage again, and
the proceeds of the matinee which was announced for
yesterday (Wednesday) are intended for his bene-
fit. A man with strength and grit enough to do
the joyous foolery of Ichabod Bronson under sue!)
heavy disadvantages deserves at least six benefits.
* * * *
The “King’s Musketeer,” which, as
obscurely hinted, is due at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday, brings back a lot of old favorites.
Misses Henrietta Watson, Emilie Hughes, and
Nellie Mortyne (the Roman lady who urged
Nero to fry more Christians) are in the cast;
likewise Harry Plimmer, Cecil Ward, Walter
Bentley, Hawtrey (much-beloved as Sapt in the
“Prisoner of Zenda”), George Majeroni, Cyril
Keightley, Lissant, and Atholwood (the noble
Belgian drunk in “ A Royal Divorce ”), are all on
the bill. If all this talent doesn’t make the
“Musketeer” boom, he must be a very flat
musketeer indeed.
* * # *
The humble “tanner” which the writer
offered last week to any person who would tell
him whether he really liked or didn’t like the
“ Physician ” at Sydney Royal has been claimed
by a number of poets, artists, and other irrespon-
sible parties, but in the absence of satisfactory
information he has declined to pay over the
money. On further consideration, he inclines to
think he does like the “Physician.” It is built
out of rather middle-aged materials, but they are
well handled, and the fact that Jones contrives to
give a powerful lesson on the ’orrois of Drink
without presenting the old, crude picture of a
drunkard laying out the family infant with the
gin-bottle is something in his favor. In fact, he
leaves out all the coarse, red, staring horrors of the
regulation Drink drama. There are seven of these :
The coster blackening his missus’s eye on the
Mile-End Road; the blighted home in an attic
with the faithful wife moaning by the cold ashes
and listening for two dissipated hob nails on the
stair: the aged, bloated grandmother calling
for rum, with her hair down, in a cellar;
the once proud father sullenly picking snakes
out of his boots ; the small boy outside the gin-
palace calling, in a cracked voice, for his parent to
come home'; the flattened-out baby aforesaid ; and
the suicide. And Jones judiciously omits them
all. His drunkard is never seen drunk once, and
Lovell’s picture of him is merely a clever study in
nervous wreckage. Brough’s clergyman grows on
the fancy of the audience, too, as time goes on.
He i 3 a pleasant, beaming old man, who tries hard
to keep his eye on the Heavenly home and off the
mundane collection-plate, and his cheerful coun-
tenance rises like a full moon behind the nervous
wreck, and the strong, silent physician, and the
fashion-plate lady, who feels that she is growing
old and wants the physician to marry her, and
give her poison as soon as her face wrinkles and
her back-hair grows thin. The “Physician” is a
mass of able and convincing gloom alleviated by
Brough’s clergyman, and there is just enough
clergyman in it to redeem it from absolute
tragedy.
* * • •
The “ Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” is to be re-
vived at the Royal on Monday for five nights only.
* * « *
The “Kelly Gang,” at Sydney Opera
House, was responsible for the largest crowd that
ever crammed itself into that ancient playhouse.
Every seat was occupied, and the street was
blocked. Act I. shows a clearing in a gum forest,
and beyond loom up the everlasting hills. The
gang is listening to Ned complaining of how the
police give him no opportunity to make a decent
living at cattle-duffing, when Kate Kelly brings
the information that the force is coming with a
warrant and sortie shooting irons ; also, that Con-
stable Fitzpatrick has “wronged” her. Ned
swears to have ber-lood. Charles Field makes a
regular Dead wood Dick sort of young man of Ned,
and hauls the last two words of every sentence out
of his'throat with both hands. Then the Kellys
depart to secure the last mob of stolen cattle,
and Steve Hart stays behind to hug his Kate.
The police arrive in their own protracted way, and
there is much melodramatic talk from Ned, and
soihe shooting, and when the smoke clears away it
is seen that Sergeant Kennedy is wounded and
Fitzpatrick, the man who is always hugging Kate,
is a prisoner. Fitz gets away, and while the
others chase him snaky-faced Dan shoots the
wounded sergeant dead. Act 2 shows how one
Aaron Sherritt tries to earn an honest £lOOO by
giving information to the police. Constables
Maloney and Murphy and Miss Melpomene Prim,
who appear about here, are just O’Hara, M’Ginnis
and the ancient maiden lady in “ Robbery Under
Arms,” but all the same they are the life of the
show, and but for them the long succession of dreary
butchery is calculated to give a black snake the hor-
rors. Sherritt is dug out of his hut by the Gang, and
there is more ber-lud. As Sherritt, Walter Vin-
cent raves, and begs for life, and dies howling,
with a realistic frenzy that is horrible. Act IV.
finds the Gang cooped up in the hotel at Glen-
rowan, with Moloney and Murphy prisoners ; and
intermittent shooting gives a fine martial tone to
the piece. Kate gets in with some food. A red
glare shows that the police have set fire to the
pub. Hart and Byrne don the constables’ clothes
and escape. Dan is shot amid howls of execra-
tion. Murphy and Moloney escape in sacks, and
find a bottle of beer they think, but whisky they
hope, which turns out to be kerosene. The hotel
is burning, the police are looking on, and a grey-
haired priest stands for twenty minutes and reviles
them for setting fire to a house containing a help-
less cripple, and declares that he is going to save
a child, also that his life is his Master’s—and all
this time the child is burning. Then he rushes in
and brings out the child with his hair nicely curled.
Ned stalks on in armor and tells how he is a fear-
less outlaw and will die as sieh. And then he goes
down smash, and heaves himself up and fires off
cheap moralities, and loud copy-book trivialities,
and dies. The “ Kelly Gang ” is the most groggy
piece of literature the writer has seen for a long
time, and either it was stolen wholesale from
“Robbery Under Arms,” or vice versa , or they
were both stolen horribly from something else.
* * * *
The Tivoli is still principally Cinquevalli,
and that reliable gentleman is balancing tottery
substances on nothing worth mentioning, and
keeping a large variety of portable property in
the air at once, and generally carrying on with
his goods and chattels in the same incredible
fashion as hereinbefore mentioned.
** * *
The colored brethren at Sydney Criterion
are in their fourth week, and the show —especially
Black Dante and Brown Patti and Unbleached
Hogan—is still in a deserving condition. Whether
it is getting the support' it deserves is another
matter ; also, it is too vast a subject to enter upon
at present.
#* * *
Rickards, the perennial “goer,” starts
shortly on another business expedition through
America and England, thence to Paris, Vienna
and Berlin, engaging all sorts of “ variety ” per-
formers, for near or distant dates, as he moves
along. He expects to get back in four months,
although there are some legal matters to discuss in
London re the breakage of certain engagements.
Marie Loftus (the mother of fair Cissie), Marie
Lloyd, and George Robey have forgotten to eross
the sea as per contracts duly signed and delivered,
and for his own protection in the future Rickards
must, one way or other, deal with the defaulters.
A manager here needs to stand upon his penalty
rights when far-away artists have “slipped him
up,” seeing that he stood to be made a convenience
of—if they had chanced to fall sick and need a nice
long sea voyage at the time fixed for their depar-
ture to Australia. They are certain to come and
put themselves on his salary list if their health is
poor, whereas, in some cases, they don't hesitate to
disappoint him if they are doing well. Maybe the
two Maries will get their contracts reconstructed,
whilst Robey elects to pay the penalty and look
pleasant. He was a bachelor, and a rising young
man in the profession when Rickards shrewdly
snapped him up for an engagement some four
years ago. In the meantime Robey has risen to a
“star” position, also he has married a wife (Ethel
Haydon), and he has no use for the hit of parch-
ment which he signed ere his present circumstances
arose.
** * *
The “ New Discovery ” Concerb came off
at Melb. Town Hall last Saturday with a lot of
carefully prepared enthusiasm. Miss Lili Sharp
and Miss Hansen-Knarhoi were the Bendigonians
of the hour, and two large bodies of barrackers
came to boost them on their way. Also, a third
lady, Miss Julie Layton, from Adelaide—a “con-
tralto, ” possessing an inferior voice and an awful
capacity for prolonging her contributions—got a
boisterous encore from some relentless admirers at
the far end of the building. The writer pauses
here to award Miss Layton the whole beer for ill-
deserved applause. She was the most wearisome
success he has ever met. Miss Sharp and
Miss Hansen - Knarhoi are infant prodigies
whose united ages amount to between 45 and
50 years, or thereabouts. Neither damsel is
much less juvenile than the other on her platform
appearance. Miss H.-K. played the violin, and did
it very well sometimes ; also, she wore a long dress
and bore herself like one who suspects that she is
overrated in the advt. but doesn’t seriously object
to a furore. The furore in her ease was not extra-
vagant, the front-seated gentleman who had hurled
“ Bravo, Bendigo ! ” at Miss Sharp being only
mildly excited over the violinist’s first solo. Evi-
dently the stronger body of barrackers and the
bulk of the audience were resolved to idolise the
new soorano in the preposterous frock. Miss Lili
Sharp's outer garment, which came nearly down
to the ground, spoke eloquently of her vocal pre-
tensions. It was very like the frock of Amy
Castles, only longer, and it didn’t seem out of
keeping with the wearer’s smiles. Miss Sharp has
two smiles—one to come on and go off with, and
another to rest upon whilst she warbles. The
“reception” smile terminates in a droop of the
eyelids and a bashful bite of her nether lip; the
singing smile is an indication of joyful self-
approval, lighting up Miss Sharp’s countenance
without the least regard for the business in
hand. It was there when she sang “ Hear,
Ye, Israel,” “Home, Sweet Home,” and other
things. The audience—or some of it—demanded
double encores from Miss Sharpe, and yet the
same brutal Bulletin which foretold a gigantic
boom for Amy Castles does not predict a credulous
glorification of Miss Sharp. As for her singing—
well, Miss Sharp has a nondescript voice with
some strong, high soprano notes which impress
the hearer when they first come popping out, but
soon lose their effect. The attention wanders
from the vocalist before she has left the platform.
There is positively nothing in Miss Sharp’s voice
or singing to produce excitement among people
who take her on her merits and demerits, and care
nothing about Bendigo in the matter. The most
pleasing feature of this concert on Saturday night
was the genuine, all-round demonstration earned by
Miss Elsie Hall. Her one pianoforte solo made the
rest of the show look poor. Marshall Hall last
week championed the cause of his pale, unassum-
ing namesake in a letter so “nice’’and tactful
that it would be sacrilege to take out the senti-
ments and wrap them in more flippant phrases.
Wrote Marshall Hall: “ There is in our midst a
fully-fledged Australian artist who has gone
through a European training, who has made the
most of it, and whom, however, in running after
‘ new, untried gods, ’ we have somewhat neglected
to honor in a sufficiently marked manner. I
allude to the pianist, Miss Elsie Hall, an artist
whose playing has a feminine charm, grace, and
refinement, such as it is rarely given us to hear.”
An orchestral concert, for the benefit of the win-
some lady, is to happen, under Marshall Hall’s
direction, on Aug. 17, and he appeals to all boom-
sters of doubtful musical “ talent ” to seize this
“ opportunity which will be afforded of recognising
not merely a prospective artist, but one who is
now, and here, able to actually accomplish some-
thing truly ‘admirable.’”
The Castles boom, which started with top-
note predictions of a speedy European fame for
the songstress, threatens to peter out in a very
minor key. At Bendigo Masonic Hall last week,
the local operatic society gave a farewell social to
their priina donna} Miss Castles. The vice-presi-
dent, having duly expressed the society’s sense of
reflected glory in the damsel’s Melbourne and
Sydney profits, “wished her God-speed, pros-
perity, and a safe return koine.” In response,
Miss Castles sang Tosti’s “Good-bye.”
Adelaide is the Cinderella city. Cinque-
valli is not to visit the pious town, and Dante, will
“probably” play for three nights. And they
would be great successes in Adelaide on their
reputations alone. _ Bland Holt has not visited
Adelaide for over six years.
At Poverty Point.
The Melbourne members of Coolsrardie Exhibition
orchestra are back airaiu. distrusted with the ennui and
drowsiness of the city, which was but yesterday such a
swarming hive. The orchestra comprised 18 performers,
with old friend Otto Linden as conductor. Its en<ra''e-
ment was for 12 weeks- two performances daily and
rehearsal every morning. The first week the show did
pretty fair business, but afterwards the performers played
from overture to finish to an average audience of five
somnolent individuals—generally the same five every
day. The veteran Joubert slumbered peacefully at the
door, only rousing up on Saturdays, when a few casual
visitors would drop in. One Saturday, the committee
made a spasmodic effort to liven things a bit, and engaged
the local darkies to hold a corroboree. The niggers howled
and jabbered, and hit kerosene-tins in a praisewoithy
manner, but nobody had enough energy to go in anil
inspect the affair, and the result was a dismal failure.
After that, the management let things diift, and the
whole concern sank into torpor, and settled down dog-
gedly to await the end. As soon as the corpse had been
interred, the members of I he orchestra formed themselves
into a concert co., and gave four concerts >n. Kalgoorlie
with gratifying results.
“Buskin": Re a recent illuminative par. The “local
author,” so dubbed (and ostracised) by Manager William-
son on a memorable occasion, is sometimes at more pains
to annotate bis scrip with stage-directions and correct
“ hi/..” than is (he imported ditto. In both Ihe Sydney
“ Musketeers ” versions pounce-boxes were specially pro-
cured. The blotting-paper incident at Melb. Princess’s
augurs an absence of specification in the “imported”
scrip, as well as managerial absence of mind. Writer
once read a direction in “ The Queen’s Favourite ” (played
iu Australia by Genbvieve Ward and Vernon), “ Puts
letter in envelopewhich sounds all right, only they
didn't use envelopes in Marlborough's day. Even an
author of Sardou’s rank is no exception. In his own
scene-description to first act of “ La Patrie” (lately seen
in Sydney under another name), he directs, “ Mountains
in background.” As the locale is Brussels, this is more
picturesque than accurate, even hills being a rarity there-
abouts. A character iu a Iticbelieu-period costume-play,
produced by the Finn not so long ago, referred to the
“ guillotine ’’—which wasn’t invented till 1738 !
One of the calmest and funniest things yet printed is
the Sydney Freeman's Journal statement: “It is not
going too far to say that but for the Freeman s critic
neither Miss Ada Crossley nor Miss Florence Schmidt
would be now in Europe.”
The “ Trelawney ” costuming suggests an analogy be-
tween women’s dress and women’s morals, with the' con-
clusion that the slimmer the trucking the friskier the
wearer both in ideas and conduct. In the beginning of
this century, when women moved as if competing in a
sack-race, certain feminine errors were viewed with
leniency—witness the escapades of Napoleon’s Josephine,
and the fact that Lady Hamilton's name was engraved
with Nelson’s on the silverware presented to them by the
people of London. As the skirts amplified, the ideas
contracted, and it was not till women began to have legs
again that they likewise started to entertain ideas. One
thing is certain : the crinoline period in England was co-
incident with the most awful state of colorless conven-
tional morality that that unfortunate, devil-forsaken
country has ever known.
“0.C.” : Notice that Holloway’s new leading lad v. Miss
Dora YVinton, has the gift of weeping naturally. Conse-
quently, it is all the more pity to see her yield to'the
stage convention which prompts the heroine to go into
black before the innocent husband is executed, as if she
had determined to get her mourning in good time, or
wanted to cheer him up by showing him how she would
look as a widow. Also, why does Miss Gresham—like
many other had stage-women—always repent in a dress
without a neck-hand ? The dress was presumably bought
in better days when she didn’t mean to become poor and
homelpssaud repentant. It had a neck-hand on it then-
all dresses have, originally, unless you order one specially
to repent in. Does the had woman, when site feels re-
pentance coming on, sit down by the wayside, and take
her dress off, and rip awa.v the neck-hand ?
From Melb. ’Erald criticism of “The King’s Muske-
teer":—“Mr. Cecil Ward, as D’Artagnan, surprised
many who thought of hint only as one wedded to the
pourtrayal of a brainless aristocrat.” Evidently it was
the ’Erald man himself who thought of the actor as the
rickety earl in “ The Amazons,” or the idiot with crim-
son socks in one of the bygone farces produced tty B. and
8., and couldn’t identify him with any other kind of part.
Yet it was not so long ago that Cecil Ward played the
Little Minister. In the old days he played a large assort-
ment of heroes : —Tom Jones, Joseph Anrlr ws, Ned An-
nesley, the lover of Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith, and various
“leading juvenile” characters of more commonplace
types. He made his Australian dfehut as a gallant colonel
in “ Held by the Enemy." The ’Erald paragraph, for
all its indiscreet display of ignorance, was quite a fair
sample of the praise which pleases an actor and is care-
fully preserved in his Family Bible hook of press-notices.
The late Harry Towie (lately known as W. H. Harrison)
was the original Ralph Raekstraw (“Pinafore”) in
Australia. Under his direction that opera was produced
for the first, time in this hemisphere, in ’7O, at Christ-
church, M.L., by a semi-amateur co. During the per-
formance the comedian Walter Hill was taken ill and
carried home, where in a few minutes he expired—still in
the dress and make-up of Dick Deade.ve. The Little
Buttercup of the cast was the once well-known operatic
artist Signora Venosta.
The corrohboree given at Rockhampton by the Dawson
blacks in honor of the English footballers was a miserable
fiasco. Ground in state of semi-darkness: only a few
fires scattered about, instead of at least a couple of dozen,
and a big crowd in possession of the place allotted for the
advertised “wild weird dance.” The 6000 persons
present (including many from Townsville, Charters
Towers, &c.) were utterly disgusted at the painful
exhibition.


J ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-wash'ng
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
ZOLLNER,
80-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. (JOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNO & CO., SYDNEY)
—BCVKR OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Flint any.. Gem-Field.
The Local Government Journal (London)
writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society:—
“-Travelling along the lines of safety, combining energy
with enterprise, anrl ability of management with both,
the Society is a certain credit to the world’s financial
centre.”*
Gilfillan and McCreery, milliner engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collius-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and speeifieations for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
Mophan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. lie has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant.—
this is one of I. and E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling ut greatly-
reduced prices.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Mbl/B0BK5» j
ll PxtUst.j Sydney; 08 Currie-st, % Adel,; 27 HadU'Slrrtet,
Brisk. ; Lambt'on- Quay, Wellington, HfJS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney an-
nounces the best half-year that it has reported for a
number of years, the profits for the six months to 30th
June, 1899'being £42,339. The profits for the last few
years have been as follows :
December, 1893 £67,470 December, 1896 .. £40,067
June, 1894 .. .. 25,560 June, 1897 .. .. 40,119
December, 1894 .. 36,599 December, 1597 .. 40,150
June, 1895 .. .. 38,037 June, 1898 .. .. 40,410
December, 1595 .. 39,474 December, 1898 40,864
June, 1896 .. .. 40,303 June, 1899 .. .. 42,339
Dividend at 8 per cent, per annum (£40,000) leaves £2339
to add to previous balance, which makes £19,021 at credit
of profit and loss. The profits are distinctly better than
at any previous date since tbe grievous slump of June,
1894, being equal to £4 4s. 3d. per cent, per annum on
shareholders’ funds (capital £1,000,000, reserve - fund
£1,010,0.10). The Commercial Banking Co. has £10,267,000
of deposits. Its entire liabilities to the public are
£11,440,000. It has £2,400,000 in cash, £1,280,000 in
State securities, and ils total liquid assets (coin in band,
money in transit, Queensland Government notes, State
securities, &c.) are £4,350,900. Altogether, it makes a
fine showing, and is an institution that may well feel
proud and satisfied about itself.
» * * *
The City Bank of Sydney again just shows
enough profit to pay its 4 per cent, dividend (£8,000) and
enough over to save appearances, the declared profits for
the half-year ended 30th June, 1899, being £8,009. There-
fore it is reasonable to assume, according to a statement
made some time ago by one of the directors, that the
balance of the earnings (amount unknown) is still being
applied to gradually write off the amount (also unknown)
by which the assets have depreciated, and that when this
process has been finished (which, at the present rate,
whatever it is, and provided new losses don't arise, will
be in an unspecified period) the visible profits are likely
to be increased to a large, or small, or middle-sized extent.
The declared profits in recent years have been these :
June, 1890 .. .. £8,198 June, 1898 .. .. £8,273
December, 1896 .. 8,071 December, 1893 .. 8,U53
June, 1897 .. .. 8,048 June, 1899 .. .. 8,069
December, 1897 .. 8,395
Said visible profits are equal to £3 4s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds, and after paying the
usual 4 per cent, dividend (£8000) the balance (£69)
raises the sum at credit of profit and loss to £9099.
During the half-year deposits have decreased
from £1,110,671 to t 1,910,715, which is a rather heavy
decline. So far as Tub Bulletin can trace, this seems to
be the lowest figure the City Bank’s deposit business has
reached for at least a dozen years. The cash reserve has
dropped by £104,000 —from £377,843 to £273,758, but the
City Bank has now £25,000 invested in N.S.W. State
securities, which is a new and altogether commendable
departure; and allowing for this the drop in the cash
reserve is £79,000. As usual, there is very little informa-
tion in the balance-sheet. The policy of keeping dark
about the amount of depreciation to be provided for is
apparently not doing the City Bank much good. Its shares
still sell at such a low figure that investors in the new
issue, at last week’s prices, get £8 13s. per cent, per
annum for their money, and investors in tbe old
issue, £7 12s. 6d.—in other words, they apparently
stand lowest among the shares of the dividend-paying
banks of Australia in public estimation. Therefore the
public appears, rightly or wrongly, to have a very mode-
rate opinion about the City Bank. Perhaps if that insti-
tution wrote down all its values to bedrock, and declared
openly how much the old losses amount to, and how
much the real earnings are, and how much is being set
aside each half-year towards writing off the debit, and
thus took the public into its confidence, it might be
better for it.
* * * •
The Bank ot Victoria, which earned .£27,637
for the half-year to 39th June, 1899, shows a slight
diminution in profits. Recent net earnings have been :
June, 1394 .. £29,921 June, 1897 .. £17,877
December, 1594 .. 21,087 December, 1897 .. 22,729
June, 1895 .. 19,863 June, 1898 .. 24,380
December, 1895 .. 29,631 December, IS9B .. 27,800
June, 1896 . 15,ut>8 June, 1899 .. 27,637
December, 1896 .. 17,928
The profits are equal to £3 11s. 6d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £1,476,806, and re-
serve fund, £70,000). The preference shareholders get
their usual dividend at 5 per cent, per annum (£10,419),
and the remainder, added to previous surplus, leaves
£37,249 to carry forward. The balance would only be
sufficient, at the outside, to give the ordinary share-
holders 3 per cent., and in view of the urgent
necessity for building up a strong reserve the
Bank of Victoria did well to carry it all forward.
The concern has now only £1,056,000 of the bur-
densome per cent, reconstructed deposits on hand, and
it pays off £528,009 in September, so this liability will
soon be shifted, and after that profits may improve a
little. But in spite of the new sour e ot income supplied
by the charge of ss. half-yearly on each depositor’s
account, and the relief gained by the repayment of
£509,000 of 4.) per cent, deposits last March, they cer-
tainly have not improved this half-year, The business,
however, is a very good and solid one ; the cash reserve is
large ; and the earnings are up to the average. The hank
which has a million capital and a million reserve fund
bringing in 3J per cent, can, between them, earn a decent
6 or 7 per cent, dividend on its capital nowadays, hut the
one that has no big reserve toiling to earn money for it
has a poor show.
• • • *
The Commercial Bank of Australia publishes
(for l he half-year to 39th June, 1899) another of those
mysterious balance-sheets which tell the public practically
nothing that it wants to know. What the public and the
shareholders want to hear about is whether the whole
concern (which is made up of the Commercial Bank, with
£4,099,000 of liabilities to the public, and the Commercial
Bank Special Assets Trust Co., with £3,443,000 of liabili-
ties to the public) has made a profit or a loss. And there
is no real information whatever. The profits of the bank
itself for the half-year are set down at £52,247, which is
the worst return since June, 1897. And if the
Assets Trust has paid its way and earned enough to cover
all outgoings, then the profits are £52,247. And if the
Assets Trust didn't pay its way, then the net profits are
something else. In view of the neglect of the directors to
explain whether the Assets Trust is earning enough to
pay interest on its deposits or not, there is room for a lot
of speculation. For a while a certain amount of informa-
tion was sui plied, but lately the stream of knowledge
has been turned off sharp at the meter.
The profits of the Commercial Bank itself since
the second reconstruction have been :
December, 1896.. £41,036 I June, 1893 .. ..£52,363
June, 1897 .. .. 52,529 December, IS9S.. 52,891
December, 1897.. 63,222 | June, 1899 .. .. 62,247
The profits are equal to £3 7s. Id. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds, as compared with £3 (is. Bd.
for previous half-year. The usual dividend at the rate of
2 per cent, per annum on preference shares absorbs
£21,171 ; £30,000 is transferred to the mysterious Special
Assets Trust —perhaps because there are losses lo that or
some larger or smaller amount to he provided for, or
perhaps out of pure hilarity on the pari of the manage-
ment; and the remaining £1,076, added to previous
balance, leaves £10,248 at crpdit of profit and loss. The
Bulletin presents the profit and loss account thus :
Dr. Or.
Dividend .. £21,171 Profits of Bank £52,247
Losses of Assets >• °f Assets
Trust if any.. Unknown Trust if any Unknown
Balance, if any * Balance, if any ?
£ x £ ?
That is exactly the information which the Commercial
Bank of Australia gives about its affairs. The share-
holder can put down the net loss at £70,000 or £120,000
or or the net- profit at £60,000 or £lOO,OOO or 9d., jus
as Ills liver suggests.
Thk Bulletin lays these six propositions before
the Commercial Bank’s shareholders. (1) If the Assets
Trust is earning enough to pay interest on its deposits,
and there is, consequenily, fair reason to suppose its
assets will sell for enough to pay off its deposits, and con-
sequently there is no reason to believe there will
he any ruinous, or large, or even only medium
loss to he ultimately made good by the shareholders,
it is difficult to understand why this desirable state
of things should he concealed. (2). It is difficult to
understand why the Commercial Bank should transfer
£30,00.) half-yearly out of its profits to the Assets Trust
unless there is a heavy loss to he provided for. Surely it
isn’t done for amusement. (3) At the same time, the
transfer of 130,000 is no proof that the Assets Trust isn’t
losing more than £30,099 half-yearly. The bank transfers
practically all the profits it has after paying the fixed
2 per cent. div. on preference shares. It may he really
necessary to transfer more, but there is very little more
to transfer. At all events, the preference shareholders
are entitled to 4 per cent, dividend if the profits are there ;
the fact that they only get the fixed minimum of 2 per
cent, seems to imply that all the rest (and perhaps
more if it were available) is needed on account of
the Assets Trust. (4) The bank’s profits show a slight
decrease. (5) The fixed minimum dividend to preference
shareholders is 3 per cent for the future (£31,756). There-
fore unless tilings improve there will he only £29,000 per
half year to help the Assets Trust with—the Trust which
seems to need at least £30,000. Also (6) the reason ad-
vanced by the present directorate for giving no informa-
tion about the Assets Trust is that, when it took office, it
stipulated that it should not be held responsible for the
old bank’s had bargains which the Trust took over. But
not being responsible is one thing; not giving informa-
tion about the state of £3,443,000 worth of the assets is
quite another.
Things look well with the Commercial Bank so
far as they can he traced. During the half-year note cir-
culation has increased by £3009 ; deposits by £453,000 ;
and cash and liquid assets have gone up by £574,009 and
now stand at the splendid total of £1,763,854 equal to
43 per cent, of liabilities to the public. But the mys-
terious Assets Trust is always hanging about.
* * * •
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
bourne) has done somewhat better this half-year (to 30th
June, 1899). Net profit is set down as £1953, and the
usual 5 per cent, dividend on £60,000 capital consumes
11500 of this. (The other £29,702 receives no dividend).
These figures compare with some previous incomings and
outgoings after this fashion :
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1892 .. £8548 30 percent. = £9OOO
December, 1892 .. 6874 22J „ 6750
June, 1893 .. 4656 15 „ 4500
December, 1833 .. 3909 12J 3750
June, 1894 .. 2287 „ 2250
December, 1894 .. 2265 „ 2250
June, 1895 .. 305 Nil
December, 1895 .. 256 Nil
June, 1896 .. 1702 4 percent * 1200
December, 1896 .. 1779 6 „ 1500
June, 1897 .. 1756 6 „ 1500
December, 1897 .. 1705 6 ~ 1500
June, 1898 .. 1723 6 „ 1500
December, 1898 ..1101 5 „ 1500
June, 1899 .. 1953 5 1500
In the half-year ended 31st December, 189 S, the co.
was struck with £l3OO costs in a disastrous law-suit. So,
in the ordinary course of things it should have shown a
profit of some £2400. Allowing for this extra expendi-
ture the present half-year is really hardly up to the level
of the last. Still, the accounts show a tolerably steady
improvement.
The last £42,000 of the Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co.’s reserve fund disappeared six months ago.
The co., by virtue of the law-suit above-mentioned, was
held responsible for a large sum of its eiiems’ money in-
vested (wrongly, the Courts decided) in bank deposit
receipts, and £29,409 was set aside to make this good.
The other £12,600 went to write down tile co.'s own
disastrous investment of £14,000 in Australian Deposit
and Mortgage Bank shares to their then value of £l4OO.
The A.D. and M. has now begun to climb out of the mud
a little, and these shares (put in the balance-sheet
at £1400) are worth, at time of writing, nearly £3500.
The co. also had a disastrous investment of £20,000
in deposits of the same hank, but it seems to be gradually
selling these and writing-off the loss. There are still
£16,000 worth, put in the balance-sheet at face value,
whereas their present selling price is only about £11,600,
therefore the difference is a mere paper asset of £4,400.
But the deposits are steadily improving in price. Con-
sidering that the shares are put in at £2,000 below their
present price, and that the balance-sheet shows £3,253
accumulated profits, the co. probably has its capital
intact, and a clear surplus of £5OO or so after allowing
for all losses. So the prospects may he summed up
thus : The co’s business appears to he improving; its
2,800 A.D. and M. shares, now valued at £1,409, may
some day he worth £14,090 again ; its £16,000 worth of
deposits are increasing in value ; the widow of the late
managing director, wno receives £5OO a year pension,
isn t immortal ; and if the hoard only keeps the dividend
down low, and set to work to rebuild its vanished
reserves, there is no visible reason why the T. E.
and A. shouldn’t be a large and prosperous concern
again in a few years. Apropos of which, the co.’s
paid-up capital has been lately increased from £60,000 to
£89,702 (a call of £30,099 was made when the big legal
disaster struck it last year), and, if it paid 5 per cent, on
the real capital, it would absorb £2243 instead of £l5OO.
As the profits won’t nearly run to this, the dividend is
paid on £60,000 only. Therefore the shareholders really
get £3 6s. lid. per cent. Last half-year, the paid-up
capital was £73,3i6, hut then also the dividend was paid
on £60,000 only. A 5 per cent, dividend isn’t always
what it seems.
• * • *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete (Sydney) shows a
great decline in profits ; the earnings for the half-year, to
30th June, 1899, being only £2,300. The results for the
last 5j years have been :
June', 1894 .. .. £4,314 I June, 1597 .. .. £4,225
December, 1594 .. 4,470 December, 1897 .. 4,297
June, 1895 .. .. 4,239 j June, 1898 .. .. 4,189
December, 1895 .. 4,765 I December, IS9S .. 3,589
June, 1896 .. .. 4,699 June, 1899 .. .. 2,300
December, 1896 .. 4,254 |
The case doesn't admit of ihe old 10 per cent, dividend,
so it is cut down to 7j. Even this absorbs £2,773, which
is £473 more than the earnings, and the balance at
credit of profit and loss is reduced from £750 to
£277. Last half-year also the dividend wasn’t fully
earned. The profits have shown a very steady down-
ward tendency since December, 1895 ; but this time
the co. appears to have struck really hard against
a snag. The equalisation-of-dividend reserve has been
transferred to contingency account, to provide for
possible losses, and the total reserves have been le-
duced, hv provision for losses, to £15,633. Two years ago
they were as high as £19,500, so the fading away is con-
siderable. Whether there are any further losses to be
provided for doesn’t definitely appear ; the transfer of the
Dividend Equalisation account to contingencies looks as
if the management had doubts on the subject. At all
events, it is"a very had record for this usually careful in-
stitution to have twice in one year paid a dividend that
was not fully earned.
» * * •
B.H. Water Supply directors reply to B.H.
Municipal Council, seeking to purchase the co.’s works,
&c., that they will recommend shareholders to sell for
£309,099 —which would pail out at just under 32 shillings
a share. The Council clutched the table to save itself
from falling ; though, after all, the price isn’t much of an
advance upon market quotations. The present outlook
is that the Government will he moved by every means the
Council knows to carry through the Yanco Glen project.
And it will get help from some at least of the big mining
co’s, which are not well-disposed towards the Water Co.
* * * *
Slab of choice blather from a Sydney broker’s
circular : “ The fall in London arose out of the Transvaal
difficulties, owing to the detestable influence of Com Raul,
who is a veritable wet blanket strung across the circus
and dripping drops of humid despair and desolation upon
a market otherwise inclined to be lively." Only that 1
* • * *
B. H. Prop., which has not ventured much below
800 ft. so far, proposes to open out straight away at 600 ft.
Block 10’s deep-ground development has given the neces-
sary encouragement. But just at present Block 10 s
deep-ground workings are rather poorer than^middling.
There are no announcements in B.H. Prop.’s
half-yearly report which will surprise shareholders. Net
profits for the period were £107,563; this is making
allowance for depreciation (£34,616), but not for plant
provided. The three things that are best worth attention
are—(l) by briquetting the concentretes and fine ore it is
found that a greater quantity can be smelted, and that
the metal-recovery is better ; (2) 110,797 tons of sulphides
were concentrated at “piactically the same total cost as
the smaller quantity (79,742 tons) during the previous
half-year ” ; and (3), despite better prices for silver (|<l.
per oz.) and for lead (4s. 4d. per ton), it was not possible
to earn the £120,000 which was paid in divs. Of course,
the sulphide-concentration plant is being doubled, and
the briquetting will make a difference ; but, then, the
kaolin and other oxidised ores are to be drawn on more
sparingly. The 2s. Od. per half-year may be continued ;
but a great deal will depend on the metal-market. But if
zinc-treatment is accomplished (and little is said about it
in the report) all calculations will have to, be upon a
different basis altogether.
* * * '*
Sydney D.T. on that disgrace to the Stock Ex-
change, the mysterious bake George mine :—“ In copper,
the ever-growing mystery, Lake George, was dealt in at
from 15s. 3d. to 145." 9d. No explanation can be offered
for the jump in value of these shares, except that the
gloomy record of last month is followed by a rumor that
it is intended to close down at least one of the furnaces.
Then, next day : “ Lake George furnished another sensa-
tion bj" jumping to 17s. The latest report is that arrange-
ments are to be made to treat the ore for zinc. Lake
George has been a conspicuous failure as a gold-mine, as
a silver-mine, and as a copper-mine ; when it fails as a
zinc-mine probably an effort will be made to run it as an
iron-mine, and that failing it may become a sulphur pro-
position. On present showing it has as much chance of
succeeding as the latter as it has as anything else.”
Occidental, N.S. W., 5040 z., value £l7O0 —repre-
sents the production from ore and cyaniding of tailings
for three weeks ; more than half must be profit.
• * * *
Turon River gold dredging: A new issue of
shares to erect the second dredge. Shares have gone to
over 605., representing the value of £100,060, and this,
for a scheme that has never had a clean-up, is remarkable.
It speaks well for the dredge business in Sydney, if not
on the river, and very badly for the Chinamen who have
been working the stream for the last 20 years. It is also
remarkable that the Sabbath Shellback warns the public
not to anticipate an enormous yield at the start —that it
will only really represent a week’s run ; at the same time,
the S.S. think's the shares worth a lot more money. But
has not the dredge been running oyer six weeks? Alto-
gether, the situation provides an enigma of too, profound
a character for The Bulletin to deal with.
* • * •
Q. mining items : Gympie Scottish Co.’s initial
crushing, 2476 tons, 27290 z. Other mines on same reef
up in sympathy. Q. Menzies, 250 tons, 6050 z. As usual
with this show, a good crushing makes the shares weak.
——Croydon is having a small boom. No. 5 Golden Gate
crushed 380 tons for 17000 z., div. equal to £2700 ; 3 and 4
South ditto, partial cleaning up, 390 tons for 1007 oz.
Raub, 2450 tons, 2100 oz. Charters Towers Victoria
crushed 296 tons, 3670 z. Despite this, shares keep down;
sellers, 4s. 2d. 2 S.E. Day Dawns make a call of £d.
(the 112th). Band of Hope, 510 tons, 4570 z. Victoria and
Caledonia Block, 123 tons, 3510 z.; mine looking well.
Kelly’s, 545 tons, 74doz. Brilliant and St. George, 1332
tons', 16890 z.; Is. div. Victory, 155 tons for 3530 z.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan annual report: Total quantity of
stone treated, 204,502 tons, an increase of 51,205 tons on
previous 12 months. Average yield of all ores treated
16jdwt. per ton or about 655. per ton. This was about
sdw t. less than in the previous corresponding period or
about 21s. less in value. Ore of different classes ; oxi-
dised, 40,703 tons: low-grade oxidised, 130,776 tons;
mundic, 30,096 tons ; tailings and slimes, 2854 tons. Total
gold for year, 166,0750 z. New mundic works are now
complete and gold is to be turned out by them next
month.
* * * *
W. H. Woodward, managing director of the
British 8.H., just back from London whither he took a
N.Q. copper show, succeeded this iar : A co. will take it
over if its expert’s report is satisfactory. But, he says,
J. Bull is shy of copper—shyer than if the market had
stopped at £6O. His estimate is that Bull has no con-
fidence in the ’Murkan syndicate; or perhaps that it won't
always be the syndicate’s game to maintain the price.
* * * *
The present price of tin is .£135 per ton, and
there are tin-mining men who say it must go to £2OO.
And why not? Its uses are innumerable—and increasing.
Nothing can take its place. It is more perishable than
copper ; does not come into re-use like that metal ; and,
above all, isn't found all over the world like other indus-
trial metals. America has none, although the biggest
consumer. There are many tin-mines in Germany, Hun-
gary, &e., but they are so low-grade that the total yearly
production does not amount to 1000 tons. In Germany
there are tin-mines worked only for scientific purposes,
not paying with the cheapest of labor and the most effec-
tive and economical plant. There are only three big pro-
ducing countries in the world. The Straits Settlements
are, tar and away the biggest. In the Straits there are as
many as 12,000 Chinese and other aliens working a single
mine, mostly stream tin, and for that reason the Straits
shows are being gradually exhausted, a fact that has had
more to do with the increased price of the metal than any
other. Tasmania has the second largest tin-mine in Mt.
Bischoff. Cornwall tin-mines were once copper, lodes
having changed to tin—a geological feature, the writer
believes, unknown in any other country. Tin, in Aus-
tralia, is generally found in widely separated and isolated
places. Herberton, in Bananaland, and the New Eng.
districts of N.S.YV. are the chief, both producing much
less than they did years ago. Under all the circum-
stances, a big boom in tin must come sooner or later,
though at this moment it is easier to’float a cork than a
tin mine ; but miners might do worse than look for tin
where it is known to exist. Almost daily writer hears of
unpayable 2 and 3 p.c. tin lodes, while there are in Corn-
wall payable deep tin-mines working under I p.c. at a
profit.
- ' • m * •
Copper still about £77— a mighty fine figure for
those who have producing mines. Cabled that, owing to
the high price of the metal, the cost per word on the pro-
posed new Pacific cable is likely to be 3s. 6d. It will take
thousands of tons of copper to lay this cable, and this,
no doubt, is somewhat influencing the market. The
work has been determined on in face of the persistent and
powerful opposition of the Eastern Extension Cable Co.
By the way, The Bulletin observes, in connection with a
recent deputation from that co. to Chamberlain, that over
half-a-column of chairman t*e Marquis of Tweeddale’s
speech was cabled to the Australian dailies, while Cham-
berlain’s forceful reply was dismissed in a few words. The
cabled account of this unimportant deputation, the out-
come of certain vested interests only, occupied altogether
a column—which is more than has been sent on one day
upon any other subject for a long time past. Now, who
paid for that cable ? The allied Newspaper Cable Syndi-
cate of Australia—or was it sent gratuitously on behalf
of one of the greatest of the world's monopolies, the
Eastern Extension Telegraph Co. ? By the way, what is
the betting that wireless telegraphy will become really
available for long distances just about the time the new
cable is laid ?
* • * *
Another offspring of the S. A. boom is arsenic-
mining. When copper-mines were deserted there were
some big bodies of arsenical-pyrites showing. But there
is no hope for the production of arsenic in Australia ex-
cept as a by-product. The Broken Hill mines thought of
it once, but found it wouldn’t pay to purify.
The Bulletin office often has a lot of pre m
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submined. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, bv ossav and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assavs alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not only give a statement of metallic contents—
owners will he advised by an experienced, practical metal-
lurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in bulk,
whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation, smelt-
ing, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should not bo
less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
* • • •
Worturpa (8. A.). —The telluride boom has been
very short-lived, and it is the sacred duty of a number of
Adelaideans to kick themselves in sheer shame and dis-
gust. One man aptly describes the place as famous or
infamous for telluride of nearly every metal but gold.
The Wilgena (8. A.) boom was also a horrible
frost. How humiliating, after the glittering yarn about
the dying man’s advice to his son, to have the report of a
cold-blooded Inspector of Mines: “ Formation, decomposed
granite and lime-tried numerous prospects; no trolfl ;
country only slightly mineralised. Small specks may
have been found—but appearances very unfavorable,
nothing worth pegging.” All sorts of schemes have
withered away, or gone into liquidation. The whole
thing a fiasco, and heavy insurance premiums will be de-
manded on the lives of men capable of trying to start
another S.A. mining-boom.
Waihi (M.L.) shares are now at <£B. With a
quarterly div. of 25., this means exactly 5 percent. As
every pick-stroke brings the property nearer the end of
its tether, this is a poor per-ceutage for an “ investment”
mining stock.
Tas. mining figures for year ended .Tune 30 :
Gold, £300.151 ; silver, £215.211 ; blister copper, £468,877;
tin, £178,438 ; coal, £34,602 ; all other minerals, £38,400.
Total, £1,235,679. Value of increase for year, £157,812.
Divs. paid, £282,700; miners employed, 6053 ; wages paid
(estimated at £2 ss. per week per man), £708,188. Differ-
ence between total value of output and divs. and wages
paid, £244,791.
Mt. Bischoff, Tas., tin-mine has paid npnrly a
million and a-half in divs. to date, and produced between
59,009 and 60,000 tons of tin. Has got mining and milling
costs down to a minimum. Mining, including mainten-
ance and new development work, 2s. 4Jd. per ton. Crush-
ing and dressing, just under Is. per ton. All costs, ss.
4£d. per ton. Divs. last six months, £36,000, and many
ahead while tin keeps at anything like its price.
• • • *
North Mt. Lyell : What is the next share-
boom to be founded on? N. Lyell has been boomed on
rich streaks of ore. Boomed on fairly-large deposits
without anything very defined or high-grade ore. Boomed
on ils railway, boomed on tbe purchase of a steamer, and
then on the recent sale of ditto. Boomed on sending
rich ore away ; now boomed because this costly procedure
is to cease ; the latest cause of boom is the rumor of
future treatment at Mt. Lyell reduction works. What it
is going to do with its unerected, but well-boomed, smelt-
ing plant isn't just now mentioned. Writer would sug-
gest—selling to Mt, Lyell and having another little boom
in consequence. The parent mine may have made mis-
takes such as are inseparable from the establishment of
any gigantic concern, but the N.M.L. management seems
to do nothing but follow one blunder with another.
Rocky River Mine, Tas., has received the
results of some complex ore sent to England, giving 14
per cent, nickel, 4 per cent, copper, 2 per cent, cobalt ;
also some molybdenite. It has started to boom on the
strength of these things. The It.lt. is one of many mines
of which the public has grown tired, by reason of the lies
told about them, and if this one has anything like the ore
it is represented to have, it should long have been paying
divs. instead of making calls. Writer happens to know
that it was unfavorably reported on by Holroyd, the
discoverer of the Kalgoorlie tellurides, but the manage-
ment has never published Holroyd’s report.
• * « •
The Tas. Smelting Co. isn’t likely to go un-
employed. The agreement with the Reids guarantees
the delivery of 30,000 tons, assay stipulated, in three
years. In 1899, 5000 tons; in 1900, 10,000 tons ; 1901,
15,000 tons. Several small shows, encouraged by im-
proved smelting facilities, are recommencing to burrow
for ore, but the cry is for moie tramways.
* * *
The Wilfley concentrator has only been a short
time before the mining public, but has already demon-
strated its superiority, over 1200 being sold within the
past two years. This machine has a capacity of from
25 to 30 tons per day, and will save more sulphuretts,
float gold, amalgam or quicksilver, and make a cleaner
and better separation than any belt concentrator made.
It can be easily and rapidly adjusted while in motion, and
requires no expert attention. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Coy., South Melb, have.been appointed sole manufac-
turing agents, and are now engaged constructing machines
for the colonies. The price of the machine is £ll5.
* * * *
Garden Gully’s (Bendigo) formation at 1400 ft.
has in 12 months brought in something like £BO,OOO profit,
of which £77,927 has gone in divs.—the rest has been
spent on machinery. This is equal to £2 6s. Cd. per share.
Production has eased off, but there is much prospecting
and good hopes of other bonanzas.
* * • *
Venture Corporation, after its many dismal
failures in Westralia, directs its attention to Rhodesia,
S.A., and is asking the public to buy “ The Old Dog,”
“ Jessop,” ami “Jackson” claims, which, the directors
say, “ make up a very nice proposition.” What has be-
come of all their ventures in W.A. ? They had one in the
90-mile which was reported to have 200,000 tons of 2oz.
ore in sight; also, what has become of their experts
One of these was lately said to have started a vineyard
near Albury.
* * • *
Vic. mine-inspectorships entice more practised
hands than the corresponding N.S.W. billets—probably
because of the miserable pay of Vic. managers. Lately,
when applications were invited for three vacancies, a
score of almost the best-known goldfields men applied.
One at least has already been chosen —R. Youlden, of the
Long Tunnel South, formerly of the New Chum and
Victoria. While grafting underground, Youlden stuck to
the classes at the Bendigo School of Mines, and as a result
has got this far out of the ruck already.


a
A NEW DEPARTURE
]|n Orient Suit to measure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea*
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONEI & COMP ANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
(Opi>osite)
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents f r New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Before the site of the new Sydney city
railway-station is decided, the people should think
hard over this problem. Bringing the railway
along the east side of George-street to King-street
means the removal of a very decent block of build-
ings to make room for the station. Taking it
along the west side to the neighborhood of the
Rocks mostly means the clearing away of slums
which sooner or later will have to be cleared away
at great expense, anyhow. And a railway station
at or near Miller’s Point leaves things all ready for
a further extension to North Shore, which must
come some day. To extend the line from upper
King-street to North Shore makes no such provi-
sion, unless the railway bridge is to be in the road
of every vessel going into Circular Quay.
** u * . *
, Sydney Telegraph prints pictures of the
rotten plates stripped from local steamers
(harbor and ocean-going) since new blood was
poured into the stagnant Marine Board. The
plates were originally three-eighths of an inch
thick. They were allowed to rust down to
one-sixteenth of an inch before they were taken
off—one-sixth of their original thickness— and
weighed onty as many dwts. as they originally
weighed ozs. And they were so brittle that
pieces could be broken off by hand. How many
years they took to reach this stage is uncertain ;
but they have repeatedly passed the Marine Board
coat of paint; and sailors and passengers re-
peatedly went to sea (or down the harbor) with
one-sixteenth of an inch of perished iron separat-
ing them from eternity ! All these lovely reve-
lations are the direct result of the Atacama ease,
about which N.S.W. ship-owners have not yet
ceased cursing The Bulletin.
Melb. Argus and Agb are competing for
popular favor on very “commercial principles.”
Argos is booming the En t o>olopced ia Brittanica
in the Amurkan style—time-payment biz., and is
publishing on Wednesdays and Saturdays stuff
that it wouldn’t have touched with a long pole 10
years ago. And the Age is serving-out “ penny-
dreadful” of an aggravated type. Altogether, a
complete falling away from journalistic grace.
• • * •
The Age does its best to “queer” the
Argos by pointing out that the Encyclopedia
Buttannica is a quarber-of-a-century behind the
time in all its political information, and leaves
Britain in the hands of Mr. Disraeli, and France
under the presidency of Marshal MacMahon. But,
then, this is quite as much up-to-date as the
Argos usually considers it advisable for the
average person to be.
» * » *
Still the same old outcry re kleptomania at
Melb. Govt. House. At the recent balls,, cloaks
and other expensive articles of apparel were
snapped up wholesale by light-fingered dames,
and- the owners are squealing vigorously among
their . According to experience, the vice-
regal palace is about as dangerous a place for
valuables as a tenth-rate Little Lonsdale-street
pub.
* * * *
Justice as she is in Australia :
At Redruth (S.A.) police-court, one Bennett was sen-
tenced to two months’ imprisonment for throwing boiling
water over his wife, while she was holding a child in her
arms, because she refused to give him money for drink.
Two months for partially boiling a wife ! And the
annexation of 20s. worth of property is often good
for 12 months’gaol in civilised Australia. In fact,
9d. worth of baking-powder has been known to
pan out for three years. Two months ! It seems
a pity some judicious, person doesn’t empty a pint
of boiling water over their washups on the bench,
so that they can form some idea of the kind of
case they are dealing with.
* • * *
An applicant for old-age pension in Maori-
land was asked by the magistrate how he earned
his living. “Just doing odd jobs; but sometimes I
don’t get one for six months, and then I have to
go to the bank.” Magistrate : “ Ah, you’ve
money in the bank. Post-office, I suppose. How
much have you?” Applicant: “I didn’t mean
that kind of bank* It’s the pippi (shellfish) bank
Igo to. I get there at low water and withdraw
something.”
One casual joy which has
gone out of the Cornstalk’s
existence is the loss of
Bernard Ingleby’s letters
from Wragge’s tent on
Mount Kosciusko. In
the early days of
Wragge’s windy experi-
ment the N.S. Waler
got some value for the
money which Premier
Reid spent in subsi-
dising the high and
unstable habitation.
There were interest-
ing columns in the
daily papers telling
how Bernard Ingle-
by struggled down
to Jindahyne for pro-
visions; how he strug-
gled up again and
was lost in the snow
and had to camp out;
how the tent blew
away and Bernard
Ingleby ran after it;
how the tent ran
faster than Ingleby;
how the thermome-
ter blew after In-
gleby and struck
him a foul blow
from behind ; bow
cold it was when the
thermometer went
down to so many
degrees below some-
thing, and how it
wasn’t so cold when
the thermometer
rose to so many
degrees above some-
thing ; and how the observers
suffered from cold feet and ingrowing toe-nail
while going out in the early morning to look ati
the barograph, or the cenotaph, or the hexameter,
or something. All that news has died away now.
Ingleby’s successor doesn’t run after the tent in a
literary spirit, nor does he publish his cold feet in
the papers. So far as the public is aware, Kos-
ciusko has never produced any scientific results,
and now it lias even ceased to furnish interesting
reading matter.
* » * *
A strange ghost looms in the path of the
“ new singer ”in future. Sydney D.T., reporting
a local “at home,” where a newly-arriveu song-
stress “obliged,” winds up thus: “Among those
who applauded were ” Mrs. Suchandsuch, Miss
Soandso, etc., etc., mentioning a string of names
from the “ naicest ” circles. An inevitable “next”
seems to be: “ The following did not ap-
plaud,” !
The Melbourne bridegroom who disap-
peared on the morning of what should have been
his wedding day and was found a month
later in the Narra, was, apparently, an-
other victim to the devastating influ-
ence of furniture. He had lost his
billet, but decided to go on with
the wedding just the same, though
his own family was unaware of
the fact. But at the last
moment he failed to raise
the needful furniture,
and he couldn’t take
his bride to an empty
house and ask her to
sit down gently on
the floor, and seem-
ingly he didn’t care to
tell her that he was
unable to offer her a
chair. So he solved
the furniture pro-
blem in the Yarra.
Sitting accommo-
dation can be ob-
tained in the Yarra
without paying
any deposit, and
the after instal-
ments are easy.
« *
“ Death and
the Dance.”
They were dis-
cussing the Na-
thalia parson’s
sermon on
above subject.
‘‘You laugh,”
said the wo-
man from
Perth, who
had been
eagerly lis-
tening, and
had seemed to
quite understand,
“but the combina-
tion is often seen out
West. Over there,
you dance with
your butcherand
baker, and only
the very fastidi-
ous—l was one
—o bject to
dancing with
the under-
taker.”
In Melb.
District Court,
t’other day, a witness,
being offered the Bible to kiss, indig-
nantly pointed to a pencil-inscription on the fly-
leaf : “ Book of the Superstitions of Jews and
Christians." The clerk handed him another.
♦** - *
At one of Mrs. Escaped Nun Slattery’s
Sydney lectures to “women only,” some girls in
the gallery spotted down below two persons whom
they took to be men in women’s clothes. They
communicated their suspicions, and squalls arose
of “ Put out the men ! ” but Mrs. Slattery ap-
peared and assured the ladies that if there were
any men in the hall they wouldn’t hurt, and
should be let alone. Then there was quietness for
the time, but at the close the suspected persons
were mobbed as they were making their way out.
They took it all so coolly, however, that The
Bulletin’s informant remained doubtful of their
sex until she saw the diabolical smile with which
they disappeared into outer darkness.
IN OUR LANE.—A ROLAND FOR HIS
OLIVER.
“ Saw your fader drunk last night.”
“That’s nuthin; saw your muver gettin ’ out
of bed this mornin’! ”
The extreme liberal-mindedness of certain
Sydney worthies was shown lately by their figure-
ing, one night, on the Orange-celebration platform
and the next attending Cardinal Moran’s conver-
sazione at St. Mary’s.
* * * *
The eternal police question. An alterca-
tion took place the other day between two promi-
nent Brisbane citizens and two stalwart “ traps. ’’
A SIGN OF SALVATION.
CURATE: “Ah —your friend, the Chinese convert,
how is he progressing? ”
SHE: “ Wonderfully well. He is getting fearfully
jealous of you.”
Citizen A. says constable X. struck citizen B. in
the eye with his fist and knocked him unconscious.
The injured man was taken to hospital where it
was follnd that the eyeball was burst et etc .
Policeman Z., however, avers that the injured
man fe ll and hurt himself on the kerbstone. If
the man whose eye is ruined doesn’t get run in for
« tearing me un if orm » into the bargain, he’ll be
lucky.
• • * *
The commission appointed to in-
quire into the great Rakaia (M.L.) rail-
way smash has decided that it arose
through the driver “maintaining too
high a rate of speed.” But when a driver
has to keep time, and the rails are slip-
pery with rain so that his train won’t
pull up easily, and the station is at the
foot of an incline so that the train (not
being fitted with modern brakes) slides
helplessly down the wet rails, and there
is a train in the road which shouldn’t be
there, and the uncivilised management
hasn’t put up a semaphore to let the
driver know in good time that the track
isn’t clear, and the official who is sup-
posed to crawl through the rain and wave
a miserable glimmer of warning by hand
only appears with his glimmer when it is
too late —what can be expected ? The
commission has reported that all M.L.
trains should be fitted with the Westing-
house brake. Which is a tolerably
straight admission that it was the want
of that brake which caused the trouble.
One tiling seems reasonably certain. The
driver—being only a driver, and not a
prophet—couldn’t tell in advance where
he might find an unexpected obstacle.
And if he approached every station at a
crawl to make sure of taking no risks, he would
shortly have been sacked for habitual procrastina-
tion of his train.
* * * *
Poetically-named Leonora (W.A.), accord-
ing to N. Coolgardte Times, is a place where
things happen. Something happened there the
other day when a policeman after vain appeals for
help to the people around, arrested a one-legged
drunkard all by his own self. Then he rested
from his labors, after which he swooped down
anew and took up a spectator named Harset for
not assisting him in doing the mighty deed.
Harset, thus arrested for his crime in being where
he was, was chained up all night outside the
Police Court and afterwards sentenced to a
month’s jail. He was doing his month comfort-
LOVING and LEAVING
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mary complained tliatl wasn’t as faithful
And hardly as warm as in seasons of yore,
And said, in a voice that ivas plaintive and wraith-
ful,
That she feared it was true that I loved her no
more.
I hissed her, and said to her, “ Dear, it is not;
Though I leave you a little, I love you a lot."
But when T sat down to a quiet revisal
Of the love that had gallantly lasted so long,
Then I knew that old Time icas beginning reprisal,
And that Mary was right and her lover was
wrong;
And I murmured obscurely: “ Things ripe and they
rot;
I must leave you a little to love you a lot. ”
P.


SPEEDILY
CURED BY TAKING
Condy’s Fluid.
. CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers-
Insist on buying “CONPY’S FLUID.”
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros, Ltd., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk .'vnufd!
Mattalasse and other Unshkinkabi.k Siiikts
are highly recommended.
33/- per llaif-dozeu, free by post throut/ho wt
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
TuLClter & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free bt post.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, t,he recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
•of crystalline carbide of calciums Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney—who own the Willson patents for
Australasia —are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. Thiseo, have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36. Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
Zetz Spa Water (naturally effervescent)
is as Nature made it. Take it by itself or with
your stimulants and see what a natural mineral
water is. Obtainable everywhere.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
'■E',.EGAXT AND
Effective..
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Lungs, Neuralgia and Headache. Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN. Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Sgpior’S
HEADACHE CURE.
Sgpior’S
black currant balsam
For Coughs and Colds.
BEWARE of Injurious Imitations of these famous
Remedies.
SENIOR, CHEMIST, 246 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
ably when the law stopped chewing its thistle for
a moment and discovered that it had no lawful case
against him. But it generously decided not to
prosecute Harset for being illegally on the gaol
premises; it just gave him 6d. and shot him out
and he went home to find that the other fellow had
got his billet.
* • • •
S.M. Herald’s “ Miscellaneous ” advt.-
eolumn on a recent date contained 19 notices,
every one of which came from a palmist or
futurist. As clairvoyancy and fortune-telling are
illegal, and very properly so, we shall no doubt
soon see the respectable Herald, if it continues to
print such advts. at all, classifying them under
the heading “Impostures.”
• • • *
S.M. Herald, having taken to publishing
serials, will now be known as the Family Herald.
♦ * * *
Mrs. Tates, ex-Mayor of Onehunga (M.L.),
recently got even with Dr. Erson, present Mayor,
her chief opponent. Some time back the medico
declared with great emphasis, “ I’ll never again
contest the Mayoralty with a woman.” Next
time, accordingly, he stood out of the contest,
and let a nominee of his fight Mrs. Yates. Last
election he waited till the morning of the last day
before entering his nomination. At 11.55 a.m.
the doctor and his friends retired to have a drink
over his unopposed return. At 11.57 Mrs. Yates
turned up and planked down her nomination.
Dr. Erson was, accordingly, let in for another
contest with a woman.
» * * •
The Yic. Queen's Fund, founded by dear
Lady Loch in ’B7 when Her Gracious scored her
first jubilee and the early Boomsters were lavish
with offerings of other people’s money, seems
just the sort of Charity that might have been ex-
pected. The capital is .£13,184, there are 48 names
on the committee, and the distribution of cash to
75 “ poor and distressed ” persons (most of whom
were possibly distant cousins of said committee)
amounted to £374 last year. Has the Vic.
Labor-party in the ’Ouse ever turned an enquiring
eye towards that precious Queen’s Fund ?
* * * *
“ Who committed the Oxford-st. (Sydney)
woman-murder? ” Well, it is about level bettmg
that there was no Oxford-st. woman-murder. The
woman’s injuries were such as could have been
inflicted by a fall or two while drunk.
* * * *
The mysterious father of a certain sensa-
tional infant has been identified by the public as
every prominent man in the capital, from the
Governor to the coroner who presided over the
inquiry into the affair. A candidate at a recent
election was neatly spoofed over the same infant.
One of his personal friends, Soflgoods, chagrined
him by taking a seat on his opponent’s committee,
and on their first subsequent meeting the candi-
date immediately demanded, “ I thought you
were a friend of mine?” “So am I,” replied
Softgoods. “Then,” asked the candidate, “ why
did you take this position against me?” Soft-
goods assumed a confidential air, led the candidate
to a quiet corner, and whispered, “ Well, you
know, you could hardly expect me to take you up
after that Baby O’Callaghan affair.”
• • • •
Recent Melb. Age advb. :
TjVIVE weeks’ board and residence offered gentle-
-P roan for £2 advance.
This appears under “ Educational.” Appro-
priately enough, too ! —because, at Bs. a week, the
“gentleman” would probably learn something
about the art of fasting.
• • * *
A few years ago an apprentice on a mer-
chantman, calling at a S. A. outport, was smitten
by the charms of a rustic Sweet Seventeen. He
kept his passion to himself, though, until his ship
had sailed ; and then (he was only an apprentice,
and not a seasoned mariner) he wrote and told all.
The chilling answer was that marriage couldn’t be
thought.of till he had his master’s certificate and
a ship. The youngster accepted the condition,
set to work, gained the certificate, got his ship in
record time, and sent for the lady. The two then
.made several voyages together, but a coming
domestic event led to the captain taking one
voyage alone. It was his last—he was Capt. P.
H. Jones, who went down with his ship, the City
of York, off Rottnest. At Fremantle a cable
awaited him that a child had been safely born.
* * * *
N.S.W. country police court. Ah Ling
charged with using a kerosene-tin for rubbish
instead of the pan prescribed by the municipal
by-laws. The beak: “I really cannot see any
offence in this case, but the ironmonger has to
live, and Ah Ling must buy a pan from him ; and
I will inflict a nominal penalty of Is., because, if
I dismiss the case, the solicitor .won't get his 10s.
6d., and the rubbish man and the nuisance man
won’t get their ss. each as witnesses.” Next, a
person is charged with heaving half-an-ounce or so
of rubbish in another man’s yard (his tenant).
Defendant; “ I never got a notice about this
matter, your Worship ; and, in any case, accord-
ing to the by-laws the occupier is responsible.
The Mag.: “Well, here also there is no offence, but
the solicitor must have his 10s. 6d. and the wit-
nesses their ss. each ; so I fine you 2s. 6d. And
you will notice that, by making the fine Is. Gd.
more, I have avoided classing you with the China-
man 1 ”
* * * *
AUSTRALIAN SONG-BIRDS.
Peculiar birds, for though it’s true
They’ve voices sweet to sing or sigh with, t
They come to plead to roe or you
For feathers to fly with.
• * * *
The irony of circumstances : At a recent
Sydney R.C. church-bazaar a Hebrew tailor won—
of all things in the world—a pig ! Imagine the
unfortunate Israelite’s feelings at being obliged to
give away his prize !
N.S.W. Col. Secretary Brunker meditates
for next session a Bill compelling persons to con-
tribute towards the support of their relatives who
are inmates of the asylums for the infirm and
destitute. As the law now stands, no one is
liable for the support of any relative, except wife
and children. How far the Col. Secretary intends
to extend this limit is not yet announced; any-
how, he will open a very pretty question. Un-
doubtedly there are many cases in the various
institutions of more or less aged parents aban-
doned by affluent but unnatural children to
the tender mercies of the asylums, but there
are also cases in which the unnatural parents
enter to spite the children, or because they
prefer the life, or because, through drink,
&c., they cannot be kept decently outside. (In
one asylum at present is a once-prominent bank
manager, of good family, who cannot be kept out
by his family). The proposed legislation will no
doubt lessen the strain on the Govt, institutions,
principally through the dread people will have of
their cases going before the Court. If the authori-
ties were now able to publish a list of cases where
State hospitality is grossly abused by well-to-do
persons the evil would much diminish.
* * * *
At Sydney Benevolent Asylum every
Wednesdayis distributed with much parade a small
quantity of food to several hundred poor families,
and the issuing of these miserable doles keeps five
men employed all day ; whereas, if money were
piven instead of food, one man could pay it all out
m half a day. “ But they would drink the
money,” says the local philanthropist. Some
might, but what is to prevent them from selling
the dole for a shilling or two?
* * * *
The Dance of Death—last week’s ball in
aid of the Sydney Hospice for the Dying.
* * * *
The recent Adelaide Mayor’s ball was
remarkable for the fact that, for the first time
since the hospital dispute began, four years ago,
Govt, doctors and membersof theoutside profession
were at a civic dance together. The late Mayor
was chairman of the Hospital Board and the mal-
contents refused to accept his invitations.
Had Adelaide City Coroner Whittle not suffi-
ciently recovered from his recent illness to resume
duty, the long-standing hospital dispute would
have come near settlement: Ramsay Smith, the
bete noir of the outside doctors would have got the
appointment. Dr. Napier, the other imported
medico, is not nearly so much objected to.
* * * *
When an up-North selector recently pro-
secuted a “civilised” kanaka for threatening and
filthy language on a public thoroughfare and be-
fore women, another selector rolled up to testify
in favor of Thomas Tanna, Esq., for the admitted
reason that prosecutor was “one of them dam
Socialist fellows, an’ no good, any’ow 1 ” The
nigger was acquitted, too !
HE WAS TIRED OF THE SAME WOMAN.
1ST PASSER : “ How did she manage to squeeze that
frock out of her husband? ”
2ND PASSER : “ Told him it would make a different
woman of her!"
There are
no barmaidsin
the States,
and Col. Bell,
U.S. Consul at
Sydney, car-
ries his dislike
to the institu-
tion so far that
he actually re-
fuses to breast
a bar presided
over by cer -
tain well - re-
spected dam-
sels in order
to pay his
lunch-money;
instead he
sends it along
per male. This
scribe advised-
ly says “ well-
respected,’’be-
cause, some
time ago, when
oneof the
Hebes hap-
pened to be
leaving the
hostelry, a
quietly - con -
ducted testi -
nnonial sub-
scription - list,
handed round
among the
habitues of the
hotel, resulted
in a return for
her of much
over <£lso.
When all i s
said and done,
there are very
few citizens for
whom you
could raise
.£l5O off-hand.
* *
“Jimmy
W.”: Re that
“ done - to -
death-by-par -
ents-Port-Mel-
bourne - pica -
ninny” (B.
8/7/’99). O 1 d
time Castle -
maine (Vic.)
doctor, Pres -
ton, was once
called to Fry-
er’s Creek, to
a digger’s child
in convulsions, and ordered a hot bath. The fire was
made up and the boiler put on with the baby in
it. Some 15 minutes later a woman from an
adjoining tent casually came in and saved the
child from total stew.
* • * •
N.S.W. Judge Cohen, in his recent judg-
ment on the National Guard case—wherein G.
Republican Dibbs made an expensive error in
accepting a corporal’s verbal resignation, instead
of getting a written one —called attention to the
N.S.W. Volunteer Regulation
“That the Queen's Regulations and customs of the
Imperial military service will be taken generally as a
guide in all matters not specially dealt with in the Volun-
teer Act and these regulations.”
This is constantly forgotten in N.S.W. military
procedure. The ‘officers of the staff are grossly
ignorant, and act under the advice of non-com-
missioned and warrant-officers, whose experience
as sergeants and corporals of British regiments
does not qualify them to give opinions on ques-
tions of military law.
* * ♦ *
On August 11, exactly three-quarters of a
century will have elapsed since the first N.S.W.
Leg. Council assembled. It consisted of Gov.
Darling, Col. Stewart (Lieut.-Gov.), Chief-Justice
Forbes, Archdeacon Scott, and Colonial-Secretary
Macleay. The non-official members were: John
Macarthur, Robt. Campbell, sen., and Charles
Throsbv, whose old home is now the country-resi-
dence of the Governor (Throsby Park).
• * * *
In a Sydney hash - foundry. Waiter :
“Roast beef, roast mutton, roast pork Old
Gent, (interrupting), testily : “ Pork chops, very
underdone!” Waiter (ordering): “ Cannibal chops
for one, with crimson gravy ! ”
* * • •
At the Melb. Mayoress’ reception. Stout
lady in the rear to stouter lady near the refresh-
ment-counter): “Pass me those nuts.” S.L.
(looking along the table): “ I see none,
only peppermints.” Lady in the rear :
“ Never mind, pass those. They’ll do
just as well for the children ! ”
* * * *
“ Won’t you,” pleaded a Syd-
ney cleric tramping upstairs in a
newspaper-office at 10 o’clock of a
Sunday night, “head your notes
of my sermon (here they are) with
the words ‘ A Bold Deliverance? ’ ”
Faob 1
* • •
Pity the poor literate ? S.M.
Herald advt. :
QUALIFIED Barrister seeks Legal Work or any
other work, used building trade. Q., P. 0., Mar-
rickville.
• * * «
Tasmania is one of the few places in the
British Empire where Her Gracious can do wrong
—by virtue of a statute passed only nine years
ago. Two rag-and-bottle boys recently sued “ the
Queen ” for false imprisonment. They" were in
NOSE-BLUSH.
“ That's my uncle. Poor old man, he’s very ill. He says he's suffering from rush of
blood to the head, but it’s really only rush of nose to the hotel.”
the back-yard of the Govt. Railway Engineer’s
house on the day some jewellery was missed there-
from, and the police arrested them, and did their
best to make them “ confess,” but the boys sturdily
maintained their innocence. Three times in a few
weeks one of the lads was run in and run
out again, and when the real thief was con-
victed, the Crown Law Dept, tried to bluff
the boys ; but a lawyer took the matter in hand,
with the result that H.M. came down with <£2o
and costs.
• * * *
Golden-haired Elsie Hubbard, of Mel-
bourne, has all the makings of a Jeanne d’Arc, a
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, or a Sarah Siddons—circum-
stance will shape her career anon. Elsie is an
adventuress of eight years’ growth, and she was
lately sent back home from Adelaide, whither she
had shipped on her little own as a steamer stowa-
way. On two previous occasions the restless in-
fant was found wandering to nowhere in particu-
lar for the sole purpose of being.her own mistress,
and when the inevitable policeman captured her,
she gave great accounts of her father’s rank and
station, although the “ old man,” as a matter of
fact, is merely a “respectable laborer. ’’ Evi-
dently a child with a future is Elsie Hubbard.
Make a note of the name, for Elsie may one day
tell a thrilling story with a young man in it


Tlje Principal Attraction
of tbe Week
IS Undoubtedly
fl\ark Foy’S
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
[ICHT^
fmNNI NC
§>
1
Write for our iTustrated
PRICE UST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post 4d
ilif
J.W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
The poet’s dream of perfection in the
feminine form divine has been realised at last.
Nature working in many mysterious ways has
wrought out, by hereditary and by the mental pro-
gress which directs physical culture, a new woman,
who can afford to laugh at the figures of her
mediaeval grandmothers as depicted in the family
picture-gallery. And the enchanting outlines of
to-day are best defined by P.D. corsets. P.D. :
Poet’s Dream.*
“The Light of Asia,” which, as is well known,
was one of the principal books of its year, was an un-
doubted success, and without doubt so is the new light of
Australasia, the “ Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires
no trimming,” emits no odour, uses less oil, prevents
smoky chimneys, and is far safer than the ordinary wick.*
Reti)cn>ber! —.
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
TN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GCO3E TEDS have NO Equal.
Atcheiley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 25, 1899.
My Deak Myee,—
This fevered indecision as to whether Lord
Beauchamp will turn out to be the correct sort of
Gov. he ought not to be judging by the look of
him ; or whether the wall-papers and the Old
Masters will shut him off from the large varnished
and unvarnished crowd, waiting breathlessly to
see what he is going to do next, only gets fiercer
as the days go on. Nobody can make up her mind
(which might almost as well have been written his
mihd, as ail the Society johnnies are wondering
wearily if it can be true that H.E. is paying more
attention to the othah-classes-don’t-you-know than
to them) whether Govt. House is the same dear,
sweet, homely place it used to he under other
regimes. Cards for balls and At Homes up there
have not been issued yet. In fact, the only
whisper in’'connection with invitations says, that
the lists have been reduced by a tremendous
vulgar fraction; which merely intensifies tho
awful agony. The only people who benefit from
all this trouble are the poor, dear Hampdens,
whose sudden popularity trebles every day that
those invitations don’t come.
A Gov. should always consider this. He can’t
do anything well, without doing it not too wisely
for the Gov. that comes after him. You mightn’t
think so just at present, but Lord Beauchamp's
successor will have the saddest time. No wall-
papers ! No dimple ! No soulful views on
the cultivation of long hair and daffodils!
Nothing that this aesthetic city of ours has been
used to all its life and can’t possibly do without!
Even those who refer to-day to our H.E.’s pride
must acknowledge that it’s a case of pride going
before destruction when they think of the H.E.
that will follow this one.
Anyway, invitations press in to Govt. House.
These are issued in all sorts of strange shapes.
One over-anxious ball-committee woman rang
up lately, and demanded to speak to Mr.
Corkran. “Mr. Corkran is out,” replied an
etherial Oxford tone. She shouted hurriedly
that she had wanted to ask Lord Beauchamp
something. “Lord Beauchamp is speaking,”
was the reply. “Oh-h!—Er —Oh-h ! Well, we-
we-we only wanted to know if he’d come to a ball,
your Excellency, and lend your presence, if he
would be so very kind; it’s in aid of a charity,
your Excellency, if Lord Beauchamp hasn’t an
engagement for that night.” There the handles
dropped from her fingers. Perhaps her way of
putting it was too puzzling. Anyway, that ball
was unavoidably impossible.
But at a Poultry Show Lora Beauchamp is a
glorious success. He gazes into the eyes of every
prize fowl, strokes the dogs, goes the round from
duc'ks to magpies with a fearfully interested air, and
no suspicion of scurry. N.S.W. Poultry, Pigeon,
Canary and Dog Society had its exhibition vice-
regally opened last Thursday. His Ex. fancied
the dachshunds and bought an eight-days-old
puppy from Mr. Isitt. Of course, you know that
these are the only dogs received into Good-Society
just now. For my part, I can’t see -why a
dachshund should put all the other dogs in the
shade from a fashionable point of view. Is it
simple vandalism ? Or are they too ugly for
words ?
FoWls, too, are getting up fashions of their own.
Every stylish hen tries to be buff-colored. Even
fowls that used to look so chic in (mre white have
taken madly to the new tint. It makes you feel
quite sorry for the Spanishes and other faces that
were born black. As for the cats, they were hot
let in to the show on opening day. It seems that
dogs get too excited at the sound of “meows,”
and on their behalf the felines'were kept out till the
last day. One mastiff lost his head altogether
over a cat last year. To hear the “ meow, ” and
not be able to chase it, was too much for him.
He broke out of his cage and 'dashed into the
feline quarters —and I draw a curtain over the
blood-curdling sequel. Some valuable cats were
shown this year. Mrs. W. Keep exhibited a
Persian lady worth .£lOO, and a Maltese worth
£5O. There was no entry for the “ heaviest cat of
any variety.” Times don’t rise to that yet.
Can anybody tell me, were there ever six women
banded together in the cause of charity who did
not tear each other to tatters before they had got
their poor people into new garments ? The charity
of the'future will have to be a committee with its
nails cut righ,t off, all its teeth blunted, and the
sharp edge razed off its tongue, that will devote
itself to saving Women Who Go On Committees.
Even,the Fancy Fair, that includes all the vir-
tuous people in this city, has had its little breeze.
One hard-working stallholder suddenly took
the usual mysterious umbrage. She had dressed
over a hundred dolls, too, and the weary commit-
tee tiredly remarked that they wouldn’t have
minded so much if she had left the dolls behind.
Then there were things said to left and to right.
And the charge was made point-blank that the
committee had picked out the stalls it liked best.
What an awful-charge ! But things like that are
dark blue insults at committee-meetings.
There was one stall-holder who said to another
with crushing satire, “Yes, I knew you were tell-
ing the truth when you said you didn’t like the
stall, but you’d take it because nobody else would.
I-suppose you didn’t know that that was the stall
I had set my mind on? ” The other looked at her
ferociously. “I plead innocent to telling the
truth,’’she said, grandly.
And speaking of strange things women do,
how’s this for queer? “Dear Sir.—l am ijiviwj a
private entertainment next Sunday, and I shall be
obliyed if you will kindly forbid any mention of it
to be made in your paper .” "That came into all the
newspaper offices in town last week. Among, the
rest, The Bulletin got its copy. But what has
the poor Bulletin done? It ndver made any
allusions to birth-stains. The note wound-up
with : “ As l cannot imayine that the privatedoinys
of nip family can be of any interest to the ycneral
public,” etc. By a strange coincidence, that is
what nobody else can imagine either.
And while on the subject of childish things,
there's nothing later than the “ Babes’ Book Tea.”
All the Sydney infants, in and out of arms, are
rolling up to these in their perambulators with
book-fever burning in their little eyes. Have you
heard of the record child ? She was 10, and
elected to carry an apple in her hand. “ What
are you, Thithie ?” lisped Gwennie. “I’m ‘The
Origin of Thin,” lisped Thithie.
I have just heard of a new and interesting in-
terprovincial engagement. Miss Ethel Marian
Clarke Marcus For-the-Term-of-His-Natural-
Life Clarke’s youngest daughter—is going to marry
Mr. E. E. Ridge, of Greyfells, Manly, shortly.
And a very “Society” engagement is that of
Mr. Mahaffy, Tho Art of Conversation’s son, to
Miss Enid Boyd, who is staying at the Australia
for the present.
A concert to raise the wind for the Seamen’s
Mission drew a fairly-well-paying house to the
Town Hall last Thursday. That great White hall
takes a lot of filling. An audience can leave
much blank space between the seats that hold
its opera-cloaks, and still be a paying con-
cern. A good round sum was netted by
Thursday’s concert. A big and gaudy V.R.
party attended. Lords Beauchamp and Bras-
sey, with their respective aides in white revers and
brass buttons, the Chief Justicess and her daugh-
ters, the Mayoral trio—Mayor, Mayoress and Miss
Harris (which never separates, and on the whole,
looks about the best-satisfied family party in Syd-
ney), also the Primate, and the cunningest little
curate that ever stepped out of Mrs. Oliphant’s
muffin-teas, filled up the frontal arm-chairs. Rev.
Harry Morgan, whose Oxford clays haven’t spoiled
him for the Mariners’ Church work in Lower
George-street, worked up the concert in con-
junction with Mr. Trelawney and Mr. Aengen-
heyster, secretary and manager respectively.
As far as the programme went, it might have
gone not quite so far with advantage. There were
rather too many lady singers, for one thing. Miss
Rooney’s sudden rush into popularity showed no
signs of ebbing; she was warmly encored. In
looks, she is rather like Madam Alva ; slight and
dark, with a sweet expression. Her contralto
voice is easy to understand. It pleases you at
once, and settles down inside you, and you don’t
want to ask any questions about it. It isn’t the
sort of voice to set up a heated discussion in the
papers, but it is plaintive and pretty always.
Hetty Holroyd, in pale pink, was listened to with
much interest, after a recent D.T. correspondence
re herself and Amv Castles. I can see now that
Miss Holroyd hasn’t the peculiar, effortless, gush-
ing way of singing that characterised Amy Castles,
who got at her notes without seeming to climb
ladders to arrive there. But for sweetness, and a
sort of erystalised purity, Miss Holroyd leads by
a length. Miss Ruby Irene Marks was the third
vocalist, and the first in the order of frocking.
She was in a pale pink silk, with a lot of chiffon
about her heels, and also got in her little
encore. Miss Millie Wynn was the fourth ; Miss
Ethel Godfrey the fifth. But the one substantial
music that you could hold on to, and abide by
without any sacrifice to your aesthetic soul, was
Herr Vollmar’s well-conducted ’cello ; for Law-
rence Campbell was too ill to appear, and the lady
who filled his place forgot her words, and could
not be heard beyond the middle of the house. The
rest of the concert is more or less a blank.
At Resell ill, on Saturday, everyone was asking
about certain overcoats. The technical name is,
I am told, “ It’s-raining-in-England.” Which is
all very well when it is rain' g, md well away in
Enr/land , but on a fine way, and at our
own Robe hill, what’s the whichness of the
why of these overwhelming garments ? They
are made in light-tan, and come down to
the heels, where they flap at every step. But
that’s nothing. It’s the strange similarity between
all the men who wear them that strikes one. And
also the —well, the peculiarity of these similar-
looking men. They all have round faces, round
eyes, round mouths, round noses. Their little
heads are sunk into big felthats down to the
ears. All their boots are declamatory tan. And
they hook their sticks into their outside pockets ;
or—and this is the only point at which there is
any “or”—hang them on to a black ribbon slung
across the waistcoat. Where does it come from—
this weird, new race? I am wondering if it is the
New Man come to run away with the unappro-
priated New Woman.
The long, moulded frocks are as mystifying to
men as the apple dumplings were to King George.
In town, the other day, a woman of lost, crossed the
road in an eelskin costume of palest tan, which is
even a more magnifying shade than white. It
fitted her without a pleat, a button, a hook or an
eye—as far as.a mere masculine mind could judge.
Two men stood petrified at the vision. “ How on
earth did she get into it? ” said one. “ It doesn’t
matter how she got into it,” said the other, “but,
in the name of Heaven, how is she going to get
out of it?” Just, so ! The woman who can excite
that wonder is not dressing herself in vain.
Melbourne fashions v. Sydney again. A Mel-
bourne tailor-made skirt sent over to a Sydney
maiden was so lop-sided and baggy that she took
it to a Sydney tailor for inspection. He said,
“The cut is ail wrong.” She wrote off to the
Melbourne tailor to tell him that. He replied,
“We might state that the expert you got
to examine the skirt is incorrect in his statement
that it is made on a model of two seasons ago. The
model is one of this season’s and that the most
popular in Melbourne. In fact, the newness of the
shape may be the explanation of your expert’s want
of knowledge of what tins season’s shapes really
are.”
The New Woman went into Adams’s Marble*
Bar the other day. She walked up to the bar,
ordered her .drink, and.drank it off coolly. Then
she turned to inspect the place, ala visitor. She
was as cool as a cucumber ; walked round, stared
slowly at rtl 1 the nudities on canvas, then wentout
with ladylike nonchalance. Several men vowed
they mightily admired her pluck. Possibly a new
species of feminine pluck comes as a relief to jaded
man.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Tho marriage last week, at Toorak, of the
daughter of Mr. Jenkins, clerk of Yic. Leg. Coun-
cil, was a semi-political function. All the Leg.
Councillors who were in town were present;
guests could hardly move about for the bulging
waistcoats that blocked up the doorways and
corridors. Jenkins pure is personally popular, so
his friends rolled up in force. His daughter, who
has married a Bombay man, is tall, fairish and
brainy—has almost as many accomplishments as
inches. Her pa reckons he has a good show for
the clerkship of the Federal Senate.
“No joke, ’tis said, mapping out the future for
a local prodigy. You can’t pluck and transplant
a budding. Genius without ‘by your leave’ to a
possibly thorny parent-stem. ‘ How sharper than
a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless child.’
And a thankless Pa is just as much of a nuisance
to a gifted juvenile and the latter’s well-wishers.
“If the era of musical ‘discoveries,’ Castles-
costumes, and unsophisticated back hair is to last
much .longer, Melbourne’s only Beano Scherek
will die of suppressed laughter one fine Saturday.
He must have gone very near to it last Saturday.
In the afternoon, in trotting ‘little Miss Celia
Dam pier ’ across the Town Hall platform, he had
to travel on his toes to make himself look as tall
as the cheeild, who showed about twelve inches of
maidenly leg below the hem of her smock frock.
Now, we didn’t need the still, small voice of
Celia's violin to tell us she is more than thirteen
next birthday. In the evening the volatile Polish
gentleman was called upon to keep a straight
face all the time Lili Sharp had him in
tow. A pianoforte acoompanimentist seems very
much in tow, at ballad concerts especially
concerts where Native Talent is making a fashion-
able debut. Herr Benno played his part with
easy gravity for some time, but what with the
weird innocence of Miss S.’s dramatic soprano
doll-dress, and the recalls, and the vegetable
tributes, and the artlessness of her selecting a
bunch of violets—a simple little bunch of violets
to carry in her hand —it was no wonder that poor
Benno’s sense of humor got the better of him at
last. When his young friend was about to fire the
second barrel of her double encore at the audi-
ence, and he sat down to the piano to give them
warning of ‘ Home, Sweet Home,’ the musician
was observed to make a most horrible grimace, to
prevent himself from tumbling off the music-stool,
no doubt.
“Madame Marchesi—whose opinion in this
matter goes for a good deal more than Melba’s
enthusiasm—is said to predict a splendid success
for Regina Nagel. The nervous girl must have
been marvellously ‘ brought on ’ after she went to
live with Madame, and had her tonsils removed.
The new Regina, says her instructress, is a truly
French artiste. As for her voice—the voice that
sang ‘Ben Belt ’ behind the scene in ‘Trilby’—
there never was any doubt about its natural rich-
ness and sympathy.
“The 14,000 crowd at Amy Castles’ Exhibition
concert has been eclipsed by the crowd which
rolled up to welcome R.C. Archbishop Carr on
his return to Australia after 10 months’ absence.
From 20,000 to 2,'), 000 people sat or stood
about the great barn-like building, and for two
and a half mortal hours did the portly prelate
stand with his right hand outstretched while
thousands of men and women passed to kiss his
ring. It was a real feat of endurance for a man
far past middle age to stand in the one position
for so long, and afterwards to use his voice to the
utmost in half-an-hour’s speech.
“ Dr. Carr has the royal gift of memory for
faces. Amongst the thousands who passed in
front of him to pay him homageat his reception at
the Exhibition, lie let few pass whom lie had pre-
viously known without a few kindly words. But
no doubt his wonderful memory is a powerful
factor in his popularity, united as it is with so
much tact and graciousness.
“It is said that certain Holy Fathers have
raised a subscription among them to defray the
cost of the trial of Anastasia Butler, the weird
woman with the wild eyes, charged with murdering
her father. Great interest is taken in the case by
Mother Church.
“ All the lady doc’s are very busy just now—too
busy, most of them, to think of little domestic
happenings. It was a surprise to hear that one of
the busiest of the sisterhood introduced a daughter
to this vale of ailments, one day last week.
There’s a lot of human nature even in learned
women who hang out brass-plates.
“A grand ball at MenzW Hotel on August 4th
is to celebrate the coming-of-age of Miss Stan-
bridge, tho Daylesford heiress.
1 lie festive Melb. Bicycle Club announces
that its annual Cinderella will be held at the
Masonic Hall on Aug. 18. Dancing begins at 8,
an«l bikes may be ordered for midnight.
“At a recent ‘book tea’ a noted Melb. girl
painted ‘ Stood ’ upon her sailor-hatband, and the
clever ones guessed ‘Misunderstood.’
“Another nice kettle-of-fish through want of
Ma’s consent. A Melb. convent-girl chose the
man—one from the grazing country due West—
and asked her old black-shawled teachers to pray
for light. He was a holy High Churchman. Ma
remained obdurate ; the good young man clung to
his faith. Sequel—the other day the young pair
were made one at St. Peter’s Church (Heaven
forgive them !), and her cousins and aunts stood
wading and gnashing their teeth in front of Dan
O’Connell’s statue beyant.
“The clothes in ‘The King’s Musketeer’ im-
prove on acquaintance. Cecil Ward doesn’t
darken eyebrows, Ac., enough to live up to the
red velvet and blue satin of his uniform. His
hair’s mousey and mammy-cut, too. But his
comrades-in-arms are gorgeous swaggerers, espe-
cially in their golden-brown plush cloaks. Hen-
rietta Watson looks one of the snappiest sinners
on record, in her Court-gown of white and black
satin, with huge collar of silver gauze, silver
circlets in her raven hair, and a mass of white
plumes worn to one side.
“ Rose Musgrove, as the young Inm/cent, strikes
a cheap modern note among the grandiose dress-
symphonies. The redingote of her grey cashmere
shows a lining-skirt underneath, just faced with a
slice of grey. She’s still sharp-edged in her
methods, though pretty in the pale-pink polonaise
of her last scene. Queen Emelie Hughes, as
usual, draws down her lips, in tragic moments,
as if she had taken on board a mouthful of
scalding porridge. And King H. Hill, in
prune satin slashed with pink, and ivory frilled
with yellow, looks so waspish, despite his fine
wear, that you’d like to take a bat and knock his
supercilious white-stockinged legs from under him.
“ A very funny incident occurred at Prof. Mar-
shall Hall’s fourth lecture on ‘ The Essential in
Art.’ To illustrate the passages of music referred
to, a piano has been put on the platform. The
Prof, came, to a part when he desired to illustrate
the soulfulness that could be put into a chord.
‘ Take, for instance, ’ he said, ‘ the deep yearning,
the ardent, passionate longing, Wagner has ex-
pressed in the opening chord of “Tristram and
Ysolde.” ’ He struck the chord. The instrument
gave out a bundle of metallic discords like the
noise made by a cat walking over the slack strings
of a banjo. ‘ Good Heavens ! ’ gasped Marshall
Hall. He opened the top of the piano and fished
out a heap of old newspapers, dusty music,
and—a packet of discarded luncheon-sand-
wiches. ‘This comes of having a hired piano,’
he said. Then lie tried to illustrate a chord from
the Sonata Pathetique, but it sounded like drop-
ping pennies into a Salvation Army tambourine.
Tho Prof.’s hair all but stood on end. He had to
give up the illustrations, and filled the gap by a
discourse of how a man feels when in love, and
how he falls in love at different periods of life.
“Janette Michie, the unmarried daughter of
the late distinguished Q.G., and his nurse until he
died, is a girl of character. Before her father’s
illness took up all her time; she distinguished her-
self by lecturing on economic subjects at various
working-men’s clubs in Melbourne, advocating
views which were very shocking to her wealthy
friends. Not long since, noticing that the big
family, mansion at St. Kilda wanted re-painting,
she determined to do it herself. So she hired
ladders, bought quantities of'paint, and “did up”
the place from roof to ground. Few people know
Ruskin as. Miss Michie does ; thei house-painting
was in the spirit of the professor, who. turned his
Oxford art-students on to making, a road, so that
they might learn something about useful work.
“ A question of interest to parsons with at-
tractive sisters-in-law; is just now being dis-
cussed in Melb. diocese. A clergyman holding a
living in a remote country town has announced
his engagement, to that old bone of contention, his
deceased wife’s sister. By the law of the land
such a marriage is legal. The laws of the Church,
which laws all Anglican clergy swear to observe,
forbid it.
"V ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
WorJ4, having insurance in force of over
£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
TBCB TJESST OF
*A9
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin 'a postcard will do) which will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Coccr-, Limited, Sydney.
Laziness Breeds Evil.
True as this is in general life, it is equally true
that a sluggish and inactive liver is the cause of
innumerable evils and complaints, such as jaun-
dice, indigestion, furred tongue, sour stomach,
flatulency, bitter oily taste in the mouth, frequent
headaches, pain in the right side or under shoulder-
blades, costiveness, general depression, a sleepy,
tired feeling after every meal, restlessness, if not
total inability to secure natural sleep at night, &c.
If any of these symptoms are present, it is evi-
dent the liver is not acting properly, and Warner’s
Safe Cure should at once be employed, being the
best tested remedy for liver disease in Australia.
A few doses will prove this statement.
Dr. Robert Shaw, L.D.S., M. 8., D.A., Rock-
hampton, says : “ I have much pleasure in stating
that I prescribed Warner’s Safe Cure very fre-
quently whilst acting as medical officer on the
Cairns-Herbarton railway contract, and obtained
more satisfactory results from it than any formulae
of my own prescribing.”*
The Great Curse in these colonies is
indigestion, and the Great Cure for it is Zetz
Spa Water taken with meals. It is rightly called
the “Premier N tu il Table Water.”*
WHAT IS “D.C.L.”?
“D.C.L. is a brand applied to whisky, and is a
guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and of
a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for “ D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
A GENTS WANTED.—Ladies or Gentlemen
£3 to £7 per week taking orders for our Gold Wire
Name Brooches and Jewellery. Greatest novelties in the
world. Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Terms to Asrent s
Free. K. SIMS, Gold Wire Jeweller, Cole’s Book
Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Albury Single-taxers are taking steps to
celebrate the birthday of nenry George—Sep. 2.
A recent addition to the patients of New-
ington (Sydney) poor-house is an ex-hospital
nurse who was with'Florence Nightingale in the
Crimea.
It is a curious fact that “ Lormer’s Circu-
lating Library,” High-street, St. Kilda (inscrip-
tion still extant), is now “The Federal Laundry.”
The irony of fate !
A Westralian visitor assures the writer
that Premier John Forrest did not believe, until he
had made official inquiry, that mails were sorted in
transit on the railways, his belief being that all
the sorting was done in the post-office !
One of the most successful of Great
Boulderaires is a mere youth, who left a clerkship
in Adelaide Insolvency Court in the early Wes-
tralian days, and is now living in London on
•£5OOO a year, derived from Boulder divs.
“ Throughout my career I followed a very
strict rule in those matters. I never had any
dealings in land, or other property, except as
Governor, charged with the interests of the whole
community. My despatches were my sole title-
deeds.”—Hori Grey.
It will be news to most people that Hori
Grey was once mentioned as a candidate for the
crown of Greece, but took the matter as a joke.
“In the Far South,” he said, “ there was nobody
to lead, whereas Greece had men sufficient to
mould her destinies.”
Mines Minister Cook is known over
several N.S.W. mining fields as “Goodness
Gracious Joe.” The Minister is a “ serious ”man,
and, on being told anything wondrous, exclaims
“Goodness Gracious!” where diggers would say
—well, something else.
An Adelaide photo-ntan proudly exhibits
the latest picture of the recently bebaubled Chief
Justice S. J. Way, Bart. ; cocked hat, knee-
breeches, gold buttons, and his sword, the whole
supported by a plebeian carpet. “And ’e only
stands that ’igh, that’s all ! ”
Felix M‘Guire (addressing M.L. Parlia-
ment): “Do annerrable mimbers wish me to tell
’urn all about this Marine shcandal?” Weary
legislators: “No, no; we know all about it.”
Felix: “Very well, as ye seem to know as much
about it as I do, I won’t enlighten yez.”
“ Melb.” : It is magnanimous of Beer-
maker Nick Fitzgerald to be Archbishop Carr’s
fugleman, inasmuch as this prelate leans even
more strongly to teetotal ism than Card. Moran.
However, they say N.F. is now a teetotaller him-
self, like that other Barleycorny potentate, Martin
Hood.
Ricciotti Garibaldi (son of the great
Italian), who, it is cabled, is about to found an
extensive Italian colony in Argentina, was for-
merly in Australia. For a little while he tried to
act as private secretary to James Service, when
the latter was Vic. Premier; afterwards he became
a truant-officer in the service of Vic. Education
Department.
A CRY FROM JANE.
JANE (who reads the Argus): “ William, grant
me a favor. Promise me yer wont go to South
Africa, no matter wot the Queen and papers
say!"
The general readiness of public and Par-
liament to accept N.S.W. Speaker Abbott's resig-
nation is the main reason why he won’t quit the
Chair. Those who like him to resign should at
least dissemble their liking.
“ H.” : Michie, as a barrister, was apt to
be overrated. He was deficient in concentration,
never a safe man at the Bar, if pitted against a
Fellows, or even a Dawson —lawyers who gave
their whole intellects to Business. The lawyer
who is such a fine journalist, caustic politician,
brilliant causeur, profound classic, and what not,
as Michie, is bound to suffer. His compeers roar
over his wit, but reflect that they are the safer
men. So do clients, and attorneys. Therefore,
Michie’s position at the Melb. Bar never satisfied
him. Fellows would mop up twice the coin.
Aspinall shockingly bungled some cases. I remem-
ber his apologising, in a newspapor letter, express-
ing his grief, because he thought he had potted a
client.
THE APPLE OF DISCORD.
MR. ALFRED DEAKIN : “ There's a nice treat for those dear little boys!”
Coincidence, or what? At exactly the
time Bravo’s Melb. Cup was being started, owner
“ Billy ” Jones, his wife, and some friends were
in a Paris theatre, and the very first character to
come on the stage wore a costume of black and
yellow. “Don’t you see?’’said Billy excitedly.
“See what?” “My colors; my colors!” he
whispered desperately, “ and Bravo hasn’t a 50-to-
-1 chance.” But Bravo won all right, and Jones
nearly pulled the hotel to pieces when the cable
arrived in the a.m. But, after all, coincidences
chiefly come to those who are looking for them.
Mrs. John Doyle, dead at Glen Innes, was
the mother of the first white child born in that
district. Glen Innes was then a place of but three
or four bark huts. The Doyles arrived in Sydney
in 1844, and went North to station life. John,
who is still alive, formed Bookahramguy Station,
some of the aborigines on which were included in
the historic white man’s revenge poisoning case.
Arsenic was put in the blacks’ waterholes. Seven-
teen dead gins and picaninnies were found at one
hole. Arrests were made and attempts at con-
viction repeated, but definite proof was not forth-
coming and the crime has remained unavenged.
“E.D.” writes :
Dear Bulletin. —In answer to somebody: Thatcher,
the Bendigonian topical warbler, hung out at Heffernan’s
Hotel from ’54 to '56, where he was associated with
Madame Carandini, Mrs. Sylvester, Miss Urie, and other
singers dear to the hearts of the diggers of the fifties.
The heroine of the Bullock Greek incident (which I told
in The Bulletin years ago) was Mrs. Sylvester. Thatcher
left Bendigo for Maoriland shortly after the dates men-
tioned above, and his mining friends in Australia never
heard of him again. One of his books of songs is to be
seen in Melb. Public Library, amongst the pamphlets in
the department devoted to Australian material.—E.D.
Another of those German patriots who
found it better to leave the Fatherland suddenly
and proceed to the ends of the earth by a circuit-
ous route after the Revolution has just died in
S.A. H. B. Holzerland, standing 6ft. 3in., was
the most imposing figure of the strange little
band of immigrants. Holzerland was an archi-
tect by profession, but, like most of the others, he
got hold of a bit of good country and gave it his
attention. Botanist Schomburgk, for a genera-
tion lord of the Adelaide Botanical Gardens, was
me of the party ; another was Dr. Muecke,
ather of the Adelaide merchant and B. H. Prop,
lirector.
Irreverent Australian papers frequently
alluded to Gov. M‘Gregor as “Governor Bill.”
It is interesting to find that there was Papuan
precedent for the custom. Danimkohler, an
Austrian scientist, lately travelling in New
Guinea, says the Tugeri tribe always spoke of
the Tate administrator as “Governor William.”
Danimkohler further tells how the natives mis-
took him for a missionary, the chief reques ing
him to say prayers and read the Scriptures. The
traveller hadn’t any Bible, so he used to read to
the nigs, stanzas out of his pocket Byron. The
Papuans were hugely edified, and usually departed
exorcised by “ Don Juan ” into a holy calm.
Premier Kingston, who is engaged just
now in fighting S.A. Leg. Council, has military
blood in his veins. His grandfather, Colonel
Cameron, from whom he takes his second Chris-
tian name, served with distinction in the Penin-
sula, during which campaign he made a runaway
marriage with Ludivinia da Silva, daughter of a
Portuguese nobleman. Her daughter married
Premier Kingston’s father. And Kingston says
he is ready to shed all his Cameron blood in
securing adult suffrage for S.A. Council!
Vic. Speaker Mason’s ear was first tickled
with mention of place, power, and pay in 1871.
In this way : His bosom chum, Tom Healy, lived
next door to him in Carlton, just when Mason
had first got into the Assembly, and C. G. Duffy
was going to form his Ministry. One morning
Mason got a note from Duffy, asking him to call
on him at Parliament House at noon. Mason
ran and showed the note to Healy. “By George !
old man, you’re fixed up,” says Healy. At 11.45
F.C.M. hailed a cab and drove to Parliament
House. Was shown in to Duffy, who talked of
all things in the heavens above and- the earth
beneath and the waters that are under the earth,
except office, which was the only thing Mason
had a bit of interest in just then. “ I—l’m going
home to dinner, Mr. -Mr. Mason,” said Duffy, in
his cracked, hesitating voice—“ will you walk
towards the station with me?” Of course he
would. And so the pair trotted together to
Prince’s Bridge, and Duffy was going to bid
Mason “Good day,” when Francis Conway gently
mentioned the morning’s letter. But Duffy knew
nothing about it. Mason produced it. “ It's a
forgery—-a forgery, Mr. Mason,” cried Duffy,
hastening to catch his train. Healy had written
it for a lark.
A good way to secure posthumous fame
seems to be to hook your name on to a law-con-
solidation. Justinian did it successfully, and
saved himself from the degradation of going down
the centuries as the mere husband of Theodora,
the bear-keeper’s daughter. Napoleon did it—and
his Code is not the least part of the good and evjl
work he did. Alfred Stephen, in N.S.W. (crimi-
nal law), and Higinbotham, in Victoria, also
managed to do it. Query : Whose name will be
attached to the present valuable consolidation of
N.S.W. statutes, which has given us the Consoli-
dation of Laws regarding Conveyancing and Pro-
perty, Bills of Sale, Evidence, Wills, Probate and
Administration, Weights and Measures, Bank-
ruptcy, Municipalities, Registration of Deeds,
Quarantine, Employers’ Liability, &c. ? R. E.
O’Connor, Q.C., began it when Minister for Jus-
tice, though his Consolidation Commission failed,
being too unwieldy. Barrister Heydon is. now
superintending the work, and will probably be
identified with it in the future. The thing was
started in N.S.W. bv a suggestion from a member
of the first N.S. W. Lab >r-party, who sent a report
of a lecture he had delivered at Leigh House on
the subject, with an urgent request to R. E.
O'Connor to take it up. From Leigh House to
Heydon—the way is long !
N.S.W. Leg. Council presented a Siraon-
etti-carved bust to its President, the urbane
Lackey, the other day. As a President, Lackey
is almost perfection. As Chairman of Committees
in the Lower House his suavity and self-restraint
were similarly marked. He is in his 69th year,
is a Parramatta native, and was made a J.P. by
Gov. Fitzroy 47 years ago. He is the seventh
President in the 40 years’ life of the Council.
Rev. George Robinson, 8.A., the priest
who has been acting as entrepreneur to Amy
Castles, is a born musician. He is the son of a
Dublin architect and was a Presbyterian in the
old country but went over to Rome. His head-
quarters are the S. Melb. R.C. Church, where good
music has always had a show. It was there that
Giammona’s Mass was first performed. Giammona
died mad some years ago at Cook’s River Asylum,
Sydney.
N.S.W. Justice Stephen, now in his 71st
year, has been practically fifty-four years in the
courts. He left school at the age of 17 to become
associate to his father,. the late N.S.W. Chief
Justice. He passed from there to the Bar at 21,
and at 59 ascended the Bench. It is almost for-
gotten that, while at the Bar, he cultivated a
somewhat amende political ambition and was
returned for Mudgee. But politics tired him,
and after two years of the worry he let go.
Marconi, the inventor of wireless tele-
graphy, is half an Irishman, and spends some of
his time on the ould sod. Also, he’s entitled to
be endued with complete Hibernianism in virtue
of his being related to John Jameson, of whisky-
fame. O’Marconi’s mother was born in County
Wexford, and married her Italian singing-master
or something. Another well-known Irish-Italian
name was that of Bianconi, who so long contracted
for the carriage of all H.M.’s mails in Ireland.


Kiippers Elberfeld Lager
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
«r £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
There is no hotel in Austra-
lasia that does not recognise
“ The Australia ” as the first
of Australasian hotels.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
WHERE THE SOBER MEN HANG OUT.
SWAGGY : “ Any show for a job here? ”
BOSS : “ No; we only want steady men.”
SWAGGY : “Stiddy men, is it? Begorra, thin, the
only stiddy min I know of is in the Sydney
waxworks. ”
“R.1.P.”: Councry doctors mostly have
some experience of “ tight places. ” Knew one
who was sent for to see a young man (epileptic)
who had taken a “ bad turn.” Ten miles out in
the bush he arrived at the two-roomed hut, and
found the patient in bed—a stalwart young fellow
6ffc. 3in. high, and 15st. weight. The medico
squeezed into the narrow space between bed and
partition, and had begun to ask the usual ques-
tions, when the patient suddenly jumped out of
bed, took his stand in the doorway, and remarked :
“ The time has arrived.” “What time?” said
the astonished doctor. “ The time for me to offer
up a sacrifice for lost souls ! ” was the answer.
“ Indeed,” said the doctor, feeling none too com-
fortable, “and what are you going to sacrifice,
Bill?” “ You,’’ said Bill, glowering at him
wildly. “ Pooh ! nonsense, man,” said the
wily doctor. “ You haven’t got a knife. Better
go and get one! ” Bill went, and the doctor
hurried out to the old father and told him that
Bill wanted him in the kitchen—thinking that, if
there was to be any sacrificing, it might as well be
kept in the family. Two days later Bill was
admitted to Kew as a dangerous religious maniao.
* * » »
** “ G.M.” : Re query (8., 29/4/’99) as to
how long native bear can live without water.
Many bushmen say that it does not drink water- —
in the ordinary sense—obtaining sufficient mois-
ture in its diet Jof young leaves. Kept a half-
grown one for months, but never saw it drink,
though it would eat freely from the hand, answer
to its name, and sedately follow me about. Let
it free in the timber at last, but for weeks it kept
on coming back. Can anybody say in what parts of
N.S.W. the blades used the name “koala” as
spelt in Australian Reading Books? Was reared
where blacks were numerous, and where most
settlers had a fair knowledge of native names, but
always heard the name pronounced “ kob-la.” Has
Coolah, on the Talbragar, any connection here-
with ?
* * * *
How long, under the most favorable condi-
tions, can a dog live without food or water ? A
Wentworth (N.S.W.) butoher locked up his re-
frigerating chamber for the winter. Shortly after-
wards a cattle-dog was missed, and it was con-
cluded he had been poisoned. Exactly five weeks
afterwards the chamber was opened for the in-
spection of a visitor, and the dog was found, alive
but unable to walk.
• * * *
“ H.P.S.” : I live in a country town, and
sometimes combine dentistry with other painful
methods of earning a crust. Last week a man
came in, face like a full moon. Wanted a tooth
out. Pulled it. “How much ?” he asked. “Half-
a-crown,” I answered. Picked up greasy old
slouch hat, hunted in lining, produced seven 2d.
stamps—handed them over. “ That ain’t enough,”
he said, his tongue in the spot lately occupied by
the molar. “ Not half enough ! But next time I
come in I’ll bring you a young jackass ! I reckon
that’ll more’n fix it! ”
• » * *
“ C.J.” : On a station up Ooonabarabran
way, I shared with another hand a hut containing
two bunks, raised about 18in. from ground. Was
awakened one night by' a hissing Tsound, and,
striking a match, discovered two big black snakes
on the floor. Roared out to old “Tim,” and ex-
citedly asked what was to be done. “ Done? ” he
growled. “Go to sleep, you fool — that's what's to
be done. They come here ’most every night, and
go away when they’ve had a rummage-arunnd
after mice.” The snakes did go awayafter a time,
but I told the boss next morning that, unless my
sleeping-quarters were shifted, I didn’t think my
constitution was equal to the strain of work on his
station.
* * * »
Warrigal is a gourmand in his way.
“ What for you ring- bark gum-tree? ” he queried
of an old South Queenslander. “ Why,
Warrigal, what harm does that
do?” “O, ’possum he live longa
gum-tree.” “But then he can
come down and eat grass.” “But,
s’pose ’possum eat grass he taste
all same mutton. Biackpfeller like
’em ’possum taste all same gum-
tree.”
‘ ‘ Ellerdale ”: Re jibbing horses.
.Recently saw horse jib with a Botany
(Sydney) Chow who simply backed
the moke down an incline into a
shallow waterhole. On coming
out horse went on all right.'
Heard that same Chow buys
jibbing horses cheap and cures
them by this simple process.
* * *
“ Jon ” : In the bee-line,
Bill Howell isn’t in it with the
Australian blackfellow. When
latter wants to locate a bee-
tree, he catches a bee and
affixes to it a small feather,
which retards its flight so that
he can follow it home. [Device
not peculiar to the Australian
aboriginal.]
“Coney” : Re “W.T.S.’s”
par. (8., 27/5/’99) you can shove
your arm with impunity up any
rabbit-hole in the old country, but
it’s a foolhardy trick in Australia.
You can tell if bunny is at home
by the fur which will adhere to
point of stick. If no fur —ware
snakes!
“ Nera.” : Knew a man on
a Western station who has but
one leg, one arm, and one eye,
and it is extremely curious that
the three accidents responsible
for this befell him during the same
month of three successive years.
A Maoriland Cornish school-committee-
man thus delivered himself lately :
I don’t think our last teacher did right by we at all. I
was on the committee when her came, and us told she
her would get seventy a year. Well, there was more
children came than us’d a-thought for, and the Board
kept a-sendin’ of she bigger cheques till it a-came up to
£l3O. They didn’t a-send the cheques to we, and her
never a-give we any of it back, though her had agreed to
teach for seventy.
Query : How much would “her” have got if the
Board had sent the cheques to “ we.”
• * • *
Letter received by an N.S.W. Public-
school teacher: —
Dear Sue, Please eksuse Willie skratchin hisself to-day.
Its not inseks but his new flanel shirt. Mrs. O’Dooley.
And a Yic. teacher lately got this :
der sir i rite To tel yow that Jonn as brok his blud
vesel and the docter his afrade he wont get better but
ime afrade he will so no more from Misses Smith.
* » » *
“ Bopill ” : Re bush cruelty. Once wit-
nessed destruction of a foal not considered worth
keeping. In full view of the mare, foal was bashed
on head with a nulla-nulla, and the poor mother’s
solicitude was most pitiable. She went rapidly
round and round the foal for a couple of minutes,
smelling it, whinnying gently, and pawing the
ground wildly. Finally she gave an actual shriek,
galloped straight for the paddock-fence, cleared it
and disappeared in the scrub. Afterwards found
she had jumped several other fences; and although
reared on the place, she was not seen for three
years, when she was found 20 miles away.
• » * •
“Treb”: W.A. black-gins carry a stick
about sft. long and l|in. thick, called a “ wan-
nah,” with which they dig for the “bardies”
(grubs), which feed on roots of shrubs. On these
delicacies, which arelin. to 3in. long and yellow in
color, the natives subsist when other “ grub ” is
unobtainable. With much difficulty I was in-
duced to taste one, and became very fond of them.
They should be roasted on hot ashes till about to
burst, and then eaten hot, Taste like yolk of
fried # „ ,
“Hiram Abiff” : Re production of fish.
There are many “old Indians” in Sydney who
have eaten “chilwa,” a small fish caught imme-
diately after a shower. A place perfectly dry
before will teem with them 24 hours after rain,
and the niggers fish for them with a piece of
dough on a bent pin. Mystery where they come
from. I have even found them on the flat mud
roof of a bungalow. This was in Jallundhur, in
’67.
At Colac, a Yic. township, recently, while
a funeral was on
cemetery, the
suddenly pull-
sight of a sft.
snake, lying
in their
undertak-
scend aud
before
could
; ts way to the
hearse-horses
ed up at
brown
asleep right
track. The
er had to de-
kill the snake
the procession
proceed.
SUCCESS TO TEMPERANCE.
THE REV. GENTLEMAN: “ Where are
you taking the beer to, little one ?"
LITTLE ONE: "'Ome to father, sir."
REV. G.: “ But your father doesn’t drink beer
now —since he has taken the pledge.”
L. ONE: “ No, sir; please, sir, he don’t drink it—
’e only soaks ’is bread in it!”
“R.P.” : Know a South Gippsland lad
who has just received a special prize for never
having missed a single day’s attendance at school
during more than seven years. Record, I should
think, especially considering South Gippsland ,
winter weather.
He * * *
Dear Bulletin. —“T.S.M.” (8., 6/5/’99)
says, “ A native bear is not a Grabben-Gullen
bnllock.” Well, at all events, baked native bear,
stntfed with pumpkin, is a “G.G. pie”—and
mighty good at that. —J. Mao.
• * * *
“Ishmael” demonstrates that virtue is
sometimes its own (and only) reward :
Was riding home from the township after 11 p.m. It
was my birthday, but I hadn’t celebrated it very exten-
sively, and was laying plans for future conduct—turn
over a new leaf, and so on—when I came to a dam pro-
vided with pumps and troughs for watering the 10,000
sheep running in'the paddock. Got off to give horse a
drink, and found troughs empty. Crowds of thirsty
sheep were pressing around so I started pumping, and, as
they drank up the water nearly as fast as it flowed, I had
to keep on for half-an-hour before my horse could get a
proper drink. Then looked at my watch, 12.30 a.m. ; and
the sheep as numerous as ever around the troughs. Could
not well go away and leave them gasping, especially after
my newly-formed good resolutions ; so, with a dogged
determination to leave the troughs full, I toiled
on, and when the thing was done it was 4 a.m. Got
to the station dead-tired and overslept myself, so
that it was 9 o’clock when I ran the horses into the yard
A HUMBLE SUGGESTION.
DRIVER : “ Well, I’ve tried ther whip, an’ fire, an’
ther ‘ jingles.' What ’ave I ter do now ter git
’im ter go?”
TRAVELLER (apologetically): “Supposin’ per took
off ’alf the load!”
Manager tackled me at once for being so late, and said he
supposed I’d come home drunk. Now, while running the
horses in, I had come to the conclusion that a good action
loses half its virtue by being made known ; and further,
from my knowledge of my employer in particular, and
Q. station managers generally, I knew that if he had his
mind made up to sack me, telling him about the four
hours’ pumping would not save my job—in fact, he would
only think me a fool for it, and “get on to’’the men
whose duty the pumping was. So I merely said that I
had had but two drinks, and I thought I could take that
amount without getting drunk. “ Come to the office for
your money!” was the answer. And later, that day, I
tightened the girths and steered for the setting sun,
wondering what idiot originated the notion that “Virtue
is its own reward.”
* * * *
Another variety of bush tragedy. A few
days ago a man was driving his waggon down a
mountain road in S. Queensland after heavy rain.
The waggon slipped to the side and ran against a
half-fallen tree overhanging the road. There the
vehicle stuck, with the man pinned between it
and the tree-trunk. Remained there 24 hours in
the cold and rain. Found at last; tree cut with
a crosscut, but the poor fellow died in agony.
Dear Bulletin. —ln Dr. Fraser’s pamphlet
on the N.S.W. aboriginals (published for Chicago
’93 Exposition) I read :
A woman who violates her fidelity to her husband may
be beaten by him, etc., etc. . . . If she continues wanton
the elders of the tribe compel her to submit to a sort of
homoeopathic remedy so effectual that, if it could be en-
forced in a civilised community, I am sure that adultery
would soon disappear.
Car Bulletin reader enlighten me as to what
this homcEopathic remedy is ? The
statement is so ambiguous as to
suggest a meaning possibly entirely
wide of the truth.—J.H.V.
* • *
“Mambare”: Re aboriginal
monstrosities. In Papua saw a hu-
man with body all right up to neck,
but, for head, a something without
nose, ears, or eyes—only a mouth
a good 6in. wide. This horrible
being was otherwise such a mass of
filth and disease that I was ill for
an hour after seeing it.
* * *
“ H.E.M.”: Re gins fighting
(“Burragorang,” 8., 3/6/’99). Pa-
puan women’s style is for one to
bang opponent on head, and then
vice versa , and so on alternately till
one is knocked out. Stick used,
about 4ft. long and lin. in diameter.
* * *
Dear B ulletin .—W riter’s mother
(Irish) says that she remembers tin-
kettling .as common in the “ould sod”
50 years ago. Query, didn’t the practice origi-
nate as an imitation of, or substitute for, wed-
ding-bells ?—T.
* * * *
“0. M‘A.” : In answer to “J.H.” re
blackfellows’ axes (8., 27/5/’99). The stone is
serpentine, and occurs, in a shattered state,
near granite country. May be found at Garan-
gula, Brindabella, and Carabungla (near Goul-
burn). The blacks used these axes mostly for
cutting nicks in trees as toe-rests when climbing
after ’possum, and also for getting the animal out
when found.
“ Tayan ” on same :
Stone similar to that of which these axes are made is
abundant at a place known as Jones’ Hole, in Rylstone
district. In that locality are long stretches of freestone
rock lying at an angle of 45°, grooved as evenly as if by
machinery, where the axes were evidently ground to an
edge. Once had two almost-perfect specimens, picked up
in same neighborhood. Thirty years ago was informed
by old aborigines of Rylstone district that before rum
was obtainable from the white man, they traded stone
axes with Castlereagh blacks for some root that produced
intoxication, meeting where Mudgee now stands to con-
duct the barter. I have a piece of vellow-box 14in. by
9in. and ljs£in. thick, tapered to handle at one end, which
was found fn a cave on the Upper Colo or Capertee River.
It seems to have been used for carrying fire by the abori-
gines, and was doubtless fashioned with a stone axe.
« * • *
“H.S.N.” : Since the partial break-up of
the drought in Narrabri district there has been
much disputing over the ownership of stray sheep.
With reference to one woolly the other day I
heard a claimant call attention to his fire-brand.
“ Fire-brand, be banged,” said another—“ that’s a
dog-bite.” “Let him go,” said a third ; “and
when I see how he walks I’ll tell you whether he
is mine or not.”
* • * «
Dear Bulletin. —Tell “H.E.M.” (who
left a tree with saw and wedges in it, resting on
the stump, upright, though completely severed)
that there’s such a thing as wind.—S. le W.
“A.H.” : M.L. law forbids supply of
intoxicants to Maori women. At one pub.,
during the melting of the grass-seeding
cheques, writer saw the ivahines go to back
bar and buy a dozen of lemonade, while the
tangatas were buying a gallon of beer in front.
Squatted down together in passage and got
noisy on “ shandygaff.”
* * * *
In a small N.S.W. township the inhabi-
tants go shares in a letter-box into which the
coach driver dumps the daily mail, and the
addressees sort the correspondence out for
themselves. One resident proudly subscribed
to a Sydney daily, and was much concerned
to find that its arrival became gradually more
erratic, until at last the paper came no more ;
whereupon the subscriber indignantly wrote
down and withdrew his subscription. His
language can be imagined when a few days
later he found in the box a memo, addressed
to himself—“ Sammy, where the —— is the
Daily Tinpot?”
* * * *
Letter recently received from applicant
for employment by a N.S.W. railway boss :
Dear Sir. —Hopeing that you have contemplated this
reference, and that you will see to it the best way you
can, hopeing that it. won’t put you to any diseneon-
venience. You might accent and tell me what your
exist.imation is as soon as you can possibly do it, there-
fore I must decisive. You will do me the greatest favor
by writing to me.
THE CURIOUS MAN FROM WARRNAMBOOL.
“ I’m not—although I look— a fool,”
The curious man from Warrnambool
Said to a man that came to town —
That oame to join the polished school
That hangs about the station-gates
With winning ways and wily mates,
On watch for men from Warrnambool.
They met the man from Chillagoe
And told him he was in the know.
They put him up to mag and mag
Unto the man from Warrnambool,
Until they got him to a pub
And drank and played—then played the “ rub.”
He lost. (The man from Chillagoe.)
Ab first, of course, the Western fool
Won every shilling in the poor ;
And then the man from Chillagoe
Commenced to win (the spieler’s rule),
Till late the landlord joined the men
And drank and played and drank ; and then
Chucked out the man from Warrnambool.
And now the “ guns”—“ Ha-ha ! Ho-ho 1”
Proceed to count the goodly show ;
Then all at once grow sickly pale,
And rush the man from Chillagoe.
“ By Gawd ! we’re had by country cranks—
The notes is them Provincial Banks !”
And then they “ went ” for Chillagoe . . .
And Chillie “got,” and whacked the pool
With brother Bill from Warrnambool.


Dinner
Appointments __
We study to supply in every detail.
The accompanying illustration is in a quality of
silver that will last a lifetime.
Price, 255.
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS,
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY,
23 HUNTER ST. (ONLY).
I
GIVE THAT “TIRED FEELING” A REST
AND DRINK
WHITE LABEL LAGER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
He was a full-fledged wool-
classer fresh from some technical col-
lege or other, and he used to drop
into the township store and prate
about wool until it was resolved to
test his knowledge. He was handed
a sample of “ clothing wool ” (it was
clean kapok) and asked for his opinion
thereon. After careful examination,
the “expert” pronounced the stuff
to be the very best sample of scoured
clothing wool, and thereupon sat
him down and wrote an elaborate
statement of its value in London,
with an addendum to the effect that
it gave him great pleasure to know
that wool could be so well scoured
locally.
» * *
“ Scotty’’ : Re “ F.P.’s ” stric-
tures on M‘Cooey. A 17£ft. skin
does not necessarily prove a
snake. Also, as a 12ft. skin, pro-
perly prepared, is worth about half-a-
sov., what price “F.P.’s” chickens?
A 12-footer would only gorge two at
most —worth, say, Is. each. I did once
see a carpet-snake that extended over
a panel and a-half of fencing. Killed
him, and when I went back next day
he was gone. No tracks, no gorged
kites, but no snake. That was on
Merungle. I give my big-snake
locality.
* * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re deafness
of white cats (“C.F.,”8. 8/7/"99).
The family Thomas pure white,
with green eyes—can hear, 250yds.
away, the rattle of the meat-safe, and
is on hand in a few seconds. Know ocher white
cats with usual hearing. Tennyson, therefore, was
wrong in making Sir Gawain (Holy Grail) say, “ I
swear I will be deafer than the blue-eyed cat.”—
Jimmy W. [Tennyson wasn’t wrong. There may
be exceptions, but it is matter of common obser-
vation that white cats with pale-bluish eyes are
stone-deaf.]
* * * *
A big N.S.W. squatter gave a ball, the
guests whereat were all somewhat swagger, with
the exception of a much-respected old boss-cockie
and his wife whom it would have been impolite to
leave uninvited. After much objection, the cookie
had yielded to his wife’s supplication that he
should wear black clothes, and dug out an old suit
which had for years been nourishing moths in the
bottom of a gin-case. Violently cantering round
in an item which the programme described as a
waltz, and not a hurdle - race, a moth - eaten
trousers-seam gave way, thereby revealing
much hairy limb to the shocked assembly._ Mrs.
Boss-Oockie seized the torn one, hurried him into
an ante-room, scrambled him along a passage,
round a corner, and into a distant recess. Arming
herself with needle and cotton, she ordered him to
“take ’em off.” As soon as he had obeyed, the
giggling of several girls was heard approaching.
No time to be lost. Where to hide him ? Ah, a
door close by. She opened it, thrust him out of
sight, and locked him in. Immediately there be-
gan a terrific knocking, and the old man’s voice
was heard in agonising shrieks, “ Maria! Open
the door, quick ! I’m in the ball-room 1 ”
• * * *
“V.”: The sun has nothing to do with
the “ lean ”of trees. The weight of limbs deter-
mines it in high trees, and stunted trees on plains
lean away from the windiest compass-point, fre-
quently also having roots exposed on that side.
There are also “ Yes-No ” trees with straight
stretches between the leans.
INCONSISTENT.
“ Mr. Carruthers has conferred with the Q.
Minister for Lands as to the rabbit-proof fencing
on the border.”
THE AGITATOR (loq.) : “ And yet, gentlemen,
this province decided by a 25,000 majority to do away
with all interprovincial barriers!”
“ S. le W.” : Your friends who could not
buy plug tobacco in London ought to have tried
“Scotch twust: hawf a unss for three bawbees.”
Cakes of Cavendish and Honeydew used to be
procurable in England—equivalent to dark and
light “plugs.” And how about sailors’ tobacco?
Will Ogilvie’s book of verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray Horses,” continues to sell splendidly. It
is unquestionably the most generally-attractive
poetry-book yet issued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.,
post-free from Bulletin office.
A SLOW GAME.
BOBBY : “ Can ye play draughts, me bhoy? ”
BOY: “Yes, Mr. Casey."
BOBBY : “ Well, now, jest yez make a ‘ move.’”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
O. Spardo: Very nice, but then so many hum-
bugs are walking round the world, professedly for wagers,
that no rational person believes in any of them
W.P.S. : An old dodge long practised by newly-
rich bounders desiring to enter what is called
“ Society.” A variation of it is to issue invi-
tations to people who aren’t at all likely to
patronise your pretentious shivoo, and then supply the
papers with the statement: “ Among those invited were
So-and-So.” Of course, they, poor things, couldn’t help
being invited, and they didn’t attend, or even accept the
invitation; but the ends of the bounding host are
served by having his name coupled with theirs
Ellerdale: It would be difficult for condemned
fruit to pass a Sydney inspector, for every con-
demned case is stamped. That an inspector, in the
hurry, may miss bad fruit is likely enough. But what the
department most wants is power to destroy the
diseased orchards which already exist in N.S.W
T.G.B. : Almost thou didst persuade us Romany:
“Exhumed” carefully re-interred as too ghastly to
print, though it’s apparently an actual experience
Monty P. : Yes, the world is full of mean, grudging souls
like you, who lie just as you do about the fellow who
defeated them J.D. : Mr. Frank Madden’s misstate-
ments have received more notice than they deserve. Tell
us when he doesn’t misstate Surplice : Melancholy
humor 1 David G. : Means throwing muzzle up, bring-
ing it smarts down to line, and firing without sighting.
Your method wouldn’t hit a fleeing man once in 50. “He
was one of the few men who throw up to a mark ; most
men drop ” (from Pearson’s,” p. 656) Billy Blaekbutt:
Thanks—we now omit the gentleman’s advt H.J.T. :
The Carrie Moore and convent yarn has been duly
contradicted. But, then, it would have been in accord-
ance with the fitness of theatrical things for Carrie to
have come from a convent. She ought to have escaped
over the garden-wall by the pale light of the moon
C.D.P. : It was not altogether Premier Reid's fault. It
is an open secret that he tentatively engaged in Europe
an up-to-date expert of great repute to succeed Mr. Eddy
as chief of N.S. VV. railways; but, between the machina-
tions of the coterie in favor of a local appointment and
the Labor-members as to what they would do in the
event of a £5OOO-a-year appointment being made, the
Premier had to refrain from the engagement con-
templated W.P. : Maoriland does manage its islands
better than N.S. Wales; but, then, Maoriland has
no Botany Bay aristocracy to provide for ; nor has it been
for years the headquarters of the Australian naval
station, with needy naval “johnnies” marrying into
its first families and clamoring for billets
Olaypan : All the plans for marking?joff seats in railway
carriages suit the traveller who starts from big terminus
well enough. How would it work on return journey
from Cooma or Echuca or Longreach, when the crowd is
picked up by degrees at a dozen or 50 wayside plat-
forms? A.W. : If there is one thing clear, it is that
the Transvaal gold belongs to the Transvaal community.
Yet the alien English grumble because the State
taxes the product. If the Boer State nationalised the
mines, and took the whole product, it would only be
doing what Democrats all over the world—and particu-
larly in England—are calling upon the State to do
F. W. Tottem : Bulletin asked for names of some of the
alleged Victorians who sent money to aid the Bill cause
in N.S.W. You shriek a good deal, but you don’t supply
a single name. But you say the restoration of full
salaries in the Vic. Civil Service was a bribe to N.S.W.
Great Scott! Well, these reductions were made for a
fixed term, and it was known long ago that the term ex-
pired on 30/6/’99. Was the payment of full salaries till
1892 also a bribe to N.S.W. ?... T.L. : “ When your white
Shirt-fronts are Chalked” is too rugged in metre Oom
Paul: If the verse was only half as good as the sentiment
would print it. And if the sentiment was just half as awful
as the verse, would feel mueh less reluctance in rejectingit.
....O.F. :The fallacy that “ the first blow’s half the battle ”
has got many an idiot a thrashing he would otherwise
have escaped G.H. : Don’t write verses about her;
hug her J.T.S. : One funeral; no flowers N.T.S. :
Not bad ; not good Solr. :No doubt the girl was by
the records a precocious villain, but who fee’d her
solicitor to thus give her away? J.B. : But then
Premier Kingston isn’t “an absolute teetotaller.” N.S.W.
has never had a total-abstaining Premier Geronimo :
Seventy-six Representatives are considered ample for the
Australian Commonwealth of six States. Then what
does N.S.W. want with 125 members in its Assembly ?
Again, the Commonwealth Senate will consist of 36
members; what does N.S.W. want with 70 or 80 in its
Council? O.J. : Bulletin has no space for “fine”
writing. It could put your wire-drawn contentions into
160 words, but it hasn’t time to condense everyone’s
maunderings. Cut the letter down by nine-tenths, and
we will print .. Sentho : So many lies have been told
about the Dreyfus case that it would be foolish to
unreservedly swallow, as you do in your verses, the
yarns told about how Dreyfus was tortured in exile
Quicksilver : There is Fat on both sides. But the bulk of
it is against tbe Bill. In Queensland and YV.A. the Fat is
practically solid against it. In N.S.YV. and SA.it is
mainly against it. In Victoria and Tasmania there is a
very small ant.i-Federal party, but Fat is pretty well
represented in it. This is an all-Australian matter, and,
taking Australia all round, The Bulletin is against the
bulk of the Fat, as it always tries to be. And you have
the gall to ask us to join with MTlwraith and Nelson (of
Queensland), MacLaurin, Pilcher, and Want (of N.S. W.),
Forrest and his awful push (in W.A.), and Warren (of S.A.)
—in the democratic interest ! Wycheproof : Yes
A.H.S.: Just plain, ordinary drunk! G.P.8.: Unwill-
ingly made it W.P. B. “ Winter” had mad, had, glad kind
of merit. Other, well-rhymed and metre,l, but lacking
in true ring E..D.: Buayip cast into outer darkness
long ago C.L. B.: Well, it u-as rather festive, hut it was
a work of art, and we couldn’t let it go H.M.: Not
funny....L. St. J.: More mediocrity ... 888: 000
A.8.G.: Unusable .. Frank It.: Not quite up Gobung:
Still gone Shellback : You’re adrift without a com-
pass T.J.H. : Unsuitable F.C.B. : Worthless
F.G. : Waste of ink, time, stamps Plymouth Sound :
Too slight E.C.: Tas. Government is calling for appli-
cations for the position of geologist ... Alone : Fisli and
Flesh hideously rocky in metre .. W. J. Kent: The Vic-
torian Education Act was secularised, openly,
said its godfather, the late Judge Stephen, at
its formal inauguration, in order to destroy Holy
Romanism ; and the Protestant clergy—save per-
haps a majority of the Anglicans enthusiasti-
cally joined in a movement prima-facie calculated to
bring about that end. Now, Protestant sectarianism
finds it has been cutting its nose to spite its own face
Cecil W.: May use Truga : Sunny as a tombstone in
the rain... .0. J.: Good pars Mulga : Newchum-cwm-
bullocky gags are soul-wearying.. P.T. F.: Expect they’ll
come to the surface in due course; hundreds in hand
Gobung : Underwear-jokes we always hang-up Storm-
Along : “ You can let us have any amount of it.” Rash
man, forbear! Kooka: Wouldn't insult even the
basket with another jackass - snake yarn J.F. :
Very rarely, anyhow, does a dishonest postal official
in Great Britain get less than seven years penal servi-
tude. To steal letters is justly regarded as one of the
very worst of crimes Resyt: A pinch for stale news 1
Two pinches Forewarned : Absurd ! Impossible to
contract it in the manner set out by you ...Cecil P. :
West S. excellent F.D.J. (Boulder): Chestnut 1
F. : Some pathos and delicacy of touch, but the
dying-girl theme is so hackneyed as to need strikingly-
original treatment Hoiya : Doesn’t quite hit us,
though it promises better work upon a less well-worn
motive Alone 5 : may touch up and u5e......C.J.C. :
Dawdles along too tiredly Old G. : Clever in spots,
but wanders a little, and ends feebly Plymouth S. :
Well-written, but rather slight. Will consider Suwa-
nie : Yes ; but alas! not such as yours. You have every-
thing to learn about writing A.W.: Re the Transvaal
trouble, where’s the sense in the most thinly populated
territory on earth sending troops to fight the battles
of the overcrowded “mother country,” where in some
parts 17 human beings are living (?) in one r00m......
Tropicus, F.R.R., and others: See 2nd. col. of “ Abori-
ginalities,” B. l/7/’99 Nemo: Enough said already about
grub for “grub.” Mottie W. : Hubby-cooky-wifey-
bobby-yarn is of portentous antiquity. Ben D. : All
right; best make it “ Bendee.” Zuna : Don’t remem-
ber the items; will probably bob-up in due course.
Think Bradley is in U.S. He never drew for Bulletin.
Factum : Knocked to pieces by fact that there’s
pienty of snow in India, if you only look high enough
for it M. Mori : Thanks for correction and leaflet.
Cannot place authorship of lines sent .... Gobung : But
“ insulting” a man’s work by telling the truth about it
is not insulting the man. Good for him to have his work
deservedly reviled Maureen : Will consider David
G. : “Woman’s Reason” not yet dealt with Ryl S
Mostly unusable—and very hard to read.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E.E.M. : One may possibly serve Komai: Will use
some Percy W. : Very old indeed R.E.P. : May be
original as far as you are concerned ; but very old, never-
theless A.D.H. : Should be on Bristol-board in Indian
ink H.W.C. (N.F.): One may serve as a suggestion;
you should study and persevere J. Robertson : Not
strong enough for reproduction; but fair drawing
and full of character John E.F. : Several of vour
suggestions excellent Smile : Very good idea, with
lots of go in drawing which, however, isn’t clean enough
for direct reproduction. Is being re-drawn Unavail-
able : D. Paul (very ancient subject), Salvatore C. (a bald
obscenity), John Sheppard, L.M.D. (verse unacceptable
and drawing tremulous), F.A.K., P.D.D., J.A.P. (please
call), Chis. (your drawings are strangely stumpy), F.M.T.,
Jack H., Eth. M., E.K., Magnet, J. Phillips, A.W.F.,
E.M.T., D. M’F., A.S.M., G. Mac., L’lnfidele, Ted H.J.,
M.N. (M.L.), G. Dunstan, A.M. (New A.), J.W.E., Luna
(Sun., V.), Ham. A.K., Tom Curlew G.u.n., J.W.E.,
Phletoh, H. Curius, J.F.O’D., J.M.B.
The Edina-Excelsior collision in Port
Phillip Bay draws attention to the want of life-
saving appliances on harbor excursion boats. As
is the ease in Sydney harbor, the sinking of both
boats after a collision would mean a death-list like
the foundering of an Atlantic liner.
Why shouldn't N.Q. folk go solid for
Federation ? For the last score of years the whole
province has been ruled by gangs of politicians
scornfully and truly dubbed “Queen-street
ministries for years the dog-in-the-manger
policy has caused trade to drift past Moreton Bay.
Goods are shipped as cheaply from Sydney as
from Brisbane and to the majority of N.Q. people
Sydney is a bigger factor in their commercial lives
than the selfish city up the tortuous Brisbane
River.
A scoffer, to The Bulletin :
“ General ” Booth is a delightful humorist. “ Get the
devil out of Australia,” says he, “ and you will solve the
emigration problem, for people will flock to the land
where there is no devil.” Ungrateful General! If there
were no devil, there would be no work for the Army ; no
coppers thrown on the flag of an evening ; no self-denial
weeks, with their glorious harvest of do lars flowing inti)
headquarters. It is also very doubtful whether people
would really flock to that alleged happy land where the
cloven hoof of Satan had never left tracks, for the afore-
said devil is the creator of most of the pleasant little
variations that ruffle the monotony of a hum-drum exist-
ence. Furthermore, it is notable that most of the nations
that have cut a figure in history have had a big “spice of
the devil ” in them, and individuals without the aforesaid
streak of hell-broth are rarely worth much to anybody.
(For witness whereof may be quoted Olive, Napoleon, St.
Peter, St. Augustine, and numberless others.) Besides,
facts are dead against Booth’s sweeping assertion. As
soon as a man makes enough to be able to go whither he
pleases, in place of cutting off to some virtuous isle in the
ocean, he invariably makes for London, Paris, New York,
Monaco, Vienna, or some other delightful location, where,
by all accounts, the devil is phenomenally active. No,
no, General! No disease—no physician ! No devil—no
brass band—no drum— no offerings—no General!
Jones and Shakespeare.
“ Aletes ” holds forth to The B deletin' :
Apparently the Sydney public can’t or won’t take the
Brouifh Co. seriously. It has become accustomed since
the B~ and B. days to roll up regularly for a good laugh
at anything 1 in the B. line, and resents a change. A play
like “The Physician ” knocks it endways for an act or
two, after which it recovers sufficiently to laugh at any-
thing affording decent excuse and a good deal that
doesn’t. Yet Brough has been educating that same pub-
lic up to an improved taste by a gradual yet continual
process. (Incidentally, the p. has been educating itself
up to R.B. It never really knew its own Robert till re-
centl.v). Note the sequence in the B. repertoire ; pure
farce, farce-comedy, social comedy-broad, ditto, refined
and pathetic, histori-comedy, tragi-comedy, psychologic
drama, pure tragedy (once only). In his mind’s eye the
writer sees, looming ahead, a vision of the co. in a grand
Shakespearean revival—say, “ Macbeth.” One is almost
tempted to opine that Brough could manage the hairy
chieftain too. But could the public be trusted to keep a
straight face ?
To return to “The Physician.” The frequency of
Shakespeare quotations justify one in dragging their
originator before a tired world. For one is set thinking
all the time how he would have handled the twofold
theme that Jones has attempted. The modern dramatist
has achieved much, and the pla}' is strong—in patches.
But one goes away unsatisfied and puzzled to know why.
Where lies the defect? The writer has thought it over,
with ensuing result: The first act is weak, dramatically.
The central figure of the play is the Physician. It is im-
perative that the audience should be in sympathetic
rapport with this character at least, and from the outset.
Yet, when the curtain falls on the first act, what percent-
age can even dimly understand the mental fog that
envelops and stifles the man’s nature? That stagnant
morass into which some temperaments drift almost help-
lessly, when the soul loathes its own cynicism yet cannot
displace it, when life loses even its bitterness (that, at
least, is a tonic) and becomes “flat, stale, and unprofit-
able ? ” How Shakespeare would have made us feel such
a character! And what few yet convincing strokes.
Almost impossible, perhaps, in his day, and yet, after all,
it is his own Hamlet in the atmosphere of the imminent
twentieth century. How would he make us feel it?
Possibly by some powerful soliloquy ; that revelation of
self to self when the brain turns and focusses its search-
light on the soul that moves it. But modern dramatists,
it seems, do not write soliloquies—supreme test of dra-
matic art. Perhaps they dare not.
Later on in the play our sympathies are engaged and
held, but we never recover from that preliminary mis-
understanding, or rather non-understanding. With one
exception full justice is done to the merits of the drama,
and nature is more to blame than art in that exception.
So the drama falls on its own. Belief without regret is
the feeling when the final curtain falls ; one doesn’t want
to go again. And somehow one is driven to the con-
clusion that the reason for that feeling, and for this wail,
is simply—that Jones isn’t Shakespeare.
♦
The destruction of 43 horses carried by the
German s.s. Augsburg shows the folly of carrying
horses on deck. Under the old system of carry-
ing them between decks, and slinging them in
bad weather, the risk is much less.
DESIGN FOR A MENU CARD.
“A dry season out back,"
When Speaker B. S. Bird (Tas.) was de-
posed in favor of N. J. Brown, Henry Dobson
said he voted for “ Nick ” Brown because he was
a school-fellow. Later on Dobson helped to make
Bird leader of Opposition. Dobson didn’t think
Bird was good enough for Speaker, but he thought
he was good enough to follow as a political leader.
Also, the whole Opposition deposed Bird for
alleged partiality when the stone-wall was put up
against the G. W. Railway, but next year they all
submitted to him as a leader who personified poli-
tical honesty and integrity.
Barrister Drake, Q. M.L.A., thus gets
home on the anti-lawyerite in Progress :
When we are asked to remember that Mr. Edmund
Barton, who piloted the Constitution through three
sessions of the Convention, and who has spent his means
and energies in splendid,and happily successful, advocacy
of the measure through the neighboring colony, is a
lawyer, let us also remember that Hon. J. Want is
another member of the same profession. Bet the labors
of the two be contrasted. Mr. Want said he believed
Federation would ruin Sydney, and clung toth Attorney-
Generalship until political decency required him to re-
linquish it, and then contented himself with sending two
lazy, languid telegrams telling the people of N.S. Wales
to save themselves. With a specimen of the Federalist
lawyer and one of the anti-billite persuasion before ns,
we have no hesitation in predicting the position they will
relatively occupy in the hearts of the public when the
present agitation calms down and the history of the
Federation movement is written.


A general meeting of members of Vic. Democratic Federal Union was held
last evening at the Temperance Hall. Mr. H. B. Higgins, M.L.A., occupied
the chair, and there was a large attendance of members.
The chairman addressed the meeting at some length. He said that all
parties had declared the Federal Bill democratic, but he thought they protested
too much If those present wanted to shout with the bigger crowd on polling-
day they had better say “ Yes " to the Bill, but he did not think a man present
would bring himself to say that. (Cries of “ No,” and cheers.) He would
cast his humble negative on principle.
THE FORLORN OUTSIDER— HEAVY HIGGINS' HUMBLE NEGATIVE.


GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY KIPLING.
Tuesday.— Rudyard Kipling has Deen bitten by a dog.— Cable.
London, Fri V
day Afternoon. 1
—Great Britain \
and America at \
the recent Peace \
Conference voted \
in favor of the \
use in-war of shells. \
filled with asphyxi-
ating gases and
pansive bullets.
Parson : “ Look here,
ain’t you going to take
back what you said about
the John Williams’
! cargo 1 ”
Cardinal : “ Not a word ; not
a bottle ! ”
And the heathen in his blind-
ness keeps on bowing down to
wood and stone. Wood and stone
don’t call ugly names, at least. j
His Business Mana-
ges : “ Well, we’ve had
it cabled all over the
world, and we’ve killed
the dog.”
Rudyard : “Oh ! hang
the dog. Tell me ; how
much has this bite increased the demand
for my works up to now 1 ”
Bro. Jonathan : “ Look
here, John, I don’t calk*
Tndled 16 'lf you b and° Hre to'
J. Bull. 1 ,i e mus t be ready to
keep the peace of the work! -we mu
blow it out of the water if necessary.
/ \ vlv.i ,
London,
Thursday Af-
ternoon. A
severe earth-
quake has been
experienced at Rome.
His Holiness the Pope
was enjoying his afternoon
siesta in a villa of the Vati-
can at the time of the shock.
Awakened and alarmed by the
rocking of the earth the Pope fled to
'his garden.
a£>*
d* «/
#V°
of
fp*
4°
y&
%&
If anything could induce an
elderly party to do a sprint it would
be to find the earth opening unex-
pectedly under his feet.
Not in vaip, mayhap hath the bloodthirsty N.S.W. warrior put a razor edge upop_his>
sword. The Transvaal question has not yet been settled.
CARTOONLETS.


riOUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and CONSUMPTION,
THE FAMOUS REMEDY,
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
Has one Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in Australia.
12 YEARS’ AGONY.
DISTRESSING, „,.j :>
SUFFOCATING,
DRY COUGH,
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for 12 years a sufferer from most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be re-
moved, or even eased, by any remedy, doctors’ prescrip-
tions and patent medicines having been tried; but I am
happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest, and diffi-
culty of breathing, &c., were entirely removed by the fifth
dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
“ Yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT.
“ Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via. Dripstone, N.S.W.”
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
—I remain, yours respectfully,
“ AGNES F. KENNEDY,
“ Bethanga, Victoria.”
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper owing to a cold. I had
a bottle from you before for my little girl when she was
seven months old. She had been suffering from bron-
chitis from her birth, and now she is three years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort. —I remain, yours
truly,
“ Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
“Violet Town, Viotoria.”
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small size, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Arnold's Balsam of Horehomd
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
TOOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
This is the latest type
Spring Motor
Gramophone.
Price J 67.
Carriage paid to any Port or
Railway Station in N.S.W.
This Machine TALKS,
SINGS,
Plays all INSTRUMENTAL
MUSIC.
In fact, it is a concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very simple.
Clock-work action.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia.
Records, 35.; Needles, Is. 6d.
Tlle TALKING- MACHINE DEPOT,
Headquarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
IRON NED KELLY
AMP HIS 6AN6.
• • •
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL OF ANY BOOK RELATING TO
THE GANG YET PUBLISHED.
..THIRD THOUSAND..
The Bulletin says—
. . . “ reads more like fiction than fact."
The Town and Country Journal says—
“ The author appears to have devoted considerable care to the details of
the story of these unfortunate criminals, and seems to be well
Belong 1 ” 6 * 1 Wlth country which enabled them to defy justice
Price Is. 6d., Post Free.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERTBEAR.
SYDKTE3Y.
P AV
JJONEST MANHOOD,
PHYSICAL PERFECTION,
THE MASTERPIECE OF CREATIVE POWER
How art thou sought by those who have drawn’ ton
freely on the BANK OF LIFE in earlv davs o? iovM
OFFRITTV II Vlta ' ,ty has f ' riven ou t, anti GENERAL
DEBILITA is the unfortunate result. To all such who
suffer we earnestly caution,
WE EARNESTLY RECOMMEND,
to beware of certain practitioners of no repute and stand-
ES;:r state at th *
WASHINGTON H. SOUL and CO.,
who have been the leading Chemists in New South Wales
for over a quarter of a century, and whose object at all
times has been to alleviate the distress of suffering hu
inanity and place within the reach of all the curative
agents of all diseases at as little cost as possible, although
we do not run our show for fun, have decided, for the
assistance of all country residents and others who are not
familiar with the names of the medicos of Sydney to
forward to any of our clients who may desire SPECIAr
medical advice the names of the various leading legally-
qualified Specialists of Sydney of the highest reputation
any of whom may be consulted with safety and advan-
maltreaLrmnt ° f extortionate cha Dres or ignorant
WASHINGTON H. SOUL and CO.,
as everyone knows, are not cut-raters, and never have
the^iest^ 6 d ° not advertise catch Penny lines, but give
HONEST VALUE AND QUALITY
MONEY can procure, and although OUR
PRICES ARE MUCH LOWER than the so-called cut-
raters, as our COMPARATIVE LIST advertised a few
weeks ago conclusively proved, we do not advertise cut-
prices. The GENERAL PUBLIC KNOW HONFST
VALUE, and always know WHERE to get it.
WE ARE THE SOLE AGENTS FOR
PEARCE’S ELECTRIC TRUSSES
AND BELTS.
Which are unquestionably the best in the world
We guarantee them. Pamphlets free on application.
THE HEALTH INVIGORATOR OF THE AGE.
Dr. Pettifer’s Compound Syrup of Hypophosphites •
price Is. 9d. and 3s. per bottle, postage 3d. and Is. 2d
extra. Build’s up the constitution and restores energy
and capacity for the daily routine of life.
OSBORNE’S'EPILEPSY CURE.
We are the Sole Agents. The cures effected are multi-
tudinous, and this wonderful preparation we sell at 3s
3d. per tin, postage 3d. If some others had the handling
of this article the price would be at least half-a-guinea
A short time ago we ran out of this Epilepsy Cure for
about a month. It was really pitiful to see the numbers
of anxious inquiries for it from those whose very life de-
pends on it. These are the facts that tell.
RUSSELL’S CORPULENCY CURE.
The genuine prepared only by F. C. Russell, of Lon-
don, immediately reduces Corpulency, and builds up the
system. Its action is guaranteed. Price, 21s. per bottle.
For all Chest and Lung Complaints take
Dr. SYME’S EMULSION OF COD LIVER OIL with
Hypophosphates of Lime and Soda. Is. 6d. and
2s. 6d. per bottle, posted Bd. and Is. 2d
Dr. FIELD’S BRAIN and NERVE PILLS, for all cases
of over-wrought brain and renewal of the vital organs.
Price 2s. 6d., postage 2d.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
FAMILY AND DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
160 and 263 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY;
CHURCH-STREET, PARRAMATTA;’
HUNTER-STREET, NEWCASTLE.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES,
in Australia.
JEWELLERY and SILVER-PLATE is the largest and best assorted stock
Direct from the London House. Guaranteed the utmost satisfaction,
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED,
ALL ARTICLES
POST FREE.
v :;h
WfflWA
A. Saunders.
Special-made Gold Waltham, } Keyless Lever,
20 years’ guarantee, £4 4s; 14c. ditto, £5 6s;
26 years’ guarantee, extra jewelled, high-grade
works, £6 10s; pure Silver, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Perfect timekeepers. Extra strong; Highly re-
commended.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, t'6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send lor
Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
New Design, Gold Brooch. Bell, Chain.
Red, White, and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 265.
160. Gold 3-bar Amethyst, 455.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold,
£2, as above. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2 15s.
Very Latest Style.
ML
Silver Gilt, Turquoises, 3s 6cL
Any InitiaL
18c. Gold, Pure 6 Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
8 Emeralds and 2 Diamonds,
£5 10s. Cut hole in card.
A, Saunders.
2-bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
6c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 265.
16c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Links, Heart and
Dumb-bell, 12s 6d ;
Smaller, 10s 6d.
16c. Gold, 22s 6d.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
2 Birds, Chain, and 2 Diamond-cut
Amethyst, 20s; Pearl-set Birds, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold Pearl Set, £2.
Gold Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunters.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Red Stone Set Scroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
Ladles’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock,
265, 30s, 355, £2 6s, £3.
16c. Gold, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, *lO.
Extra for Key Padlock
All with Safety Chain.
160. Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 20 Diamonds,
or Sapphires. Extra Strong, £l2 10s.
Solid Gold Charm that
charms, 10s 6d.
Procured onlv at
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds,
£3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold.
6 large Diamonds,
£2O, £26, £3O.
KINDLY
GALL.
TRY
US.
All Articles Post Free.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s;
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; Key, 255, 30s, 35s ; Solid Gold
Keyless, £4, £5 ; Superior Quality
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d; Extra Strong, 10s;
16a Gold, 16s ; 18a Gold, 20*.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Ring-s and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold,
16s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 80s, 86s, 40s. Send lor card.
A « A TTTVTTVCT* »T™rT?T,n °™ I™ AH ARTICLES POST EREE.
* LLER», 815 GS-eorge-street, SYDNEY (nearly opposite Railway Station).


MTSS CLARA E. ELLIOTT, Zeehan, Tas-
mania. Vitadatio cured her of Con-
gestion of the Lung's, Inflammation of the
Kidneys and Jaundice, etc.
*3
Sgl
r
/
MISS E. J. HOCKING, High-st.,
Maryborough. Yitadatio cured her
of Gall-stone. Doctor said must
undergo operation. She said “ No.”
A friend said, “Try Vitadatio.”
Cured her.
VITADATIO, the Only Genuine.
Send fok Particulars Suited to Your Case.
LISTEN to the VOICE of REASON, and be led by FA.CTS and
PROOFS that the most exacting or prejudiced, or even sceptical, must
ADMIT. I ask you (if you are ill) to study for yourself the Thousands
of Proofs, of what has been the result in many similar cases.
“VITADATIO” appeals to the Wise to extend their Knowledge
of what is now occupying the public mind to a very great extent.
“VITADATIO” has compelled Public Attention, and surely such
cannot be attained except by Meritorious Action. The fact that
“VITADATIO” has Cured the many Diseases should always weigh
largely in the deliberations and counsels of the Wise.
“VITADATIO ” is a Benefactor to Men and Women.
MR. F. YV. HOHNE was five years a*sufferer
from disease which the doctors at last dis-
covered was Hydatids, but could not cure.
But when in despair, Yitadatio cured, and he
is now well and strong.
MR. THOMAS JOHNSON, 10 Princes-st.,
Kew, Vic., 40 years a victim to Cancer, Piles,
Running Sores, etc. Vitadatio cured him
after all the doctors had failed.
Vitadatio,
THE GREAT
Herbal Remedy,
Cures all Curable Diseases of
BLOOD and SKIN, such as
Bright's Disease, Kidney
Troubles, Hydatids, Liver
Troubles, Bladder Troubles,
Stricture, Gravel, Diabetes,
Piles, Cancer, Consump-
tion, Insomnia, Jaundice,
Debility, Epilepsy, Ery-
sipelas, Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica, Eczema, Ring-
worm, Spreading Sores,
Poverty of Blood, Wasting
Disease, Fits, Indigestion,
Influenza, Gall-Stones, dec.
PALMER,
MR. S. A.
Cured of Hydatids, Bright’s
Disease and Diabetes, after
14 years of pain, weakness,
misery, and expense. Given
up by the doctors, operated
on until he was sick unto
death ; but good fortune led
him to V itadatio , and though
he said he was too far gone
to cure, Yitadatio cured him,
and now his Life’s Work is
to assist others, and try to
cure them, and Vitadatio has
cured and will cure.
It is significant that a really
Good Article, well attested,
invariably brings out imita-
tors, with their weak shams.
“Yitadatio” is the only
“ Genuine Tasmanian Her-
bal Remedy.” It has proved
itself.
It is essential that you pro-
tect your health and purse
by avoiding what is false.
S. A. PALMER,
VITADATIO.
Send for Testimonials and
Particulars of the Many
Cures.
MRS. F. A. CLARK, 74 Clarendon-
st., South Melb. Vitadatio cured
her of Consumption, after she was
given up by the doctors of America
and Australia. She is restored to
life and duty.
EF
Ar
MRS. M. SERGEANT, Redfern, Sydney,
N.S.W. Many years troubled with Indi-
gestion and General Weakness and Emaci-
ation. She was very ill, and looked it. A
course of Webber’s Vitadatio worked
most wonderful results.
VITADATIO, the Great Healer.
PRICE, 5/6 and 3/6. INDIAN OIL OF CREAM, 2/6.
A BOON to the INTELLECTUAL. —I have received another de-
livery of the “ Yitadatio Series of Sheldon Literary Marvels ”
“In His Steps, or What would Jesus Do?” “His Brother’s
Keeper,”. “The Crucifixion of Philip Strong,” “Malcolm
Kirk,” Richard Hardy’s “Seven Days.”
I will give the series of five to any caller, or post to any address in
the Colonies for stamps (6d.) to cover postage, wrapper, &o. I desire to
advertise “ Yitadatio ”at the same time. lam giving readers or book-
lovers a treat. Letters marked “ Sheldon, Vitadatio, Melbourne.”
S. A. PALMER.
MR. FRED. B. NORTON, 60 Queen-st.,
Melbourne, suffered for 10 years from
Sciatic Rheumatism, which naturally dis-
abled him at times and made life hardly
a bed of roses. By the use of Vitadatio
he has been cured.
MR. ARTHUR J. WYLIE, a most remark-
able cure of Consumption, Hemorrhage, and
all the frightful attendances. A useful young
life ebbing away under the monster of dis-
ease, drift, drifting to death, and no hope.
Consumption has been cured. Life and hope
to the dying are now sounded abroad by
Vitadatio.
THE OWL
d
o
Ip
RUG CO.
CUT RATE
CUT RJVTE
Consulting and
Dispensing Chemists,
Corner Elizabeth and Batliurst Streets, Sydney.
AIMD RETAII .
MEDICINES SECURELY PACKED and FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA Free from Observation.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, J6l} Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Dr.
Clarkson 9 s
REINVIGORATOR.
A Concentrated, VITALISING* NEIIVE, BRAIN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT: a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonic for the NERVEvS
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
BEAD TH ESE FACTS.—Its action in recuperating;
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REIN YTGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
Work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
front the condition of the normal cell during health and
vigor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being tilled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON’S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLACY. —People run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR.
£loo.— We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia. Pamphlet post Free.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Priced-
One Guinea,
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Electric Belts. No more COLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFICALLY MADE.--This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanic current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH AND LIVER.—The remedy most re
quired to afford speedy and effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Electro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BELTS.—Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Postpone old age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. NU(SN€S’S FITSEPILIP.
This Celebrated HEMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the age.
Bo successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PYRAMID PILE CURE
This is the latest specific for CURING- HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character of
INWARD or OUTWARD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d.' extra.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Specialist to give
ADVICE to ALL SUFFERERS FREE OF CHARGE.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORP€R RESPECTFULLY SOLICITEP.


tar
A
Roderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers.
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
—“Margaret”—will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number.
Louise Mack’s charming book for girls,
“Teens,” and its sequel, “Girls Together,” are
published at 3/6 each and may be had post free
for 4/- from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, and
all booksellers.*
Arthurßussell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON'S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waveri ey Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold every where. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
ASK
FOR
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit AI en bants.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
OIL
Xbe Perfect Slieep-Mlarlter.
In Three Colors — BLACK, BED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MARKING
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
or
KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Estimated that a special free train to carry
Sydney morning papers to Newcastle and Mait-
land would entail a loss to the State of between
Jill,ooo and £13,000 per year.
Queensland, like N.S. W., boasts of one big
anti-Federalist—Nelson. He fills the place in
Queensland that bungler MacLaurin didin N.S.W.
Apart from Nelson the Little Queenslanders pin
their faith to Barlow. Barlow and Nelson were the
two great financial experts who certified to the
solvency of the Q.N. Bank.
As most of the big N.S.W. landowners
have done no good for themselves and very little
for others, isn’t it high time the smaller fry had a
show ? Think of it ! the great bulk of the interior
almost uninhabited while scores of would-be
settlers have balloted from 12 to 20 times and not
yet got hold of a block of land.
Already thei’e is discontent in S. A. Opposi-
tion ranks with newly-elected leader Solomon.
Like his predecessors, Downer, Glynn and Copley,
Solomon cannot “ solidify ’’ the Fat Man ranks.
Kingston says the enemy will only dislodge him
when those composing its forces are formed into a
committee —all of whom must be leaders !
How these curses do come home to roost !
Westralia, demanding a bribe before she enters
the union, obviously follows the lead of N.S.W.
under Reid in his Yes-No days. And it was
surely the irony of fate which caused the same
Y.-N. Reid to be deputed to send the message of
remonstrance to the Westralian Yes-No-Yes.
North Queensland intends to go strong for
Federation. Government and Opposition are at
one in the North on that matter. Treas. Philp,
of Townsville, invited Labor-member Givens to
lecture on Federation in Cairns, the other day,
and Givens cheerfully acceded. And it is in N.Q.
that Democratic feeling is ever most vigorous and
vital.
Yic. Govt, gives certificates to voters at
the referendum to-day (Thursday) as mementoes.
A rather foolish idea, as anti-Billites must partici-
pate, and the document can have no significance
to them. Also, it is to contain photos, of the
Premiers, and will cost a bit. But, then, politi-
cians take kindly to any scheme for the dis-
semination of their printed pictures.
London County Council is buying up
-£4,000,000 worth of property in order to widen
the Strand, open up new streets, and turn
some awful slums into good thoroughfares. Con-
sequently the rates in Marylebone are to be raised
for one year from the present 6s. Id. in the £ to
9s. 3d. ; and after that, they are to stand at 6s. 7d.
And in Sydney, the City of Mean Streets, they
are only Is. 4d. in the £, and a proposal to raise
them ' to Is. 6d., merely to prevent the deficit
growing any larger, was scouted with horror.
ON THE ROAD TO HEAVEN
FIRST TRAVELLER : “ Why is this such a lonely
road?"
SECOND DITTO: “Because there's not a damned
soul on it!"
Reid’s hostility to Federation euchred
Parkes out of the N.S.W. Freetrade leadership
and consequent Premiership ; now his advocacy
of it enables him to retain the Premiership
against Barton and Lyne.
The British Government’s proposal to re-
establish the conscription so far as the militia is
concerned, and make every person between 18 and
35 liable to carry a gun on the more or less gory
battle-field, ends the boast that Britain is the one
European country which is sufficiently defended
by a purely voluntary army. It is 70 years or
more since Britain had a conscription.
Gravely cabled to Australia that “ Mrs.
Schreiner, mother of Mr. Schreiner, Premier of
Cape Colony, and of Olive Schreiner, the well-
known writer, has expressed unbounded admira-
tion for Mr. Cecil Rhodes, and the Imperial
policy supported by him.” There is a most un-
accountable omission to mention the good old
lady’s opinion about flannel next the skin.
If Victoria re-introduces the thin end of
the wedge of denominational education, it will
have to face the old problem : what is to be done
with R.C. teachers. These are among the most
useful of the whole body; and when the State
forces them to say prayers and sing hymns which
they conscientiously disbelieve in, it injures them
without doing any good to their pupils.
Cabled that U.S. Admiral Dewey, late
commander in the Philippines, ridicules America’s
compliance with the disarmament proposals of the
Peace Conference. If Dewey is “ inspired,” this
is a nasty slap. If not, then a New World phase
of military discipline has eventuated. For this
offence (mouthing semi-political utterances) a
European officer of regulars would be cashiered.
South Australia is to vote as one district
for both Federal Houses at the coming election.
She will send in six Senators and seven Repre-
sentatives. The best-known men will win, and so
Kingston, Holder, Playford, Baker, Downer,
Symon, Glynn, and Howe are sure to be among
the chosen. Cockburn has some hope of being
made Federal Agent-General, but not much chance
of getting that billet, for which so many shelved
men in the bigger States will be grabbing.
The topsy-turvydom of politics ! Last
N.S.W. general election, fought on Federation,
the Federal party sent Thomas Walker, ex-Par-
liamentary word-painter, to fight W. J. Ferguson
in Sturt. Poor Walker never had a chance, of
course, and afterwards was helped over to the
West. Now Ferguson has joined the Federal
side and is being gibbeted by his party ; while
Walker, chaired by Vosper and supported by ex-
Vic. veteran C. E. Jones, is pointing out in Perth
what a defective Bill this is, and warning Westra-
lia not to join in—just yet!
Dishonesty has ever marked the religious
crowd in politics, since before the time that the
Israelites borrowed those jewels of silver and
gold from the Egyptians and then quietly
“skipped by the light of the moon.” There
never has been, in Vic. politics, a better example
of this deceitfulness than the move now being
made for the introduction into Vic. State
School curriculum of what are mildly called
a selected prayer, hymn, and passages of
Scripture. Publicly, that is all the
clerical people say they want. Pri-
vately, however, they don’t disguise
the fact that they intend to make
that the thin end of a wedge which
will eventually burst up the secu-
larism of the present education
system. The first piece of auda-
cious deceit is that all the
speakers parsons, parsonic
politicians, and presbytery-
ridden laymen—base the whole
of their arguments for the in-
troduction of this hymn,
prayer, and these passages of
Scripture on purely secular
grounds. They talk glibly about
the necessity of Bible - reading
in order to give the children the
requisite knowledge to understand the
“finest passages in our great English litera-
ture and the most beautiful pictures hung in oui
art galleries.”
The S.M. Herald’s demand to have a
tram put on at 2.30 a.m. for the conveyance
of Sydney newspapers to Ne wcastle and the North
should provide N.S.W. Govt, with a ripe oppor-
tunity to consider the whole question of newspaper
carriage both by train and post. Due considera-
tion must show that there exists not a trace of
reason for treating newspapers in a different way
to any other kind of merchandise.
The election-fight for Encounter Bay be-
tween King O’Malley and ex-Mayor Tucker comes
off to-day (July 29). O’Malley, who supports
Household Suffrage and all the rest of the Govt,
policy, says the district has to choose between
their King and their Tucker —their loyalty and
their stomach. A delicate allusion to the meats
and drinks so lavishly distributed by the friends
of the unseated candidate (Tucker) in April last.
Wickham (N.S.W.) Municipal Council
has struck an idea of considerable tonnage. It is
heavily in debt and is staying there with great
energy. And it wants a new law passed whereby,
if any council levies a special rate for the purpose
of reducing its debt, that good old milch cow, the
Treasury, will grant a -£ for £ endowment—in
other words, that it will pay off half the debt. This
would be a really great idea. If a council levied
an extra rate, and paved the town with the pro-
ceeds, it would pay all the bill itself; but if it
borrowed the money, and then levied a rate to
pay off the debt, Govt, would stand half the
racket. Wickham, by-the-bye, has. a rate of
Is. 3d. in the £. The idea of putting it up to
Is. 6d., and tackling the problem that way, hasn’t
occurred to Wickham.
A Northern correspondent :
Previous successes embolden for another attempt.
The Federation vote on Sept. 2nd in Q. will he a very
close thing and its success or failure depends mainly on
Central Q. Shrewdly estimated that the Brisbane and
Ipswich bundles will show about 8000 majority for the
lit tle Q’landers. The North, roughly speaking, will about
balance this with a big vote for union. 'Central Q.
appears evenly divided and the result is a huge note of
interrogation. In favor of the national cause there is
every newspaper of weight that circulates throughout
Queensland. For the leper and the maintenance of
Japanese immigration and the old Boodle Government
are mainly Brisbane Worker and the Tki.korahi. Fancy
the humor of it —Brisbane Tei.boraph and Worker in
common cause ! If th" workers and voters in Central and
N.W. Q'land take their opinion ready made from the
apostate Labor organ it will go hard with the Bill ; if
they think for themselves, up goes the hat for Australian
union.
During the “ marine scandal ” debate in
M.L. Parliament the hyphenated Jones taunted
Labor-member Hutcheson with having been “ a
handy man on the Hinemoa. ” Which was not
the sort of thing you would expect from a Radi-
cal Minister. If Seddon falls, it will be through
his lieutenants, and Hyphenated Jones is the
worst of them.
Two years ago there were
21,800 names on the Westralian
Electoral rolls; now there are
43,000. And as the increase has
been confined to a few districts,
the need of a redistribution of
Parliamentary seats is most
urgent. The most striking
anomaly is the equal repre-
sentation of Ashburton, with
42 electors, and East Ooolgardie,
with 5674. Seven electorates
in the N.W. —the country of
the “ indentured ” blacks—
have 744 electors among them ;
the four Coolgardie districts
have 14,118. The goldfields
are, of course, the worst suffer-
ers ; Perth and Freeman tie,
where there has been a con-
siderable addition to the rolls,
have eight members for 14,561
electors —twice as many, that is, as
the goldfields have, though the two
have almost precisely the same number of elec-
tors.
Ex-Attorney-General Lewis, in suggesting
that the present Tas. Parliament should simply
refuse. to expire until Federal matters are fixed
up satisfactorily, and should tell the constituents
who elected it for three years in 1897 to go out and
throw apples at themselves, evidently hopes to
avert a row in the Land of Sleep. He argues that,
as Federation will mean a reduction in the num-
ber of members in the State Parliament, the
necessary re-organisation will be much simplified
if there are no newly-fledged members to placate.
The Lewis idea seems to be that newly-elected
members would prove more tenacious of their
seats than the old hands. But as Tasmania
hardly ever elects any new members, that looks a
thin excuse.
“BABIES ON OUR BLOCK.”
“Is it you who have got the new baby in this
street?”
"No, mum—me mother!"
A. J. Thynne has pointedly reminded a
Brisbane audience that the second clause of MTI-
- National-party programme (1888) ran:
“The federation of the Australian colonies into a
united dominion, with provision for a system Of
national defence.” Clause 4of same programme
read : “ The fostering and protection of Australian
industries.” Note the word Australian, not
Queensland.
The new one-rail railway, successfully tried
in Belgium some time ago, and on which specially
constructed trains raised a speed of 100 miles an
hour, has got so far beyond mere experiment that
a railway on this principle is going to be laid down
between Liverpool and Manchester. This is
something for heavily-burdened,Australia to think
over. Australia owes about £120,000,000 borrowed
for railways and telegraphs (in addition to many
other millions for other purposes) and it is quite
content to keep on owing it because it is repre-
sented by “ permanent assets.” But they are not
permanent. Some day wireless telegraphy will
make one of these items only a bad debt. And by
the time Australia owes -£300,000,000 or so for rail-
ways they will probably be superseded by some
newer and faster means of locomotion, and that
will be a useless and unproductive burden also.
Anti-Federal logic from Brisbane Tele-
ora rn :
Sir Charles T.illey nsed to say there were 20,000 people
in Queensland at Separation. Multiply this by 25 and
you get tlio present population of 500,000—increase for
40 years. Multiply present population by 25 for the next
40 years, and you get 12£ millions,” &c., &c.
Therefore, Queensland shouldn’t federate—as any-
body can see. Also, if you multiply 12i millions
by 25 for the succeeding 40 years you if get over
300 millions for the population of Queensland, and
inasmuch as the rest of Australia will stand per-
fectly still, in admiration of the eternally-mul-
tiplying Queensland, it follows that Banana-
land should boss the whole of the southern
hemisphere; that Brisbane should boss the
possessions of Bananaland, and Brisbane itself
should Vie bossed by the cultured gang that runs
the Cow UGHARM.
• ( T he '^ k ?{f^r S - W - Parlia ™nt just now
is the gilded Mr Terry, member for Ryde, who
poses as leader of “ the independent party ” and
grves sumptuous entertainments. Nobody ’knows
who Mr. Terry s followers are ; but the idea is
generally held that he is rich enough to constitute
in his own proper person the “independent
party aforesaid.
THREE MONTHS.
MR. KITEFLYER ( to Isaacs, to whom he has just
given P.N. and who is looking for blotting-
pad): “ Oh, don't worry — it's got vlenty time
to dry.”
Strange that no anti-Federalist thought of
a more plausible yarn than Dibbs’s anent Vic.
money being used to bribe N.S. W. to give a
“Yes” vote. The British bondholder ought to
have been the person named as pouring gold into
the hats of N.S.W. electors. The argument
Dibbs might have used, but didn’t: “ A Federa-
tion offers the best security for interest-payments,
also for principal. Everyone remembers Sydney
Smith’s wail about being slipped up by a one-
horse American province, and the British bond-
holder remembers it better than anybody else,”
&c., &c. This paper turns pale at the thought of
what G. Republican Dibbs might have said, but
didn’t.
The programme of the new N.S.W. ses-
sion reads like a gathering of old friends, long
separated. The Bill for amalgamating the two
Savings Banks, promised as far back as 1894, is
there. The promise to make the new institution
a State Bank of Note Issue isn’t revived, but
something is said about combining with it a State
Land Bank. The Early Closing Bill and the
Navigation Bill are alluded to. There is to be a
measure for amending and extending Local
Government —which has been a good old stand-by
for the past 25 years, though nothing has come of
it so far. The system of old-age pensions is. to be
“ preceded ’’ by a measure providing for compen-
sation to sufferers by mining accidents, but when
the real Old Age Pensions Bill may be expected
isn’t even hinted at. It is merely to be “pre-
ceded ’’ by the other thing—just as the Apostle
Peter preceded Peter Jackson, or the Creation
preceded John Norton.
Federation matters are mixed over in
Westralia. There is a majority of at least three-
fourths in favor of Australian unity. The gold-
fields are solid on the question and the working
men of Perth and Fremantle are largely in favor
of the Commonwealth Bill, so the Groper party is
certain to be rebuffed when the country gets a
chance of speaking. But the Federationists are
badly in want of a leader. At first it was thought
that Forrest would run straight, but he has ratted
and may be counted one of the mdst dangerous
opponents of the cause. Vosper started off with
a great burst of enthusiasm, but found himself in
such uncongenial company that he decided to
leave the Federal League and play a lone hand.
He admits that Federation is the manifest destiny
of Australia, and that is something to go on with,
as the man said when he got 21 years’ gaol. Mean-
while the men who are in the front ranks of
Federation in the West are only second-rate
politicians and parsons. A leader of commanding
ability would win an early and decisive victory.


MUSIC— the Latest and Best Selected Stoclc in the Colonies.
PALING’S
nstruments
A
A Are always
N
i
s
oted for Great Durability.
nly the BEST Grades Stocked and
old at LOWEST PRICES
RI6HT
IN
PRK€
Steinway Pianos
Brinsniead Pianos
Lipp Pianos
Peiivich Pianos
TJebel Pianos
Poke Pianos
Victor Pianos
Belling Pianos
RI6HT
IN
QURLITY
NO Sacrifice in Quality for Cheapness.
Best ValOt
for
Least Mooey
Most buyers look for
this, and rightly too.
Buy
all your
MUSICAL REQUIREMENTS
at
PALINC’S
We buy Direct from the
factories and save all . .
middle profits.
We pay Cash with our orders.
We are the Largest buyers of
Musical Goods in Australia.
Yo 6
cao
Sav«
Moi)«Y
buy
at PALING’S
Pianos
Organs
Violins
Cornets
Banjos
Guitars
Strings and Fittings
for all
Instruments
at Lowest Prices.
Call
or
TTrit*
for
Catalogue*
Trco..
Mandolins, etc., etc.
W. H. PALIN6 & CO., Ltd.,
338 Gzorgz Street, Sydocy.
BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
Jon’t
be >
djisled
Wliftn
You go to a cycle agency to purchase
pair of
MOLTIFLCX
Duniqp Tyres
make sure that you are obtaining the
genuine article. Others have been de-
ceived, and have had foisted upon them
cheap imitation tyres, so it behoves you
to examine the cover and tube for our
Registered Trade Mark, which is em-
bossed on every genuine Dunlop.
You
Would not buy a valuable piece of
jewellery without looking for the Hall
Mark ; and how much more
important is it that you
should exercise care when
you are purchasing a pair
of tyres upon which you
trust your life! The decep-
tion can easily be guarded
against by not accepting any
tyres unless they are em-
bossed with this Trade Mark,
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic
Tyre Co. Limited ,
4SG Kent Street, Sydney ;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
and Christchurch, N.Z.
SoCufcQirs of ACistraliai) Federatior
Bbqistkrkd.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 28.
Solid Onld, 12,6.
Japanese Lantern
TIN AND Cl lAIX.
Solid Gold, 7,6.
Lantern only, 4/-.
Solid Gold
Sword PIN CHAIN,
Garnet or Amethyst
Heart, 14/6.
WE ARE AGAIN, TO THE FORE
WITH UP-TO-DATE SOUVENIRS
COMMEMMORATING THE GREATEST EVENT IK
AUSTRALIAN HISTORY.
SOLID SILVER HAT-PINS, 3/- ; MATCH BOXES, 10/-, 12,6
BELT CLASPS, 13 6, 16/-, in Great Variety.
MANUFACTURED and OBTAINABLE
ONLY FROM US.
Kboistbbkd.
Solid Gold
BIRD PENDANT,
Set with 17 Lovely
Opals, 16,'-.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, ami
Charity
PENDANT,
6/- each.
With Tin am’.
8 6.
Lucky 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount, 5/-
Plated, 1/ and 1,6.
Federation Souvenir Spoons, Solid Silv.
I'LAIN BOWL, 12 6; with MOT': ,- .
13,6.
All Articles Sent POST FREE to Any
Address. Please Send for Our
Illustrated Slips of Novelties.
swalt.ow brooch,
Ba, 6,6; 150., 8/-.
BIRD SAFETY PIN,
9c. Gold, 3/-.
PIGEON BROOCH,
9a, 6/6; 15c., 8/-.
Amethyst Heart and
Bird
SAFETY PIN, 6/-.
DOVE BROOCH,
9a, 6/-; 16a, 7/6.
Silver, Gold Plated, set with 9 Real Turquoiaea
and 11 Orient Pearls, 10/6.
liA<ESI NOVELtV
SWORJ)
Brooch
15c. Gold,
set with
17 Opals,
42/6.
15c. Gold,
Set with 17 Pearls,
35/-.
Reqistkbbd.
mioocnKs.
Sterling Silver, 80.
Solid Gold. iso.
Heal Amethvat
button hooks,
2/0.
RECf
Solid Gold
SWORD PIN
CHAIN and IiELL
14/6.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET SYDNEY


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
D.S.UI. (H«“I to pieie
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
IT SYDNEY ■ ■*
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawn bi'()king Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOHrXBE.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
N
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. and I. CO., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General MEETING of the Shareholders in
above Company will be held on MONDAY, 31st
inst., upon the Company’s premises at 11.30 a.m.
Bv order of the Board of Directors.
* LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
BUSINESS :
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance*
sheet.
To elect two Directors in the room of Samuel
Payten, Esq., and Edwin Chisholm,
Esq., whose term of office expires by
effluxion of time. Both these gentlemen
are eligible for re-election, and offer them-
selves accordingly.
To elect two Auditors for the coming twelve
months. ■ Messrs. J. B. C. Miles and J.
H. Davies are eligible, and offer them-
selves for re-election.
And to transact any other business that may
be brought before the meeting in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 15th July, 1899.
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. and I. CO., Ltd.
74. Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st inst. inclusive.
LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
Dated 15th July, 1899.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
24:7 George Straet Brid g e - St -) Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. | ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Public Risk Depart-
ments.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Idabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'MiLiiAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CIiYNE ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Buy for the Children.
PERTH, W.A. Allotments on the main
road, opposite Brookman Park, the pro-
perty of W. G. Brookman, Esq., £lO
each. Easy terms. Torrens’ Title. Free
Deeds.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st. Sydney.
London & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
ROBERT KERR, manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Jbe TrGstccs, €xcc6 tor£,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £73,375 15 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ... i'6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. It. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne. " •
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of. Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .; .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital.. .. £3,123,555 15 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon, N. Tbornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M’Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsrjate Street Within'
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIIGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuobar.
Haytnarket, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MSTUATfIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Bates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
V —THE—,
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
ATI ON A L T RUST E E S,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M, D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner Wiliiam-st., Melbourne
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
AX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
’’ Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. ■. Brown.
Seeretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
' ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, 1500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
the gank of j|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Ksq.
Mr. A. J. Charkkr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Lid.!)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- ’
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Shipping _
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Lenra, Saturday. July 29, 12 lNoon.
-Bai rabool, Tuesday, Aug. 1, 5 y.m.
Tyrian, Sat., August 5,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
r
abo, Tuesday, August 8, 5 p.m.
}'
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, August 8, 6 p.i
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Sat., July 29, 12 Noon.
-Burvvah, Tues., August 1, 5 p-.m.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 5,12 Noon.
BUNDABERG
>1 AO KAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Sat., July 29, 12 Noon.
Buninyong, Tues., Aug. 1, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 5, 12 Noon.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily. ~
LOWEST CIIKItI'JV FAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
inn mi ri —in —mrrrTf nr- ’ " 1 ■ ■">
1,1 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tfie steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and anyjoints en route’
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Comer Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
[Q‘|lu)raith, [J|‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS-
SAILING WEEKLY
- To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business^Announcements.
The Golden Group of the Golden West.
Every Westralian Investor should have Clark and
Co.’s Revised Map of the famous
BOULDER. BELT OF THE KALGOORLIE
GOLD-BEARING MINES.
Showing Late Developments, Underground Workings,
and Trend of the Lodes. Price, 10s. 6d.
CLARKE & CO. (A. Rutter Clarke), Adelaide.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap; ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
FORBIGr»r STA.MPS
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, ls6d; 10 Routnania, 6d ;
8 Booiiia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 16 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d ; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
6d; 50, Is; 100,256 d; 150, ss. Re-
mit by P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
m
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MEL'O-
DEONS, 10s Oil; ditto
Miniature ditio, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Cox* n's Dulcet AOGOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops. 8s 9d ; ditto Fauiit-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Acnordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite ...
Christ. Church), SYDNEY.
KEEP YOUR H&IR ON
By using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair .Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. Bv its use the
Hair is prevented from 'falUn'ir'Out, breaking, or splitting.
It aives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/6 and 21- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEIM ,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I’IRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullarra, Friday, July 28.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, July 29,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Freman tle
to-.
VASSE, DONOARRA,
R T 7XTT> I7T» ~\r si r-, . . JTi,
S J
S.S. Eullarra, Friday,
July 28.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, July 29.
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Ailing
July '2B.'
i, Friday,
Best <L Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets ate interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. VOlhh and CO., | /i’D., Agents'
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Ro\al Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports, i
With Permission to call at Brindisi. ‘
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
: LONDON, Return Tickets, J 65 to Till).
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35.. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-monev can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Uuddart, Parker g (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares anti Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSA.I3ERIES maritimes-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, tinder Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS oooked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
Including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD. ...
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company', or by' the Railway' Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particul is apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCITE LET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA -
Queensland Forts and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially' built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 jtons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Spied,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to ..... ...... .
Weber Lohmarm &■ Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy Lrb"
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.;
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COQKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Msi.ckay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WESI
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co.‘, Ltd.,.10 Bridge «et.
MELBOURNE - A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton, i
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloslied ... ... 10/6
)> ~ Patent „ ... ... 10/6
„ Glace-leg and Golosli, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Fanaous
r
w
. . SEND FOE . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies 9 , Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS .
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
NEW DISCOVERY!
r
| BRANDTS
H ACETYLtKtI
GAsGthtRATc
SI
A convenient portable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Household, Shop Windows, or Lantern Work.
Price (Generator only), 255. Pillar Light, with shade
and burner, 17s. 6d. Rubber Tube, 6d. per foot.
Calcium Carbide, and all accessories stocked.
BRANDT BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
IW~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these strand medicines have not been
recognised l>y thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. {W Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they ara
spurious.
The National Cash Resister
ZKrTERCOLOKTIAL BRA.KTCH OFFICES s
VICTORIA :
F- M. PATON, 364 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND :
HENRY POSTER, “COURIER” BUILDINGS, EDWARD STREET,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTR/ LIA :
C. L. OLSON, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND l
YEREX & JONES, VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON.
TASMANIA i
HEDLEY BUTTON, BRISBANE STREET, LAUNCESTON
WESTERN AUSTRALIA i
R. GODHARD, 92 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
m
Si
&
#9i
i
J
m
■
&
,V. A. Noble. —*•— I. Abrahams,
poihtor , k' 1 |p , R '' h<,t fr,
A
mut
' VX\;
. • ■, -
! /
<s>
<s>
vC#
* v
8P
m
w
#
3f «®
IS
MI6ASET SHEET
TOOWOOMBA
F. Hennessy,
(/men's Hold.
I
T. A. Clarke
job Printer,
imperial Henri
G. A. Hillary,
General Mechanic
Head offices for Australia ; 393
6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General .Manager Australasia.
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
THE BRAND
OF MERIT
| D.C.L.one quality only
THE
2^
BEST.ALWAYS THE -SAME |
ASK FOR
D .C.U^'«
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
“THE WAYS OF fIANY WATERS.”
* fKKnmmm—— By E. J. BB.ADY
A collection of Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post-free.
ft
COLE MANES EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
For Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Fevers, and Chest
Complaints generally it can’t be beat.
GUARANTEED PURE, AND SOLD ONLY IN }oz and
ioz. BOTTLES.
Insist always on Colcmano’s.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
4 THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IIV THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES
'A'I'IVfINNV d'TOS
sa'ixxoa ao sNorrcra
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., iand 2/- each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEOS, EIMG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIU.OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
kemp’s Patent Sl)?eP'Brai)dii)g LiqOid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lastiiig Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade & 00-,
MELBOURNE.
Agents Jj f RICH &00. LTD-
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Red, and. Blue. '3s 6dL per gall, in Melt), and Sydney; 3s 9d per gall. In Brisbane


E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready ; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.
A magistrate at Orange has dismissed a
charge of assault on a woman-federalist by an anti-
federalist man. They attended a public meeting
when the cause was debated, and when the woman
applauded the man didn’t like it, and vice versa ,
so the pair “got in holts.” The magistrate, a
small local Solomon, recommends that, at future
public meetings in Orange, women should be kept
on one side the hall and men on the other—as is
the case in some churches.
Marshall Hall, discussing “ The Essential
in Art ” at Melbourne Athenaeum, treated
his audience to some casual remarks upon Love,
beautiful Love, which makes the world go round.
“ At about the age of 40 a specially dangerous
form of it is often met with,” said the sapphically-
poetical prof. Why not have quoted Pinero, who
has several times harped upon the subject of
middle-aged passion. “ I know what you are
going to tell me,” says Aubrey Tanqueray to
Cayley Drummle—“that a man at 40 is either a
stoic or a satyr. lam neither.” What a valuable
proverb for men of the world to paste inside
their hats! One should be forearmed against
Nature—at 40.
Mrs. Sarah Wilson, of the Blue Mountain
Hotel, Lawson, N.S.W., has just had her annual
hotel-license renewed for the 62nd time.
Amongst the guests at N.S.W. Governor
Beauchamp’s recent evening party—“ Mr. John
Norton!” “ High, low, and the Jack'" —though
hardly on “all-fours” with John’s previous
attitude.
One of the brothers Longworth, members
of the lucky Great Cobar tribute party, the other
day bought Woollahra House, lately the home of
Mr. W. Cooper, for something under £12,L00.
The Longvvorths (who have an income between
them of well over <£50,000 a year) are investing
heavily in Sydney bricks-and-mortar. One of. the
gilded pair is reported to have already bought
about 150 houses.
The case of the Lithgow (N.S.W.) miners
is another proof of the necessity for a mini-
mum wage-law. Imagine risking your life
and working hard for 30s. per fortnight. Every
now and again there is a strike somewhere
about Newcastle district, and hundreds of women
and children suffer semi-starvation and misery
because some bowelless corporation tries to under-
sell its rivals by reducing its price a few pence per
ton.
Our boys deserve to win the final Test. Bub
another Aust. team is in the field. It includes the
11 special merits which have gained us business
supremacy, such as best English and American
methods, smart, up-to-date styles, first-class
material, reasonable prices, etc. Such a Test
Team can never be beaten. Send for catalogue of
suits and all other wear to London and American
Supply Stores, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
The leading medical authorities assert that
a warm bath cleanses the skin, invigorates the
body, and prolongs life. M‘Lean Bros, and Rigur
Ltd. assert, also, that the best, easiest, safest, and
cheapest means of obtaining the above can be
accomplished by procuring one of their Royal
Bath Heaters at 70s. This heater burns wood
only ; and is easily attached to any bath. Its
practical uses are numerous. It is invaluable in
town or country, or anywhere where hot water is
largely used. Farmers, dairymen, butchers, and
householders should drop us a post-card ; on receipt
of same we will forward illustrated catalogues.
We also stock enamelled baths in large variety,
American and English cooking stoves, laundry
stoves, and requisites of every- description. For
everything in up-to-date hardware, try M'Lean
Bros, and Rigg Ltd., Elizabeth-street, Melbourne;
and George-street, Sydney.*
Archbishop Carr’s sorrowful insinuation
that the R.C. Church in Victoria would derive
little benefit from James Crotty’s will, over and
above the <£lo,ooo bequest to St. Patrick's Cathe-
dral, has served to bring out the facts of the case.
To begin with, <£13,000 has been already absorbed
by the Church —the extra <£3ooo going to Crotty’s
own particular parish church at Kew (Melb.).
Furthermore, one of the parish priests gets a £3OO
annuity under the will. Thu residue of Crotty’s
estate, after payment of all debts, legacies, and
probate duty, amounts to at least <£65,000, and
the annuities chargeable against the income from
said residue (including the extra <£soo a year
which Archbishop Carr has conceded to Widow
Crotty) leave a balance of more than <£lloo a year
to be received by the Archbishop for the benefit
of the Church in general. Said “ balance ” income
will increase as each annuitant drops out, but
when the last annuitant dies the whole of the
residue capital is to be divided between two R.C.
cT i ties. This ealati ity to the Church may not
i open for 30 or 40 years, and, seeing that Mrs.
Crotty is one of the youngest annuitants, she will
enjoy the Church’s best prayers for her health.
Sydney Telegraph, mean and snarling to
the last, got up last Tuesday under the heading of
“ A Hoeussed Referendum ” to allege that the
N.S.W. vote of 20th June wasn’t a genuine one
after all. The old tales about the “ graveyard
vote ” and personation and the other stock
properties were all dug up afresh, and the con-
clusion is a demand for another poll which will be
“above suspicion.” Probably the Telegraph,
on this occasion, is nearer to the truth than usual.
If there was anything crooked about the poll of
20th June the Telegraph’s party should
know as much about it as anybody. A party
which disseminated so much false literature
probably wouldn’t mind disseminating false ballot
papers also. Likewise, some members of the party
got so low down as to forge tickets for the Barton-
Reid meeting at Sydney Town Hall (an offence
which ought to be good for six months
“ hard ’’), and the rest of the party, including the
Telegraph, hasn’t risen up yet: to denounce the
act; a crowd which resorts to fraud of this
kind probably wouldn’t stop at much. So, if the
Telegraph says that the vote of June 20 was
fraudulent, the only possible, answer is that it
would be very surprising if it wasn’t—considering
the sort of people who were about at the time.
The fact that these people were about can be
proved by their letters to the Telegraph.
\£-
>£-
a
*
i ****** -*
• • Bicycle Don’ts for 1899. • •
DON’T buy an auction or sales wheel.
DON’T buy a wheel assembled from parts which are bought at a few
shillings a set.
DON’T buy a wheel because a friend recommended it to you ; the friend
gets a commission.
DON’T buy a Cycle from a factory that does not manufacture Bicycles
exclusively.
DON’T buy a Cycle from a factory new to the business. Unless you’re
paid ; let some one else do the testing.
DON’T buy a Cycle from a dealer who sells a new make every few
months (they’ve no reputation to lose).
DON’T pay a higher price than £l5 for a cycle with outside joints and cup
and cone bearings unless you don’t believe in value for money.
DON’T buy a wheel without a direct factory guarantee. You want
some security for your money.
DON’T buy a Cycle until you have had a “RED BIRD SPECIAL”
shown and explained to you.
The Gooicl Bicycle Co. Limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, N.S. \V. (Head Office).
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. ;
261 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
EDW ARD ST., BRISBANE, Q. ;
RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
■Fifteen thousand people attended Brisbane
Exhibition "Ground last Saturday and saw the British
footballers win the second test-match against Australia
by 11 points to nil. Winners showed vast improvement
on their previous displays. 'Pace and scrutn work of ihe
forwards was of a high order, and the backs rose to the
occasion splendidly. The “down-under” reps, had it all
their own way in first half, and kept the oval in enemy’s
territory the whole time The Australians rallied won-
derfully during last quarter of an hour, and the crowd,
excited by the persistent onslaughts upon the English
goal and the latter’s .stubborn defence, roared itself
hoarse. Each individual player was besought to save the
day, and each responded, but the Englishmen were too
good. No side ever fought harder for victory, and no
side ever deserved it more. This was recognised by a
perfect storm of cheers from the lusty lungs of thousands.
Britisher Nicholls stood out conspicuously, his play and
kicking being perfect. The visitors’ N.Q. trip has done
them a lot of good, their form in the match under notice
being far ahead of that previously shown. It will be
well-tested in Sydney to-day, for the N.S.W. team is a
splendid one and could hardly be improved on, vyhile the
last Australian Fifteen hardly passed muster with good
judges.
* * * *
Rev. Mr. Mnllineux certainly has good cause for
grumbling if it be true that some of the Australian
players were mean enough to call on an opposing player
by name to pass the ball. The ethics of the football field
have never been on a par with those of cricket, but such
downright “ pointing ” as above reduces football form to
the level of professional pedestrianism.
* * • *
During the recent visit to Rockhampton o. Die
English footballers they were invited to p>lo spoits.
Gray, of the team, attended in full Highland costume,
much to the astonishment of the natives. On the
ground he got investing British capital at an under-and-
over table and having gone down suddenly for numerous
sovs. remonstrated with owner of joint for eronk
play when the rev. skipper came along and told the
bonnie laddie that he ought to be ashamed of himself.
Small boy in the crowd : “ That’s right, Daddy, take him
home and finish dressing him.”
* * * •
No better Rugby has been seen in Sydney this
season than that shown in Saturday’s club matches.
Randwick just scraped home 3 points ahead of Sydney,
after an open, even game, the feature of which was a re-
markable run by ex-Britisher Swann for Randwick.
Wallaroo, with all the luck, beat the sturdy Buccaneers
by 9 points to 4 after a hard game, and will battle out the
premiership with Randwick.
» * • *
Australia had all the worst of the match against
Dr. Grace’s eleven. The Englishmen started off with 431
and the Australians, after scoring 301, followed-on with
the inevitable “draw,” losing 3 wickets for 113. A
noticeable feature of the match was Iredale’s innings of
115—the first time during the tour he has shown anything
like his home form. On a form r occasion Iredale started
to make his mark towards the end of the tour, so perhaps
history is to repeat itself.
* * * *
“ Mary Ann ” Noble’s fine effort in the recent
test-match puts him well ahead in the Australian XI.
batting averages, his record being : 31 innings, 6 not outs,
1202 runs—average, 48'08. Hill and Worrall still run
second and third, with 48 and 40 respectively, but Darling
has run up fourth with 3274 for 34 innings, 3 times not
out; and Trumper, Laver, Gregory and Trumble follow
in that order. Trumble still heads the bowling with 88
wickets, at an average of 15 runs each ; Billowel second
and Noble third. In test-matches only, Hill leads with
the bat, with the remarkably fine record of 301 runs for
five completed innings—average, 60'2. The consistent
Noble is second with 48, the same as in all matches;
Trumble and Trumper follow with 44 each, whilst Billowel
brings up the rear in both batting and bowling, with
averages of 3 and 37 respectively.
* • * •
The damage to Lilley’s hand in the Midland
Counties match was bad luck for the Australians, after
all. It can be taken for granted that the “England”
wicket-keeper got instructions to nurse his hand, likewise
he would he advised to look not upon the beer when it is
foaming—if he is a beer consumer, like most oth>-r pros.
Anyway, Lilley came up to the test-match in first-rate
batting form —partly, it may be, through his enforced
rest.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin’. — Every cricket scribe here-
abouts has harped on the fact that Australia would have
won the first test if somebody hadn’t missed Ranji in
the field before he got set. The “draw ” was very “bad
luck ” for the Australians, considering that said Ranji
ought to have been caught, we were told. Will the same
scribes refer again and again to the “ lets off ” of Worrall,
Trumper, and Darling in the fourth test-match? They
“ought” to have been out when they had scored 1,0,
and 3 respectively, yet their aggregate score was 155.
In reports of the same innings, where these mistakes
cost England 151 runs, we find it stated that “the score
was quickly taken to 255, when a serious mishap be'fel
the A ustralians, Noble being held by Hearne off a ball
hit back to him.” Surely it is time that partisans of
either side ceased to talk of luck in the matter of catches 1
Each side in turn makes as many runs as it can against
the other side’s at tack, and the fielding is part of the
attack. When a batsman is missed in the field the attack
is at fault, and any runs which he may happen to make
afterwards are fairly credited to his side and debited to
the other. Who can say how much “good luck” is
included in the composition of a long, “ faultless
innings?” Circumstances conspire to give the batsman
confidence ; the balls that beat him don't hit his wicket;
he gets more than an ordinary share of badly-pit.ched
ones ; finally, he is dismissed by the one fatal ball which
might have settled him for a “duck ” if it had come along
three hours earlier.— General Average.
* * » *
“Jonah” Ranji has done it again for the All
Englanders. He’s a shadow on their path, an omen of
non-success, an un-Hinglish institution, a man to he
avoided. Ranji has now p'ayed ten times for A.E. versus
Australia, and nine times out of the ten they haven’t, won.
Also two famous veteran representative players, one on
either s'de, have lost their reason since they came into
contact with the brown gentleman. He's as disastrous
as the Curse of Deeming.
• * * •
When the first English suggestion of Blanrl or
Bradley as a “representative” fast bowler was cabled
over the names looked ridiculous on last season's form.
It now appears Bland captured all ten wickets against
Kent, and this despite the fact that he was taken off in the
middle of his success, Ranjitdnhji and others having a
turn with the ball meanwhile. Perhaps Bland will be
substituted for Bradley in the final test, which follows
the Australia v. Kent match.
« * * ' *
Still harping on the subject of drawn games.
Grace’s eleven, at the Crystal Palace grounds, won the
toss, and scored 358 runs the first day. Next day they
added 73 to their score, and the Australians followed
with 189 for four wickets. Total number of runs for the
second day—262. Do the Australians play bold cricket,
or do they play against Time as long as they are in any
danger of getting beaten ?
• * • *
Before Trumper started on the English tour,
Australians thought that, allowing the youngster did
nothing phenomenal in the big matches, he would he
sure to repeat his big club scores in the matches against
the weak counties. Strange to say, with one exception,
his greatest successes have been in the big matches. The
exception was his 104 against Gloucester.
Dear Bulletin. — Now that three out of four
test-matches have ended in smoke, and poor old W. G.
Grace has been blamed by Australian partisans for “ de-
liberately playing for a draw” in the first game of the
series, it is time to have another look at the English
system of a three days' limit, criticising it from the
maker’s point of view. The second of these drawn test-
matches would have been easily settled within three days
hut for the weather. Australia scored 172, then England
(battim--one man short) scored 220; Australia made 224
in the second innings, and England got 20 odd runs, leav-
ing some 150 to be made on the third day. The wicket
was unplayable next day and the match had to be aban-
doned It was drawn in favor of England, judging by the
figures up to that point. Unsatisfactory for Maclaren
and co. to lose the chance of winning on a decent wicket,
hut would it have been satisfactory to postpone the play
until thesoddened wicket was fit for the Englishmen to
get beaten on ? The draw, under those ciros., was the
more sportsmanlike ending. The first test-match pro-
duced a draw as the result of Australian tactics. Darling
won the toss, the wicket was good, and his side made
238 runs for eight wickets on the first day. Next day
they increased the total to 252, and the Englishmen went
in with no prospect of winning 'unless they' played a fast
game. They tried to force the runs, and they got out for
11)3. Then the Australians went in again, masters of the
situation, and declared their innings closed (230 for eight-
wickets) at a time which left the Englishmen a choice
between batting recklessly to win or playing carefully for
a draw. Grace, who was captain on that occasion, seems
to have instructed the team to go slow —not as slow as
the Australians had gone on the first day, but slow enough
to defeat Darling’s scheme. As a matter of fact, though
the Englishman (thanks to Ranji) gained their end with-
out- making the game absurdly tedious, they scored 155
for 7 wickets, in the three hours (or less) granted them
by Darling. 825 runs were scored during the match, the
Englishmen, morally beaten on their merits, were not
actually beaten inasmuch as there wasn’t time for them
to lose three more wickets. The Australians had been
too slow over their part of the job. Was the “ draw”
very unsatisfactory to anybody who wants lively cricket
for his money? In the fourth test (also drawn) the
Englishmen won the toss and scored 372 runs on the first
day, with about half-an-hour to spare. Next day the
Australians had the wicket to themselves with a “ follow
on.” There was an interval between the innings, as on
the previous day, and they made 337 runs altogether -35
less than the Englishmen had made in exactly the same
time. Next day the Australians played a contemptibly'
tricky game. They st.on-walled the bowling—the bowl-
ing which had lost its enthusiasm—whilst the crowd
whistled “ Dead March in Saul.” When Darling's side
had scraped another 204 runs together, and 7 wickets
were down in the second innings, he declared it
closed, offering the Englishmen the temptation
to play wildly. There was about an hour and
a quarter (one supposes) left for play, and the English-
men had 165 runs to get. “ Maclaren determined
to make as good an effort as possible, and therefore in-
structed the batsmen to force runs,” says the cable. They
couldn’t forc» more than 94 runs in the time, so the game
was drawn. This third day’s play, even with the assist-
ance of the Englishmen’s spurt, produced only 298 runs.
Unsatisfactory that they couldn’t triumph over Darling’s
facties, yet not unsatisfactory that the “draw” in this
case should serve to bring the system of slow batting into
further unpopularity with the crowd that pays the piper.
Were two good bowling and fielding teams opposed, on
even the best of English wickets, the game could be won
and lost, m 9 cases out of 19, if both sides played a
dashing game with the bat. When rain brings the game
to a standstill, it is fairest for both sides, taking one
case with another, that, a “draw” should result-. And
inasmuch as England is a pretty wet place, the three
days’ limit for matches is a satisfactory rule. If the Aus-
tralians don’t like it let them arrange for victory to rest
with the side that scores the bigger first innings when
the match can’t be played out. In the four test games
this season the first innings result has been a reliable test
of the teams’ relative merits every time. Each team
deserved to win the two games in which it held the ad-
vantage at “half-time.” —Britisher.
* * * *
Melbourne Nickey Peach and Essler (“the
Kaffir), supplied a great baltle at Golden Gate A.C.
(Sydnev) Saturday night. Match said to be for “feather
championship,” but as much haggling occurred in the
ring on the question of weight (Peach was charged with
exceeding limit and looked it, and club undertook to pay
“the Kaffir” 15 in consequence), championship could not
be involved. 800 people paid increased charges, and
filled every inch of the hall. Pace fast and furious, and
thumps savage and severe from “time.” Each brought
tiger-like ferocity to bear in his work, though no mean
advantage was taken. The crowd screeched with excite-
ment-worked itself up to snapping tension. “The
Kaffir” was very open—a straight left would have jabbed
all go out of him, as he’d stop it every time with face or
stomach as the case might be ; but Peach would swing,
and rarely sent in a straight left, though when he did
it brought disaster to the ink-hued target. On the other
hand, had the “ Kaffir” known how to stop and counter
well the money would have been his quickly, for every
time Peach shot out the left he followed quickly with the
right. There was no championship form about either’s
fighting. Once they came together with a great crash,
and the blood welled from a deep gash over Peach s left
eyebrow ever afterwards. Bv-and-bye the optic began
to close through swelling, but one of the seconds (ugh !)
sucked it. Frequently each roughed his opponent to the
boards or ropes, but no fair knock-down occurred till
round 14, when Peach, after landing a smashing left
swing on the throat, shaking Ess er from head to heel,
followed up with another full of vim that settled the
business, though the “Kaffir,” grit to the core, tried to
stem the tide.
* * * •
“Old Timer”: The Peach-“ Kaffir ” battle at
Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) on Sat. night last was hot from
the jump, and both lads game as they make ’em. Peach was
much too strong and heavy for the black, but the latter
long held his own and looked like winning once or twice.
Spectators were greatly prejudiced against the colored
man, for no other reason ti an that he ivas colored, as a
better-behaved lad never put up hands. As showing the
peculiar ideas of rules and how to conduct a fight some
referees have, I may mention that in the 9th round, and
while the black was getting worsted, his second, wily
old Jim Barron, sought permission to tie the Kaffir’s
shoe-lace, which had got loose. Referee allowed it, and
Jim didn’t hurry over the job ; the spell proved a god-
send. Have often seen referee at G.G.A.O. permit a man
to stand or sit in his corner while a loose glove-string was
being adjusted during progress of a round. Have also
been much amused at same official’s notion of what con-
stitutes a clinch.
* * * *
The Conlon-Goggin fight at Wyalong (N.S.W.),
20th inst., drew a bigger crowd than had ever been seen
there. Miners ready to plank their last dollar on local
idol, Jack Goggin, found few takers, though odds of 6 to 4
and 2tolon in some instances were offered. The Syd-
neyite’s backers didn’t face the music beyond the £lOO
stake-money. Conlon owned the fight from the word
“ go,” but Goggin, weak at the knees, nearly fluked him
in round two—sent a smashing swing home on the point,
and dazed the recipient who went star-gazing, and got
up silly, but managed to elude further trouble till
“corners.” Next 3min. saw Conlon fresh again and
bashing away vigorously, knocking his man from ner-
pendieular to horizontal as fast as he stood up. Ulti-
mately referee interposed and gave Conlon the fight.
Had Conlon’s backers been game they might have won a
pile, for the miners proposed emptying-out on their
favorite, over whose defeat, ’tis said, some actually shed
tears. Conlon fights Mick Dunn for N.S.W. middle-
weight championship early next month, and winner will
probahly meet Tim Murphy (Melb.) who'll give either a
hot time.
* * • ’ f
Seven-footer Pete Felix, who claims to be the
champion pug of Australia to-da.v, was recently chal-
lenged by the hurricane 101st. Tim Murphy. Murphy was
forced in desperation to throw out a deli. to the darkey,
as there was nobody else willing to take him on. Felix,
however, calmly regards the comparatively-diminutive
Murphy with an air of contempt from his lofty altitude,
and demands that he shall have a “ reputation ” first.
Surely the reputation of fighting everv man who comes
along in his province ought to be enough !
* * * •
Geo. Atkinson, who tried to fight “Tot”
Iliggins in Melb. on Saturday night, is a statue-like ten-
stoner—as handsome a vourig fellow as ever got a black
eye. He is strong, plucky, and willing, but will never
make a pug. ; despite the frequent hits he landed on bis
opponent, the latter had the fight won from the shake-
hands. Atkinson wastes much strength in unnecessary
feinting and dodging, fights flat-footed, and has no get-
away. In the llt.h round, a left swing got home, and
Atkinson didn't open his eyes until a full 2min. after
being counted-out.
* * * *
A recent Bulletin par referred to Harry
Sallars, the veteran black pugilist, as if he were still on
deck ; whereas the old man passed out at Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum nearly 13 years ago.
» * • »
A promising three-year-old seen at Rosehill on
Saturday was Meribah, who calmly helped himself to the
Maid- n Race. He i 3 bv Realm from Miriam, and is thus
a half-brother to Sam Hordern’s grand little mare Mirella,
and is much like her—only bigger.
Young “ Bill ” Kelso snared a profitable double
at Rosehill with Amourette and the ancient Robinson
Crusoe gelding—The Captain. For the Australian Han-
dicap the old roan nag Surprise was made favorite on the
strength of a record-gallop, whilst pots of coin went on
Djin Djin and Whakawatea ; but. the black mare, starting
at I6’s, couldn’t go slow enough, and got home before the
pony Djin Djin, with Virginius, another outsider, third.
Both of the old stasrers, Whakawatea and Surprise, got
lost in the crush. The Captain won liosehill Handicap
with his head in the air.
* * * •
For Sydney, Saturday’s hurdle-race at Rosehill
was a first-class event, four nags being well backed, and
the first three finishing within a few lengths of each
other. The sturdy little black mare, Ladylike, repealed
her performance on the same track of a few weeks back,
and easily downed the bottled-up Bertie with short-
tailed old Honeydew 11. a good third with 12st. up.
“Bill ” Kelso’s Murrabrine was, for some unknow n reason,
made favorite, but didn’t run well enough to give him a
chance of winning even a Sydney hurdle-race. All the
same, he probably will win one.
* » * *
“Ware Hawk”: See by dailies that Ikey has
again got hold of the large ear of the gullible turf writer
and through him is booming certain horses into promin-
ence for Caulfield and Melb. Cups by announcing that
they have already been largely supported. This business
should be sufficiently transparent for the bulk of punters,
especially after previous experiences. It’s not Ikey’s
game to put the public on to a legitimately-backed thing
—-he wants to lay something that isn’t in demand by the
right people. The reported backing of Iramoo for the
recent G.N. Hurdles, and Forest for Caulfield Cup are
cases in point already. Big lumps were said to have gone
on the latter—who is going to India within a day or two,
if he is not already on his way there. Lancaster also,
said to have been heavily invested upon for Caulfield and
Melb. Cups, started favorite and ran behind eight or nine
others in Caulfield 2-year-old race last Saturday.
* » * *
Corowa (N.S.W.) racing club is kicking vigor-
ously, and getting other country clubs into line,
against the A.J.C.’s proposed new regulations. Through
getting nothing in return and receiving absolutely no
consideration whatever, they won’t pay the guinea to be
demanded yearly' for registration. The rule that, when
the prize for a hurdle race does not exceed £101), £TO
shall be paid for a winning mount, is treated as the richest
of jokes in light of the fact that more often than not the
prize for a country hurdle-race is under tlO; but writer
has ascertained that an attempt will be made to have the
operation of this regulation restricted to the metropolitan
area—the puerility' of the thing having become apparent
to one of the committee. Corowa club is arranging a
meeting of delegates from all country race clubs to con-
sider matters mentioned, as well as several reforms—non-
registration of meetings providing less than £5O a-day
added money', an expert inspection of all registered
comses, appointment of stipendiary stewards to report
upon and inquire into all matters appertaining to
racing, &c.
* * * *
Cabled that Australasian champion-swimmer
Fred Lane swam second to record breaker Jarvis in Eng.
880yds. championship, at Brighton (Eng.). Winner’s
time, 12min. 48 3-ssec.; Lane’s, 13.2 ; latter led by a foot
at 500, but stopped several times afterwards. The despe-
rate struggle in first half probably' hroke Lane up, but
he’ll do better as he gets down to the changed conditions,
and may be relied upon to show up well at distances
under 500yds.
* » * *
Mr. Mark Foy’s new Donnelly boat, the
Southern Cross, built on En. lish lines with the object of
meeting the Maid of Kent in England, sailed a trial last
Saturday in Port Jackson with the typical Port Jackson
22-footer Keriki. The wind was light, and Sydney boat-
ing men were not altogether displeased when the Keriki
fairly ran away from the British model. If the Keriki re-
peats the performance in a breeze, it is to be hoped Mr.
Foy will change his mind,and send an Australian model to
England to compete for English honors. Mr. Foy may have
made a mistake when he accepted the defeat of the old-
time ill-sailed Irex as indicative of the inferiority of the
Australian 22-footer to the English 24-ft. scow.
* * * *
We are requested to inform Bulletin readers
that the management of the Sydney Safe Deposit (in Ash-
street, back of Paling’s, Sydney) have decided, with a
view to popularising the use of the safes, to offer a special
discount of 25 per cent, to persons paying rent for two
years in advance. At present the annual rents in advance
are from two to six guineas, and the new system will
have the effect of reducing the rents to from to 4J
guineas. It has also been decided to lease safes at from
15s. per quarter and 255. per half year, a further innova-
tion.*
(Continued on page 31).


The “ Lovers' Encyclopedia” advertised
in this issue claims to be a sort of “ lovers vade
mecum,” and to assist the bashful in the art of
wooing. The published price of the book is 2s. Gd.
The Massey-Harris Company, Limited, of
Toronto, Canada, are evidently not feeling the pinch of
hard times, if we are to judge hy the extensions they are
making to their already very large warehouses at Broad-
way, where they have located their N.S.W. Branch.
Their present warehouses are filled to (heir utmost,
capacity with every description of implements for both
tillage and harvesting purposes, but they have found it
necessary recently to lease a plot of land covering
20(1 x 100 feet, immediately behind their present ware-
houses, and have built large bulk warehouses, black-
smith ruirl machine shop's, and other buildings necessary
for their growing trade. Tli y advertise themselves as
the largest manufacturers of implements under the
British 'flag, and if all their branch houses in different
parts of the world carry the stock and do the business
credited to the N.S.W. Branch, we can quite understand
their proud boast. They believe in the old truism that
“ you cannot sell.goods unless you have them in stock,”
and a visit to their warehouses would convince the most
sceptical that they not only preach but act.
the triple Fork Crown
OF THE
MASSEY -HAEKIS
Bicycle
affords all necessary strength at a vital
point, and is a distinctive feature which
imparts added value and security to the
machine.
One Grade Only—
That the Highest!
MaSScy-Narris Co., Ltd.,
Toronto, Canada.
N.S.W. Branch—33s GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Strand Arcade).
The present position of Messrs. Wise
and See in re their sponsorship of John
Norton on his election to N.S.W. Assembly
and on the eve of his venting utterly abor-
tive charges of corruption against the Pre-
mier, recalls that of an individual sued for
affiliation at Balmain police court some years ago.
He said that before his illegitimate child was born
he felt ready to maintain it, but that the little
beggar when it came to light turned out to be so
darned ugly that he didn’t feel justified in spend-
ing any money on it.
Tommy Walker, opposing the Constitution
Bill in Perth: “Because a dog’s kennel was
offerer! to them they were not bound to crawl into
it. They -wanted Federation that would be wor-
thy of a great people.” Yet this is the i homas
Walker who sought and begged for a Federal
nomination at last N.S.W. general election ; the
man who, beinsf offered the most outside chance
of a seat as a Federal M.P., hustled all he knew
to crawl into it. It is also the Thomas Walker
who proclaimed this as the most democratic Con-
stitution ever offered, and who fought an election
on that basis. Perth Morning Herald, which
reports Walker at five-column length, is invited
also to report his speeches on the same provisions
as Federal candidate for bturt (N.S.W.).
‘ ‘ Imperial ’ ’ Bicycles
(TIIE GO-LTG FITLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
DEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
JT. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
Missing Friends.
THOMAS FLETCHER.
TNFORMATION is wanted about this person, who, if
I living, is entitled to a sum of money under the will
of his father, who died in England upwards of twenty
years ago. .
In or about the year 1830, Thomas Fletcher was living
in the neighborhood of Mount Cornish, Aramac, whence
lie communicated with his relatives in England, and in
the year 1886 he was heard of at Croydon.
Any information as to the present whereabouts of the
said Thomas Fletcher if living, or particulars of his death
if dead, will he thankfully received, and a suitable reward
given on behalf of his relatives by
MARSLAND, JARVIS & CO., Solicitors,
Gill-street,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
ONE HUNDRED AND SECOND HALF-YEARLY REPORT
OF THE
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney,
Limited-
Presented to the Shareholders at an General Meeting; held at the Banking House, Qeorge-street, S3'dney, on
Friday, the 21st July, 1899.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
30th June, 1899, and present the following Report.
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, reduci lg premises account, paying note tax, and providing for land and income
taxes and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to ... .... ... ... ••• ••• £59,020 12 7
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 8 per cent, per
annum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... £40,000 0 0
~ Balance being undivided Profit ... ... ... 19,020 12 7 £59,020 12 7
During the Half-year a Branch has been established in Pitt Street North, near the Exchange.
This Meeting is'called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the Articles of
Association, of 0. J. Cotmx, Esq., who is eligible for re-election, and lias given the requisite notice that he is a
candidate for the office. It also rests with the meeting to appoint Auditors for the ensuing year.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable. , ~
EDWARD KNOX, Ciiairjian.
DR. LTABILITTES and. ASSETS. CR.
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 30th JUNE BY CABLE.)
£
To Capital £1,<100,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Capital ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
„ N r les in Circulation
i, Hills in Circulation
„ deposits and oilier liabilities
~ Protii and Loss Account
s. d.
2,010,000 0 0
393,041 0 0
776,044 13 11
10,267,446 8 3
64,722 16 8
£13,516,254 18 10
£ a. d .
By Coin and bullion in
‘ hand £1,975,778 12 9
„ Cash at Bankers ... 424,152 18 10
~ Government secur-
ities 1,281,731 7 9
„ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes ... 41,648 0 0
„ Remittances in
transit ... ... 600,538 12 10
~ Notes and bills of
other banks ... 26,896 18 3
4,350,746 8 5
Bills discounted, and all debts due
to the Bank 8,747,826 10 5
„ Bank premises, furniture, &C. ... 417,682 0 0
£13,516,254 IS 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Itchate on current bills
„ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the
rate of 8 per cent, per annum
„ Balance of undivided profit carried
to next Half-year
£5,702 4 1
40,000 0 0
19,020 12 7
£01,722 16 8
£16,081 3 0
48,041 13 8
By Amount undivided from last half-
vear
~ Profit Half-year ended 30th June,
1599
£04,722 10 8
RESERVE FUND.
IS9D—June 30th £1,010,000 0 0
EDWARD KNOX, Chairmen.
T. A. DIBBSi, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, 7th July, ISO!).
\Ye hereby certify that we have examined the hills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in
the Head Office of THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OE SYDNEY LIMITED, and have compared the
returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance-sheet.
E. S. CAPE, 1 » n j ifnr .
F. T. HUMPHERY, f Audltors -
The following resolutions were carried unanimously : .
“That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated
among the Proprietors.”
“That C. J. COHEN, Esq., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
“That the Honorable K. T. HUMPHERY, M.L.C., and J. DE V. LAMB, Esq., be appointed Auditors for
the ensuing year.” , „ . ,
‘That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of
the Bank for their very satisfactor\ r management of the affairs of the institution.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Sir Edward Knox, said :
“The Balance Sheet which the Directors to-day have the pleasure to present shows, when contrasted with that
and in Deposits £332,000, and is represented on the other side of the account by an addition of £492,000 to Liquid
As ets(Coin. Cash Balances, Government Securities, &c.), and by £154.000 extension of Advances. What I have said
clearly shows that, the Bank has not only maintained its business, but has made steady ptogress during the past year.
‘The general prospects of the Colony appear to me more encouraging than at anytime during the past four
years. The enhanced prices of wool must be cheering to our Pastoralists, who during the recent seasons of drought
have suffered greatly by the decrease in their flocks ; I refer particularly to the Graziers in the central and western
divisions of the Colon vi and it is to be hoped that the Government, in dealing with the 1 eases-am oil n ting to many
millions of acres—that fall due next year, will take as broad and as liberal a view as possible, and give the present
leaseholders a large portion of the areas they occupy on easy terms and for a fixed tenure.
“ The copious coastal rains of last month must greatly assist our Farmers both north and south of. Sydney, and l
am informed by our Country Inspectors that the lighter rains that have extended over the wheat-growing districts
in the west and south-west have done much good, and give promise of an abundant harvest.”
18
ii
m
ffRFEOI
V a
>
THEE
PERFECT BNcle
as the name implies, has no superior.
Tlie DOMINION
affords the best value at a low price.
S3T APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
PRANK GRIMLEY,
(Sole Distributing Agent for Australasia)
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
JBicy cles, /X ccessorie a, a n cl. Materials,
263-2G5 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Important to Parties Fvjmshingf!
,♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers . . .
tar Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manu factory, or from our Sydney Worl<s._ Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL'S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack aud forward COUNTRY ORDERS free,
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL'S give Value for Value—2os. for the £.
HALL'S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
POTTED MEATS.
(Assorted kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 40ZS.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, UMITEB,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Publications.
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, 6 vols., £4 for £1 ; The Home
' Physician, £2 TOsforlTsGd ; Universal Instructor, £1 15s
for 15s; Webster’s Household Dictionary, 25s for 10s. I
! have the largest stock of Second hand Books in N.S.
Wales. Write for Catalogues. I have also three Choice
Books Is 6d each, or three for 4s. Can only be procured
by Post ; all Book sent post free.
R. W SKINNER. Second-hand Book Arcade,
105 Castiereagh-street, SYDNEY. Telephone 3043.
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1*99.
i, j, milleh's srume pamphlet
And Athletic Record.
Price la. All Booksellers and Newsagents.
CUNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOR THEE”
Words by Edward Oxf.xford ; Music by E. J.
Emmerton. In Three Keys—E flat, F, and G.
Of all Music Dealers. W. PAXTON, London
and Melbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” P-F.
By Willie Pape. Played by special command of
their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
"pENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
•CL and PIANO. “ Martha,” “ Robert le Diahle,”
“Crown Diamonds.” “Lnciezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masnhera,” “II Trova-
tore.” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. Cd. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, curious,
and laughable books.
fW As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard-
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
mm
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor . - GEO. W. ELLIS.
6 6- A Watch and Chain for Q/Q.
I
To ever}' purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on pay-
ment of 4/- extra,
an Open-Face Key-
less Watch (as illus-
trated)' which we
guarantee.
There are no Con-
ditions or Guessing
about this Watch.
We send the Watch and Chain registered (any colony) on
receipt of Postal Note for 6 6 and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our Price List, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beautiftsl
Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,


DID YOU EVER
SEE A SNOWSTORM
IN SUMMER?
We never did : but we have
seen the clothing at this time
of the year so covered with
dandruff that it looked as if
it had been out in a regular
snowstorm.
No need of this snowstorm.
As the summer sun would melt the
falling snow, so will
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
melt these flakes of dandruff in the scalp.
It goes further than this : it prevents their
formation.
It has still other properties: it will restore
color to gray hair in just ten out of every
ten cases.
And it does even more: it feeds and nour-
ishes the roots of the hair. Thin hair be-
comes thick hair; and short hair becomes
long hair.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE FINEST TONIC
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingili. constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and intereating
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/! has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
SOW) BY CHEMISTS Alt. THE WOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
'T'el/'V
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
■ Dear Bulletin.— Curious that hardly a
week passes now but a Chinaman is “up” for
cruelty to his horse. The Chinky’s moke used to
be the best treated of all.—Stall.
At Brunswick (Victoria) Court. Two little
boys charged. Constable Maloney (loq.) : “The
father of thim bhoys was a liar—killed himself
wid dhrink. ” Attorney: “ What do you mean
by a liar ? ” Const. M. : “ Sure the same as yer-
self, sorr 1 ”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
“ H.J.” : It was at Sydney Labor Bureau,
in the bitter, dreary days when Govt, was feeding
some thousands of families in return for sand-
shifting at Centennial Park. A haggard, timid-
faced woman, with an infant in her arms, crept
into the office, and, in a husky voice, inquired,
“Can yer give me anything to eat, and a tin o
milk for the babby ? I’ve none for it." We sent
her in to the Boss. There was a bad report
against her, for having obtained two supplies of
rations in one week (Heaven knows, it was little
enough), and the Boss looked at her severely,
sniffed once or twice,:and then propounded a dif-
ficult problem : “ Did you have anything to eat
yesterday ? ” “Yes,” said the woman, “ a loaf o’
dry bread.” “How did you get that?” asked
the Boss. “ Got it on trust from the baker.” “If
you got one yesterday, can’t you get another
to-day ? I can do nothing for you in the
face of this report. The Benevolent might !
Show her out! ” As she was going out she
hvlf-turned, and then shut her teeth and walked
away. Ten minutes later, the struggling, cursing
crowd of men at the ticket-window, suddenly
divided to the cry of, “ Mike, let the leddy parss.”
And the same woman put her pinched face against
the window and asked for a ticket for the Park.
“ You can’t shift sand ! ” said the clerk. “ God
help me, I must,” said the woman. The clerk
thought hard. “ I can’t give YOU a ticket,” he
said, looking over the men suggestively. A man
whose face was covered with,tufts of red, shaggy
hair stuck his face against the window and
whined “ You never gave me mine, mister.” The
clerk didn't contradict him ; he hastily put the
useful, non-committal name of “J. Smith” on a
ticket and passed it out. There was a faint
cheer, the woman vanished, and the crowd closed
round the window, and the work went on. Next
day we heard that the woman had presented her-
self at the Park, tendered her ticket, and de-
manded a shovel. The clerk in charge hesitated.
“ You can’t refuse : I’ve got the ticket—me hus-
band’s ticket, an’ he’s sick in bed,” said the woman
excitedly, hugging her infant furiously. The
clerk gave way, the woman seized a shovel,
marched off, put her infant down, and took her
place beside a barrow. The ganger’s whistle
blew, the woman stuck her shovel into the dust
bravely and was starting on her weary job of shift-
ing sand—sand—sand, when the hatless clerk
dashed up : “ Woman, give me that ticket.” And
he snatched the ticket and marked it 11 hours
completed. “Go an’ get your rations ; and God
curse the ill-luck that sends a woman to a job like
this ! ” And the woman smiled faintly, gathered
up her baby, and staggered off towards Oxford-
street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. OT all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •- ELLIOTT BUGS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
cRAHC
8c F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
SOAP MAZERS,,
BY
Special Appointment <
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO PJbJJT'Y COMPETITION.
WINES 37,8 “ 3S £T* 0) SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
• x fsr ivrr-r X s JtT2axi OidVCE
‘(aajiiwi'i)
SMELTERS.
• • • •
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
v'V :
7—l
m i
lf§| ::
■
■
: 1
I
'
Hi
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW,ARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbekg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
"jßenger’s Food is sold in various sized"
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Bouses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


Hht RaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfalii)€ Herbal RcnjcdicS.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual titan ever.
gave been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPEGTAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
'■
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O'SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor’’—sent free.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful ease of nervousness of
twenty-two rears’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor”—sent free.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, TIIOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Howto obtain Free Book, “The Natural Doctor.”
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
a
m
m
m
s>‘‘=
fell!
I: 3£,TT;
This FREE BOOR
contains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
A LFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening- the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •'
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned againsf
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
- • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
~AIj aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmilSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus •
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
APVK€ FREE.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDTMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, m the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also . nred my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true. . -
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
For further testimonials, see my new book, “The
Natural Doctor”—sent free.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most, effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinrls of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, • onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and mouslaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant, to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 65."
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children arid Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing, powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
assmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST.,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154; Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z /WELLINGTON 91 Lamb ton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


HITT!
cmnofioiE
[Continued from last week],
TO MAKE a Selection of Records from the
Catalogue requires a considerable amount of
thought, and, for the purpose of assisting would-
be purchasers, I am willing at all times to give the
benefit of my experience. Some purchasers have
a tendency to buy only those records they like
themselves; but, whereas one of the principal
objects of buying a
GRAMOPHONE
is to entertain one’s friends, it is essential to have
a variety of performers represented. Paris Cham-
bers on the Cornet gives some excellent represen-
tations of his great ability, and Arthur Pryor on
the Trombone is unique. The clear and sharp in-
terpretation of popular airs on the Xylophone by
Chas. P. Lowe stand out as unrivalled productions
of mechanical art. Shut your eyes and listen ;
then you will imagine the performer is present in
person. Set the instrument going in a distant
room of a house, start a popular song, and all
within a quarter-of-a-mile will flock to hear who
the new man or woman is that has come into the
locality.
Do not wait any longer; write to the under-
signed for full particulars and prices of the
GRAMOPHONE and RECORDS.
1. P. S9KES
227 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If naturelms not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts. The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w II- supply the art.
To love is to wisi Ito possess. You can, the know'edge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It Considers the whole subject from .the time you
tneet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashtulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that, you can find dailv use for. 2s. (3d. (stamps. 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and -incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo* Ameipcan I'udi.ishino
< 0.. Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
the Broftsb Co.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF
“The !F*hv aician..”
MONDAY, July 31-THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY.
PRICES—6s., 3s„ Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
Powerful and Popular Dramatic Company, in
THE NEW AND BRIGHT SENSATIONAL DRAMA,
OUR NATIVE HOME.
Box Plan at Nicholson's. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
mOWN HALL, SYDNEY. 1/- “POPS.”
■*" Every SATURDAY Evening, at 8 o’clock.
Every WEDNESDAY Afternoon, at 3 o’clock.
THE SUCCESS OF THE YEAR!
| NEWBURY-SPADA 1/- • , POPS. ,, |
And Last Appearances of
lIERIt ALBERT FRIEDENTIIAL.
A Reserved Seat at Paling’s for ONE SHILLING.
Manager ... Archibald Nkwbcry.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mtisgrove.
Bus. Manager, Ueo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS !
“Tb« Belle of New York.”
SATURDAY, July 29th, First Time in Sydney,
TH E KISU’S MUSKET EE It.
By' Henry Hamilton, founded on Dumas’ Great Romance,
“The Three Musketeers.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
TN€ “€ARL” WALTZ.
Dedicated, by Special Permission to his
Excellency Earl Beauchamp.
By Montague Younger, Junr.
Played by De Groen’s V.R. Band.
NOW being Published by PALING and CO.
£1 RITE It lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. M. B. CURTIS.
4th WEEK! 4th WEEK! 4th WEEK!
of M. B. CUR I TS’
Afro- America & MiQStrelS.
Headed by
. Ernest Hogan, the Unbleached American.
POPULAR PRICES OF ADMISSION :
Dress Circle, Stalls, 2s 6d; Stalls, 2s; Family
Circle, Is Cd; Gallery, is.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday. Admission to all
Parts Half-price. Seats may be Reserved at the Theatre.
LIONEL SOLOMON, Representative.
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED,
THIRTEENTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT,
TO 30th JUNE, 1899,
To be submitted to the Shareholders at the GENERAL MEETING to be Held at NOON
on TUESDAY, Ist AUGUST, 1899.
The board of management submit their thirteenth report to the shareholders of the bank, together with the
balance-sheet, for the half-year ending 30th June, 1899, duly certified by the auditors in the forms prescribed by the
Companies Act .
Balance of undivided profit on 31st December, 1898 ... ... ... ... £20,030 19 1
Net profit for the past half-year ... ... ... ... ... ... §7.537 j 7
Together... ... ... ... ... ... ..,
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows :
To dividend on preference shares at 5 per cent, per annum... ... £10,419 0 0
To balance carried forward to next half-year ... ... ... 37,249 0 8
£47,608 0 8
£47,663 0 8
The deferred deposits of the bank were reduced by £500,000 on 13th March. This payment leaves a sum of
£1,056,000 to be still dealt with, one-half of which, as already notified to depositors, will bo paid on 12th September
next.
The dividend on preference shares will be payable in Melbourne on and after the 2nd August, and at the branches
tnd in London on receipt of advices.
The transfer-books of the company will be clcsed from the 19th inst. to the Ist August, both days inclusive.
EDWARD MILLER, Chairman.
„ , . J. D. LAW. General Manager.
The Bank of Victoria Limited, Melbourne, 13th July, 1899.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK OF VICTORIA,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1899. (INCLUDING LONDON
BRANCH TO loth MAY, 1899.)
£ a. d.
Dr. £ s. d.
To proprietors’ capital, viz.
41,676 preference shares paid in cash
to £lO 416,760 0 0
240,000 ordinary shares
paid up to £2 10s.
per share 600,000 0 0
Amount of calls actu-
ally paid in cash ... 639,629 15 7
1,139,629 15 7
Less 27,750 shares for-
feited 79,583 18 0
s. d.
£ a. d.
Or. JB
By coined gold and silver
and other coined
nieeai .. i ... 674,696 6 3
~ Gd!d and silver in-btri-
lion and bar 48,594 10 10
„ Cash at bankers’ ... 98,078 11 4
~ Government, munici-
pal, and other public
stocks and funds, and
other debentures ... 237,680 0 0
~ Bills and remittances
in transit 369,844 13 7
„ Notesand bills of other
banks ... . 67,323 15 0
~ Balances due from
other banks 33,783 15 2
„ Stamps 2,058 6 1
~ Real estate, consisting- of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank
~ Other real estate, at cost to bank, less
£29,776 ss. 2d., written off
„ Shares in other companies
~ Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
~ Bills of exchange and promissory
notes discounted, not included
above, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
„ Liabilities of customers and others
in respect of contingent liabilities,
as per contra ...
1,576,669 17 3
239,489 1 3
219,091 1 11
4,061 13 2
4,530,718 12 3
552,082 16 0
113,740 6 7
£7,235,553 8 5
PROFIT AND LOSS
To Current Expenses—Head office and
sixty-one branches and one sub-branch
To bank-note tax
To balance
£34,721 6 8
3,225 2 10
47,C0S 0 8
£83,614 9 2
Which the directors propose to ap-
portion as follows
To dividend on preference shares, at five
per cent, per annum ... ... 10,419 0 0
To balance carried forward to next half-
year ... ... ... ... 37,249 0 8
£47,668 0 8
By balance from 31st December, IS9B .... £20,030 19 1
By gross profits for the half-year ending
30 June, 1890, after deductin'.? all in-
terest paid or due to customers, and
rebating bills current, and providing
for bad and doubtful debts... ... 63.553 10 1
£47,668 0 8
RESERVE FUND.
To balance carried forward
... £70,000 0 0
£70,000 0 0
By balance from 31st December, 1898 ... £60,000 0 0
By transfer from profit and loss account 20,000 0 0
470,000 0 0
Amusements.
TI VO L T THEATUR, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
WONDERFUL SUCCESS OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
VIRTO and Miss IRENE.
Bessie—VALDAßES—James. Mr. R. H. DOUGLAS.
Little Fanny Powers, George 0. Dean, Harry Shine,
Keenan Bros., Howard Chambers, Stella Ranger, Neva
Carr Glynn, Violet Bishop, Jas. Mooney, Ida Holbein,
CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
Mr- Paul Pelham- Manuel Woodson-
The Three Keziahs.
Thos. and Lilly English.
Sory and Austin- Bellman and Moore-
WILL WHITBURN, and all our Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, July 28, LAST NIGHT of
“ Straight from the Heart.”
SATURDAY, July 29, First Time in Australia,
The War of Wealth.
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane andC. T. Dazey.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan's.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSEXS.
INHIBITION BUILDIXQ, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
TnE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children-SIXPENCE. I
RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsorovb.
SATURDAY, July 29, inauguration of Hoyt and M'Kee’s
Company, headed by the Favorite American Comedian,
Mr. HARRY CONOR.
Grand Revival of the merry trifle, written by C. H. Hoyt,
A Trip to CbiOatowp.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Amnsementa.
■J»OWN HALL, MRLnoUKNR “
„„ ... *•
GLASGOW AND BOON WE WATTER *
&r Mr. John fuSTfr-q Da "™-
NEW I 'VICTURKS [’ the I,o^larl KnsishTeni PANY -
„ 3s-™S“ bi
Plan at Glen's. Booking Fee, IB. AUT STS *
HALL, MELBOURNE
“ E, ‘ r SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o'Coct).
S?l)«r«k’6 Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES 2s. and ONF
See Daily Papers. Box Plan atAllan’s m
JJRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SIX or TWELVE MONTHS
“‘® 4V6 ' fr ° m tl “’ 19tb
Terms and conditions may be obtained on
application to the company’s solicitors, Messrs.
*mlc, Best and Hall, the Rialto, Collins-street;
or Messrs. Brentnall and Riley, accountants, 424
Little Collins-street; or the Secretary, 70 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne.
Applications to be addressed to the Directors of
the Pt incess s i heat re Company Proprietary
Limited, 70 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
By order of the Board.
ROLAND WOODWARD,
Secretary.
Mr. Frederic Villiers
The Great War Artist and Correspondent,
will jrive his
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS,
“ Khartoum at Last,”
TOWN HALL, ADELAIDE—JuIy 26 and 27.
TOWN HALL, PORT ADELAIDE—JuIy 28
Special Vice Regal Night.—Town Hall, Adelaide, Julv3L
Brisbane to follow. Manager, Mr. WALTER PONTIN.
The Trustees, Executors & Agency
Gompany Limited.
Established 1878.
DIRECTORS:
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
ROBERT MURRAY SMITH, Esq., G.M.G., M.L.A., Vice-Chairman.
JOHN GRICE, Esq. C. M. OFFICER, Esq. Hon. J. M. PRATT, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
CAPITAL :
Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserved Liability, £150,000. Paid-up, £89,701 14s.
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts and Clients at 30th June, 1899, £6,386,057 Bs. lid.
Notice is hereby given, that the FORTY-THIRD ORDINARY HALF-YEARLY MEETING of the Shareholders
of the above Company will be held in the Board-room, at the Company’s Offices, No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne,
on MONDAY, 31st inst., at 12 o’clock.
BUSINESS :
1. To receive the directors’ report and balance-sheet for the half-year ended 30th June, 1899.
2. To elect a director in the place of Mr. F. R. Godfrey, who retires in accordance with the resolution
passed at the special meeting of shareholders held in January, but is eligible for re-election,
and offers himself accordingly.
8. To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting, of which due notice shall
have been given.
REPORT.
Th e amot,n * remaining at credit of profit and loss account and available for distribution is £4762 15s. 2d., which
the directors recommend should be appropriated as follows
To dividend on £OO,OOO for half-year ended 30th June, 1899, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum £1,500 0 0
To balance to be carried forward 3,252 15 2
„ _ ... By order of the Board.
412 Collins-street, Melbourne, 17th July, 1899.
£4,762 15 2
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
Tbe TrOStecS, ai>d Ageocy Conjpaoy Lin>ited.
Profit and Loss Account, Half-year ended 30th June, 1899.
Dr.
1899-June 30.
To salaries—directors’ and auditors’ fees,
including agencies £3,818 11 10
To stationery, postage, and office expenses 719 12 8
To printing and advertising 275 14 6
To furniture and fittings (sewerage) ... 114 19 4
To law costs 85 17 0
_ tOjvl4, 10 u
To allowance for widow of late managing
director 250 0 0
To difference in amount paid and received
on lease, 37 Queen-street ... ... ... 811 7 0
To difference in amount paid in connec-
tion with mortgage on premises and re-
ceived on investment of £20,000 258 13 10
To balance carried down 4,752 15 2
£10,507 11 9
1898—December 31.
By Balance
Less dividend, at the rate of 6 percent,
per annum....
1899—June 30.
By interest on mortgages, stock, etc.
By commissions and miscellaneous re-
ceipts, after providing for contingencies
By company’s premises—
Rents £306 16 10
Less rates, lift, and re-
pairs ... 218 13 t
1899 —June 30. By balance...
Or.
£4,299 9 t
1,500 0 C
£2,799 9 3
634 16 9
7,076 4 2
88 2 7
£10,597 11 9
£4,752 15 2
Balance-Sheet.—3oth June, 1899.
Dr.
Capital—
Subscribed £150,000 0 0
Less uncalled 60,000 0 0
60,000 shares called up to £llos. per
share £OO,OOO 0 0
60,000 shares paid up to £1 per share ... £60,000 0 0
Amount paid in respect of call of 10s. per
Bh “ re •••, . 29,701 14 0
(Arrears of call of 10s per share.
£•298 65.)
Amount of capital actually paid up ... £89,701 14 0
Money owing on open account ’195 13 1
Debt due on mortgage of freehold pro-
1", - ••• ••• 20,000 0 0
Profit and loss account) ... ... ... 4.753 15 2
£114,550 2 3
Cr.
Investments—
Inscribed stock at par £lO,OOO 0 0
Money lent on mortgage, at face value 4,894 2 4
Money lent against interests of bene-
ficiaries, at face value 11,245 10 1
Investments set aside to meet mortgage
on freehold property—
Bank of Victoria-
Deposits at face
value £2,600 0 0
Australian Depositand
Mortgage Bank—
Deposits, at face
value ... 16,000 0 0
2800 £5 preference
shares at 10s. per
share 1,400 0 0
20,000 0 0
£46,139 18 5
Freehold property at cost £69,348 2 10
Less written off ... 4,348 2 10
65,000 0 0
Furniture and fittings at
cost £954 4 10
Less written off ... 454 4 10
6OO 0 0
Debts due to the company other than
those above mentioned, amounts paid
in advance, &c 693 11 3
Cash to credit in Bank of Australasia ... 2,246 12 7
£114,580 2 3
Trust, Executor, and Agency Business.
Contingent and Other Liabilities otherwise than in re-
spect of any of the abovementioned items.
Amount at credit of estates, trusts, and
clients, represented by investments and
cash at bankers, as per contra £6,386,057 8 11
£6,386,057 8 11
Contingent Assets.
Advances on mortgage of real estate ...£2,206,010 16 7
Debentures and stock 648,603 5 3
Landed property 2,511,341 12 0
Other securities 953,512 6 2
Cash at bankers at credit of trust current
aocounts 66,589 8 11
£6,386,057 8 11


D .S .MAI R
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6; Gleaning, 2/6; Hairspring, 2/6; Jewels,2/6;
Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed 12 months.
S. Mair for Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels. Grand Timekeepers, 17/6. Guaranteed 3 years.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold Wedding Rings, 4/6. Extra
heavy, 9/6. Solid Gold Bar Brooches, 4/6. Hall-marked
S. Mair for Ladies’ Solid Gold Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 3 years, 35/-.
Note address— 6B4 George Street, Sydney.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phonograph
(Albert & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents)
Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
card. Best Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT !& SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when, they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
OKAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
Remember it's
mesrn
Which means ,
It'S the pure Article
It's the best mild
laxative KnotVn
Its recommended by
your family Doctor.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pitls, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
EOS TO PEESERYE TEE EYESIGET
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Haarfager
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the World.
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
HAARFAGER curls the hair naturally and permanently
in a few hours without curling tongs or pins. Will make
the straightest hair curl beautifully without trouble.
HAARFAGER restores the hair and will prevent the hair
f'om falling out. All chemists. Price 3s. 6d., postage 6d.
extra. Wholesale Agents, ELLIOTT BROTHERS,' Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney. If not obtainable at your
chemist, send stamps or P. 0.0. to The Argyle Apothecary
Co., Old Canterbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W.
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb-
inff interest to every MAN.
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny 3tamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I THE
*
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
lou is’
M PI 111
elveteen.
'y*\*\*\*\*\*\i\*\*\*\*\*\**.
NOTE WELL!-Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0"U"l“S an< * * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
John Hunter $ Son’s (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
The Life of the System.
WESTINGHOVSE
electric
MINING MAGHINEEY.
MINING
LOCOMOTIVES.
MINING HOISTS.
MINE HAULAGE
PLANTS.
\
&
°5
£
o
\
MINING
PUMPS.
POWER
TRANSMISSION
PLANTS.
SOLE AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
WE recommend these Bitters to be taken two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children. For General Debility , Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, and Cutaneous
Affections. The action of Dandelion, more especially upon the liver and kidneys, is more reliable
for removing all impure secretions than any other medicinal plant known. . Persons suffering
from Skin Diseases will find these Bitters invaluable. Directions for Use : One wineglass-
ful three times a day after meals, diluted with same quantity of water. Eor young people, about
half the quantity twice a day.
tii- w purify the blood and liver.
READ WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row & Co.—With thanks for forwarding me.a bottle of your Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and
consider them most excellent, and superior to many others that I have previously tried.
Port Adelaide, Oct, 30, 1886. Yours faithfully, Henry Charles Curtis, M.R.C.S., England.
CAUTION Ask for | Row’s Dandelion Bitters |
AND TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
EDWARD ROW & CO., SYDNEY.
WILL
l! ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
20? i M\(2oh
CHEAP BOOKS
PLAIN NOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
PQOTE.
Latest, and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, Howto Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 1/6. Australian Handbook ok Midwifery (illus.), 2/6 ;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words .without dipping, is. .How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Ketail.
WILL ANDRADE,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
SECOND EDITION. 220 pp.— 4=/6.
“ Fair Girls and Gray Horses.”
Medical.
SUSPENSORY BELT™-
GENTLEMENisSIMPLYAWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, w'e give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), {riving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
How It Is.
In the streets of the town where I live I some-
times meet a poor fejlow who is so badly off that
his appeal for a penny or two is hardly to be re-
sisted. He has lost both his legs above the knees
and punts himself along the pavement with his
hands, like a loaded barge in shallow' water.
Thank Mercy, one doesn’t often see human hulks
like him. Where there is a single instance of a
man having lost both legs or both arms there are
a dozen where only one limb of the pair is missing.
And where there is a single case of the latter sort
there are a hundred cases of people who are lame,
or more or less disabled, by disease or minor in-
juries which are scarcely noticeable, yet in the
long run very serious to those so afflicted.
Consequently, when we sum up both classes, we
perceive that it isn’t the total wrecks and the in-
curables that are most expensive to society, but
the prodigious host which must work, and dues
work, yet always under difficulties and against
hindrances. Men and women regularly em-
ployed, but who are continually breaking down in
a small way, thus losing fragments of time and
fractions of wages, are of the kind I mean. The
amount of income lost in this way in one year in
England is immense. And so far as the cause of
all this is disease, and not accident or born bodily
imperfection, it is almost always preventible and
generally curable. Look at this, for example, and
take heart.
“ In the spring of this year (1897),” the writer
says, “my health began to fail me. My appetite
was poor, and after meals I had pain and weight
at the chest. I could not sleep owing to the pain,
and I got weaker every day. I had so much pain
that I dared not eat, and rapidly lost flesh.
“ I was in agony night and day, and often sat
by the fire at night as I could not rest in bed. I
had a deal of muscular pain, particularly in the
arms. I gradually got worse and worse, and in
two months lost two score pounds weight.
“ I saw a doctor who gave me medicines and in-
jected morphia to ease the pain; but I was no
better for it. Then I met with a friend who told
me of the great benefit he had derived from the use
of a medicine called Mother Seigel’s Syrup. 1 got
a bottle of it from Mr. S. Richardson, chemist,
Bridgman-street, and in a week I could cat well
and food no longer distressed me. Therefore, I
kept on with the medicine, and soon was strong
and well. I am now in the best of health, and
recommend this remedy to all I meet. You are at
liberty to publish this letter as you like.”—(Signed)
William Bridge, Grocer and Baker, 65, Bridg-
man-street, Bolton, October sth, 1897.
Here we have an illustration of the proposition
with which this article sets out. From Mr.
Bridge’s account of his own case we see that he
lost a considerable time from his business. How
much that represents in money he does not say ;
nor is it important to the argument. For two
months or more he lost from his business practi-
cally all he was worth to it; and what that situa-
tion would have signified, had it been indefinitely
continued, any intelligent person can imagine.
Men frequently become stricken with poverty as
with illness in that way. However well any
business may be managed in an emergency by
others, it is not to be supposed that it gets on as
prosperously as when the proprietor is himself at
the helm. And he cannot be there while lie is
suffering agonies from disease. This is true even
if we make no calculation of the direct expenses
created by illness, nor of the suffering experienced
the latter not computable in terms of money.
Now, please remark how quickly Mr. Bridge
was cured of his ailment—bad as it seemed and
really was. Dating from the time he began using
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, he says “in a week I
could eat well, and the food no longer distressed
me.” His trouble was of the digestion only (acute
dyspepsia), for which this preparation long ago
proved itself a specific. Had he known of and
employed it when the attack began he would have
lost no time, felt no pain.
The lesson of the case is this : —As indigestion
is a common complaint, and dangerous also when
neglected, the remedy should be at hand for imme-
diate use when needed. The more valuable the
treasure the more strict should be the guard over
it. And health is a jewel compared with which
rubies are as the glass beads of savages.
Catarrh Sftcd
CURE YOURSELF with our In-
strument and Home Treatment.
Our MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Neuralgia, Hay Fever, La Grippe,
Asthma, Catarrhal Deafness, Coughs
and Colds (Diseases of Head, Throat
and Lungs).
Free Treatment at Office. Complete cure
by mail, 10/-. (Postal Notes all Colonies
taken, except New Zealand, from where
Money Orders must be sent). Hundreds
in use, giving perfect satisfaction. Write
for Booklet and Testimonials. No Agents.
Order direct from
Home Catarrh Cure Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET,
Mention ‘‘The Bulletin’ when uriting.
t
M E DICATOR


FOR
Warmth and
Comfort
mmm
IN WINTER.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, Cotton, or Lisle Thread,
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
&3T CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David Draham *si Co.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Bookjof Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
TRIEIID
RAHERVEY.
171 CLARENCE S T
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In ilb., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
USE
Spooler's
iRQYALNAVV DRESSIHC
FOR
!: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS St SHOES
£ DF ALU DESCRIPTIONS
•: DIRECIIONS FOR USE
teniiimtiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHHSS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
“Common Sense
« * Ear Drums”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend thorn. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO Apent,
C.IALMERS, 229 CollinsSt, Melbourne
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(invisible) ll
Mention “The Bulletin” when writing.
drunkenness
OR TIIE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCRASir,
THF CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be «iven in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADO.U \ RTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
v 271 Oollius-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
The Thermal Springs District.
THE
firand Hotel, ROTORUA.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
in New Zealand.
JET. F. Gardner Gate of the P. &o. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager 1
will receive prompt attention.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation-all prices— ss. to 12s-
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
“I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer,,
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. Gd.
Sole Agents :
V
The Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-682 George- at.. Sydney
“Bohemian”
FORTUNE TELLING
and Flaying Cards.
Latest Novelty I
Most Amusing and Entertaining.
Post free to any part of Australia, ONE SHILLING and
TWOPENCE (1/2).
These Cards are a Pull Set and may be used as
Ordinary Playing Cards.
The “ARCADIAN” Razor : Hollow Ground, equal
to any Razor advertised. This article we guarantee,
and is stamped with our name. Post free and regis-
tered, 6/6 (Six Shillings and Sixpence).
BUSSB L L WILKIN 8,
RED. ARCADE,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Branches—
Ipswich, Maryborough, Mackay, Warwick, Gladstone,
Townsville, and Charters Towers.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
]| Revolution in Dentistry^
The patients who had their aching, decayed
teeth and roots painlessly extracted, and
teeth painlessly stopped, by the aid of Mr.
J. I. MARSHALL’S (of 28 Wynyard
Square, SYDNEY) Newly - Discovered
Local Specifics for one month numbered 500.
That is equal to 6000 a year. This is un-
doubtedly the largest register of painless
dental treatments in Australia. Letters of
thanks may be seen at the Parlors, 28
Wynyard Square (permission having
been given to show them), from doctors,
clergymen, literati, chemists, and many
leading ladies of society.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONC.JTIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
BALSAM
“ I U 33 a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AG-3N rs— Elliott; Hoffnung ; Dnerdin ;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
A REGULAR MARTYR
TO
Biliousness
BUT NEVER
Troubles Him
NOW.
The Case of
THOMAS STEWART, Esq-
(From the. "Penrith Times.”)
BY OUR SPECIAL REPORTER.
“Unquestionably Clements Tonic alone
pulled me through. I couldn’t get an atom
of good out of the numerous other medicines
I tried, but this remedy did the business for
me in double quick time.” These were the
words of Mr. Thomas Stewart, baker,
Windsor-road, Rooty Hill, near Sydney, to
a reporter who was detailed to have a little
chat with him anent his sometime sickness.
“ Yes,” said that gentleman, offering the
newspaper man a chair, and taking a seat
himself. “ Once upon a time I frequently
had many strange attacks. I was attacked
with a giddy sickness. My food disagreed
with me, and I had to drop erring for a
time altogether almost. I lost all my
strength and energy. My work became a
burden; I seemed to be always tired.
Violent headaches came on. There was a
heavy feeling of oppression and great swel-
ling at the pit of the stomach after eating.
I passed terrible nights, sleep being almost
out of the question, and my mouth and
tongue were covered with a bitterish
substance in the mornings.”
“ You were bilious, apparently ?”
“Yes ; I used to be a regular martyr to
biliousness. I was never safe from fear
that I was going to be prostrated by a
bilious attack. I tried all sorts of medicines
to ward off the attacks when I felt them
coming on, and I took many cleverly
advertised peas, pills, pearls, and pellets.
They were guaranteed to cure everything
from measles to paralysis, but, with the
exception of Clements Tonic, all these
medicines were utterly useless in any stage
of my trouble.”
“ To return to your last attack 1”
“Oh ; yes,’’replied Mr. Stewart. “Well,
I had further distressing symptoms. A
severe bleeding at the nose set in. This
was most difficult to stop, and, as you may
expect, it was very weakening. The giddi-
ness became worse, the headaches more
unbearable, and I was suffei’ing from want
of proper rest and nourishment, for I could
eat nothing worth speaking of when it was
put before me; so I got a bottle of Clements
Tonic.”
“ How did you come to get that ?”
“ Well, you see, news was brought to me
of a worse case than mine being cured, and,
as the source of my information was trust-
worthy, as I said before, I sent for a
bottle.”
“ How did it act ?”
“ Just like a true pick-me-up. It started
to strengthen my disordered stomach and
digestive organs from the very first, and 1
could soon take my food without any sense
of oppression or swelling afterwards, and,
more than that, I could enjoy what I did
eat. I suffered no more from headaches,
and, after a few days, I slept as soundly as 1
always do when lam well. I can tell you
I was pleased to get rid of that giddiness.
To cut it short, Clements Tonic soon put
me as right as I am now, and have been ever
since, and I could again go about my work
with energy. Biliousness never troubles
me now, for if I feel a sign of it coming on,
I make haste to take a few doses o!
Clements Tonic, and that wards it off. 1
could tell you of more than one case where
the greatest benefit has been derived from
that remedy, and I know one hotel in
particular where it is regularly served over
the bar at 6d. for a tiny glass full, and the
proprietor of the hotel says it is far and
away the most effective pick-me-up to be
obtained for love or money.”
“ But I came to get your opinion ?”
“ Well, I think it is the only genuine
remedy going. Anyhow, it cured me ;it
did what none of the other things could do,
and I must speak as I find. The proof of
the pudding is in the eating, you know!”
“ What about printing this—you don’t
object ?”
“ You can do just as you think fit about
that. I’ve not the least objection as long
as you only print what I’ve said, for I
know that to be the pure truth.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Thomas Stewart, of Windsor-road. Rooty Hill,
near Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that' I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that it contains and is a true and faith-
ful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, that I have given the particulars voluntarily
and do not receive one penny payment for same, and
also contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way ; and I niake this solemn declara-
tion conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the ninth year of the reign of
her present Majesty, intituled "An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various I “epartments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits. 1 ’
s
Declared at Roo. Hill this first day of
November, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-
eight, before me,
F. W. CRESWICK, J.P
A Strange
Nervous Complaint.
A Complete Cure
after a Tour among the
Leading Lights
of the Medical Profession
without benefit.
The Case of
MRS. ANNE PRITCHARD.
(From the “Rochdale Advocate”)
Although midsummer, it was delightfully
fine and cool when our reporter arrived at
the pretty little town of Hurstville, which
Sydney claims as a suburb. Not far from
the railway station the newspaper man
found a large and particularly well kept
orchard, surrounding a solidly built stone
house, which overlooks wide stretches of
undulating bush, and, finally, the blue
waters of the Pacific itself. On enquiry it
turned out to be the very house he was
looking for, and a few minutes later saw
him comfortably ensconced on the verandah
enjoying the cooling breeze, and chatting
affably the while with Mrs. Pritchard, the
proprietress of this charming demesne.
Gradually the conversation veered round to
Mrs. Pritchard’s late illness and her
wonderful restoration to perfect health.
Our reporter, who had heard of the subject
from many neighbours, was all attention,
and missed nothing of the lady’s narrative.
“ I was attacked with a strange nervous
complaint,” said she. “ I didn’t know what
was the matter, and even the doctors were
entirely mystified. The cause of my com-
plaint was unknown to me then, and it is a
puzzle to me even to this day ; not that I
care now what ailed me, for I am completely
cured now, though not by the many clever
Sydney doctors who attended me, but by a
far simpler and cheaper process.”
“Yes,” said our reporter, deeply
interested. “ What was that ?”
“ Clements Tonic—and, indeed, I wanted
something that had good curative properties
I can assure you, for my disease was a weird
one. It heralded its arrival by a gradual
physical change, which is quite indescrib-
able. It was as though the light and hope
was gone out of my life. My nervous
vitality began to wane away, and my
physical strength started on the same down
grade. A severe and heavy depression of
spirits settled upon me like a nightmare. I
was no longer able to attend to household
matters. In fact, I felt I didn’t care what
became of me or my house. My interest in
everything was gone, and all my thoughts
were taken up with one desire, which was
to find out a way to get back my lost health
and spirits. My appetite was gone. Trifling
matters excited and frightened me, and the
most dreadful feelings of apprehension
frequently held sway over me. I fell away
most seriously in weight, and it was then
that I commenced my tour among the
doctors— not ordinary practitioners, but the
leading lights of the medical world. But
these gentlemen, with all their skill and
scientific knowledge, could make no pro-
gress towards the cure of my distressing
nervous malady. Some of them vaguely
hinted at general nervous weakness, others
hazarded a guess that my disease was one
of the heart. I took all their prescriptions,
but my condition was not ameliorated. I
then, in a sort of desperation, called on
several herbalists.”
“Ah !” said our reporter, somewhat
startled.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Pritchard, I know
now I made a mistake. There is no good
to be got that way, nor from their so-called
remedies, as I found out to my cost. At
last I almost resigned myself to my fate. I
thought there was no remedy for my disease.
I was entirely wrong. Clements Tonic was
pressed upon my notice, and its restorative
power made itself quickly felt. My nerves
daily gathered strength and tone through
the use of that remedy, and my spirits
improved wonderfully. That dreadful low-
spirited feeling was soon gone. Finally,
Clements Tonic put me in perfect health. I
had been ill for years, but it eradicated all
disease from my system in a very few weeks.
My nerves are as strong as can be desned,
and I haye not enjoyed such perfect health
and strength since I was a girl. All this is
owing to the use of Clements Tonic.
“Thank you,” said the reporter, putting
up his note book, ‘‘this will make interest-
ing matter for our paper. May we publish
it?”
“Yes.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Annr Pritchard, of Hurstville, near Sydney,
the colony of New South Wales, do solemnly
id sincerely declare that I have carefully read the an-
:xed document, consisting of three folios and
insecutively numbered from one to three, and t
contains and is a true and faithful account of m >
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
V full permission to publish the same in any wa .
id I make this solemn declaration voluntarily.
id without receiving any payment, conscientiousij
Sieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
revisions of an Act made and passed ” l! }“.
;ar of the reign of her present Majesty, mtituled
An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
id Affirmations taken and made m the va.reus
epartments of the Government of Ne * ’f®'
id to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and . or
ie suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oai s
ad Affidavits.”
Declared at Hurstville this nineteenth day of
Jecember, one thousand eight hundred and n y
ight, before me, J. MANTON. J.P-


1
m
m
No. s.—Gentlemen’s Silver Waltham
Lever.
Keyless, f-plate, highly finished nickel
movement, with compensation balance,
7 jewels. In heavy English Hall-
marked cases, either hunting or open-
face -------
£3
POST
FRRK,
Please Note
AND Remember
These Three Facts!
1, —That there are Walthams and
Imitation Walthams!
2, That the Waltham movements are
frequently put into shoddy
cases, and sold by unscrupu-
lous traders as the genuine
article.
3, That H. Newman’s Walthams are
guaranteed genuine, both
as regards case and movement.
WALTHAM
&
H. NEWMAN
Has pleasure in announcing that he has complcted
arrangements in regard to the productions of the
American Watch Co., Waltham, Mass., V.S.A.,
which wil enable him to supply the famous Waltham
Levers at greatly reduced prices—lower than those
usually charged for the inferior watches of other
makers.
Herewith are shown some of the principal lines. H. Newman
holds the Largest Stock of Watches in Australia, and if you
want any other sort of watch, send for his Illustrated Cata-
logue, which will be forwarded post free to any address.
On receipt of remittance, any of the watches shown will
be forwarded (with guarantee) securely packed, and postage
paid to any part of Australasia.
H.NEWMAN
Watchmaker, Jeweller,
. . AND . .
in Precious Stones
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne
No. 52.—Gentlemen’s Gold
Waltham Lever.
Keyless, f-plate move-'
ment with compensa-
tion balance, 7 jewels.
In heavy and strong
18-carat gold cases
plain polished as shown
above, or engine-turned
or richly-engraved cases j
£l5
POST
FREE.
No. 39.—Ladies’ Silver
Keyless Waltham Lever
|-plate movement, com-
pensation balance, 7
jewels. In English Hall-
marked cases, hand-
somely engraved -
£3
POST
FREE.
How ridiculous the fuss made by the dailies re
the interprovincial University rowing contests—simply
because the competitors are mostly scions of the Naicest.
The University crews have never been anything but
tenth-raters, and in Vic. their record at regattas is almost
a blank sheet. Melb. University crew has on no occasion
been equal to the average maiden eight of the year—
possibly through the silly practice of picking big, clumsy
men, and following other obsolete ideas still alive “ at
’Ome.”
* * * *
For seven years the farce of running N.S.W.
“cross-country championship” over sticks on an en-
closed track has been witnessed, but a recent infusion of
new blood wrought a change, and this season’s event
is contested as it should be—across country. Many of
the harriers relish not the change—they prefer previous
conditions because the going is a lot easier and their
best girls can get a better and more protracted view of
the pipe-stem underpins and pancake-like chests so plen-
tiful and prominent on such occasions.
* * * *
The device “ Copyright ” now accompanies the
cabled cricket scores posted in front of the offices of the
“ great ” Melb. dailies. The inferred threat is under-
stood to be levelled at sundry country sheets, whose
Melb. correspondents have been wiring the results taken
from the boards. But it is very doubtful whether there is
any copyright in news so published. Somebody with
nothing to lose should try a test case.
» « » *
“ G.S.” : An old man won a .£lO prize in a
Perth sweep ; invested another 55., and won another £lO,
having previously “ done-in” a £3O win. Then he came
to Perth, and met a “ gun,” who touched him for his
money and the winning ticket. The swindler was
arrested after cashing the ticket, but before he had spent
a cent of the old fellow’s coin. Yet they say there’s no
such thing as luck !
• * * •
One of the stock arguments of Ikey and his
friends in the press is that the tote only returns to the
public their own money, less commission ; and that
backers must therefore lose in the long run. Quite cor-
rect in its way. In all speculation the majority loses,
but there is a minority which wins. The idea evidently
intended to be convei'ed is that the bookmaker is a man
of means who risks his capital equally with the punter.
But how many of our leading layers started with a capi-
tal ? This writer has been a regular race-goer—to his
sorrow —for many years, and has witnessed the rise of
most of the leading Vic. bookmakers. To select a few of
the big “ cash” men. One was originally a corporation
laborer, two started in small tobacconist’s shops, one
attended to the river traffic on a saltwater bridge (open-
ing and shutting same), one was a “ tick-tacker,” one
sold papers and race-cards in the streets, and one taught
a Sunday school in Collingwood ! The smaller men have
started on even lower rungs. Not one in ten commenced
with more than a bag, a brass-plate, a fiver, and a cast-
iron cheek. Yet. punters keep on walking home after the
races—those who win may squeeze ten in a“ bob” cab—
and see the books travelling home in hansoms or natty
private turn-outs. Racing may be a funny game, but
those who follow it seem to have no sense of humor.
The ad venturous spirit of the present Australian
Ring. An effort was made some little time back to
secure £lO,OOO at 100 to 3 about Fleet Admiral (who has
not started for two years) for next Melbourne Cup. By
great exertions £7OOO was got at that price, but the
layers then refused to go on at a longer price than 100 to
4. Yet there is a legend that First Water was once
backed for a Melb. Cup to win £lOO,OOO, and then, started
at 100 to 4 !
* * * •
Apropos the Ikey Mo strike over the “Prosper”
affair. Sydney Tatt. bookies had a somewhat similar
experience some years back, but they got out of their
trouble by discovering that the rung-in one was just
under the necessary age when he joined and had been
disqualified.
* * * *
At recent Charters Towers cycle sports Bil-
martin (specially engaged for £3O) headed a team in a
pursuit-race. The prizes were £lO to the winning team,
and £6 to the undefeated rider covering the greatest dis-
tance before the bell rang. Martin started from scratch,
and took the £6 ; leaving the four opponents £2 10s.
each, and his three assistants nil. Moral : £6 is more
than £2 10s.
• * * *
Be the proposed oiroling of Australia on bikes
by the brothers White, “H.S.” writes: “Even if they
get through with the pretty tall contract of circling the
oivilised portion of the continent, they will still leave
about 1600 miles of the Far North and N. W. untraversed
by any man on wheels. The brothers left Sydney last
Monday for Brisbane —thence to go on to Townsville;
then inland to Charters Towers; then across country to
Normanton and Burketown. Thence they go to Port
Darwin, and this portion of the journey null probably he
very severe on their tyres. From Darwin on to Hall s
Creek, and down the Fitzroy to Derby on Kings
Sound; and then on to Perth, and round by the
Great Australian Bight to Adelaide, and on to Mel-
bourne, their terminus. One of the brothers, who has
previously cycled the Bight, says much of the way
is splendid going for wheels, and it must be remem-
bered that the telegraph-line now spans the waste.
The pair are taking no blankets —only waterproof sheet-
ing; and their food will consist chiefly of damper, beef
and potatoes, with —by my advice—rice. I also advised
them to get a little rough chart made of any specially
troublesome passes or crossings. They will ride the 251 b.
‘ Dayton ’ road machine, with the new ‘ Hussey’ spherical
hubs, 3-point bearings, and specially-constructed Dunlop
tyres. They hope to eat their Christmas dinner in Mel-
bourne. To actually cycle round Australia would be a
very dangerous and arduous task, especially in the cross-
ing of the great rivers, one of which (the Alligator) is
never less than three miles wide for a distance of ten
miles. Then there is the terrible sandstone on edge (that
even tears shoes off horses and severely cuts their legs),
and the risk of attack by natives. But, even as it is, the
proposed undertaking is a very plucky one, and the
brothers may well be wished good luck.”
• • * •
A pathetio sight at Sydney race-meetings is
poor old “ Tom ” Ivory, the good, straight sport and
owner of champions in bygone days. He is quite blind,
but the ruling passion is still strong, and he is satisfied to
be led about in the ring to listen to the betting and
describe to the younger generation what a good horse
Sweetmeat was. The old fellow enjoys himself thoroughly,
and his delight when “Jack” Mayo gathered in the
Hawkesbury Handicap with Carberra, t’other day, was
boundless.
* • * *
“S.”: Be the oft-heard complaint that we
have nowadays few “ stayers ” amongst our racing stock.
Looking over the events at a recent Hawkesbury Club
meeting, I find that the only flat-race exceeding f-mile
was the Winter Handicap, lj-mile and 100yds. This is
not the sort of thing to encourage breeding for stamina.
Six-furlong courses and light weights are responsible for
the present prevailing stamp of horse—good for a short,
fast flutter, and then done. It will be a good day for the
quality of our thoroughbred stock that sees weights
raised and distances increased. Every meeting of half-a-
dozen events should have at least half of them at over 6
furlongs, say from 1 mile to Is. This, though not all
that could be desired, would be a step in the right direc-
tion. Over 30 years ago writer’s horse, Marmion (4 years),
won in a canter the Casterton (Vic.) 3 miles handicap
with 9st. 61b. up, and then won by half-a-distance the
following event, in half-mile heats over post-and-rail
fences, carrying list. 101 b. (the total distance making six
miles straight off the reel), and finished fairly fresh. In
the same district, Necromancer, full-brother to this
horse’s dam, ran four consecutive 2-mile heats, carrying
10.1, to win the Town Plate. And, about same time, the
chestnut gelding Mac, then close upon 20 years old,
carried 10.1 to a win in Adelaide Town Plate of 2 miles.
* * * *
The new S.A. Governor lately visited a big
football-match for the first time, and word therefore
went round in the dressing-room that, out of respect for
his Ex., play must not be rough. For about half-an-hour
the game was most nancified, but trouble began
through an irascible “ back,” rusty for want of a fight,
throwing one of the enemy a double somersault almost
into the Governor’s box. This started the crowd, and
from that out the Australian national adjective was
hurled round, and a section of the barrackers surrounded
the umpire and offered to cremate him. H.E. says he is
“profoundly impressed ’’ with the Australian game.
Mail details show that Californian giant Jeffries
was far too good for Australian Fitzsimmons, who
weakened perceptibly from round to round while the big
fellow’s strength and youth told more and more in his
favor as the battle wore on. Receipts totalled 86,270
dols.; half went to the club and the balance to the
fighters, Fitzsimmons getting 25,881 dols. and Jeffries
17,254. Fitz, in view of possibilities, shrewdly' insisted
that, win or lose, he, being the “draw card,” should
receive 60 per cent, of their portion and Jeffries, rather
than risk letting the chance slip, acquiesced. Apparently
the world’s new champion is a fighter who will fight,
irrespective of color, creed or class, as directly after
licking the Australian he arranged a match with Sailor
Sharkey, winner to take the whole of the purse. “ Then,”
said Jeffries, “I’ll be ready to meet anyone else.” Re-
freshing this, when placed alongside the two and three
year-intervals between fights demanded by his immediate
predecessors on the top rung—Sullivan, Corbett and Fitz-
simmons.
• » • *
What a freak in build Fitzsimmons is may be
judged from the fact that he measures 44in. round the
chest, to giant Jeffries’ 43J4- Round biceps and calf,
Fitz. is only the size of a well-developed boy—l2J4in.
biceps and 13J4 oalf, as against Jeffries’ 16in. and 17)4
respectively.
• • * *
From accounts to hand of the big fight it looks
as if Fitzsimmons made the mistake of most modern
fighters —trying from the start for a right-hand knock-
out. Jeffries, on the contrary, seems to have used a
good long left which must have shaken up Fitz. con-
siderably ere he discovered he was playing the wrong
game and changed his tactics. Fitz. got home just such
another straight left on the “ mark ” as that which set tied
Corbett, but it failed to do the trick with young and
lusty Jeffries, who soon wore off the effects of the blow.
Jeffries fairly beat Fitz. with his straight left blows,
whilst Fitz. was throwing his strength away in futile
attempts to cross with the right; about the only fair
right-hander which Jeffries landed being the final smash
which knocked the Australian senseless.
* • * •
“Pat”: The ascendancy of “Ould” Erin’s
sons in most branches of sport is remarkable. Latest
batch of British “passed” records embrace these extra-
ordinary authenticated achievements by dwellers in the
Green Isle. That famous “lepper,” the Irish school-
master Newburn, has to his credit 24ft. 3£in., accom-
plished in the Ireland v. Scotland competitions. P.
Leahy has his name before the prodigious high jump of
6ft. 4Jin., and T. F. Kelly can point to a hammer throw
of 151 ft. llin. Roseingrave, who held the world’s broad-
jump record (put up in Sydney) until a year or so since,
hails from the Ould Sod.
* * * *
Recent performances by world’s record-holders,
Kranzlein (Amer.) and Irish schoolmaster Newburn, point
to the probability ere long of a 25ft. broad-jump. Wonder
what manner of men were the ancient Greek judges who
passed a 55ft. record? Recent Pan-Britannie at Athens
saw a champion Greek athlete clear 18ft. with difficulty.
How the mighty have degenerated !
• * • *
We can very well afford to admit, in a soft
undertone, that the Australians have had some good luck
in three matches where they needed all they could get.
The draw with Yorkshire was in their favor, seeing that
the County had but one more wicket to fall and 43 runs
to make, but—Jackson and Rhodes didn’t play for York-
shire. The downfall of Briggs and the break-up of the
fine weather were misfortunes for England in the third
test, and the Midland Counties team seems to
have made a close fight under difficulties. Lilley, the
wicketkeeper, who did good work behind the wickets and
subsequently scored 37 runs, injured his hand on the first
day, and was of no more use to the Midlanders. Then,
on the third morning, when they wanted 144 runs with 7
wickets to fall, the wicket had been spoilt by more rain.
The cable said “wet night, attendance small,” which,
under the interesting circumstances of the game, must
have meant that the weather was gloomy. There was no
excuse for Melb. Aob to “ pad ” the truth in this style :
“ Rain fell again this morning, making the wicket soft,
but while it remained wet and greasy the bowlers were at
a disadvantage." The “ greasiness ” evidently was a
loyal Australian fiction, tor six batsmen made only 29
run 3 among them, whilst A. O. Jones was “ playing
beautiful cricket.” The Age, which invariably caters for
local prejudice, slung in the statement that “ At the con-
clusion of the match the Australians were congratulated
on having pulled it out of the fire.” “ Out of the water”
would have been a more honest phrase.
* • .* *
“Krek”: I have to correct “Spero Meliora ”
(8..1/7/’99) about the Longreach buck-jumping exhibition.
He says the two blackboys gave the cleverest goes.
Well, as one of the goes consisted of getting thrown clean
from a routinsr horse, I think that though the “go ’’ was
the nigger’s, the “ cleverness ” was the horse’s. Certainly
the other blackboy rode well, but the winner of the
second prize was every whit as good, and had a more
vicious mount.
In a list of J.’sP. lately gazetted for
Southland (M.L.) province were included the
names of four dead men—one had been dead
four years—and one man who left the country three
years ago. And the Southlanders are dissatisfied.
This paper reckons that nobody should be ap-
pointed to the cheap and nasty magistracy until
he is dead. As a rule the best J.P. is the deadest.
The stealing of the coins from under the
foundation-stone of Kalgoorlie Masonic Hall, laid
lately by Gov. Gerard Smith, merely repeats a
phase of very old Australian history. Theft of
coins from under foundation-stones was a pro-
minent lag weakness of early Botany Bay. St.
Phillip’s Church lost coins, St. Andrew’s lost
coins. But the champion foundation-stone coin-
loser was Gov. Macquarie. He laid St. Matthew’s
stone at Windsor twice, and the coins were stolen
each time. The stone was laid a third time and
the church stands, but old hands still doubt as to
whether the selected coins of the third era were
not similarly purloined. Apropos, what is the
sense of laying a stone and putting current coin
under it? In the stone’s indefensible position it
is an invitation to theft.
A Bulletin correspondent has a grievance
about Sydney ’buses:
Concerning ’bus-drivers : On the Oxford-street lines
where they have to compete with the trams the drivers
are, as a rule, decent sort of men. On the lines that
radiate from Miller’s Point along George-street to the
Railway and the various suburbs, they are mostly unmiti-
gated wild beast, and a very nasty breed of wild beast at
that. At Miller’s Point terminus fights are frequent, and
one famous and terrific scrap is the local standard of com-
parison. No other scrap within the memory of man has
equalled it. It is quite common for the drivers of depart-
ing 'buses to yell abuse at each other till out of earshot.
Also it is common for two crossing ’buses to pull up and
the drivers thereof to discuss the burning questions of
’bus-society with a loudness of voice and Old Testament
baldness that are positively startling. On one memorable
occasion at the terminus, two drivers adjourned to drink,
over an oath of eternal palship probably, and left the
teams “on their own.” One bolted through a crowd of
children (who were saved by the usual miracle that daily
rescues small children from the jaws of death), cleared the
pavement, and generally spread terror before, they were
stopped. Everybody about declared that something
** oughter be done 1 ” j one, indignant parent threatened
to stoush the driver, but mercifully refrained and the
affair was forgotten. In wet weather many of the ’buses
are a snare and a take-down. They leak horribly, the
windows won’t keep up, the wind howls through them
and the rain pours in. At night most of them are abso-
lutely without lights inside. The drivers bang the bell
immediately an unconvoyed woman puts her nose inside
the door, and drones “ fare, plise.” If a half-crown is
handed up, change is given for a florin. Few people
are known to have had a half-crown in those dark
’busses. The sooner the tram comes along and wipes out
the whole race of cheats the better for the credit of this
awful city.


Vic. Chief Sec. Peacock has introduced a
bill which, if it can only be pushed through the
‘‘other place,” will give the 48 Fat Landlords
“one in the eye ” for their treatment of the Alien
Immigration Bill last session. It won’t prevent
the unwashed Abdul and the unspeakable 'Fatta
from entering the province, but it will nobble
them when they get there by providing that no
hawkers license shall issue to anyone, unless he
proves that (a) he is natural-born or naturalised
(6) that he possesses a sufficient knowledge of the
Lnghsh language and coinage, and (e) that during
the previous two years he has resided at least 12
months m Victoria. The mild Hindoo and the
equally mild and equally objectionable Syrian
have a complete comprehension of the coinage
system, and a “sufficient” acquaintance with
Finghsh may mean anything; but the 12 months’
residence clause will do the trick, provided the Act
be thoroughly administered. That is, if the House
of Fat can be coerced into passing it.
ifil will buy you a gentleman’s mackintosh of a
really decent quality, suitable for stormy weather, and
as these garments are made with all the latest improve-
ments, satisfactory wear and solid value are assured.
The finish is excellent, the sewings of imperishable fabric,
ensuring resistance to the effects of the changeable
climate of New South Wales. Hordern Brothers,
Federal Clothiers, 203, 20S, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Sent per parcels post, postage prepaid, to any
Post Office m New South Wales.* J
LIKE A STAB IN THE BACK!
Sack Fails aid Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills
The back bears more burdens
than all the human organism.
When it aches, it means the
kidneys are out of order.
Sharp piercing pains in the back,
unable to move without torture, as
tired in the morning as at night.
Don’t neglect the slight dizziness,
the irregular heart’s action, the un-
natural urinal discharge, the pains
in the back or head. These come
from the uric acid and other poisons
in the blood, which the diseased
kidneys have failed to filter out.
In such cases, with every beat of
the heart, the blood is laden with
a substance as surely poison as
arsenic. It’s a lingering poison,
but some day it kills like lightning.
There is no hope for the kidney
sufferer unless he heal the kidneys,
and, by making them well, rids his
system of these poisons—Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills do this
surely, safely, and speedily.
Here’s a case in Sydney
„„ - M "' J - ®I CK:ELL . at No. 12 Chapel-street, Woolloomooloo, this city, says :-“Being
a sufferer from kidney trouble, I was recommended to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills by Mrs*
someTnd T HUn r _ ’ thlS ,? lty ( J hlS lady was cured of a similar complaint by their use). ' I bought
irT Ple PM? r T y , that tI ! G , r6Sult has been very « 00d indeed * Previous to taking Doan’s
ekaJie Kidney Pills I had terrible pains across the small of my back and down my loins* and at
The e s^re°tiins SCar T y T V6 ' a “ om P anied with a urinary weakness, which was annoying
111 ZTf Sed rt nt ‘ But Doan ’ 8 Backache Kidney Pills have benefited me in every
remedy » y “ y tesfcimony to that of the man y others who are endorsing this wonderful
EVERY WALK IN LIRE.
.. , Kid “ y , S are put into onr filter the impurities and poisons out of the
b ood. If they are sick, or unable to perform their work, the poisons stay in the
blood, and are carried back through the system.
Kidney trouble must be treated as a serious matter,
day that it is neglected makes it just that much more so.
It IS serious, and every
It is honor enough for one remedy that it can cure well and absolutely one class
of diseases. Doan s Backache Kidney Pills do this with kidney disease, and. that is
why they are gaining ground so fast here in these colonies. If now or at any time
the reader should have any kidney trouble, remember the medicine that’s made for the
Kidneys DOAN S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and be sure you get Doan’s.
™?™ bear m mind ° ne thing: DOAN ’ S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are , tATIYE PILLS. They have no action on the bowels. Their action
is on the kidneys, and for their purpose are absolutely unrivalled.
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may be had of Chemists and Store-
keepem generally throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes for
Fetter Mcri W ,f p POS t reCeip ‘ ° £ price by a "y o£ our b ™ches, “ follows :
MelC./ ° e « n F C0 '’ S y dne y < Main Office); 292 Flinders-street
elbourne 54 King William-street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.;
Wrt e hom:\ sTn ’"" EUiott Br ° therS; Si J ° h “' I ««-»
The Crime of Fate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, here’s a health to the square of jaw and the
large receding chin,
The petty thief and the murderer who follow the
paths of sin;
The lying knave and the swindler, the fool and
the beery clod,
Burned with the brand of Predestined Crime by
the will of the one Great God ;
And hang the murderer heaven-high, and bury
him deep as hell,
In the name of God, who created him and saw
that it was well. ‘
Bury him deep as a loathsome thing, cover him up
with lime;
But, was it the crime that stamped the face, or
the features that stamped the crime ?
To the lunatic who is not insane, for the eyes of
the law are keen,
Whose destiny worked to a six-foot drop—shall
we say what he might have been ?
He might have been this or he might have been
that, but God was his Maker still,
Who placed desire in his poor, weak brain, and
muttered “ Thou shalt not kill! ”
As a babe may hold to a plunging horse, he holds
to his fierce desire;
Will he find a curb in a hope above or a fear of
eternal fire ?
“Resist! Resist!” is the preacher’s cry, “let
Victory’s paths be trod.”
Resist by the power of his poor, weak brain the
will of a tyrant God !
To the slum-born babe who is birth-aecursed with
hunger and want and shame,
Who may not covet his neighbor’s goods, though
he covet in hunger’s name;
Drag him not to the Sunday-school from the filth
of the family barn,
Lest he find a startling parable in the good old
Bible-yarn,
And the Lord who fed the ravens on the a°nny
and the blood °
Of His weaker, smaller creatures, might be mis-
understood ;
And the ravens turn to fat-men in his little brain
agog,
While he illustrates God’s mercy on a sacrificial
frog.
To the little hands that are taught to steal—little
lips that are taught to lie ;
To all the weak and the damned of Earth, to Fate
( and the Reason Why ;
To the generation yet to come, and e’en to the
third and fourth,
Who foot the bill of their father’s sins to appease
a, just God’s wrath ;
To the unblown bugles and silent harps of the
souls who fell from Grace;
To an empty Heaven and crowded Hell, and the
joy in Satan’s face.
For the weak of will and the strong of will must
battle the deadly game;
And the strong shall stand and the weak shall fall
—and whose is the praise or blame?
To a true God and a good (rod —fighting for eaoh
man’s soul,
Who takes not the righteous as His tithe when
Peter calls the roll,
But holds as each man’s heritage till the breaking
of the dawn,
A seat by Jordan’s River for the curse of Being
Born ;
For the curse of Life Unasked-for, whose reins are
held by fate—
Demand no hell’s repentance to pass the Pearly
Gate.
To the music of his lifetime each man must foot
his dance,
With God or the Devil to pipe for him—accord-
ing to circumstance !
C.P.Q.C.
In a Northern river town a champagne
dinner was arranged for Parochialist Heydon by
an extreme Anti-Billite. Neither the host nor
Heydon appeared, and the dinner was enjoyed
by socialist Dacey, the local Mayor (an out-and-
-9, l l. t l . oran^ man ). and ari ELC. priest—an ardent
Bilhte. „ Needless,to say the Pope and King Billy
were kept carefully on the shelf.
S. A. factories - inspectors are generally
pretty frank; and they are'out now with some
remarks about sweating in Adelaide. Prom one
point of view the most satisfactory feature of the
disclosures is that the worst of the sweaters are
Asiatics. A Syrian firm paid one woman the
princely rates of 6d. per pair for mens tweed,
serge, and mole trousers ; 4d. per pair for dun-
garees, lOlrd. per dozen for petticoats, and from
Is. 6d. per dozen for shirts. Working 16 hours a
day the woman and her sick husband averaged
15s. per week. And the most unsatisfactory
feature ‘of the pitiful business is that the .Syrian
hawker who peddles these goods finds his best
customers in the houses of men who have most to
dread from this form of competition.
“ Scotty the Wrmkler ” holds forth
Dear Bulletin.—The fact that all armies are three-
parts ‘spit and. polish” until wanted, is proved by the
argument you give in a recent issue. There would be no
scarlet, fever ” ' unless show sodgers paraded well and
often. What hushmari jvants. to join anything but a rifle-
club, and that only because he gets a shooting-stick and
cartridges free, as well as a means of gambling ! I in-
spected a whole army once, on the very throne of. Solo-
nion, the Tukhtd-Suliman, and no two privates'Were
dressed or armed alike. The muskets ranged from
Mantons in a long descending scale to the jingal or
matchlock. Yet these men. made first-class soldiers,
after six months of the aforesaid “spit and polish.” Even
the band only knew one tune—“ God Save Her,” which
did for overture, quick and slow march, and was cut Up
for the trumpet and bugle-calls. What if the. com-
mander-in-chief stood by in a mixture of French, Eno'-
lish, and Cashmere insignia ? He was a soldier still, and
a gentleman, and his report was that “ Your (i e. my)
lordship s army is in splendid order,” and my— that is
his—lordship gave him half-a-pound of Queen’s gunpow-
der. Only last week I was told that the N.S. Wales
police have still the old Terry and Galisher carbine,
t ancy in 1890 a.d. a force turning out armed with alleged
breech-loaders that require tissue cartridges and a per-
cussion cap ! The best corps I ever officered was armed
with swords of all shapes and sizes, bought at two rupees
each (400 of them), not for use, but just, to show they
were enlisted ( burti ). The bestness, however, was that I
could stop their pay and sack them. Only four deserted,
and that after receiving a hint that their wages were a
dozen a week. Bolivar’s cavalry had only a blanket with
a hole in it for their uniform ; dervishes only want a
green or yellow turban : but they can fight. Some corps
only dress in a coat of oil, others in pipeclay patches,
polish” 6rn warriors are nowhere except per “ spit and
A Boarding-House Idyl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She said she was not one of those meek and mild
women, thank Heaven ! She likewise voiced her
objection to being regarded as a little tin-Joss-on-
wheels. The boarders obeyed her injunction
without experiencing any great wrench to their
respective judgments.
A small-faced little woman, with short brown
hair, solid-looking like a wig, and one of those
supple, round, boy-girl figures—that was Miss
Pouneer. Her Christian name, appropriately
enough, was Charlie.
As the foremost of the few lady residents in
that Melbourne boarding-house, she set the
fashion in morals and manners.
Both were original. Shocked, but pleased, the
new-chum blushed a fine, large, English blush
when Charlie invaded his room in the morning and
chatted to him while he added the finishing-
touches to his toilet. Charlie had hinted dark
suspicions concerning the virtue of people who
couldn’t go openly into one another’s rooms. So,
to preserve their reputations, everybody went.
Ihe actor and the poet shared the same room.
After their first meeting with Charlie they agreed
she was not at all the sort of woman they would
have liked as a sister. A week later they thought
so still. Each wanted her as a wife.
From that moment both eagerly noted marks of
preference for one or other of them. The poet
considered he had the better show.
He was a small poet—a pocket-edition, with
shimmering hair that gave him a likeness to the
notorious, tipsy, daffodilly bard, top-heavy with
the dew of vernal showers. Only Ralston’s dew
was “ Mountain.”
Ralston and Hetherway were friends. Hether-
way was sometimes drunk; Ralston occasionally
sober. J
As an erotic poet, claiming to have plucked his
burning verses from the Tree of Life, Ralston
knew women. He declared he could predict every
word that Charlie would utter. For the question
he would ask, he predicted “ Yes.”
The actor, being merely an exponent of other
men s thoughts, agreed that the poet might know
best. It is true that Charlie once boxed his ears
but Ralston could prove that she had granted him
a similar favor. Again, Hetherway appeared
radiant with the discovery that Charlie sometimes
dispraised him. He had read in a book that that
was a good sign. But Ralston quenched the faint
hope kindly, but firmly. Charlie was that extreme
contradiction to her sex who refuses to be a con-
tradiction. Hetherway retired to think this over.
Neither did much to attract his enslaver. Her
choice was probably made. Their business was to
await some word or look that would make it
known.
But the day arrived for Hetherway’s departure
to the provinces, and the oracle was still mute.
Hetherway was packing-up. That is to say, he
stood in the middle of his room and flung clothes
and books into a box in one corner. To him en-
tered the poet, drunk with unaccustomed sobriety.
Hetherway, attend ! I would not have thee
linger in thy pain.”
> your plan?” '
mstant.' AhUhere sheTs ffh™?
new B oh ;ff ro :° m the d ° or -J the
was her Accent custom be F boots. It
of attire in the rhff° m , to kee P various articles
lowest drawer in fu® 6 ™# rooms. The
leged to cohtaln'tH. 8 apart ™ ent was P'ivi-
™nting°. bio™e"to-a r ,y bI °"“ , !bul *• «*•-
there e wrsTO h ™iS'est t inol! o™' 0 ™'
,nd,h,Sr e ‘ d 'tol 8 " , ‘ ! h “ too ‘ S,m
■poet 6 *nd‘?ai«ri„X «»
your room, Charlie?” g ze - Going up,to
thos h e lr iBth SS eenf d, flir,ging back at him one of
caused the ltUr J l emarks wllic 'b had once
would not u be actor to say that they
would not have liked her for a sister.
Charlie s room was on the flat above,
stairs ? * dragged the actor to the foot of the
Listen. I’ve, played her a trick She’s ner-
her bed rtSS"’ . I>ve P«t one under
hand d f d ’ b,g b °° fc stlcking out, poker in
house S Tn ITT We ar \ the on, y two ™n in the
to her linu whose name will rise first
nV,nn * l £ ■ Whom will she instinctively call
Charlie w P r °fotor? She ' s cnnning, my little
Charlie, but she 11 betray herself now ! ”
thronwh f K n ) oment >, »nd a piercing: shriek rang
irv ho, i, se > Allowed by the instantaneous
cry ’ Ralston, Ralston, come and save me !”
And Kalston went, beaming.
* * * *
firll?» CO mu- e J didn’t I want him to be killed
nrst.' I hat was her explanation three months
later, when she was married'to Hetherway.
. 'woman is merely her power of
thinking things out in the billionth part of a
second. 1
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


II
ff
It purifies the blood, prevents the bad effects
of hot weather, gives a good appetite, and
builds up the whole system. .
Ayer *8
S
a
8\
m.
m
m
m
m
m
mB.
m
m
%
m
O'-
7/
m
$
m.
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family for years with the most satis-
“ During the warm, debilitating days of summer it acts as a tonic and seems
to build up the systeni'and restore the appetite. -.i.
“ I have always given it to my children, whose photograph I send you wit
this -Tetter; fdr aiiy disorder of the blood, and, in fact, for all, diseases peculiar
to it. greatly improved their health by getting at the root of the
disorder quicker, than any other preparation.” , ■ ~: n TTiii<s
These are the children of Mr., and Mrs. Morrall W. Curran, of Bov/en Hus,
Brisbane,'Queensland: Mr, Curran sends us this strong testimonial. It show*
again why the people have named Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
r , “The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
The old and young alike are cured with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, for itns J family
medicine. Give a few closes to the children any time they have
sleeplessness, , loss of appetite, headache, or general weakness. If they'are pale
and thin, or have any rashes or pimples, they certainly 1166 ‘ er ’s ”
the cure to be prompt, and if you wish it to last, be sure and y
There is nothing “Just as Good.”
The
That" Cures.
It is a Blood-Purifying Medicine.
Ayer’s Pills act gently, effectively. They cure constipation.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’s Lung tonic
has been curing’
GOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK EOR
junglonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lidL, 2s. 9 d., 4s. Gd.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors,
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
NICHOLSON $ CO.
Are the LARGEST IMPORTERS of PIANOS,
ORGANS, and MUSIC in'Australia.
GERMAN PIANOS by the most celebrated makers
ENGLISH PIANOS by the best makers
AMERICAN PI AN OS at surprisingly low prices
AMERICAN ORGANS in great variety
ALL THE NEWEST AND MOST POPULAR MUSIC.
CATALOGUES EREE
ON APPLICATION.
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
Sen-Sent &
INGDON AVENUE
LONDON
MVAWABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
2m
Perfume
hen
&
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
THE MAE VELLO US CUKE FOB
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
INFLUENZA.
The Miser, the Maid, and the Medicine.
Niece : V Now, Uncle, you are not yourself, and I want you to
take some BEECH AM’S PILLS. I know they will do
you good. They are Worth a Guinea a Box.”
Misee : “ What! Worth a Guinea a Box! I would rather die
than take anything of such value.”
Sequel.—lie dies.


rK UAROESf»
or FintTiL MAKER S
ESTABLISHES
164-7.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Read Ogive and Factories - Toronto , Canada.
Australasian Iland qWr s, 108-109TTil ] iam-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address S
3S Broadway, Georg:® St. West. Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everyy.'iirrs).
Illustrated Catalogue Free, app.ication.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne ;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL -COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
The IQost powerful griviig Belt in the (|)orld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
lb. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... ... ... Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM i 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
“O FHTEHT BEITS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
beware of inferior
IMITATIONS.
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide; ’
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
BENNIE, TEARE & 00.
IMPORTERS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION OF
Mining & Engineering Material, Furnishings,
AND REPRESENTING IN AUSTRALIA
TANG YES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
Pumping Plants a Speciality.
FRESH FOOD & ICE GO
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making 1
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OP SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)—92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARC Alt jd—for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these D:'|>ot« for AFTPiRNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KINO STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ READ OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Manage
as
OTTUMWA WINDING- ENGINE.
Catalogues Free on Application.
&
Cl
*c©
co
S.
MA JS r UFA CTPEERS & IMPORTERS
OF ALL KINDS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
AND
BOILERS.
LAUNDRY
A Nf>
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
EKTGIKTEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY ”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Karrison. & Attwood., Sole Proprietors.
INSOLVENT Estate of Weadon. Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK : —l4 D.B. Breech-loading 1 Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual
±'B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £8 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading' Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
V
B.S.A.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS CO MPA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2,9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
8/3 gross. SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC J TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, v B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED—GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
I
General Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
435 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
— AnuxTTg F oK
The Mason Regulating Co’s
ST ISAM AND WATER REDUCING VALVES.
L. Schuttes & Co’s
ROUTING’S BOILER FEED INJECTORS & EJECTORS.
Blake’s
SINGLE & DUPLEX STEAM PUMPS.
J. A. Fay & Egan Co’s
WOODWORKING MACHINERY & TOOLS.
W. F. & Jno. Barnes Co.
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & WOODWORKING MACHINERY
Always in Stock:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Lifting Tackle, &c.
