

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
r’TS.Tr-r TEZ3> A _ _ ” mtm-M ISTlilflV
| ~, __ ~ '^■tfPMli^#’”
3-07 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Minin® Reanisit.es
EXPLOSIVES, and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. *
270
Prize
Med cals,
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold
m
.
SEND FOR PRICE* AND PAltl UXI.ARS
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 'B5 put street, SYDNEY.
_ SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & c Q . t
HATE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
•02y
02y om^oo'S
SdiAind aNv saanos onv sbnionh iaivb±s
WINE!
WINS !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST mUEJ£>
XUSTRRLIH.
&3L Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
HORNE’S
WHISKY
o
ilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
e FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilniinster for. the
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
1
m
JJOTICB TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
..'X 1 HEP. llK ’* GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest lJote
Aceoniiiiodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Bay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
—Jfsjw,
Hadley’s Orient fiotel
J
oo
860,113 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CWBAPBffT AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by t.beN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. G. LUDOWICF& SOM, LTD.,
IX7 "STorlx. Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
(JOSH UA ’ S A USTIi ALI A A
merang Brandy
JR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
CCESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
Tine ffilost - Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau Lamp.
■
WAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE.
SYDNEY.
for Lam P s: NEVV AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Love & Oo
240 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Voi 20. —-No. 1032. j
[Saturday, November 25, 1899.
Postered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner,


otilliam p. WALKisit’S (“COO-ee”)
' v SUCCESSFUL HOOKS. Illustrated throughout
by leading artists. Price—3/6, cloth ; 2,6, stiff paper.
When the Mopolte Calls."
The Times (London): “ A collection of Australian stories,
giving a capital idea of life on the remote out-stations
of the eastern colonies in the last generation.” The
Spectator (London) : “ A brightl.v-written volume of the
trials and humours of colonial iife some thirty years or
more hack.” The World (London): “ They are full of
the-sound of the vagrant’s song of freedom, and are par-
ticularly fresh and unhackneyed.” The Weekly Sun
(London): “There is no more interesting writer about
Australia than Mr. William S. Walker, the well-known
* Coo-ee.’ ”
“from the Land of the Wombat."
The Daily Graphic (London): “ The stories are written
so naturally, and with such an appearance of truth, that
we are alinos!; inclined to believed that the author is
relating his own experiences rather than telling us tales
of fiction. Mr. Walker has great knowledge of his subject,
and is able to convey to bis reader a very realistic im-
pression of Australian life and character. The Stories are
of great variety, and many of them have a quaint humour
about them that is decidedly taking.” the Guardian
(London): “Mr. Walker has done excellent work in
‘ From the Land of the Wombat.,’ and he seems now to be
our finest Australian writer. Pie is always picturesque,
alwavs striking.”
' “NATIVE HORN,” One Long Novel, 320 pp.
(In preparation).
London: JOHN LONG, Publisher, 6 Chandos-st., Strand;
and LONG'S COLONIAL LIBRARY at all Colonial
Booksellers.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure .
A
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
IS. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Hronqhiid Tillies of a
dissected lung.
I). A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOR OI.D
AND YOUNG.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain jVO cocaine- or other poisonous <lra<j ...
Sold by all Chemists. Tins. Is. 6d. Or from the Pioprieior-G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich.
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYI>XUY AGENT- S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE.
"Green Fire.”
“There are those of us who would rather be
with Cathal of the woods, and be drunken with
green fire, than gain the paradise of the Holy
Molios who banned him, if in that gain were to
be heard no more the earth-sweet ancient song of
the blood that is in the veins ...
O green fire of life, pulse of the world !
O Love ! O Youth ! O Dream of Dreams ! ”
The Annir Choile.
What a phrase we have here—“ Green Fire”!
The soul of the sap in the trees in spring-time;
the blush in the cheek of the maiden ; the warm
rush of life that makes the birds’sing, and the
grass grow green over graves ! The man who has
this spell laid upon him cares not for Time, nor
Chance, nor black-winged Fate, nor pallid Death.
What can Time or Chance, or Fate, or Death do
to one who lives in his emotions, and who owns
the Future? He is no more free the troubles of
life than other men—less so, indeed, because of
his organisation—but through all he hears the
singing of the birds of Rhiannon, whose song
was so sweet that, as the old Welsh story goes,
warriors remained spell-bound for years together
listening to them.
This is not the type of man that builds bridges
and railways, and starts huge industrial establish-
ments, and, in a word, does, in a masterful way,
the hard, rough work of the world. He is not
even the kind of man who attends strictly to his
own business, and saves money, and ends mag-
nificently by becoming the mayor of his suburb.
Yet the world could ill spare him ; in fact, could
niuch better spare a score of average mayors.
True, the world is not over-anxious to let him
see, while he is alive, that it thinks there is
anything of value in him—anything worth speak-
ing about—fearing, possibly, that the know-
ledge might spoil him and unfit him for his lot in
life. But what the world thinks or does is of
little account in the case of a man of this sort.
He must travel on his own strange path, and dree
his own weird, in spite of everything.
To this rare class of men—even this rare
class of poets, as poets go in these latter days
of thrift and respectability-belonged James
Clarence Mangan. Most Irish readers pro-
bably know as much about him and his poetry
as I can tell them, but there must be many
to whom he is little more than a name, and
I doubt if he is quite that much to the Aus-
tralian native who is not of Irish descent. In-
deed, he was in his own country and generation
the most retiring of poets. But, apart from the
fact that he was a true singer, whose only mission
on earth was to sing, Mangan is particularly in-
teresting, because his genius was essentially Celtic.
He was Irish of the Irish—except in regard to
one quality—supposed to be inseparable from
the typical Irish character—drollery, to wit. He
had a certain amount of grim humour, but scarcely
a trace of the happy-go-lucky, devil-may-care drol-
lery of his countrymen. But he was none the less
a Celt because of this drawback. Even Celtic
Ireland, befoi-H the accursed Saxon came, was a
land peopled by many races. The Milesians were
simply the Normans of an earlier day and con-
quered the existing inhabitants of the island—
Celts of previous migrations—yet did by no means
exterminate them. Their descendants are alive
to-day. There is, in particular, one type of Irish-
man, to be found chiefly in the bogs and waste
places of Connaught, who is the original of the
long-lipped Celt so dear to the English carica-
turists. And, curiously enough, it Is this very
autochthon who is the true Irish wag—the born
humourist.
So that a man may be a Celt through and
through without having much humour or even
appreciation of humour in him. The Bretons are
Celts, the Welsh are Celts, and the Scottish High-
landers are Celts; but who ever accused anv oj
these peoples of a ra ee u f rollicking laughter-
ATr ’ - f J * jave kiiidred in Ireland for all that.
And o— 3 omt , onß Q f t h e se branches of the Celtic
ra ce Mangan may have belonged. So much for
his lack of humour, greatly deplored by some
critics who are on all other accounts his admirers.
But if Mangan was deficient in humour he had
all the other gifts which make the Celt the most
poetic of peoples ; and, within lyric limits, Celtic
poets the most truly poetic of the singers of all
nations. What these gifts are let no less a critic
than Matthew Arnold say:—“The Celt’s quick
feeling for what is noble and distinguished gave
his poetry style; his indomitable personality gave
it pride and passion: his sensibility and nervous
exaltation gave it a better gift still, the gift of
rendering with wonderful felicity the magical
charm of Nature. The forest solitude, the bub-
bling spring, the wild flowers, are everywhere in
romance. They have a mysterious life and grace
there; they are Nature’s own children, and utter
her secret in a way which makes them something
quite different from the woods, waters, and plants
of Greek and Latin poetry. Now of this delicate
magic Celtic romance is so pre-eminent a mistress,
that it seems impossible to believe the power did
not come into romance from the Celts. ” The por-
tion of the foregoing which concerns the magio
of Nature does not indeed greatly concern Man-
gan. He looked too much into his heart, and
wrote, to see the tenderer beauties of Nature ; but
the qualities mentioned in the first part of the
quotation, and above all, what Arnold elsewhere
calls “ the passionate penetrating melancholy of
the Celt,” were Mangan’s in the fullest measure.
But it is time to let him speak for himself—with
a word here and there from the writer by way of
introduction of the passage quoted. His marvel-
lous German translations cannot be dealt with
here. An article all to themselves would be little
enough to do them less than justice. In this place
he shall only speak in his own name and in the
nan.es of his predecessors, the ancient bards of his
country. Let one of the latter speak first—by the
mouth of Mangan, of course. It is O’Hussey, the
Bard of the Clan Maguire, chanting of his chief
who has gone on a dangerous expedition in the
depth of a severe winter. He begins—
Where is my Chief, my Master, this bleak night?
O cold, cold, miserably cold, is this bleak night for Hugh
mavrone !
Its showery, arrowy, speary sleet pieroeth one through
and through,
Pieroeth one to the very bone .
and, after thirteen more stanzas, giving a wildly
vivid description of a stormy night in a bitter
winter, concludes with a stanza, the last two lines
of which are full of fine old Irish ferocity.
Hugh inarched forth to the fight—l grieved to see him ao
depart;
And, 10, to night he wanders frozen, rain-drenohed, sad,
betrayed
lint the memory of the lime-white mansions his right hand
hath laid
ns asKst" wt rnttke Jun/eluar tyjrarex' "-t-jP’’ .-/•iwaßSaaßH
t ' V f ° lines are> 1 think, unmatohable as an
combined f BaVage P oetr y aud savage humour
• are t ww verses from a song—purport-
rng to be an allegorical address from Hugh Roe
f ,?, I ? ned t° Ireland—composed during the reign
ot Elizabeth by one of O ' Donnell’s bards. Dark
Rosaleen is, of course, Ireland.
Over hills, and through dales,
Have I roamed for your sake ;
All yesterday I sailed with sails
On river and on lake.
The Erne ... at its highest flood
I dashed across unseen
For there was lightning in my blood,
My Dark Rosaleen 1
My Dark Rosaleen 1
Oh, there was lightning in my blood,
Red lightning lightened through my blood,
My Dark Rosaleen 1
Woe and pain, pain and woe,
Are my lot, night and noon,
To see your bright face clouded so'
Like to the mournful moon.
And yet . . . will I rear your throne
Again in golden sheen ;
Tis you shall reign, shall reign alone,
My Dark Rosaleen !
My own Rosaleen !
Tis you shall have the golden throne,
'Tis you shall reign, and reign aione,
My Dark Rosaleen!
And as examples of unconscious, yet purel
Irish, humour, take the following stanzas from i
poem addressed to Patrick Sarsfield by a poet o '
the time : 1
To the heroes of Limerick, the City of the Fights,
Be my best blessing borne on the wings of the air !
IFe had card-playing there o'er our camp-fires at night,
And the Word of Life, too, and prayer.
I clomb the high hill on a fair summer noon,
And saw the Saxon Muster, clad in armour blinding
bright,
Oh, rage withheld my hand, or gunsman and dragoon
Should have supped with Satan that night /
And for powerful intensity of expression take
these two others from the same poem :
And Jerome, oh Jerome ! he perished in the strife—
His head it was spiked on a halbert so high ;
His colors they were trampled. Hi had no chance of life
If the Lord God Him-elf stood by.
But O’Kelly still remains to defy and to toil ;
He has memories that Hell won't permit him to forget,
And a sword that will make the blue blood flow like oil
Upon many an Aughrim yet.
The foregoing qiiotations are far too scant to giv
an idea of the spirit of these old Irish singers, bu ;
space is too short for more. So now let Mangai
speak a little in his own person. Three stanza
from “ The Time of the Barmecides ” :
My eyes are filmed, my beard is grey,
I am bowed with r.he weight of vears ;
I would I were stretched in my bed of clay,
With my long-lost youth’s compeers !
tar back to the Past, though the thought brings woe,
My memory ever glides—
To the old, old time long, long ago,
The time of the Barmecides.
Then Youth was mine and a fierce, wild will,
And a fleet foot high upon Ishkar’s hill,
When the watch-lights glimmered afar,
And a barb as fiery as any I know
That Khoord or Beddaween rides,
Ere my friends lay low—long, long ago.
In the time of the Barmecides ;
Ere my friends lay low, long, long ago,
In the time of the Barmecides.
But mine eye is dim, and my beard is grey,
And I bend jh,Z rSiyt.v j tars- . " '
May I soon go down to the House of Clay
Where slumber my Youth’s compeers 1
For with them and the Past, though the thought wakes
woe,
My memory ever abides !
And I mourn for the times gone long ago,
For the times of the Barmecides !
I mourn for the times gone long ago,
The times of the Barmecides.
All the poets of all generations have, in their
turn, mourned for the Time of the Barmecides,
but which of them has ever mourned in sweeter,
sadder numbers than Mangan ? “ Twenty Golden
Years Ago” is in the same key of regret. But
the real Celtic Mangan—the Mangan who, as the
typical Celt in literature, seems to walk always in
a land of shadows, a region full of strange
whispers and dreams, between two worlds—is to
be found in the poem entitled “A Vision of Con-
naught in the Nineteenth Century ”
I walked entranced
Through a land of Morn ;
The sun, with wondrous excess of light,
Shone down and glanced
Over seas of corn
And lustrous gardens aleft and right.
Even in the clime
Of resplendent Spain,
Beams no stioh sun upon suoh a land;
But it was the time,
'Twas in the reign,
Of G&hal M6r of the Wine-red Hand.
Anon stood nigh
By my side a man
Of princely aspect and port sublime.
Him queried I,
“ O, my Lord and Khan,
What clime is this, and what golden time?”
When he—“ The clime
Is the clime to praise.
The dime is Erin's, the green and bland;
And it is the time,
These be the days,
Of Odhal Mdr of the Wine-red Hand 1"
Then saw I thrones,
And circling fires,
And a Dome rose near me, as by a spell,
Whence flowed the tones
Of silver lyres,
And many voices in wreathhd swell ;
And their thrilling chime
Fell on mine ears
As the heavenly hymn of an angel-band—
“ It is now the time,
These be the years,
Of Oihal M<Sr of the Wine-red Hand t M
I sought the hall,
And, behold 1 ... a ohange
From light to darkness, from Joy to wool
King, nobles, all.
Looked aghast and strange;
The minstrel-group sate in dumbest show i
Had some great crime
Wrought this dread amaze,
This terror? None seemed to understand l
'Twas then the time
We were in the days
Of Odhal Mbr of the Wine-red Hand.
I again walked forth ;
But lo 1 the sky
Showed fleckt with blood, and an alien sun
Glared from the north,
And there stood on high,
Amid his shorn beams, a skeleton !
It was by the stream
• Of the'castled Maine,
One Autumn eve, in the Teuton’s land.
That I dreamed this dream
Of the time and reign
Of Cahal Mor of the Wine-red Hand !
Mangan was a master of rhyme who delighted in
the display of his skill. The result was that he
sometimes overdid the business in hand. But at
any rate there is no tedium in his measures. Note
here that Matthew Arnold states the weight of
evidence goes to show that rhyme was invented by
the Celts. Another feather in our cap !
Mangan had, curiously enough, much in corn-
mon with our own Kendall. Both were by nature
melancholy, both were masters of many metres,
and both were singularly devoid of humour. Even
in their outward lives the likeness holds good.
They were both unfortunate in a similar fashion,
though, in Mangan’s case; the gvening shadows
were darker, the night blacker, and the end more
tragic. Which brings me to Mangan the Man.
He was a poor lawyer’s clerk, struggling through
most of his life to support a mother and sister.
He was self-educated, yet highly cultured, and
learned in at least three languages beside
his own. He was a victim of drink and
As for his appearance, let John
Mitchell speak: “ Being in the college library
. . . . an acquaintance pointed out to me
a man perched on the top of a ladder, with the
whispered information that the figure was Clarence
Mangan. It was an unearthly and ghostly figure,
m a brown garment; the same garment (to all
appearance) which lasted till the day of his death.
Ihe blanched hair was totally unkempt ; the
corpse-like features still as marble, a large book
was in his arms, and all his soul was in the book.”
Another picture by John Savage: ‘He is about
the middle size, and glides more than walks, yet
at that is but infirm. He stoops and is abstracted.
A threadbare dark coat—is it brown or black?—
buttoned up to the throat, sheathes his attenuated
body. His eye is lustrously mild and beautifully
blue, and his silver-white locks surrounded,
like a tender halo, the once beautiful and now pale
and intellectual face of the prematurely aged
man before us. He glides along and through the
people as if he did not belong to them. His steps
seem as if they were not directed by any thought,
but mechanically wended their way to his
wretched abode.’’ Is this not painfully reminis-
cent of what is told of Daniel Henry Deniehy in
his forlorn latest days ?
. Mangan was found dying—whether of starva-
tion or cholera is not certain—in a garret, and
was taken to the Meath Hospital, where he
lingered for seven days and then died, an old arid
broken man at the age of 4(5. Yet in all the
Ireland of his day there was no other man in
whose bosom burned the Green Fire of life, of
love, of youth, of dreams, as it had burned in the
bosom of James Clarence Mangan,
VICTOR J. DALEY.
[?]
Brunton Stephens is busy writing plays, and
the business enchants him—he wishes he had tried
it thirty years ago.. One comic opera was sub-
mitted a while ago to J. C. Williamson, who
thought it “ too literary—readable and unactable ”
—though it is permitted to question the opinion.
A seeonl&K about to bid for London acceptance ;
and the others Time will try. By the way, a
Patchett - Martin preparatory puff in Litera-
ture (of the new collected Brunton which
Angus and Robertson are to issue shortly) de-
clares that “since the death of Gordon and
Kendall, J.B.S. has been recognised as the
leading representative poet of the Australian
Commonwealth "—which is a dictum to be well
shaken before taken. Stephens is a many-sided
man ; and there is a considerable argument to be
dressed showing that (if his brains had not been
stewed in the pan of pedagogy and the saucepan
of Govt, office—though Bunyip forbid we should
speak ill of such a sound bridge for carrying one
over life) his best literary work would have been
done in the prose or—who knows ?—the dramatic
field.
s^®
Taranaki (M.L.) Herald says the man who
financed Wellington Critic dead in its sweet
seventeenth number—lost £2OOO in that very-rash
venture. The Critic seemed a machine for the
glorification of its editor, J. S. Evison, and little
beside. The good things in it were some of
Evison’s stones reprinted (without acknowledg-
ment) from The Bulletin and The Australian
Mdguzme; but there is no reason why people
should be asked to read even good stories two or
three times over in different journals.
A very fine piece of woodcutting was reproduced
in Oct. Pall Mall Marta.— rftahdys J “ Danue in the
Brazen Chamber refused by' Once a Week as
too sensuous. But an English’ critic points out
that the block has been tampered with —reduced,
cut, and a ctually bowdlerised !
S &
“It is the old melodiousness and the pleasant
nonchalance of a Lamartine which reappear in
Verlaine. Yet there is nothing in Verlaine to
intellectually recall the sane and noble outlook of
Lamartine, and one is still less reminded of a nr mil
seigneur in considering this poor - Bohemian who
passed his life in garrets and cafes. . . . We
must return, past Alfred de Musset, to the primal
source of modern French poesy, in order to find the
ancestor and the origin of Verlaine. Less fresh,
less healthy and strong, equally sincere, natural
and poetic, but more corrupted, he is lineally
descended from Francois Villon, that great rascal,
true vagabond, and true genius. Verlaine is
Villon in the garb of the 19th century dying.”—
Georges Brandes.
<1*
Lond. Bookman —apparently “at unheard-o;
expense,” so far as it is concerned—prints new
poems by Swinburne and Theodore Watts-Duntou
in its last number. Watts-Dunton’s is clever
Eleasant verse, with no poetic thrill to it. Swin
urne has a fine display of phrase-fireworks, in
which the phrase is too keenly felt. These lines
describe the delight of a swimmer who passes
from sunlight “far down through the fathomless
night of the water ” —
Death-dark and delic ous as death in the dream of a lover
and dreamer may be,
It clasps and encompasses body and soul with delight to
be Jiving and free ;
Free utterly now, though the freedom endure but the
space of a perilous breath,
And living, though girdled about with the darkness and
coldness and strangeness of death ;
Each limb and each pulse of the body rejoicing, each
tierve of the spirit at rest,
All sense of the soul’s life rapture, a passionate peace in
its blindness blest.
The title of the rhapsody is “The Lake of
Gaube ” —don’t know where Gaube is—and it
closes:—
As a sea-mew.’s love of the sea-wind breasted and ridden
for rapture’s sake
Is the love of his body and soul for the darkling delight
of the soundless lake ;
As the silent speed of a dream too living to live for a
thought’s space more
Is the flight of his.limbs through the still strong chill of
the darkness from shore to shore.
Might life be as this is and death be as life that casts off
time as a robe,
The iikeiiess of infinite heaven were a symbol revealed of
the lake of Gaube.
This recalls Lanier’s “ Marshes of Glynn
And I would I could know what swimmeth below when
the tide comes in
On the length and the breadth of the marvellous marshes
of Glynn.
and indeed through the whole poem, though it re-
places irregular with regular metre, sings a ghost
of Lanier’s “(Sunrise.”
S &
Forthcoming or out-coming books include “ Mr.
Dooley in the Hearts of His Countrymen ”
(similar to Ditto “in Peace and War”—parocly-
j n g—-whose ? —phrase for George Washington
— “first in war, first in peace, first in the
hearts,” &c. ); Arthur Symons’s studies illustrating
the Symbolist movement (mostly reprinted—there
is a local writer who says he can illustrate better—
and who can); Kipling’s “Stalky & Co.” (read in
McClure’s—a Newington College (N.S.W.) master
declares he now understands the, Indian military
classification of Kipling as Cad—seeing that the
boys and masters of Stalky's school are Englishly
and public-seholastically unthinkable —curious to
see if an English schoolmaster says so); “History
of the Transvaal Contingent” (on the model of the
Soudan ditto—cost to the N.S. W. Govt, a Pretty
Penny—-and somebody has his eye on the literary
pickings of Our Infamous War—it’s a very dead
Doer who won’t put a fat fee in some locaLscribe’s
pocket); unheard-of Sydney Jepbcott’s new book
of verses (somebody said so) ; war-Banjo-corres-
pondeiit Paterson's ditto (jolly and readable;
and no more “Only a Jockey”—thank the
Muse! if it’s her blessing); and a great
many other fine books on a great many other
fine subjects—“We toil, we passion; balder
grows the pate; and Death and Tune in
silence close the pub.” It’s a shame to maltreat
Hebbleth waite so : and “pub.” is vulgar; but
is the best mixture —is there any best ?
“ Hop’s.” is highly recommended —two ounces of
“ Derby ” to two of “ Welcome Nugget ” ; but it
lies heavy on the sedentary brain. One ounce of
“Derby” suits better ; and Quinn says “ Wel-
come Is ugget ” alone. Barrie’s “Arcadia Mix-
ture ” is not sold in Sydney. Ogilvie, who leaned
very sadly over my garden-fence for half-an-hour
after smoking a certain dark cigar, inferentially
recommended “ Capstan ” in “ How We Won the
Ribbon”; but “Capstan'’ palls. What did
Marcus Clarke smoke ? , And are two little pipes
better than one big one ? These things have
troubled
The Bookfellow.


KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
Bv twins; our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beau tiue® the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from fallinsr out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/0 and SH/- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEN,
6SO GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin < t£)kea6ed.
s9leu) Wkcotiery
“\6igmoUkne. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Ukin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 80, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,' very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D."
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1599. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D."
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(RKGIBTE&ttD.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptio, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which mav be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-11EAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold In oval tablets at Is.
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene." Can
be obtained from-all chemists throughout Australasia-
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRYMALYON,
M anti fa c taring Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. ancL 7s- 6c3L_ Eacll.
fS 1- 'Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Srn.NiiT ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG 00. LTD.
DO. J. CPLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Val/lV
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <&>-. bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
SHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ef
Sept. 28, 1806, says:
“ If I were asked whioh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
Btost generally useful, to the exclusion of all
ethers, I should say ChloroDYNß. I never travel
Without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
Its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrsted drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective In
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin- constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable In all
cases oi anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
tor weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/*/ia* all
the good effect! of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
ii does not blacken the teeth "
«OI I) BY CHKMIftTS *LL THE WOBID OVEB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
W. JNO. BAKCR’S
Xmas
Presentation
Ladies’
CasgS-
Handsome Appearance.
Thoroughly Useful.
Artistic Design.
THE “COMPANION.”
Size when closed, Bin. x Bln.
A. -With Plain Scissors, 80s. complete, post
free.
B. Nickel-Plated Scissors, 365. com-
plete, post free.
0.-With Gold Gilt, Oriental Design Scissors,
375. 6d. complete, post free.
THE “BOUDOIR.”
Smaller than above, 17s. fid., 215., 285.,
post free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
Cixtlor,
S HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST GHRISTMAS GIFT
WEBSTER'S)
INTERNATIONAL
i DICTIONARY' J
A Library in itself.— Besides the Dictionary
proper it also gives the often desired information con-
cerning eminent persons; facts concerning the countries,
cities, towns, and natural features of the globe; particu-
lars concerning noted fictitious persons and places;
translation of foreign quotations, words and pro-
verbs, etc., and a valuable Australasian supplement.
This Work is Invaluable in the household, and to
the teacher, scholar, professional man, and self-educator.
SEND FOR FUSS PROSPECTUS AND SPECIMEN PaOES.
U.&C;MeffiamCo.> Publishers, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY
THE
Co-Operative Wool&Produce Co.
« T TIMTT'PT*T\
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores —Central Whakt.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS: 222 CANNON ST.
Donned,” London. London, e.c.
Established M a oonnectlng link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market ol London by
PRANK JARVIS
(who has had 20 years' experience in the Colonies), and is In touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who hag already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N S. Wales—HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh -street, 8YDNEY.
Queensland —Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria-JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 48 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— O. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
BRUSH’S
iKU ittrauii sedt’S mm.
BftUSH
W*Xn-
Natural Saffron
~<■ JWD
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
Ktmi.
■'■'A
!***'*?
wkVJvf ;
JNO.lv. Jwu. ai.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, wit!
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“ Brush, MaKer, Sydney, Registered.’
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit foi
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, £3 6s; A, .£3 15s; B, £4 ;
0,10 s ;D, £5; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired.
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d. . . ■
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired—No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations ol
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
And BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
888 FLINDERS ST., MELBOL’KNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3'-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35-. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Biding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Bainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
froof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
ancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed Wiiite Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 211, 33. Warm
Travelling Bugs, 13/6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9,6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress," also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stook in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10, -.trimmings included.
** COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM
w
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing*
Ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many hare been
benefited after trying erery
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send ft
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants Importers.
Our Specialities are—Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Hatting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
Second-hand
and
TVTKW furniture
JLI (Best Quality).
BUT FROM US AND
SATE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent)
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite lor the Furnishing ol the HOME of best
ouallty at fully 60 per oent. less than prices charged elso-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. a LOVELL & CO.,
178 Georpre-st. (8 doors past Huuter-sl.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1028.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 8/b eaofc
PLAITB and TAILS,
SDtn. lone. f/fl. all real haifl
CUTTINGS A COMBING*
(worked up, yd per o*.
We are the cheapeitta
trail® lor all Hair Work..
Send Color of Bair. »■
1110 William Stbset, n
earner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY. _
Cable Tram will etop at Door..
' Bend stamps for full PHoe LleV\,
fMgrpt attentlon'givsn to Country OrderW
WHEN TOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. a«bnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O'Oonaell-stnet, SyOaey.
Tasmanian EucAtrrrwi On. Co. Lro., Beun
DEAF
:
The Hew Peteat
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome DeafmMl
and Head Noises, no mattoi «f
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses arc to the
eyes. Invisible. Comforts
Worn months without removal*
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
maS
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
169-167 WiLLIaM STREET. MELBOURNE
CKAWFORD STREET DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH BTREET, BRISBANE ’
S -A NPMA CHINERY
(akij’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £B5
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Xtud. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
W. N. <SLEN & CO.,
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents—
359 G-eorgfe Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne,


TATTERS ALLS.
Address: Care GEO.
ADAMS, Hotoart.
SANDHURST 0. November 29.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sli htps
in tlie abora
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE C. December 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot roe
above.
shares in the
*
Name
Address
CA RIM XGTOX S. December 30.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEESALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above,
N;
ame
£
Adch
•css
SUMMER 0. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above,
Name
Address.
S
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart


"Man’s
Strength
and
Woman’s
Beauty.”
Before and since
the days of Samson
this is -what has
been said of every
Jaxuriant growth
of hair.
mm
GIFTS
JOSIA
Jl^H
preserves and
beautifies the
hair, giving
it length,
strength, and
luster.
It restores
the natural
color to the
hair in every
instance.
cleanses the scalp from dandruff
and thus removes one great cause of
baldness.
It makes a better circulation in the
scalp and thus checks the hair from
falling out.
If your blood is poor and thin and
filled with impurities, the Hair Vigor
cannot do its best. You should take a
thorough course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla at the same time
you are using the Hair Vigor. This
will cleanse your blood, invigorate your
nerves, and improve your health in
every way.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
s
%
oo
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
3Sfo i
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMIWC,
24 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ANTHOS»»HAIR
Discoverer, Christopher Mudd, r.L.9., Prince ot Wales' Botanist
Not a Grease, purely Botanical
' P R - 1- Robkkt Lee, M.U.. B.S (Mclh. Universit
v—
khA am
H Jhenalf i
1 Am
niversitv).
iliifie 1 ill inbnjotfS\ lfa(/refise\l grcmt t
n&n Icy is hvi 11 y sit at g hJ' f L N
prevr nip Hair allinc/ort, t and
talio i I 1 otlle >. 2JK J os e I, 1/1
id Vb/o ifhtl inks and Blrpsnce 1 3 1 di
yon/willVieceiyji p« r post i l«ft
* 'anmplchOtnp of /Inttins."
Colonial Itepresencative (or the Proprietors:
Fred. J. B. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr ltassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Collection of weird advts. taken from the
“ Personal” column of one issue of Sydney D.T. :
A LTEKED greet to great. Feigning to Fainting.
■H- Ad vis. played on. Forgot shouldered 3U0lb.
wheat each word.
T> Y decided grace shown here from start. My girl
H ttas *■ no t, here,” “ S.A.” or Melbourne.
/COMPLETE case glory of "God.” Clear con-
science. Carry honor deference towards aged
queen.
PREFERRED months ago Melbourne. Never
J -' thought reach alive. Sacred conversion, etc.,
played trap ine again.
/""i UESS the clerk prohibition settlement; petty in-
former over a drink, acting as he did.
HS.M.— Puzzles. For N.Z. against Q. Against
• looking back favor lion. Coal eye favor Q. ?
TNFORMED other JPJM washed hands love muddle
there favor sth. east. Letters duly received
there. To keep an eye on Tom just returned. Stated
only met third brother hour he dined with us.
T REGRET fancy so leaving Mlda hurt feelings.
*- Still believe graciously approved. N.Z.
li’YER dissociated petty pique dears. Speak to
main slander delicate organs bearing your cares
played on.
17NTERTAIN Med a. Cruel advantage given. Re-
posed confidence JPGD there. Who witnessed
come up to scratch.
' ißfflpP'
G-O TO HELL-
KiOTiANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real Rood stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IAI PORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st„ Sydney.
-trril'an Slumps Tioufjhfc,’ pricy
CECUREa Share of tbe Profits
of THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by efleotlnjf
a Policy with that Office before the close of the year. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the year
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1809 (all bonuses vest
immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among the
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direct or through the
Society's Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
Directors :—The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman i
A. W. Meeks, Esq.; Joseph Abbott, Esq. ;J. T. Walker, Esq.; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3T Send lor Price List. "Ell
H. HXLLIER., 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Rend for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN,
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
M ELLIN’S FOOD is of tlie highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For coughs, colds, loss of
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
MELLIN’S
The London & American Supply Stores--*-
r
r—
-10ND
ANIotIPP
m
m
VS S
ORE
EONOON AAMIRICAN
9 s -
FOB . .
GENTLEMEN'S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BCURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W FERNE & CO„ Directors.
ALL WHO DESIRE-TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USINS
*
I£>
>•
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND-
Felton, Crimwadk & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
CHS
* Plum ’
Plum
(1 ENTLEMEN who find their Kazms unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
JH trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectlj* liollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, »e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum ” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lighthing Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10a. (id. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ia»
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles’ in beautiful case, 30s.
Itcr/iMcred and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sol 6
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
W.S.'W. Carriage & SadLcllery 2VT a, nf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street. Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, ±'6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' l'heatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SA DDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send ns your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver tor
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 1P , .
-a nt more for your requirements.
OUB SPECIAL jVo. 2
£8 18/6
(close to Redfern Railway Station)-
rMirered ftt any Wharf or
N.S.IV. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ballade of the Other Woman.
Earth’s marriages, in Heaven made,
(The knots unblessed are tied in Hell),
Suggest that seraphs tire of trade,
And fling the series out pell-mell.
Results are quaint. Mere men rebel
Or squirm beneath their spouses’ thumbs j
But stand secure (where David fell)
Until the Other Woman comes.
The youth enamored wins the maid ;
The sexton jerks the marriage-bell:
Oh, sweetly is the bride arrayed,
And riohly rolls the organ-swell I
The honeymoon scarce breaks the spell
(O period of sugar-plums !)
He’s good as little Samuel,
Until the Other Woman comes.
So honestly our plans are laid,
We scarcely catch the funeral-knell
Of bridal passion. Prim and staid,
We scarce regret the Paphian dell.
Primordial promptings men may quell,
Count him a craven who succumbs,
Temptations righteously repel . . .
Until the Other Woman comes.
Penelope t we love thee well,
When brisk at eve thy spindle hums ;
Sincere our spousal voids we tell:
But then . . . the Other Woman comes /
T.
FRANK MORTON.
The Old and the New.
Naught is there here that hath halo of glory,
No boast of tyrants withstood ;
No knightly deed writ in legend and story—
Only the Fire, and the Flood !
No holy mem’ries that give the wind voices j
No song of victories won ;
No dear enchantment the Dreamer rejoices—
Only the Earth and the Sun !
Yonder the dark sombre forest is frowning,
Gumtrees, all gumtrees again !
Deep, breathless silence the senses is drowning :
Life seemeth empty and vain.
Oh ! this new land with its heart-haunting same-
ness,
Still in the Dawning it lies ;
Oh ! this new land with its dull, craven tameness—
Joy veils its sun-stricken eyes.
I love the land that is hallowed and hoary—
Dear is the ivy-olad pile ;
Proud is the vision—the pageant of glory—
Seen in the dim, ghostly aisle ;
Sweet are the fancies that come in the gloaming
Down in the dreamy old dell,
Down in the hollows where fairies go roaming.
What is there hero that hath spell ?
But ... it is Spring, and I waka from that mad-
ness.
Soothed by the rivulet’s flow;
Here in the deeps of the forest is gladness,
Here, where the fairy-ferns grow.
Never, oh ! never, was Life richer, sweeter
Here there are birds that have song !
Never, oh ! never, was Love truer, deeper—
Here there are joys that live long !
Naught that the heart of the Dreamer rejoice*,
Only the Earth and the Sun 1
Ah ! in the beat of the Hours there are voices,
Out of the Dawning they come ;
Not from the tombs of the Dead, but the Liv.eg,
Not from the Old, but the New ;
Singing, I hear them, exultantly singing,
Not of the False, but the True 1
Here is the past, with its joy, and its sorrow—
All that is worthy is ours,
Flowers that will garland the brow' of the Morrow
Lie in the lap of the Hours.
All that 1 found writ in legend and story,
Buried in ivy-clad pile,
All that 1 found in that vision of glory
Lives in this, fairy-fern isle.
y.
ANDREW SARD.


IT IS
CHEAPER
THAN IRON
<$
Laid on Galvanised
Wire Netting.
BUBEBOID
ROOFING
E, RICH & CO. j LTD. (For Full Particulars) SYDNEY, BRISBANE
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
m
-
W. J. Adams, Manager.
WILL ffIMD
TITTERSItt’S^
HOTELS
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The Grand Centre for
Business, Comfort, or Pleasure.
Painless O entiatry,
THE ... ..
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. I.EVBK, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mb. S. D. ASliElt, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTIOM
E.V. FINCKH& COB3 YORK ST. SYDNEY.
SMOKE
■ • ; • •• ’
i?-.
.
v::-
=s>
A
NOBEL-6 LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
o
l
'O
C OsQ^
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITC
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
t>y
MOISTURE.
q TT
UIS
M
ep
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hnrling-
ham in April and May, 181)9; or over 41000 more than any other powder.— Vidt .Field, June 24, SW.
PARVO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS:
N.S.W., Messrs. Balgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
One Million n>s. Tobacco
TONS.
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 90i Tons above any other manufacturer.
YANK
00D1
Ll
Dixson’s Great Leading* Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Out, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi„ 20.—N0. 1032.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 189 J).
Prick Cd.
BUT WHO WILL WATCH THE BOY?
“The N.S. W. National Council of Women, In view of the recent assault upon a young' schoolmistress at a lonely bush-school, has resolved to ask the Minister for Public Instruction
that at each isolated country school a big boy pupil be told off to see the schoolmistress home.”
PERHAPS THE MAIDEN AUNT OF THE DISTRICT WILL BE TOLD OFF TO WATCH THE BOY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the AustraliansA*
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
xSxzlleZzoi.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1899.
To Maoriland in GeneraL
Maoriland has a general election early next
month. The present democratic Govern-
ment, after nine years of continuous office,
applies for an extension which will ex-
pand its term of power to twelve years.
So far as The Bulletin can see, there is
nothing for any wise or sane community to
do save grant the extension by a big and en-
thusiastic majority. It is quite possible that
Maoriland would be the better for new blood
—new democratic blood that is—in its coun-
cils, for the jaded warriors who occupy the
Treasury bench have been there a long
time ; but that isn’t the question just at
present. If the country had an Elective
Executive—if it could displace the Seddon
Government without thereby putting the old
Tory hacks into office—if it could send in a
powerful democratic majority without neces-
sarily sending Hall-Jones and Thomas
Thompson and the other small weak fry of
the Ministry back to portfolios which are too
big for them—then the situation might be
different. In a better-ordered community it
would be different. It is an absurdity that,
if an alleged self-governing community wants
a democratic policy without Seddon, or
with some one else, it shouldn’t be able to
have it. It is also a parody on free institu-
tions that tlie country, if it is tired of
Seddon, has absolutely no means of indicat-
ing who, in the Progressive Party, it would
prefer to follow. But it is necessary to con-
sider things as they are ; not as they should
be. The country is asked to choose between
the Progressive Party, plus Seddon, and the
Unprogressive Party, plus Russell. There
is no new blood in the question. It is a case
of selecting the old successful veteran in
office, or the much older unsuccessful
veteran out of office - between the old Demo-
crat and the very aged Tory. A question
such as that should require little considera-
tion.
* * * *
Premier Seddon deserves ejection—
prompt and vigorous and permanent ejec-
tion—because of his steady drifting back to
the old, wretched, thriftless borrowing
policy, because of his ridiculous grovel in
the matter of the Transvaal Contingent, his
apparent tendency to fish for a title, and his
recently-developed weakness for singing the
National Anthem at times when that de-
pressed publication is wholly uncalled for.
That is, he would deserve ejection if there
was any man fitted to take his place who
wasn’t mentally afflicted the same way. But
there is no one. The Tory leader in particu-
lar is vastly more hopeless in the financial
sense than Seddon ; is quite as Jingo ; quite
as anxious for gauds and decorations ; and
his top-note in the National Anthem would
probably be even more awful to listen to
than his opponent’s. There is very little use
in ejecting one Imperialist if it is only done
to confer his billet on another. It is impos-
sible to make old Henry Scotland Premier,
in the absence of all other qualifications,
merely because he lifted up his voice against
the Government’s military folly. These
matters which ought to disqualify Seddon
from office for the rest of his natural life
must needs be overlooked, in the absence of
any available leader who doesn’t likewise
borrow and take fits of Jingo frenzy.
• * *
Otherwise Richard of Kumara deserves
well of the people. If they drop him they
will drop such a pilot as no other of the
Australias possesses. It is the fashion to
say in Seddon’s disparagement that he has
no constructive power of his own, and
merely carried out the ideas bequeathed to
him by his predecessor, Ballance. It may
be so, or it may not—at all events, from
whatever source Seddon got his ideas, he
had great ideas, and he carried them out
with rare vigor and intelligence and success.
If Ballance was his ghost then Ballance
was a remarkably good ghost, and the man
who has a ghost like Ballance should not
be recklessly exchanged for Russell, who
has no such spectral mentor to guide him.
And if all Seddon’s ideas were borrowed
from Ballance it is a rare gift to know how
to borrow intelligently, and how to make a
good use of the ideas thus dishonestly come
by. Judging by Russell’s past re-
cord he never comes by a good idea
dishonestly or otherwise, and if he did
he wouldn’t know what to do with it.
It is also the fashion to say that Digger
Dick’s day of inspiration is over ; that he has
done all the things he knows, and has
emptied his basket ; and therefore the coun-
try has no further use for him. That also
may or may not be true, but if it is true it
helps Russell’s case not one iota. If Sed-
don, because he has done great things, must
therefore be assumed to have exhausted his
stock of ideas and to be finished at the age
of 54, that is no proof that Russell, having
done nothing, is just about to begin at the
age of 61. Of course Seddon must have
fewer original ideas in stock than he had in
’93 for he has used up so many in the interval.
And Russell, having used up none of his
new political ideas in the interval, must have
as many now as he had then. But that
doesn’t prove that he has any valuable ideas
at all.
* * * *
The Seddon Ministry, either by its own
ideas or the ideas it borrowed, has made
Maoriland the most politically-progressive
country in the world. It has reduced sweat-
ing to a lower minimum than in any other
country that this writer knows—and he
knows a good many. It has established the
only national Old Age Pension system on
earth. It has constructed the most complete
and successful and democratic Factories Act
in the world. It has practically abolished
strikes—it can fairly claim to be the only
country existing which has constructed a
system of compulsory arbitration sufficiently
complete to make strikes obsolete. It has
gone to work systematically to discourage
absenteeism, and to break up large land
monopolies, and substitute for them small
independent proprietors or State lease-
holders. It has found out how to supply
cheap loans to settlers, and to do it on pay-
ing principles. It has given Maoriland One
Man One Vote and Woman Suffrage. It has
limited the hours of labor in shops and fac-
tories ; practically abolished child labor;
abolished the attachment of wages under
£2 a week ; ensured better accommodation
for shearers and farm laborers ; and done
other reforms too numerous to mention. In
such provinces as Queensland, N.S. Wales,
Tasmania and Westralia, where many even
of the smallest of these reforms appear still
an immense distance away, the Seddon
Ministry looks like a marvel of intelligent
progress. Not one of the four provinces
named ever possessed a Government which
did a tenth as much for the masses. But
Maoriland has grown accustomed to its good
fortune and takes it easily, and is half in-
clined also to throw it away easily from the
mere monotonv of possession.
* '* * *
The Seddon programme for the coming
election contains little that is new. The
Russell programme contains also little that
is new, and most of what is new in it is
wholly objectionable. The Russell party
proposes to wreck the State-leasehold idea
in its inception by allowing State lease-
holders to convert their holdings into free-
hold ; in other words, it proposes to set the
aggregation of big estates going again. It
proposes to take a Federal Referendum,
but it doesn’t pledge itself to carry out the
will of the people as expressed thereat if the
popular verdict doesn’t happen to suit its
views. It promises to reform the Council
by making it elective, but doesn’t state how
it is to be made elective. If it is made
elective on the narrow property basis which
has rendered the Victorian and Tasmanian
Councils such insuperable bars to all pro-
gress, then the reformed Council will be
forty times worse than the unreformed one.
And there is no semblance of a promise that
the present temporary Old Age Pensions
Act will be renewed when it expires. The
Russell party has assured the country over
and over again that it won’t repeal the pro-
gressive legislation of past years—the legis-
lation every item of which it declared to be
sinful and disastrous—though it already
proposes to partially repeal some of it by
allowing State leaseholds to be converted
into freeholds. But the Old Age Pensions
system will perish automatically, without
any repeal, unless a friendly Government is
in power to renew it. The Russell crowd
tries hard to look like such a Government,
but the effort is none too successful.
* • * *
And while there are few definite new ideas
in the Seddon programme, there is one
point to be considered which is above and
beyond mere programmes. Maoriland has
acquired a mass of valuable new legislation
in recent years, and it has panned out well
so far, but the new institutions have hardly
taken such deep root yet as to work auto-
matically. A great deal depends on the
mode in which they are administered during
the next, twenty years. The country values
these institutions ; it values them so much
that even their bitter opponents see their
only hope of climbing into office in assuring
the country that they won’t undo what has
been done. But they don’t promise—and if
they did the promise would be worth nothing
that they will administer the much-
denounced policy which they promise to
borrow from their opponents in a friendly
spirit—that they will administer it with the
single purpose of making it a success, and
thereby proving that the Seddon Government
was thegreatest reforming Ministry of theage,
and that they themselves, as its opponents,
were short sighted and narrow-minded
bigots. The interests of the Seddon Govern-
ment lie in making their progressive legisla-
tion a great success, and thereby gaining
credit for its initiation. The interests of
Russell and his followers lie in making the
Factory Acts and the State Land Bank and
the Old Age Pension system, and all the
other valuable measures that the province
has gained in recent years, break down by
insidious and subtle bad management, so
that they may put this epitaph on their joint
and several tomb r “We denounced these
things at the first and said they would not
work. They made a little preliminary
splash, but despite our best and most gener-
ous efforts to make them last, the inherent
rottenness of the principle tells in the long
run. We were true prophets—the only reli-
able, unquestionable, all-wool prophets in
this land of charlatans.” The theory that
any Russell Government would do its best
to prove its opponent to be a great, far-see-
ing statesman, and itself a tenth-rate incap-
able by making its opponent’s legislation—
the legislation it had cursed from A to Z and
back again—as great a success as possible, is
something past hoping for.
The Hour—and No Man.
}o ftll the public men of Australia, to all the
politicians ’ (abominable word ! smelling
of the abominable things it represents—
fools, liars, shufflers and tricksters, gulling
the people for a living—or worse, gulling
themselves), to all the men whom Austra-
lians have been taught to rely upon and loot
up to for counsel and leadership, there came
the other day a Great Opportunity. If it
had come after waiting and expectation, if it
had been known and canvassed beforehand,
if there had been three months, or six, to
discuss and consider it, then, mayhap, the
Hour would have found a Man. But it
came suddenly, like a thief in the night,
and in all this broad country there was not
one man of pre-eminent standing who em-
braced it, and rose to the level of it, and
made the Great Opportunity his own. The
Hour came, and passed, and there was no
Man in Australia—none !
* * * »
YV ar was announced between Britain and
the Lransvaal. The local spirit of militarism,
simmering in idleness, boiled at once to
fury. Every Australian province has its
militia- ostensibly and theoretically for the
defence of the province and of Australia.
I here is here, indeed, no other ground for
the existence of the military spirit and of
military armaments. For hundreds of years
to come Australia’s prayer to the world must
be merely that of Diogenes to Alexander :
“ Stand out of my sunshine ! ” We have a
vast territory, with the scantiest population,
the barest fringe of settlement. The obvious
thing to do, the only ideal of human well-
being and human happiness which is offered
to us, is to develop our territory, extend our
settlement, and create a prosperous, self-
centred, self-sufficient community. War will
not pay us. Bloodshed will not profit us. All
the military “ glory ” on earth is not worth to
us the content on the brow of one successful
pioneer, the smile in the eyes of one
Madonna of the Bush bending over her
candle-box cradle. We cannot covet our
neighbors possessions while our own posses-
sions are still too vast for our grasp. We
cannot afford, heavily in debt as we are, to
pay the mere money-tribute exacted by the
harpy of War, the modern woman of Babylon,
in whose worship strong men and strong
nations are made drunken. Still less can we
afford the loss of the brain and muscle for
which our waste lands cry out, upon which
our Present and our Future rely. So plain,
so urgent, is the need of Australia for peace-
ful development, that to squander money
and men in far-away lands for the aggrandise-
ment of Britain—that blood-stained Titan
of the nations—is the foulest treachery, the
grossest crime which could be perpetrated
against a young community. It is the rape
of infancy, the murder of Hope just-born.
* * * *
But the curse of militarism and of the
military spirit is that it can hardly ever be
held within the bounds of law and right,
even within the bounds of expediency. Give
a gun to the average man, and he wants to
shoot. Give him a sword, and he is never
satisfied till he has fleshed it in another
man. The hereditary tiger craves for blood ;
and though military convention makes a
pretence of agreeing that blood should only
be shed in a just cause, for defence of home
and liberty, the savage in us is always ready
to strip off his veneer of civilisation and
fight, burn, slay, devour for the mere
pleasure of it—for the satisfaction of the
ancient appetite to slay and devour. When
Chaka had drilled his corps of Zulus to
the utmost perfection he could attain, he led
them out to fight, and they clamored to be
led out. When Major-General French
has drilled his N.S.W. corps to a dim
perception of skirmishing drill and a
knowledge that the left foot goes first when
you can remember it, he sends them out
to fight, and they clamor to be sent out.
The one set of savages is as bad, or as good,
as the other.
* * * »
Since the military spirit persists, then, in
defiance of justice and right, all the more
reason for opposing it—not for crushing out
the brute and letting the tiger die, but for
keeping the brute in leash and training the
tiger to fight for his mate and his cubs and his
den rather than for the excitement of chewing
another tiger who has not attacked him, and
only asks to be left alone on his own hunting-
ground. All the more mason for men of pro-
bity and patriotism, citizens of Australia, to
plant firm feet on the welfare of theircountry,
and oppose firm voices to the insane fury for
shooting and killing, for war at any price, in
any rotten cause. All the more reason for
the men honored as leaders to stand firm
against the hysterical military tumult, and
to declare with tongue, and pen, and deed,
that Australia supports military forces for
her own safety and protection, not for wan-
ton aggression and the slaughter of men to
whom we are not hostile, who have never
harmed us and cannot harm us, and against
whom we have no need or reason to fight.
♦ * 9 m
But when Australian militarism rose in
tumult and demanded that Australia make
war upon the Transvaal, who was there
found to stand against it ? There were
scattered voices here and there, but in all
the Parliaments of the Australias there was
found not one man with more than a local
reputation to protest against the outrage
upon the Transvaal, the disgrace and crime
against Australia. The so-called leaders
approved silently or applauded shamelessly.
The Bulletin wishes it could believe
that some of them did not consider private
motives and personal ends. But this one,
democrat grown cynical, saw the title which
his wife longed for within her grasp, and
yielded to the military cry to send the men
away. This one, brain and heart sunk in
stomach, reckoned with his future, perchance,
and judged that, did he oppose the imperialist
clamor, preferment in his profession would
not come to him. That one, of whom an
astonished London paper, marking the
exaltation, notes wonderingly that he mea-
sures six feet and inches high, and weighs
18 stone (of jelly), went with the tide as a
jellyfish should. Yonder one, the typical
Thin Man turned Fat in the process of years,
welcomed the opportunity of realising the
Fat Man’s ideal—to see fat shibboleths,
fought for by somebody else at somebody
else’s expense ; and out-shrieked the shriek
ing “soldiers” themselves. And the crea .
tures of domestic politics, accidents of acci
dents, completed the pitiful tale.
* • * *
So Australia looks round for a leader—a.
Man. This Hour indeed is gone; but
another is coming—is here—the Hour is ;
always here. There is always place and
room for him who will realise the character
and destiny of this continent, and sacri-
fice himself willingly for the sake of
the Nation that we look for and long for.
Liberally endowed he must be—no ascetic of.'
the cloister, but a man of blood and passions-
and humanity, a man to tower above the
multitude and force their applause event
when opposing them—a man superior to the
chatter of club cliques and small political
coteries—careless ot reputation, careless of
profit, so that he do Australia’s good as far
as he sees it, attain Australia’s ideal as far
as he knows it. Of obloquy and detestation
he is certain ; he may easily fail, and die
with the derisive laughter of smug selfishness
ringing in his ears for passing-bell. But he
may succeed ; if he is great enough he ivill
succeed—for the heart of Australia is sound ;
and of him also some historian may write
what the American historian, Motley, wrote
of William the Silent —surely the proudest
epitaph ever given to mortal man—“ As
long as he lived he was the guiding-star of a
whole nation, and when he died the little
children cried in the streets.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—Another Contingent.
Now that the military madness is on these
provinces, and many usually intelligent indivi-
duals are sleeping in their uniforms, and Aus-
tralia is talking largely about “mobilisation”
and “ troopships” and such things, The Bul-
letin desires to point out the urgent necessity
for raising another contingent. For there is
another grievous wrong to be righted ; the fair
fame of the Empire is being smirched by tyranny
and oppression, and an ignorant, large-booted,
narrow-minded oligarchy is wiping its feet oil
the freedom of British subjects ; therefore it
is obviously time to interfere. What this paper
desires to point out is the urgent necessity for
raising 2000 men for the immediate invasion of
Westralia, and its chief reasons for so doing
are as follows :
(1) The Westralian and the Boer both inherited a coun-
try rich with mineral wealth, and they both mooned;
away the sleepy years raising- cattle, and wasting their
great opportunities. This shows they are unfit to possess-
that country any longer.
(2) Then the Outlanders came and made these two;
States the two great gold countries of the world, andi
created Johannesburg and Kalgoorlie.
(3) The Outlanders, in each case, outnumber the oltf
slow cattle-raisers by about two to one.
(4) The inrush of these strangers has been accompanied
by a great increase of rev enue. The Transvaal revenue
has risen inside 25 years from £BO,OOO to (on one occasion!
as much as £4,800,000. The W. A. revenue rose in the
same period from about £105,000 to close on £3,000,000.
(5) The taxation is alleged to be oppressive in both
States. In the Transvaal it has got as high as £l9 12s
per white inhabitant per annum. Westralia has extracted
from its miserable population as much as £2O or £2l per
white inhabitant per annum. But as Westralia produces
only one-fourth as much gold per annum as the Trans-
vaal, the load of taxation imposed by an ignorant and
narrow-minded Boer oligarchy in Westralia is really
heavier by comparison than it looks. }
(6) In each State the political power is carefully re-
tained in the hands of the handful of old settlers—the
dull bull-raising crowd which shows no capacity
for improvement and speculation, and wild-cattism
and share-jobbing, and such like soul-improving arts
and which even now moulders along in the old
fashion, and learns little, and forgets not much. But in
Westralia the case is worse than in the Transvaal The
Boers refuse political power to unnaturalised foreigners of
alien speech. The Westralian ’Gropers refuse it to people
of their own language and descent, their fellow-subjects
of the Empire. The Boers were driven to refuse it by the
knowledge that if they gave the franchise freely to the
new- foreigners the latter would use their political
supremacy sooner or later to bring about the annexation
of the Transvaal by an alien Power. The Westralians
know that they run no risk of being annexed by Germany
or France or any foreign power if they give equal political


rights to the Outlanders. The Boers were aggravated by
the fact that it was the British residents in their country
who incited the infamous British annexation of 1877, and
by the recollections of the Jameson Raid, the seizure of
the Diamond Fields, the high-handed annexation of the
Orange State in the '4o’s, the reward of £2OOO which
Britain put on the head of President Pretorius, and
many other wrongs. The Westralians have no such
excuse.
(7) In Westralia, one free British subject from the
Eastern States has only about one-fifteenth of the politi-
cal power of one’Groper. The ’Gropers inW.A.,bya
fraudulent manipulation of the franchise, and by their
fraudulent method of distributing the representation,
leave the great majority—the “ t’othersiders ” as they
are scornfully termed—wholly at the mercy of the hand-
ful of old settlers in political matters.
(8) There have been more t’othersiders murdered with
impunity in Westralia than there have Outlanders in the
Transva d. There has been no serious crime against
Outlanders in either place—still, the fact remains as
above.
(9) The ’Gropers, in addition to being unprogressive
(like the Boers), are cruel to the natives (like the Boers)
and practise a hideous slavery under the name of an
aboriginal “ indenture ” system. And they haven’t the
excuse that the Boers have. The ’Gropers never had to
fight for their lives against overwhelming native armies ;
their passions were never inflamed by war ; and they are
not living on the edge of a volcano with warlike black
men in overwhelming numbers around them. The Boer
might claim that any man was liable to grow' callous in
the years of terrible warfare during which he humped
the white man’s burden against stupendous odds. The
’Groper grew callous apparently because he was built
that way.
(10) Therefore in both countries a crowd of miners and
speculators brought civilisation and frauds and wild-cats
into a slow, peaceful agricultural community ; brought
about a huge increase of revenue ; and while forming the
bulk of the population, see practically all the political
power in the hands of the old slow minority. The Boer
hangs on to minority rule because otherwise he would
give away the independence of his country to a foreign
race that has always been his enemy. The ’Groper does
it because Oom Forrest has all the bad qualities of Oom
Kruqer without his justification.
Therefore, The Bulletin proposes that the
people of Kalgoorlie start a Reform Committee
as those of Johannesburg did, and lay in arms,
and practically take control of the town ; and
that they invite Kingston (who may pass for
Cecil Rhodes at the moment) to send an armed
force to their relief; and that there be an
invasion, and much murder of the ’Gropers;
and that the eastern provinces thereafter raise
2000 men to invade Westralia and redress the
grievances of the Outlanders. British citizens
are being trodden on in W.A. and taxed with-
out representation, and oppressed by a small
minority of farmers and pastoralists, and on the
Transvaal Contingent idea it is time to make
gory war on W.A. If the British flag is to
afford shelter and secure justice to all British
subjects, and isn’t to be a howling mockery,
then Redvers Buller is wanted at Hannan’s
Find, and the principles of justice need to be
upheld by force of arms at White Feather, and
the bombardment of Bunbury is so essential
that the essentialness of it is visible to the
naked eye of anybody and everybody.
The Disappearance of “ Gentleman One.”
Even in Victoria, where people of wealth and
standing are treated with intense respect, it is
impossible to any longer disguise the fact that
Joseph Henry Grey, of Geelong, solicitor and
ex-M.L.C., hasn’t been seen of late about his
usual haunts. As a matter of fact, the good
and eminent man isn’t; there. Considering that
his want of thereness began nearly six months
ago, the reticence which has been preserved
about the whole business is something almost
incredible. Grey was a self-made man, an ex-
Vlayor and one-time magnate of Victoria’s
House of 48 Rich Landlords, a man of many
schemes and enterprises, stupendous hospitality
and huge expenditure, and a solicitor of such
high standing that the trust-funds in his charge
ran to hundreds of thousands. Rumor states
the amount of the trust-funds that can’t be
found (possibly because the persons left in
charge don’t know where to look for them) at
£250,000. If more energetic looking fails to
bring these missing funds to light, the misery
that will fall on very many widows and orphans
will be something almost too dreadful to think
of. Grey either died suddenly and carefully
concealed his body, or was murdered,
or kidnapped—-or else he left ; and there
was either an unfortunate coincidence or a
dreadful swindle. Rumor has it that Grey is in
Europe somewhere, but in spite of the size of
the disaster that has followed on his disappear-
ance the Government has, up to now, made no
attempt to follow him. It is just thinking
of beginning to attempt something. Mean-
while this episode should prevent many hun-
dreds of aged and affluent citizens from
following in the footsteps of the aged and
alflueut fools who have preceded them, by
leaving the fortunes of their widows and
children in the hands of any solicitor or other
personal trustee, however noble his character.
It is only the trustee of noble character who
goes away with large sums, for he is the only
kind who gets large sums to go away with. In
the absence of a Public Trustee guaranteed bv
the State—an institution which only Maon-
land has been sensible enough to establish—
every aged and affluent citizen should remem-
ber that the poorest Trustee Co. in Australasia
is better security for the cash of the widow
than the best solicitor or other private person
in this hemisphere. The co. has at least some
paid-up capital, and from .£20,000 to ,£975,000
of callable capital; the private trustee
often hasn’t the former and never has
the latter. Its accounts are regularly
audited, and at least once a year the
securities have to be there—with the private
trustee they may be gone for years before any-
body is aware of the fact. If the manager dis-
appears, and the securities disappear at the
same time, it is dead sure that an excited chase
after that manager will begin inside a fort-
night. The directors, knowing that they are
liable for calls to the last penny of their shares
to make good the deficit would be very much
less supine than the Turner-Isaacs Minis-
try or the Vic. police. The manager of a
trustee co. can only do a great fraud by hood-
winking the directors and auditors ; the private
trustee only needs to hoodwink himself. Under
these circumstances the citizen who, at his death,
leaves the portion of his helpless dependents at
the mercy of any solicitor deserves to be sen-
tenced to carry bricks in the next world until
he has earn'd enough to make good the short-
age if there is one. If there isn’t one he should
carry brichs all the same to make good the
shortage there might have been.
Lying- Transvaal Cables.
Let Australians make no mistake—the cable-
grams published about the Transvaal war come
from a tainted source—the Rhodesian press-
agents in South Africa. Yet papers like S.M.
Herald persistently refer, in leading articles,
to the Edgar case and others as justifying the
war—ignorant or reckless that their supposed
facts are unworthy of credence. Edgar was a
drunken boiler-maker, a very powerful man,
who had struck down another Englishman and
almost killed him on the spot, finishing up by
battering his fallen foe against a wall. A mate
of the fallen man (also English) brought a
policeman. The case looked like one of murder
(it proved to be murder, for Edgar’s victim
died afterwards), and the policeman attempted
to arrest Edgar. The latter—a much more
powerful man than the officer—not only refused
to surrender, but attacked the policeman with
a stick; the latter fired in self-defence and
Edgar was killed. Almost any policeman
would have done the same. If the Dutch
officer hadn’t acted as he did the complaint
would probably have been that a British sub-
ject was killed (by Edgar) with impunity, and
that the brutal Dutch law made no sufficient
attempt to interfere for the protection of
British subjects when Edgar attacked them.
If the episode had happened in France or
Germany, or anywhere but in the Transvaal,
the Herald’s verdict would have been
“Served him right.” The burglars, Mont-
gomery and Williams, resisted arrest with
an iron bar in Sydney, maiming a police-
man, and were hanged for it, with the com-
plete approval of the Herald and the rest of
the Jingo press ; and George Dibbs, who de-
nounces the Boers, straightway armed the
Sydney police with revolvers, that they might
shoot men resisting arrest as Edgar was shot.
Amiable, consistent George Dibbs ! And be
it noted that the Transvaal law did punish the
Boer policeman —quite as heavily as the case
called for ; and it compensated the widow of the
man who was killed while resisting arrest after
hideouslymaltreatingaßritishsubject. Another
“ Boer outrage” was cabled as committed on
an Englishman named Lanham, who was said
to have been kicked to death with spurred
boots. Then Lanham turned up alive and
well; and few of those who shuddered at the
blazoned “outrage” ever saw the tiny con-
tradiction. The Australian Jingoes are
more gullible and more biassed than the
rank-and-file of the British themselves.
Boers are a rough race, but manly; and their
“outrages” exist mostly in the imagination of
the lying Rhodesian press agents, busily fan-
ning the flames of war. The same tactics were
pursued in 1881, when Sir George Colley—
who was a gallant man, if an unfortunate
general—wrote to his Govt. —“I hate this
atrocity-manufacturing, and its effects on the
men, tending to make them either cowards or
butchers.” Let Australians make no mistake
—the cablegrams about the Transvaal come
from a tainted source.
■ ♦
Public Duty v. Private Profit.
Melbourne Tramway Co., which is fighting
Fitzroy municipality over the rating of its lines,
and proposes to carry its appeal to the Judicial
Committee of the House of Lords, has taken
the masterly step of feeing Vic. Attorney-Gen.
Isaacs to argue its case" there. From the
Irani way Co.’s point of view the nobbling,—or
at least muzzling—of a Minister is an adroit
and dexterous move, but the people who
pay Isaac A. Isaacs to do their work and
look after their interests will probably fail to
perceive the beauties of the proceeding. The
point on which the appeal lies—the rating of
the lines—is one of the three concessions
recently demanded by the unspeakable co. as
the price of a reduction in the hours of labor
of its employes from GO per week to 56. The
Tramway Bill is still before Vic. Assembly,
and the Tramway Co. is still fighting all
it knows for an extension of its mono-
poly a monopoly which sweats and
directly plunders, not only its employes,
but the general public, whose paid servant
Attorney-General Isaacs is, and also the muni-
cipalities, against whom the said Isaacs is
engaged to appear. These facts brand the
action of Isaac A. Isaacs with even more of
disgrace and venality than if an ordinary public
servant had accepted gratuities for work out-
side the department. The public sees one of
its most necessary servants temporarily dele-
gating his duties to an assistant or to one of
his colleagues, while he takes service for six
months or more in the employ of a private co.
against the public which pays him. And while
this public servant takes private pay for
appearing against the public he will presum-
ably, after the manner of privileged lawyers in
such positions, still draw the public’s wages.
The Vic. Government, of which Isaacs is a
moving spirit, has persistently blocked the
way of those members who were trying to
force the Tramway monopoly to keep the law,
and the public has greatly wondered why.
The public, which is a brutally-direct animal,
lacking in the niceties of gentlemanly expres-
sion, and utterly incapable of understand-
ing legal etiquette, will probably leave off
wondering now. It will assume, in its
coarse, pig-headed fashion, that Isaacs’
profitable job of representing the Co. in its
Privy Council appeal, is the payment —the
gross, material consideration—for which the
Turner-Isaacs Government allowed the Co. to
shamefully break the law as against its em-
ployes, and for which they refused to assist
those who were trying to make the Co. keep
faith. Of course the assumption will be totally
unwarranted, but it is the utter shamelessness
of Attorney-General Isaacs and the Turner
Ministry which will be responsible for the pub
lie’s conclusion. If Minister Best had eor-
ruptly put 25 of his relatives over the heads <>i
their seniors into the public service, it woid
have been a smaller scandal than this.
Maoriland’s Midland Railway Curse.
Premier Seddon of Maoriland grows somewhat
disappointing in his old age. Witness these
remarks on the Midland railway :
As to future developments, it had been suggested thiu
the Government should guarantee the interest, and that
a company should he formed to take the line off the
hands of the colony. With the legal difficulty out of the
way, and the matter placed before the share and deben-
ture-holders, he was sure that capital could be raised for
the purpose indicated. In his opinion the Slate would
shortly he cleared by the highest tribunal in the empire,
and it would then be for the share and debenture-holders
to decide whether they would lose all or submit a scheme
for continuing the line. He concluded by expressing the
opinion that the enterprise would be a good thing for a
company.
After all the trouble Maoriland has gone
through with one Midland railway syn-
dicate any man who seriously proposes
another one should be suppressed. The co.
spent .£1,200,000 and had only £650,000 worth
of work to show for it, and the State paid
£250,000 towards that in land grants. So the
co.’s line really cost, through excessive office
and other expenses, nearly three times what
the State could have built it for. At this rate,
if a syndicate builds the line and the State
guarantees the interest, it will simply
have to pay three times as much inter-
est as it would if it built and owned
the line itself. It will be practically a
case of being responsible for 9 per cent, interest
instead of for 3 per cent. And the province
will owe the money just the same either way.
If a Maoriland railway is built with English
capital borrowed by a syndicate it is just as
much the country’s debt as if it was built with
English capital borrowed by the State. Maori-
land has to find the interest in fares and
freights and otherwise, either way, and that is
the test question. The people who have to pay
the interest owe the money—in fact, if not in
name.
♦
Minister Best and His Brother-in-Law.
The contemptible “ Jackson Case ” was due
for final discussion in Vic. Assembly when
The Bulletin went to press. Many things
have happened since Minister Bob Best de-
manded an inquiry touching his brother-in-
law’s career in the Lands Department, and a
brief re-statement of the case will not seem
superfluous. Jackson, it appears, was trans-
ferred from the Postal Department to the
Lands Department, in 1896, and after six
months of supernumerary service under his
brolher-in-law’s banner, he was “ put into a
position of responsibility over officers who were
his seniors.” General discontent arose from
the alleged unfair advancement of Jackson,
and naturally enough Ministe.r Best was held
to be the real cause of the grievance. Also,
naturally, Graves, M.L.A., the “foxiest”
member of the Assembly, made it his business
to collect evidence, and make a fuss over
the matter. Whereupon Minister Best com-
mitted himself to an extravagant burst of
virtuous indignation, which left him no alter-
native between proving his “complete inno-
cence” of the charge of nepotism or retiring
from the Ministry. Hence the appointment of
a select committee to consider all the Jack-
sonian facts. The question as to whether
Minister Best had committed an unpardonable
offence in thus furthering the interests of his
relative (if he did further them) was not raised
at all. Had it been put to the select committee-
men they would have been bound to admit that
paid bosses in all walks of business life are per-
mitted a little license to favor a particular
friend or relative if the favored one be a capable
and respectable servant of the “ firm,” and
although the Civil Service is supposed to
be run on an almost entirely mechanical
system without regard for individual friend-
ships and relationships, the committee in this
Jackson inquiry would doubtless have found
Minister Best guiltless of any iniquity in favor-
ing his brother-in-law, presuming that the
nepotism were conspicuously plain. But, inas-
much as Mr. Best professed to abhor the very
thought of a boss making a distinction between
his own brother-in-law and other people’s, it
was necessary that the committee should declare
him to be wonderfully innocent or shockingly
otherwise. In a vague, negative sort of way,
the committee found him innocent. Its re-
port to Parliament is the one unmistakeably
scandalous feature of the Jackson case up'
to time of writing. Mr. Graves’s indictment
of the Minister was divided into clauses, or
charges, to vVhich the committee has furnished
curt and inconsistent replies. It states that
clerk Jackson’s sudden promotion caused dis-
satisfaction among the older officers in the
Lands Department; it acknowledges that
when the Minister’s confidential representative
(Secretary Morkham) was appealed tore Jack-
son’s undue advancement, Morkham said, “It
is so, you have my sympathy ” ; but, all the
same, those select committeemen advance no
reason or suggestion for the job which gave rise
to Morkham’s remark. Also they ignore cer-
tain evidence given by chief clerk Skene,
which, if true, practically convicted Secretary
Morkham of having put Jackson on the promo-
tion list at the request of his brother-in-law.
Evidence strongly corroborating Gfaves’s main
charge came out unexpectedly during the en-
quiry, but the report of the committee ignores
these vital points. Looking at the disingenu-
ous document in the light of an extra draft
report drawn up by the chairman of this select
tribunal, the public—such as take any interest
in the matter—will come to the conclusion that
a very small matter has been distended into a
rather large scandal. The committee’s attempt
to cling to Best without pretending to despise
Graves is an unmitigated failure.
♦
The “Patriots” Who Won’t Pay up.
'• Now is the time for every British citizen to
rally round the flag ! ” Half-a-dozen Aus:
tralian Premiers, Chief-Justice Darley, Chief-
Justice Madden, Chief-Justice Griffith —all
men bedizened with Imperial titles—and a
score of minor persons in authority assure Aus-
tralians that it is their duty and privilege to
whoop up the Dear Old Mother-in-law Country
in her campaign to grab the Transvaal mines
and crush the liberty of the little Boer repub-
lics. Then why don’t the rampant “ Patriots”
pay up? There was a splendid “ Meeting of
Citizens” on Nov. 2at Sydney—a “Signal
Demonstration,” said S.M. Herald— “ Magni-
ficent Enthusiasm ” —yet after nearly three
week’s hard battling, with half-a-dozen “ lead-
ing newspapers ” howling behind it, theN.S. W.
“ Patriotic Fund ” only amounts at Nov. 20 to
.£3933, a sum which invested safely at interest
would yield at the most £l6O a year—just
about enough to keep in comfort one
wooden - legged ex - soldier. And in the
last few weeks the local Presbyterian body
has collected .£B4OO for a purely local
object—the extension of the Presbyterian
church ! “ When the Empire calls ” these
patriots ” and meets with such a beggarly re-
sponse, what on earth does the Emnire think
about them ? They open their mouths wide ;
but how tightly they shut their pockets ! Look
on this picture and on that ! (The Transvaal
figures are those advertised in S.M. Herald to
Nov. 20 ; but these may be misleading, because
some of the “ distinguished ” citizens may have
chosen to give their modest £5O anonymously,
blushing to find i; fame. As there are practi-
cally no anonymous donors so far, however,
The Bulletin assumes the Herald figures,
with their significant omissions, may be taken
as correct; and if they are not it will be proud
to correct them.) Here are a few significant
comparisons :
Contribution Contribution
to Soudan to Transvaal
, „„ . * Contingent. Contingent.
James R. Fairfax (first
{contribution) ... £l,OOO
E. Ross Fairfax ... 1,000 .."
C. B. Fairfax 100
John Fairfax and Sons .. £2OO
Commercial Bank ... 1,000 ... 105
/ Tooth and Co. ] ,000
1 Staff Tooth and Co. ... " jqO
The Right Rev. Primate 50 ... 10 10 0
Judge Stephen . ... 60 ... 10 0 0
Chief Justice Darley
(first contribution) ... 100 ... 25 0 0
David Jones and Co. ... 100 ... 25
Bennett Bros. (Evening
News) 1,000 ... 105
A. McArthur and Co. ... 100 ... 21
Gibbs, Bright and Co. ... 100 ... 60
Elliott Brothers 100 ... sf>
And so on, down a long, long list. The wealthy
Sydney Daily Telegraph gave £26 ss. to
its own Lancers’ Insurance Fund, which closed
with a miserable total of £6so—only half the
amount asked for ; but gave nothing to the
Patriotic Fund. Nothing has so far been seen
of the Sunday Times subscription, though the
Sunday Times weeps on the neck of the Empire
every week with shocking regularity. The
military firm of LASSETTERand Co., which raised
£55 for the Soudan fund, is represented only
by £lO 10s. contribution from Col. Lassetter to
the Insurance Fund—nothing to the Patriotic
Fund. Yet the Soudan business was mere
play - acting compared with the Trans-
vaal war. Like the King of Spain with all
his men, the Soudan contingent marched up
a hill and down again—or something to that
effect. The Transvaal war is real war —against
men with guns, who can shoot ; not a mere
skirmish with a few hundreds of miserable
Arabs. For the Soudan fund, when the Empire
didn’t call for it, between £30,000 and £40,000
was raised in a few weeks. But—that was the
nasty part of it—the “patriots” who promised
their thousands and hundreds, really had to
pay up ; though some of them tried hard to
dodge payment, and were greatly relieved when
in the long run they got most of their money
back again. The bitter memory of that
paying-up has been with a lot of them for 14
years—and now the Patriotic Fund is down to
collecting the miserable pence of the Sydney
“working and factory girls”—the poor little
wretches with wages of ss. and 10s. a-week.
Bah ! Booh ! Come, Messieurs the Patriots,
this Transvaal contingent is going to cost
N.S. W. no end of money ; and some
of you are making nice little pickings
in the way of shipping contracts, fodder sup-
plies, and food deals. Don’t shove it on to the
taxpayer ! Don’t shove it on to the wretclmd
little factory girls ! If your “ patriotism ” is not
sounding brass, if your words are not empty
wind, pay up ! You have abetted and en-
couraged Australians in going to shed their
blood in a disgraceful foreign war ; can’t you
—who stay at home in safety and shriek for the
Empire—can’t you shed a little of your money?
Come on ! ye foaming “ patriots ” and frothing
orators, ye warlike auctioneers, importers and
shipping agents—come on ! The Empire calls,
and the treasurers of the “ Patriotic Fund ” are
wondering where the devil they are going to
get subscriptions.
A Simple Little Outrage.
“ Cockney ” champions cash-coupons :
A proposal to abolish the “ trade coupon ” system in
Victoria by Act of Parliament has thusfar attracted very
little notice from the non-shopkeeping: public. The Lev.
Council seems to have started an enquiry into the Aboli-
tion Bill, and barrister Coldham is appearing- before a
select committee of Fatmen to show cause why the pre-
cious Bill should be squelched, and but for this enquiry
the Vic. community in general would not have thought
twice about the matter. As soon as the average citizen
possessed of the average small intellect brings hunself to
think twice concerning the coupon system he can’t help
perceiving that he is being treated as a slave, worm and
nincompoop by certain of the Powers that Be. The mere
mention of a Bill to suppress coupon-trading sounds like
a Tory joke, yet this legislative outrage is likely to be
perpetrated with the consent of an alleged democratic
body —viz., the Trades Hall Council. Wherefore
one would like to know whether the Trades Hall
had sold its immortal soul to a ring of bi«- ‘hop-
keepers, or is too tired to understand where the
virtue of the coupon system comes in. It is essen-
tially a cash system, calculated to suit the business nf the
smaller traders. They buy bits of paper outright from
the coupon co., and offer them as an inducement for
their customers to pay cash for goods, instead of “tun-
ning on account,” When a customer has acquired
coupons to a certain amount (on face value) he or she—
it is usually she—exchanges them for goods of the same
face value at the coupon co.’s store. In short, this system
is an extension of the old tea-gift shop system the gift
part of the business being conducted by the co ’ whereas
the tea shops used to manage the gift department then-
selves. Into the question whether the public gain or lose
by this system, or the shopkeepers who adopt it gain an
advantage over their rivals who don’t adopt it Parlia-
mentarians have positively no excuse for.’ pokin«-
their mean provincial noses. They have no more
right to interfere with the sale of goods plus bits of
paper to an ordinary retail purchaser who knows what
he, or B he—particularly she-is about, than they have
to pass a Bill for the suppression of “ Clearing' Sales ” '
and Alarming Sacrifices.” The coupon transaction as
between company and shopkeeper, and shopkeeper and
cash customer, is quite clean and respectable. It is even
admirable as far as it encourages prompt cash dealing at.
the expense of “ tick.” And even if it didn’t run on cash
lines it would be none the less the public’s own pai ticular
funeral, and none the less a matter in which the Legisla-
ture has no sort of right to interfere. But it is a ca-li
system, and because it does not suit the book 0 -


Baker#Rouse Proprietary Ltd
st»
R
r *
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
960 Co IXB-ST., MjSLBOUBX*.
TTIE CELEBRATED . . .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE.
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
375 George-street, Sydney.
81 Quxbn-bt., Bbisbanb. 65 Rundlk-st., Adblaidk.
STAMPER
BATTERIES.
American or Australian Type.
10 to 100 Head. From GOO to 1200 lb. Stamps.
framing EITHER TIMBER or iron.
TACKED IN PARTS
To facilitate Economical Transport.
CAMS, TAPPETS, SHOES, DIES, etc.,
of Unexampled Durability !
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY C°
Clyde Works, Granville.
M
certain influential persons in a larj-e way of busi-
ness the Victorian Assembly has been “ nobbled.
About the last act of the M.L. Government
before Parliament dissolved was the passing of
an Act fixing a minimum-wage (girls 45., boys
ss. per week) for beginners (not apprentices) in
any branch of industry, and making the accept-
ance of premiums by employers illegal.. Ibis
is a death-blow to that most objectionable
swindler—the employer who runs his business
to a great extent with boy and girl labor, at no
wages the first 12 months, but “an oppor-
tunity given to learn the trade, and good pay
the second and future years.” The swindle
lies in the fact that there is no second year if
the employer can get a sufficient new crop of
gratis beginners. This fraud has been a sub-
ject of complaint in all the provinces, and lias
given rise to some considerable literature about
demand and supply, the law of wages, the
wage-fund, the displacement of superfluous
labor, the tendency towards a wider dillusion
of thingumbob, and the interdependence of
whatisname. Meanwhile the plain and not
excessively-lettered Skddon tried squashing the
evil, instead of analysing it and reporting
learnedly that it contained traces of liyposul-
phide of something or other.
“*
TniXOS are complicated with the Haoriland
Tories this election. They find that their only
chance of office lies in promising to maintain
S kudos’s democratic legislation, all .of which
they opposed to the uttermost. 1 herefore,
they can’t well say it is bad legislation—it
takes a pretty tough Tory to say that he is
willing to preserve bad measures so as to get
office. And they can’t welt say, either, that
Seddos was an unspeakably bad legislator who
passed excellent laws, so they are driven to
talk quite respectfully of the enemy. In fact,
the Tory attitude at last gets down to this :
that Seddos is a good man who ought to be
thrown out immediately. Ilor.r.KSTos, .who
may be called second-in-command of the Tory
party, got into a very tight place o\er this
matter. Speaking at Riccartou the other day,
be was struck in the eye by the sudden ques-
tion : “Do you know any other possible Pre-
mier as good as Seddos?” And Dismal Bii.l,
who had been urging Seddon’s ejection, was
brought up with such a sudden shock that he
admitted honestly he didn’t.
♦
Ttie second reading of a Bill to legalise the
clean, honest, respectable tote that doesn’t
drink or welsh, or use bad language, or gather
in expectorating crowds on the pavement, and
thereby to give a severe set-back to the bookie
who does all these things and many others
besides, got through N.S.W. Council by 22
voles to 10. So there is at least a prospect of
this sensible idea being adopted by the law.
Considering that N.S.W. has already more tote
thau any other province—only illegally, and
by the corrupt connivance of the police the
principal difference will be that the thing will
be honest and public, instead of up a back lane
and dishonest. The present illegal tote lias to
be dishonest, for if it didn’t swindle its patrons
it wouldn’t have enough money to bribe the
police with. The saddest voice raised against
the machiue was that of C. G. Hkydon, who
held that the £50,000 a-year which Govern-
ment would probably make out of the business
would be the price of iniquity—though why
N.S.W. shouldn’t grasp at the price of iniquity
with both hands, it is difficult to see. Iniquity
isn’t so beautiful a thing that it should be let
off paying its share of the public burdens. Be-
sides a country which lives so largely upon
drink duties, upon fines levied as the price of
drunkenness, assault, obscene language, theft,
wife-beating, and cruelty to animals, has got
past being so particular.
Persistent Murray Smith is just now hoping,
or pretending that he hopes, to block the \ io.
Factories Act Amendment Bill with a proposed
Parliamentary enquiry into the working of the
previous Act. Mr. Smith wants to abolish
the minimum-wage clause in order that the
local manufacturer may be able to hold his own
on the Australian market. Also, he desires to
secure the local worker against the temptation
to tell falsehoods re the wage he actually gets.
The situation, as depicted by Murray Smith,
is truly sad. Firstly, the manufacturer stands
to be damaged because he pays the minimum
wage, and, secondly, the worker is compelled
to perjure himself because the manufacturer
doesn't pay the minimum wage—he has to say
that the minimum wage is paid when it.isn t.
Hence the anxiety of Murray Smith to injure
the trade by ensuring truthfulness in
the worker, in which case the worker
must suffer likewise. As long as the
manufacturer is “ handicapped,” says Smith,
by the compulsion to pay a higher wage than
the wage-earner receives, says Smith, so long
will the export trade be in danger of “ ultimate
extinction,” whereas if the worker were not
bound to perjure himself things would remain
exactly as they are now. In short the present
evasion of the Act, according to Smith, is so
satisfactory that it ought to be enquired into
on behalf of the worker whose occupation would
be mostly gone if lie didn’t tell a lie and stick
to it. “ For if a product is not worth what is
paid for it in wages, how,” asks Smith, “can a
manufacturer go on paying the minimum wage
which —says Smith— is not paid to the men
who are not able to earn it? ”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Robin Hood."
Lyceum “ Kittle Christopher Columbus.
Criterion “ Buried Alive."
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Physician.”
Theatre Royal “ The Power and the Glory."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
The above vague remarks were suggested
to some extent by the graveyard scene in “ Buried
Alive,” at Sydney Criterion. The Cri. is under
new management, Douglas Ancelon being the
sub lessee, and the drama is by a local author,
whose name The Bulletin will give next week, if
he thinks lie can stand it. The local man’s melo-
drama is very, very awful in places, but it must be
admitted that it is better than sundry im-
ported articles that the suffering city has been
struck with. Its principal fault is also the prin-
cipal fault of most other melodramas ; there is so
much crime'to be crowded into three hours that
the perpetrators haven’t time to have motives.
An adequate motive takes some little space to
develop"; and when there is so much to do, and so
little time to do it in, it is impossible to seriously
develop anything. It is a case of Macbeth, with-
out leisure to have a reason, throwing a brick at
Duncan on general principles as soon as the cur-
tain goes up. The medical gentleman in “ Buried
Alive ” wants his girl-ward out of the way because
he has got through most of her money, which is
intelligible enough. But the girl who pours
poison into the other girl’s glass does it on the
spur of the moment, for no reason in particular ;
and the balloonist is quite friendly with his
partner one moment and sticks a dinner-knife
in him immediately after merely because he
asks for .£2O. Also his conduct in tying the girl
hand and foot and taking her up in the balloon
lacks adequate cause, and the conduct of the doc-
tor in strangling the other doctor and putting his
remains in the box: - sofa is painfully sudden.
Sweeney’s object in getting up as Napoleon Bona-
parte, too, and being robbed of his money by five
girls with bare legs, is wrapped in mystery—in
which respect it differs from the five girls, who
are wrapped in hardly anything.
* * * *
There is nothing particularly gruesome
about the tomb scene after all, except that the
door of the tomb refuses to keep shut. In this
respect it resembles the box with the dead doctor
in it, said box also refusing to keep shut. The
worst member of the co. is the yacht on which the
hero has staked all his money, and which loses
the race because the man in the balloon has hired
a despicable character to cut the main-sheet and
somebody has poured vitriol on the main-sail.
Said yacht bounds over the intermittent wave in a
fashion which calls for severe scorn. The best
character is undoubtedly Harry Diver, whose
rendering of the murderous doctor is a very fine,
strong, and wholly commendable piece of work.
Very few artists could save that incoherent
strangler from ridicule, but Diver hauls him out
of the abyss of derision by sheer talent and
energy. Miss Roxy Barton, Percy Walshe, Cross,
J. 11. Nunn, Miss Fanny Wiseman (who makes
an admirable old woman) and Miss Hope Mayne
all call for respectful comment. Miss Mayne is
an especially promising young actress who
deserves better luck than this tomb-yarn will
ever give her.
4t
The one-week revival of “La at
Iler Majesty’s (Sydney), will come to an end to-
morrow night. One-week revivals are merely an
aggravation to a weekly paper which doesn’t come
out to illuminate the dark public intellect till
Thursday, therefore it is pleasing to record that
“Robin Hood,” a new opera which intends to
make a longer stay and give more time for con-
sideration, is due on Saturday. During its very
temporary re appearance, however, the doll-opera
has given large and general satisfaction. Looking
back into the dim recesses of time, this eminent
dramatic authority has an impression that Miss
Dorothy Vane has put a few finer touches on her
character as the big doll than she did aforetime.
Anyhow, it is Miss Dorothy’s best character, and
it is done so admirably in every detail that it
would be difficult to suggest improvement any-
where. I’anil's holy but impecunious father
is also about his best character—what there is of
it ; there isn't much of it, but while l’aull
is on the stage he is a gladsome father.
Ketmingham is admirable ; and Lauri toils
manfully at tbe thin streak of humor allotted
to him as llilarius, the toy-maker. There is much
pleasant music in the dull-opera, and the fact that
Caron's bald spot glows cheerfully at the con-
ductor’s desk is a sufficient guarantee that the
music receives full justico. The gleam of Caron’s
bald spot is a lamp on the path of art and a
radiance on the highway of melody. Also, in case
The Bulletin should do him an injustice, it
hastens to explain that the spot isn’t really halo.
The talented musician is merely becoming visible
through his hair, so to speak.
W * i *- *
“ Christopher Columbas” still does paying
business at Sydney Lyceum, and Rickards’ show
hangs out prosperously at the Palace as usual.
# * * *
Out of respect for the scenery and fixing of
Holloway’s new drama at Melbourne Royal, The
Bulletin would like to think “ The Power and
the Glory” were not a deplorably foolish thing to
spend so much money on. Scenic artists Clint and
Vaughan have done some fine work for this penny-
dreadful drama. Each act contains exceptionally
effective “sets.” The midnight view of London
as seen from the top of the monument is about the
most striking picture ever produced at the Royal.
Then a nice little girl angel breaks through the
smoky heavens and beams upon the principal
villain until lie drops senseless instead of throwing
the angel’s mother off the monument aforesaid.
The end of “The Power and the Glory” is an
orthodox transformation scene, showing how the
heroine earns eighteen pence a night by posing as a
central figure of Rule Britannia, whilst a blood-
thirsty demi-mohdaiue poses near her in the red
tights of sin.
* * * •
It is a drama with no sane moments in its
career. People meet together, and follow one
another, and form friendships and hatreds and
tableaux, under absolutely preposterous circum-
stances. The angel in the sky-hole is, perhaps, the
least unconvincing item in the plot ; otherwise the
drama runs on lunatical lines from first to last.
The low-comedy mother, who keeps a coffee-stall
near the Mansion House, has an improper daugh-
ter in gorgeous array' and a virtuous daughter who
sells floral buttonholes for a living, and talks of
having gone to school with two wearisome idiots
apparently 20 years older than herself. Also,
there is a virtuous brother, just back from sea,
who loves the wife of a burglar, and this burglar
is led into the housebreaking business by the
wicked sister’s “ mash.” The wicked sister
and her evil lover waste much time trying
to destroy the other burglar’s wife, body
and soul. 'They pop up casually in her
humble garret, and hope that her blind
child will die, but after the child deceases the
villain is haunted by visions of her blue eyes and
golden hair, simply because he had given her a
shock by robbing a church in the second act when
her mother somehow got mistaken for a graven
image. Intermingled with the prevailing crime
and misery are a proud countess and her gussy
offspring who loves the smudgy', but virtuous,
daughter of the coffee-stall proprietress. T’or a
long time Lady Gwendoline reckons that the gulf
between the classes and the masses is too broad to
be bridged by a coffee-stall, and when she finds
her gilded heir offering marriage to the Hower-gal
in the garret where the blind infant is about to
die, she threatens to disown him. Subsequently
the proud aristocrat relents in the “Hies” of the
Burlington Theatre, and the Hower-gal, who is now
in tights, and the mother from the korfee stall,
who has been engaged to play the hind legs of an
elephant, or something, are embraced by tier nibs
because their kind hearts are more than coronets.
Meanwhile one burglar has gone mad and murdered
the other burglar, and the wicked sister's scheme
for destroying the blind child’s mother has fallen
through. Everything ends as happily as could be
expected.
* • • *
“The Power and tho Glory ” is well acted
in some places. John Saunders, Miss Dora NVin-
ton, Frank Hawthorne, little Miss Holloway, and
Miss Rose Conroy deserve a much better drama.
Miss Watts-l’hillips, W. J. Montgomery, and
Stanford are moro satisfactory than somo other
members of the co. ; Miss Alice Deorwyn makes a
pretty' little figure in tights ; and nobody is a
downright inHiction except J. I*. O’Neill. Tho
present scribe has a notion that O’Neill is a useful
Irish comedian when he gets the chance, but as a
noisy sham cockney, in humorless parts, he merits
scorn and derision. The time has now arrived for
requesting O’Neill to “cheese it,” whatever that
may mean.
■s« *
A matinee benefit to J. F. Cathcart will be
given at the Princess’s on Thursday, the 30th inst.
“ Old Jimmy ” Cathcart’s right to be benefitted in
the 72nd year of his reign is quite beyond dispute.
He is one of the comparatively few actors who
ever ought to have taken to the stage, and he has
been a long standing credit to the profession in
Australia, where salaries for the local “ all-round ”
man don’t run extravagantly high. Managers
lately have not wanted a Henry the Sixth, Sir
Peter Teazle, Frar Lawrence, or Old English
comedy father, therefore the public have lost sight
of J. F. Cathcart.
* * * *
As Brough’s season atMelb. Princess’s lasts
only a few weeks, “Gay Lord Quex”must pack
up his wicked past and retire into private life after
Friday. Meanwhile the fame of Pinero’s bold,
unflinching play is loud in the land, and a desire
to go and blush at its candour appears to be pretty
general. All the same “ Quex ” can be absorbed
without a blush by any practical person. It isn’t
gratuitously spicy, like “The Sign of the Cross,”
for instance. The grev-haired marquis, captured
by the “usual creamy English girl,” and reflecting
that it is very pleasant to be a good boy when one
has arrived at 48, is a cleaner moral lesson than
the Roman Prefect in an abbreviated tunic. The
religion of common sense sticks out of “ Gay Lord
Quex”at all points. Everybody’s folly finds him (or
her) out, more or less. The Duchess gets a shock
which probably upsets her digestion, and the buck
from West Africa suffers awful headaches as the
result of looking in at the club. Also the Captain
who hugs Sophy in the wisdom of his own conceit
loses a rich wife, and a pair of solitaires which are
duly exchanged for a dog’s collar. After “ Quex”
come six nights and a Wednesday matinee of
“The Physician,” commencing on Saturday (25th)
** * *
At the Bijou there is nothing new to speak
of, except that the clever Valdares have arrived at
their last nights, and the two dusky Keenans are
somewhat less amusing than ever. The musical
event of the week in Melbourne will be Miss
Maud McCarthy at the Town Hall. The damsel’s
violin is to make a first appearance to-night
(Thursday the 23rd).
The cere-cloth and the sepulchre, the cypress and the
rue,
The owl who sings his carol on the mournful willow tree,
The ashes in the urn, and the ivy and the yew,
And the crow that ponders wisely where the dead men be;
And the corpse so gay and free, and the cheery gallows
tree,
And the ghoul that blooms in spring-time to gladden you
and me.
Oh! the green ghoul in the spring-time that gladdens
you and me.
The lightsome skull and pleasant, with eyeholes large
and bright,
The Thing that crawleth lightly as he crawleth in and
out.,
The pine-tree and the toad, and the broken column
white,
The slimy, sodden bank and the grey gra=s round about.
The long worm that hath no turning as he hasteth to his
meat,
And the pleasant caterpillar with his soft green feet.
Oh! the happy caterpillar with his damp and noiseless
feet.
At Poverty Point.
It is not yet exactly known what part of a lontj
criticism printed concerning the playing of a young lady
violinist induced the public employment of avenging
cowhide in Sydney the other day.
The London patriotic crowd, which never fights itself,
but is always hollering for the other fellow to wade in
gore, was made a fine ass of by a music hall manager
who dressed a “canary ” in the uniform of the N.S.W.
Lancers and instructed him to sing “Soldiers of the
Queen ” from a private box. The dodge succeeded. The
Jingoes thought that it was really one of the Lancers who
was suffering very badly from their brand of patriotism,
and even when the same man arose nieht after night to
sing the same ditty, the audience did not “ drop.”
“ C. L.” : She is a charming artist, but all the same The
Bi'l.i.ki ix can’t allow lldlle. Trebelli to be sung toil) these
columns b.v an admirer who dreamed that he was floating
around the realms of eternal vocalism what time the
Trebelli vision came to baud. Let’s see, how does the last
verse go? .
The same old “ note of every bird ” has been hushed by
fully two dozen soprano si inters since this paper first began
to receive ponies with a purpose. The purpose of your
pome, apparently, was to commend your initials to the
favorable notice of Mdlle. T.
An old Poverty-Pointer, D’Arc.v Read, whose show
special!v was a ghost, died at Parramatta last week.
“ The ghost ” had not walked for the poor old man of
late.
Actor Sass, well-known in Australia, was, some
years ago, playing in Johannesburg, when the mana-
ger of the co. received a request from a Boer
official for the loan of the stage swords, to assist ihe
Transvaal Govt, in making a good display at the opening
of Delagoa Bay railway.
Charles Arnold from Johannesburg, as reported in
Melbourne Taiu.k Talk: -“Mr. Charles Arnold, whilst
keeping neutral on the subject of Boers and British,
sticks up for the Boers. He says that, the Boer is not so
black as he is painted. He and his company receded a
great deal of kindness from the Boers during their
theatrical tour. The lion. Mr. Menzies was particularly
thoughtful regarding their welfare. He promised free
passage and protection to the coast in case of war; his
wife, Mrs. Menzies, called on Mrs. Arnold with a basket
of roses and 50 eggs, and when little Edna Arnold was
ill some Boers in the vicinity sent fresh milk twice a day.
There was not the slightest ill-feeling shown, although
all the company were English. Kruger never goes to the
theatre, but his son paid two visits to see ‘What Hap-
pened to Jones.’ Mr. Arnold contrasts the condition of
Johannesburg and Pretoria, the former hysterical and
wildly excited, the latter calm and unemotional, as if
there was no thought of war.’’
Recently-deceased Charley Burford was for some years
coach to Sydney University Dramatic Society'. He was
great in heavy parts, and used to explain with gusto that
for this reason he had been known as “ Blood and Guts
Charley.” Reverence for stage tradition was his chief
characteristic. Writer remembers how he withered the
secretary of the society, who proposed to “cut” a long-
winged epilogue to one of Column's comedies. “My
God, sir,” groaned Charley, “ cut the epilogue ! Do you
realise the enormity of what you propose, sir?’’
Tub Bulletin's London correspondent What a splen-
did renascence is a trip to Australia 1 “Miss Ada Wil-
loughbv, an Australian vocalist,” has been discovered
b.v the London critics, who are efflorescing over her in a
most tropical manner. They compare her to Cissie
Loft us, and hope she will stay here and replace the
petulant mimic. And Ada, bar one trip to “down
under,” has been here aii the time. Australia is a
footlights sesame to-day', despite idle or incompetent en-
tertainers’ wails.
Nellie Stewart up to date (among the audience at the
600th night of “The Girl of New York,” at London
Shaftesbury), as described by Entily Soldene in Sydney E.
News : “ Mrs. Musgrove ’’—that’s something new—“ was
surrounded by quite a little court. ‘ Sit down,’ said she.
‘ Our Nellie ’ has evidently turned old Time’s glass up-
side down —the sands are running hack. She looks 25
not a moment more —with red-gold hair, a black net
jetted dress, jet ted at a thousand points, clinging closely
to the lithe figure, and trailing superfluous and graceful
and serpentine yards on the ground behind her. The
bodice—not too* much, but charming—looked danger-
ously like falling off. Still ‘ a miss is as good,’ etc., you
know. But. her dress. What did it matter ? She was a
blaze of diamonds—magnificent diamonds—in strings
and pendants, and loops of big diamonds, fastened
into other loops of bigger diamonds,, and a collar of pearls
and diamonds alternating. Nellie’s hair was not parted
down the centre. No, it hung a thick tawny cloud on
the brows, and was hound round and round closely to the
small head in tight red gold braids. I’ve seen something
like it 1 know— ‘A Pompeiian Beauty’ in Naples
Museum."
Barnum and Bailey’s “ Greatest Show on Earth,” re-
cently touring Scotland, took three trains to carry it,
while a special conveyed 530 of the staff. The detraining
occupied five hours.
“Paradis”: Remarkable how little Shakespeare has
been acted at Melb. Princess's. That house opened in
’B5, and about 4,400 performances hare been given there.
Of these, Shakespeare has only had about 00.
“ Thy smile was seen, thy voice was heard,
It thrilled each soul to ecstasy,
And hushed the note of every bird ;
Then jo.x fully was passed the word,
• She —she alone—our Queen shall be.’ ”


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFXUXO k CO., SYDNEY)
—BUVKR OK —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Bough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’s
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining’, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
anti Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOM.NER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
wm
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY &s CO.,—Sydney.
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents lierp for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved .National Hock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* • • •
Gil Allan and McCreery, mining engineers
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Iteports on mines, prepare plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
• • * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) ih any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
• • • *
The Engineering Works of Mephan Ferguson
arc at present fully occupied, giving employment to a
large number of hands, in the different colonies. In
Western Australia, the patent rivetless locking-bar pipes
for the Coolgardie Wa'cr-supply are now being delivered.
The South Australian works are busy manufacturing and
supplying pipes for the Hundaleer Water Scheme, and at
the General Engineering Works, Melb. orders are being
received for bridge work, pipes, fluming, earth scoops,
forgings, refrigerators, machinery and ironwork. A large
number of patent Nelyambo scoops or tank-cleaners are
being manufactured to meet the increasing demand.*
* * * *
The Western Mine, Zeehan, Tasmania, has cut
six inches of first class ore at No. 7 level in the south
drive on the main lode. A complete Ltthrig concentrat-
ing plant on the gradual reduction principle is erected at
this mine with a capacity of 100 tons per day, and consists
of stone breakers, trommels, rolls, jigs, classifiers, Luhrig
Van tiers, etc. Since the erection of this mill the company
have paid about £106,000 in dividends and the mine still
promises to continue its prosperous career. Luhrig
machinery may be obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill. A two-to-
five ton experimental plant is erected near Melbourne.*
• * • •
The Insurance World, Ist July, 1899: “ The
growth of the Colonial Mutual since its establishment has
been of a very vigorous nature, and characteristic of the
active and progressive life of our Australian colonies.”#
• • * •
Note : No private trustees in these funds.
First Sydney and N.S.W. Tontine Investment Fund
£250,000. Trustees : The Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd.
(cap. £1,000,000), Sydney. Solicitor : J. A. Thompson,
Esq., Norwich Chambers, Sydney. Gives you sound in-
vestment, speculation, without possibility of loss, and in-
surance. An entirely new departure. Tontine, or “ pool,"
accumulates for 20 years, and the survivors divide the
whole of it between them. Heirs of non-survivors get
back all their moneys with 3 per cent. com. int. Similar
but independent Funds in Victoria, Queensland, and
S.A. Call or write for particulars to the General Agent,
11. G. Scott, 20 Vickery’s Chambers, 76 Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, or for “ First Melbourne Fund ” and “ First Adelaide
Fund ” to F. J. Muir. Secretary, 14 Mercantile Chambers,
349 Collin s-street, Melbourne. (Note: Union Trustee Co,
of Australia Ltd., Melbourne and Brisbane, are the trus-
tees for the funds in those centres.) Representatives with
good connections wanted in all centres.#
• • • •
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Ltd, South Melbourne, to build a pair of compound con-
densing engines of 700 h.p. to drive their extensive mil-
ling plant. These engines will be of the latest type, with
Proeil valve gear. The flywheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes, and weighs upwards of 22 tons, the
total weight of engine will be 85 tons. The engines are to
be completed by the end of the year and will be the finest
and largest plant on the field. Three engines under con-
struction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie goldfields
have an aggregate of 1800 horse power.*
• • • •
Mining news, ns supplied by Sydney evening
Star :—“ The marvellous resources of rich ore which the
Lake View Consols mine has opened up ami proved in all
its levels is an absolutely safe basis on which to reckon
the value of the mine together with its life. Over 30.000
07.. a month is being won. and it is only a matter of time
for the shares to double in value.” Now, those pheno-
menal deposits do not exist in all the Lake View’s levels,
anil there is just as much chance of shares falling to half
their present price as there is of their doubling. Same
day the above was published, another Sydney daily re-
marked :—“ It is unlikely that the Lake View Consols,
the premier mine of Kalgoorlie, will maintain its output
of a ton of gold per month, and a falling off in next
month's product is expected.” Now, one of these yarns
must be false.
• * • •
Tho latest zoological discovery: The Manx
Wild Cat. Gold is said to have been discovered in the
island of Hall Cain.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carl*. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
9i/ioa%
Hone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Minin<r Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Mklbol'rnb ;
11 Pittst., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brifib.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.X.
“Brilliant and St. George G.M. Co., Charters
Towers, Get. 4, ’9!): —About 12 months afro we had our
forces fitted with your Billetts Patent Tuyeres, and they
have been working continuously ever since and have given
every satisfaction and effected a great saving in fuel and
labor, the fires being always clean. Another great advan-
tage they possess is that they work without water, conse-
quently there is no danger of them burning through
neglect. 1 have great confidence in recommending them
in every Instance where forges are used. (Signed) .las.
Carrol, Mine Manager.” Write to W. Dewhirst, Broughton
Lane, Sydney, for particulars and list of agents.*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
At 30th June last tho Victorian State Land
Bank hail lent £700,945. The total amount of interest in
arrear was only £49 ami the repayments of principal in
arrear "'ere only £35. Though the Stale Land Bank lends
on mortgage at only 4$ per cent, the year’s profits were
£5547, which goes to reserve fund. Working expenses
the first year of the hank’s existence were £1 ‘3s. 7d. per
cent, on all moneys lent. Last year, the business being
larger, and therefore more economical, they were only
12s. W. per cent. Next year it is probable they won't
exceed Os. per cent. If Lite State Land Bank continues
growing at the present rale it is probable that expenses
will very shortly be down to 4s. or ss. per cent., and then
it will be possible to lend at 4 per cent, and still have a
safe margin. Even the bitterest Tory in Victoria has now
given up saying that the State Land Bank is a failure.
What lie says now is that it was solely owing to his
advice tiiat Turner started it.
• • • •
Westralia has decided to enlarge the capital of
its State-owned Agricultural Bank from £lOO,OOO to
£200,000, the original capital having been all lent.
Westralia’s State Land Bank is so utterly unlike the
eminently successful ones of S.A., Victoria and Maoriland
that it is impossible to say yet how it will work out. In
these other three provinces repayment of principal starts
from the date of the loan, so even in those rare cases
where the amount lent left perilously little margin the
amount of the loan started to diminish and the margin to
grow larger and safer almost immediately. In W.A., by
way of making things easy for the agriculturist, repay-
ment of the principal doesn’t begin forfive years—in fact,
in the very earliest loans it hasn’t begun yet—so the
Agricultural Bank doesn't know for certain so far whether
it has been lending on dangerously-inflated valuations or
not. If the repayments come in very badly, and it is left
with stacks of foreclosed properties on its hands, then it
will know all about it.
* * • •
Some of the items included in the temporary
Loan Estimates which Premier Lyne submitted to N.S.W.
Parliament last month, just to go on with, are most in-
teresting. The whole amount was £298,500, and of it
£122,000 was thus accounted for—
Forest thinning .. .. .. .. £4500
Law costs in the McSharry case .. ~ 37,500
Improving railway grades and curves .. 40,000
Converting steam trains into electric trams
in Sydney’s western suburbs and rolling-
stock .. ... .. .. 40,000
£122,000
Forest-thinning is not a permanent and reproductive
work, and any Government which calls law costs a per-
manent and reproductive public work is a disgrace to
book-keeping and arithmetic, and civilisation. Yet all
the rest of the expenses of the McSharry case were
charged to loans. Charging the conversion of steam
trams to loan funds simply means this—The old steam
trams were all paid for with borrowed money, and ail the
money is owing yet, and now the unpaid-for asset will be
taken to pieces, and a new system, constructed with
borrowed money, be built on its ruins, so the country
will owe for two systems, and only possess one. Charging
the new rolling-stock to loans is an equally bad fraud.
The old cars were paid for out of borrowed money to
begin with, but it was always understood that, as they
wore out, they were to be replaced out of revenue by new
cars. But because the ancient stock is to be replaced by
Dew cars of a different pattern, the new cars are to be
paid for, not out of revenue, but out of loans. And the
country will have to pay interest on the cost of two sets
of cars, and yet only own one. The old motors will also
go out of use. But years and years after the}' have fled
tnto the scrap heap the country will still owe the money
for them, and pay interest on it. The new railway grades
and curves come into the same category ; the country
hasn’t paid for the old grades yet. The short and
simple creed of almost all Australian politicians is to pay
nothing out of revenue that can possibly be paid out of
borrowed_ money, anil there aren’t half-a-dozen men in
politics with sufficient courage to condemn the swindle.
* •* • *
The Bank of Australasia’s balance-sheet for the
half-year ended 10th April, 1899, is to hand—the ’Asia
issues its balance-sheet in England and it comes out here
very gradually. The profits are £56,312, which is the
best return this institution has shown for 5£ years past.
The list of half-yearly profits since ’92 is as follows :
October, 1592 ... £80,346 April, 1896 ... £40,568
April, 1893 ... 60,742 October, 1896 ... 40,400
October, 1593 ... 60,607 April, 1897 ... 45,376
April, 1894 ... 48,571 October, 1897 ... 40,278
October, 1894 ... 45,735 April, 1898 ... 48,547
April, 1895 ... 40,854 October, 1898 ... 54,148
October, 1595 ... 41,159 April, 1899 ... 56,312
The profits are equal to £4 13s. lOd. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds, so the ’Asia is doing very well
indeed as average rates go nowadays. In 1895-6-7 the
dividend was at the rate of 5 percent. In 1898 the share-
holders received 6 per cent., ami now the management,
with very doubtful policy, makes a rush to raise the div.
to 7 per cent. This absorbs £56,000, and the other ' 312,
added to £9970 brought forward from last year, leaves
£10,282 of accumulated profit to carry forward. The
Bank of Australasia has a paid-up capital of £1,600,000
and a reserve-fuml of £BOO,OOO, and it lias apparently no
intention of growing any larger—at all events, its
reserve has remained stationary for about a dozen years,
and its profit-balance is only £641 more than it was iri
1891. Deposits have increased by nearly £BOO,OOO during
the half-year, and the reserve of cash and Government
securities is £.3.677,446—equal to about 23 percent, on all
liabilities to the public. Altogether, the'Asia is a very
solid and steady-going institution, which paid a reliable
6 per cent, even in the worst days, and which seems to
have good prospects in front of it. This apparent tauto-
logy is resorted to in onler to distinguish it from certain
institutions, which have splendid prospects behind them.
• • * *
In its issue of .Tune 10, this year, The Bulletin
drew attention to a strange concern, calling itself the
Industrial Medical Benefit Assurance Society, which had
Started to rake in the premiums of the poor and ignorant
and lowly in a small office at 88 I’itt-street, Sydney. It
W'ent in for industrial life assurance, sick pay, and other
of tiie small and secluded hack alleys of the assurance
business. Its prospectus didn’t give the name of any
manager, secretary, director, medical officer, banker—it
didn t contain the name of anybody, in fact. For all
the evidence therein to the contrary, the institution was
uni by the office cat. A Bi'l.lktix man calling at Lite
very obscure little place of business found a stout man
there who might, or might not, he the whole society, huh
he didn't even learn the stout man's name. So far
M the writer can find out, this society has disap-
peared from its original haunts. The stout man is
said to be running an office in a different line of
business in a different part of the town, and this
paper can’t find out that any other stout man has taken
his place. Therefore it asks the N.SAV. Government if it
will take any rational steps to protect the ignorant
policy-holder (who doesn’t know one industrial office from
another or all of them from Adam) against the disap-
pearing insurance office. A country where any man has
only to take a room, and get a time-payment chair and
desk in it, and ink the decayed spots on his bell-topper,
and wash his celluloid collar at the sink, to be an in-
dustrial fife assurance society and take the hard-earned
uppers of the poor, isn’t run on even the most elemen-
tary business principles. And that is how N.S.W. is run
—in practice, if not in theory.
* * * *
For the first time in its long career the Western
Australian Bank publishes an audited balance-sheet. A
notable feature about it is that the profits (though still
enormously above the average) show a heavy falling away
as compared with those of the last two years. There is
nothing to show that the auditing is in any way the cause
of this, or that in previous balance sheets the manage-
ment, in the absence of any audit, took an over-sanguine
view of what constitutes profits; still, whatever the
cause, the fact remains. The earnings for the past few
years have been:
June, 1894 .. £8,387 June, 1897.. ..£19,685
December, 1894 £9,623 December, 1897 ..£13,251
June, 1895 ..£10,315 June, 1898.. ..£18,542
December, 1895 £10,972 March, L 899 (9 mos.) £29,763
June, 1896 .. £12,284 September, 1599 .. £13,736
December, 1896 £16,703
The profits are equivalent to £9 3s. 2d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital £lOO,OOO,
reserve fund £200,000). There is a large increase in
deposits and in note circulation, but the advances have
diminished (which possibly accounts in some degree for
the diminution of profits). Also coin and bullion on hand
have increased from £544,723 in March last to £680,750.
Cash and Government securities put together are equal to
over 45 per cent, of all liabilities to the public, which is,
proportionately, the strongest cash reserve in Australasia.
With a paid-up capital of £lOO,OOO and a reserve of
£200,000, the Westralian Bank has also the strongest
reserve fund in proportion to capital in Australasia. In
addition to this it pays the largest banking dividend in
Australasia—at the rate of 17£ per cent, per annum,
which absorbs £8750; and the remaining £4986, added to
the previous balance of £9292, leaves £14,27S at credit of
profit and loss. In one way and another the Westralian
Bank's balance-sheet puts up a lot of records.
* * » *
The fourth annual report of the Australian
Metropolitan Life Assurance Co., of Brisbane—that for
the period of a year and 13 days to 31st August, 1899—is
to hand. The first report, that to 18f.h August, 1896, never
reached this office, so most of the figures for that year
can’t he given, but the following is some account of the
co.’s doings;—
Expenses
including Added to
Total Shareholders’ Assurance
Revenue. Claims. Dividend. Fund.
IS9O .. .. .. £250
1897 £4540 £133 £2754 £1653
1898 £6420 £751 £4450 £1219
1599 £7267 £lOO7 £5102 £1153
According to all ordinary arithmetic, therefore, the Aus-
tralian Metropolitan should have an accumulated assur-
ance fund of £4280, that being the amount it has actually
saved in its four years’ career. On paper, however, it
claims to have a fund of £14,375. It arrived at this pro-
cess by purchasing an office building—the Queensland
Deposit Bank Buildings, Brisbane—for about £14,000 and
putting it down in the balance-sheet as an asset worth
£24,000. It said that this was “according to the valua-
tion of the asset,” hut the report didn’t say who made the
beautiful and useful valuation. In this case, as in that
of two other life assurance institutions with which the
same thing happened, the writer can only say that the
co. whose office property increases handsomely in value
at a time when such increase comes in very handy
possesses a much more courteous and obliging building
than he ever possessed. Whatever buildings he lias
owned have always deteriorated with a thud just when
they were most wanted.
In 1897 the Australian Metropolitan spent <£fio
13s. out of every £lOO of income in working expenses and
dividends to shareholders. In 1898 it spent £69 6s. out
of every £lOO ; in 1899 expenses and dividend absorbed
£7O 4s. out of. every £lOO of gross income. There is
a general idea that as an assurance institution grows
larger t.he proportion of working expenses should
diminish, but things are not going that way with the
Australian Metropolitan. If the business was wholly
industrial the expenses might not seem exorbitant, but,
considering that a considerable proportion is ordinary
life insurance, they are very high. The sum saved and
added to the assurance-fund out of revenue (the obliging
conduct of the building being for the moment left out of
the reckoning) is growing smaller each year. Under
these circumstances, the conduct of the shareholders in
helping themselves to the very handsome dividend of 10
percent.—which they have now done for three years in
succession—looks like a most reckless and unjustifiable
grab. To all intents and purposes, every copper the co.
has is represented by its big building. The paid-up
capital and assurance-fund amount to £20,375 on paper,
and the building is put down at £24,500, so all the com-
pany’s loose assets wouldn’t pay off the mortgage and
leave it with its structure clear of debt. Though the co.
is now four years old, there is no mention of any actuarial
valuation, which may reveal whether the assurance-fund
would have been solvent if the building hadn’t increaseil
in value so much above the purchase price, or what would
have happened. Probably the A.M. proposes to have its
valuation every five years, as several other institutions
do.
• • * •
Zachariah Gray is proceeding against L.
Stevenson and Sons,.'Ltd. (Melb.), on a question of the
forfeiture of 500 shares in that luckless softgoods concern.
The shares were declared forfeited last year for non-pay-
ment of a call of Is. Plaintiff disputes the act of annexa-
tion on the ground that “ the Is. call was not made bona-
fide in the interests of the co., but in order to benefit the
directors and their friends.” Furthermore, he alleges
“ breaches of trust by the directors, whereby the plaintiff
was left in a state of ignorance as to the real position of
the co., and the real value of his shares, and so refrained
from paying the calls made.” Zac.hariah’s story of how
he was left in the dark should be worth hearing.
» • • *
lb is an oft-repeated gag of the Ooflander brigade
that the foreign population were wholly responsible for
the gold industry of the Rand. The fact is that the dis-
covery of the Rand was made by two burghers of Johan-
nesburg—a Boer and a Hollander—who had a 10-head
battery erected on the field long before ever the Ooflander
came along.
* • * •
Desperate efforts are being made on behalf of big
syn licates to enlarge the maximum dredging areas liolcl-
a'bl > by individuals under the N.S.W. Dredging Bill now
un ler consideration. One crowd of speculators has calmly
pegged out 30 miles of river in one lot, and has cheek
enough to think the Legislature will tolerate that kind of
grab.
• * » •
Cootna copper mine, N.S W. : “ Operations re-
tarded from want of air.” Well, there is some novelty, if
not satisfaction, in that. It is better than from want of
ore.
• • * •
North Nymagee is a mneb-boomed, but poverty-
stricken, N.S.W. copper-show of whose operations we
read much more than of Nymagee mine itself, or even of
the Great Cobar copper mine. The latest is that the lode
is largely composed of zinc blende, and the ore in another
part of the mine is “ patchy and dredgy."
* • • •
Girilambone Copper Co., N.S.W., has passed
another interesting stage. It has audaciously refused
£45,000 casli and £55,000 in paid-up shares in a £250,000
co. with 150,000 working capital. “ The tone of the dis-
cussion at the meeting quickly made it evident that the
shareholders were not inclined to accept the offer made.”
The chairman thought a fair alternative would be £20,000
more cash and one-fourih interest in the new co., and a
shareholder thought that 10 per cent, per 6hare in cash
and £1 fully-paid share for every two held now would he a
square thing. The market price of the shares on this
day was, sellers Bs. for paids and os. Od. for the oilier
kind. Shareholders have waited three years in vain for
the mine to come along, and now they peremptorily
refuse a hig offer. Of course the mine is going to do
great things immediately, but that story has been heard ’
before. One nhase of the question has been entirely
overlooked—that the £60,000 working capital, which
there is no chance whatever of obtaining locally, would
give the shares received in part-payment a higher market-
value than the mine has to-day, and shareholders would
then have the £45,000 cash to the good. The usual story
is, “ they know their own business best.” In this in-
stance, it is doubtful.
• * * *
The law of the politician is that whenever a
new Treasurer takes office, his first duty is to announce
that liis predecessors have left thing's in an awful mess ;
which is generally true. Now, the 8.11. Junction
board consists mainly of politicians, the result of the
kick-out of the old crowd at the last half-yearly meeting ;
and in the first report since the change was made, it is
quite natural that the new political crowd should say—
“ Look what a horrible mess they left us to get out of! ”
And, though things might certainly have been made to
look a good deal better, the mess is there all right—all
along of the greedy policy of new-chum directors three or
four years ago in hack ingout every available pound of good
ore, and hang the consequences 1 This particularhalf-year's
figures arc made to look worse than they might be because
a trifle of l!)0i)0 is charged to wear-and-tear. For a
couple of years the smelting-plant at I’ort. Adelaide (the
co. used those worksonce fora few months, but it is many
years ago) stood on the books at £12,000; this line is now
written down to £BOOO. By one or two drastic actions
like that the profit and loss account comes out. nearly
£2OOO to the bad ; but making a fair charge for deprecia-
tion, and relieving this unfortunate six months of the
sins of its predecessors so cruelly thrown upon it, we get
at a profit of about £4OOO. But even that with respect to
a co. which three years ago made a profit of about t 76,000
in a twelve-month, is surely awful enough. There is an
atom of consolation in the fact that the directors show a
small balance of liquid assets over liabilities for the first-
time since the cave-in of the mine, and the discovery that
the estimates of ore were all wrong, and that more plant
was needed, drove the old board to borrow £lO,OOO. The
loan was “ for 12 months." The co. owes it still.
• • • *
The B.JT. Junction milled for the half-year
40.720 tons ore, which averaged only 9'3oz. silver and
15‘2 per cent, lead, as against 10'720z. silver and 18 per
cent, lead for the previous six mouths ; 0570 tons of con-
centrates were produced, averaging 23‘40z. silver and
61’0 percent, load. (Zinc contents not stated, though they
should be known in order to judge of the quality of the
work done and of the value of the concentrates.) The re-
covery is therefore 35‘4 per cent, of the silver and 57 per
cent, of the lead. The.directors do not think this can be
considered satisfactory; and this paper does not feel called
upon to contradict them. In fact if it had a pocket
which let two-thirds of its silver and nearly one-lmlf of its
copper slide down its trouser-ieg, it would think that
the pocket deserved stronger language than that. At
present metal prices, it seems, about 355. per ton of ore,
goes flown the Junction’s trouser-leg, and 365. stays in
its pocket—until it has to come out to pay expenses. And
in those figures no account is taken of the zinc, of which
there is, say, 20 per cent, in the ore, and which, in metallic
form, is worth al>out>£22 per ton. “ The question of treat-
ment of the tailings (the ‘refuse’ where the 355. and
the zinc go), is being very carefully considered,” the di-
rectors say ; and the matter is worth all the considera-
tion that the board can give it. Some improvement in
the ore-treating is all the more necessary, because the
stopes at the 775 ft. level—worked for the first time this
last half-year—show ore of a disappointingly low grade ;
though 100 much importance can easily be attached to the
lowness of the grade of the ore at any one level in this
patchy mine.
• • • •
The 8.11. Junction’s more recent catastrophes
thunder a couple of texts into the ears of people who
nurse mining shares : (1) When you have a board consist-
ing of new-cliums in mining and a manager with an only
moderately stilt back, watch them in the days of pros-
perity. Don’t let ’em think (as they're likelv to) that all
they’ve got to do in order to earn their fees and your
blessing is to pile up divs. promptly. Ask them what
they’re doing with the hole where the ore came from.
(N.B.—This foregoing is specially recommended to share-
holders in some Westralian mines which are busy putting
up div. records. Already there have been a few collapses
in workings there, and the butcher’s bill is heavy already.)
(2) The businesses of ore-raising and ore-smelting are not
the same. The Junction’s Port Adelaide works cost it
about £20,000. They would have been dear at fewer
pence. (This is specially recommended to the considera-
tion of “ investors" in copper-shows just now.)
• • * •
B.H. Block 10, which last half-year made
£57,000 and distributed £30,000, will dole out a bonus
amounting to £7500 just before Christinas—ls. 6d. per
share. The co., besides its reserves, must have £25,000
in hand.
• • • *
B.H. North, thanks to the rise in the price of
lead, has paid a div.—a little one. And at last, after
waiting 13 years. Broken Hill can say that every one of
the mines on the main line of lode has paid a div.
B.H. British Co. owns two blocks, but has so
far almost confined work to Block 15—the one nearest
Block 14. Block 16 is partly in a flat; the lode twists
there into the Junction. Thus there are points of re-
seinhlanee between Block 10 and Block 16. Still, the
latter has been neglected, chiefly because, after the great
“ creep ” eight or nine years ago, the co. has never had
money to spend in prospecting. The tide has turned now
though ; and with it the directors are going to probe
this half of their property a little more.
• • * *
Sydney Harbor Colliery Co.’s main shaft (20ft.
dia. and bricked all through) is now down 1400 ft. : they
expect to have to go l.’itlOft. further for coal, which they
hope to produce in from IS months to 2 years from now.
The co.'.s lease of 10,out) acres will, it is calculated, yield
113.000,000 tons of coal.
* * • «
Of all the booms that have failed that wliich
had Worturpa for a peg to hang upon was surely the
most abject failure. A minute.quantity of t.ellurid'e was
found there; and a wild rush to the Far North of S.A.
began. Prospectors toiled over the most God-forsaken
country on the continent to reach a district which the
most experienced of them condemned at once—all broken
country and quite unlikely to carry permanent lodes or
reefs. The “ field ” was deserted almost as rapidly as it
was rushed.
• • • *
Some more ’Ome m i n i ng - nianagemcnt.. Printed
that in the Northern Territory of S.A. operations on a
large scale arc being carried on by London companies,
an I though some of the lodes nre 40ft. wide and worth
lOdwt. of gold per ton, it is very doubtful whether the
mines will ever pay. Thousands of pounds’ worth of
machinery is being erected on the surface, steel lining
provided for shafts only 200 ft. deep in hard country
(costing £l4 per foot landed at the railway station),
where timber would do, and is easily obtainable. Tele-
phones are laid for miles to connect mines and managers’
residences, while little or nothing is being done in the
work of developing the mines.
f $ V v
Mt. Lyell’s, (Tas.) last hnlf-jmar’s report shows
a profit of £132,M0, the result of an increased output and
a better price for copper. Total working costs £1 4s. sd.
per ton, which is an increase on last year’s work although
two more furnaces running. Declared in divs. during six
months, 175,025. Tonnage worked 143,CSC. Value of
liquid assets, £104,000. Kntered into a new contract with
Tharsis Co. to smelt another 25,000 tons and one with
the North .Mt. J.yell Co. to treat 0000 tons.
* • * *
It is notified in this issue that the share-register
of Woodlark Island 0.J1.C0. closes on 30th inst. Share-
holders should send in transfers promptly.
• • * •
Westralian Wires. —Queen Margaret’s new
manager has found a big task in front of him. Lower
levels proved so far disappointing, and mine now not
more than two years ahead of the mill. Lot of money
likelv to he needed for prospecting purposes unless good
patches are quickly found. Hannan's Brownhill is
Kaufmanising in a sniali way. C.K. is said to have lately
bought the True Blue and to have a hig pull over Brown-
liill Extended, Block 45 and Croesus South ; also the
crowd behind hint made a lot of money the last few
months. Humored that a hig stretch of country about
Brownhill is likely to be taken over and worked by a big
co.
• • • *
Of Green Bushes tinfield thus a doleful corres-
pondent “ Our buyer and ex-warden was going 4o buy
up everything, but. got a cable that money was too
scarce. The ground was frightfully patchy—some of the
places will pay workers, hut will never pay companies.
Storekeepers begin to drop their lips like motherless
foals. 1 have seen more tin taken out of one claim at
Tingha in a week than any 12 claims got here in a
mouth.’’
* * • •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.


d
A NEW DEPARTURE
In Orient Suit to measure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
** on H 1 Pa . lY i e J s of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
ooairl in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
SYDNEY.
A FASHIONABLE PASTIME-
Photography
It is the “OPEN SESAME” into Society.
Our stock of Photopraphic Materials
extensive and up-to-date in Australasia
is the most
C AMEBAS of every style and size, from 5/- upwards
PLATES of all makes; and for every purpose.
CHEMICALS the latest and best.
FRAMES and 3VEOXJNTS the newest
designs, and to suit the most fastidious.
Nothing required but we can supply y<
on with
Brisbane Branch—
-34 Queen Street.
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co.,
179 Collins-street.
And Agents in all the Colonies.
CO. LTD.
ants , 66 King-st., Sydney.
Call on us, send to us, or write to us for particulars. Our JVew
Illustrated Catalogue will be supplied free.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD SPECIAL
"D.C.L."
[?]
The strongest argument against the pro-
posal to hold a Sydney Exhibition is the fact that
Melbourne, with a fine Exhibition building in its
midst, never talks of spending another quarter
of a million on another dreary international show.
Australia is much too large, and its people are
much too scattered for any capital city to run an
important exhibition, except at a big loss,
yisitors frem Europe and the adjoining Austra-
lian provinces were found to be a very small matter
of support for the Melbourne enterprise of ’BB.
The spec, had to rely mainly on local patronage,
and Melbourne, which even then contained con-
siderably more than the present population of
Sydney, proved quite unequal to the manage-
ment’s demand for shilling admission fees. The
big show was a nine-days’ wonder—then it became
a gloomy farce. _ Phil. May, shaking hands with
one of the exhibitors a few weeks after the open-
ing, said—“ I don’t think you’ll see me here again,
old man—it’s too much like a cemetery.” All was
cold and dead.
* * * «
The Select Committee appointed by N.S.
Wales Assembly to inquire into the case of lunatic
Cresswell and his alleged identity with Roger
Tichborne should be able to settle the question at
one sitting. The exact height, physical peculiari-
ties, and undoubted tattoo-marks of the real Sir
Roger are matters of history, and several doctors,
AS UNDERSTOOD IN AUSTRALIA.
O'PHIDDIAN: “ Phwat’s the maniny of Pat-riot-
ism?”
MACLAURLIAN : “Love o’ country."
O’P.: “ Phwat country?”
MACL.: “ Tother feller’s! ”
including two of Sydney’s most expert and
reputable surgeons, have sworn that Cresswell
doesn’t answer to the description in any important
particular. The inquiry need not go further than
a careful measurement of Cresswell and a close
inspection of his limbs and body. If he bears the
essentia' marks and signs, and is not, in his old
age, more than an inch shorter than the long-lost
baronet’s recorded height, he is apparently the
real Sir Roger, and the doctors stand convicted
of conspiracy to conceal the truth. On the other
hand, if Cresswell lacks the Rogerian marks,
inches, and characteristics, any other inquiry were
a scandalous farce.
• * • •
Supposing Affleck’s Domestic Servants
Regulation Bill becomes law in N.S.W., and it is
illegal to employ any female domestic servant
under 14, or to work any female domestic more
than eight hours a day (say from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
—“ the hours when the work is to be done are to
be as arranged between mistress and servant ”),
and she musn’t be disturbed to attend to children
m the night—what will happen? The writer
dimly foresees seven possibilities. (1) Many
families will employ the male white Sairey Hann
instead of the female white ditto, and there will
be employment in abundance for every man in the
cximmunity. (2) There will be a run on Chinese,
Kanakas, and Africans—but happily the supply of
these is very limited. (3) Ingenious families won’t
keep a servant at all; they will keep an adopted
daughter instead. There are enormous possi-
bilities about an adopted daughter. The Bill says
nothing about an adopted daughter only working
eight hours. (4) In a great many families where
there are daughters who now batter “Daisy
Bell” and “ Harfter-r-r, the B orl” on the
piano, these young ladies will attack the house-
work themselves, which will he beneficial both to
them and to the community at large. (5) There
will be a run on governesses, and the governess
will tackle the housework in a purely voluntary
spirit, and solely because she likes housework, and
yearns after it, and can’t live without it, and won’t
be happy till she gets it. There will be no com-
pulsion, and she can leave off the housework at
any time. But if she leaves it off she will be
sacked, because of the imperfections of her French
accent and alleged deficiencies in her Sanscrit and
h er -"- ra bian trigonometry. (6) There will be a
rush to invent domestic labor-saving machines,
and the automatic iron Biddy will partly fill the
void. Also (7) people who can afford it will keep
two servants in place of one. There are so many
interesting possibilities in view that this scribe
hopes to see the measure pass. If it doesn’t, a
great contribution to the gaiety of nations will
be lost.
» « * *
The only suicide directly due to this year’s
raping carnival was that of Jas. Anderson, a
Vic. saveloy-vendor. James jumped into the
Yarra, and the rash act was due to depression,
consequent on a ruinous speculation in saveloys.
Anderson expected a tremendous run on hot
saveloys on the Flat, but the rain spoilt his
market, and he was left with a woful waste of
sausages on hand, from which the poor man could
discover no refuge but the grave.
* * * *
From a Maoriland magazine written by
girls:
“ The Boys of the Dingo breed.”
New South Walks Lancers—Just returned
from the Transvaal—
Open to receive invitations to Balls, Parties, etc.
With the kind permission of our Ma’s.
* * * *
Amusing linotype mix-up in Sydney Daily
Telegraph :
The matron of the home is Deaconess Mary Smith, for-
merly head deaconess of the Church of England Deacon-
esses Institution, and, having regard to the fact that
drink is a, great leveller, it would be difficult to discover a
more suitable lady for the trying position.
* * * *
Re N.S.W. Patriotic Fund. It would be
interesting to know exactly how much of the
patriotism ” is made to order. In one case a
larg-e firm made out a list of its employes, placing
against each name the amount to be “ subscribed.”
Even the wretched ten-bob-a-week office-boy was
booked for 2s. 6d.
* * * *
“ The Colonial ” has a personal grievance
Over the departure of the contingent:
I have kept up for years, in spite of syndicated cables,
a flickering interest in English cricket. From the cables
I have slowly deduced the conclusion that the principal
performers on English wickets are Albert Trott and
Roche. I know, in a general way, that there are fiftv or a
hundred other men of equal interest, but the cable-man
never seems to see them. From the Cape cables I have
already begun to realise that two Australian doctors have
hitherto been running the entire South African campaign
between them, and that the arrival of 105 N.S. W. lancers
at Capetown is the central feature of recent develop-
nients. About the most thrilling incident of the whole
affair to date has been the appointment of Trooper Tom-
kins (as duly chronicled per special war correspondent)
to clean up manure ’tween decks on the Aberdeen, while
the one touch of pathos necessary to complete the swel-
scene is imparted by the melancholy sacking of a
Westralian barmaid for the sake of a parti-colored blouse.
I am Australian all over, I hope, but the participation of
Australians in this war doesn’t add one scintilla of in-
terest to it for me. This is a stand-up fight with good
hard men on both sides. As a spectator with a sporting
turn of mind, I ask to be allowed to back m 3 fancy and
get a clear view. The Australian contingent is snoiling
that clear view. I am in the stalls at this performance
and the matinee hats of those 105 N.S.W. Lancers are in
the way. They have no business in that gallery. They
are but mere amateurs, anyhow. If a big battle takes
place I want to read, per cable, about the dreadful
slaughter, about British pluck and Boer perfidy, to
learn what were the incidents, and which regiments dis-
tmguished themselves. What we shall learn is that
Troop-sergeant Jones of the onetieth N.S.W. regiment
performed prodigies'of dexterity in the stopping of some
runaway horse, and that Corporal Higgins had the lobe of
his left ear shot away by a spent bullet. I have be-
grudged the daily copper for the paper for years. I was
just beginning to get the value of my money over this
fight, and the contingent business has spoilt it again.
* * * *
} The Bulletin has been counting the
in the Westralian contingent of 125.
The birth-places of ten are not included ; of the
rest only 15 own to having been born in W.A. !
This paper is not sure whether it ought to notch
this to the credit of Groperdom, or to attribute it
to the fact that dog doesn’t eat dog. By the way
the contingent includes a Kruger.
* * • •
Last week The Age broke its resolution
and inserted a full-page advt. of the Argus
encyclopaedia scheme. Dawvid is a man of iron
resolution, but iron can be outweighed.
THE BOER INVASION.
OLD SYDNEY LADY (reading Transvaal cables):
The Boers are marching on Newcastle.
Oh, dear me! and my poor son went up there
last night by the Namoi!"
There is some superstition left yet. When
i 6 instalment of N.S.W. troops left for
the Transvaal, one “soldier of the Queen”
wrapped himself up in the Union Jack and
climbed up the main rigging, whereupon a man in
the crowd was heard to say, “ Well, / wouldn’t
do that fora fiver ; he’ll be tipped overboard with
a flag round him before they get to South Africa.”
• *
A young Melbourne lady, from Abbots-
ford, was recently in London, and asked Father
Kussell S.J. (brother of England’s Lord Chief
Justice), who is a bit of a bard, to write some
verses m her album, about the Yarra. “But”
said the priest, “I have not seen it.” “Never
mind, said she, “ write as Wordsworth wrote his
borrow Unvisited. ’ ” Father Russell then wrote
Ne’er have I ramified on its marge
Nor angled ’mid its willows— ’
I ne’er have sailed in skiff or bar«-e
Upon its languid billows.
Yet will I sing as Cullinan
Once sung of Gougaune Barra—
Yet will I sing, as best I can—
“ The Lazy Flowing Yarra.’’
It creeps between high winding sides,
And e’er it sees the city ;
Past Holy Abbotsford it glides,
To which it owes this ditty.
For ah Australian Album, why
Waste praise on Connemara?
Thy heart’s in Abbotsford, and I
Will praise its Yarra Yarra.
They tell me that the sky above
Is bluer far and brighter,
Than that which spans the soil we love :
The air is warmer, lighter,
Gay flowers along the margin float,
And many an Avis Rara,
Of brilliant bloom, but tuneless throat,
Skims o'er the Sparkling Yarra.
And now at last we must give o’er
With our Wordsworthy Sapphic,
Though sundry rhymes remain in store,
Historic, Topographic.
Besides the few we have imprest,
As Lara and Bokhara,
Carrara, Marat, and the rest,
To chime in with you r Yarra.
“K.8.J.” sends along some disrespectful
language
Saw N.S.W. contingent* march through Melbourne on
Cup-day. Have always been under the impression that
one of the first essentials of the military aspirant was to
look like a soldier. These men looked, to me—trained
under an Imperial instructor like a troop of uniformed
anthropoids, making at a jog trot for the nearest forest,
they bored along with stooping shoulders and arms
swinging like animated pendulums, seeming, beyond a
vague idea of keeping line, to be unacquainted with even
the goose-step. How the well-drilled Tommy Atkins will
grin and set them down, from the jump, as amateius
and what ineffable contempt he has for amateurs in his
own line! Surely if it was at all necessary to send
troops, it would have been better to send some of the
trained Permanent men, and not a lot of raw recruits.
Now that the war-drum throbs in Kruger-
land it may be as well to remember that there is a
correct and an incorrect way of pronouncing the
word “ Uitlander.” Chamberlain has been in the
habit of calling it “Ootlander,” and Campbell-
Bannerman says “ Outlander. ” Journalist Lifoy
comes nearest to the right thing with “ Ait-
lander.” An undoubted authority has determined
that the correct pronunciation is “ Oitlander. ’’
You must now say: “ Regarding the matter of
President Kreere and the Oitlanders,” or your
education will be considered to have been neg-
lected in your youth. Another undoubted au-
thority says it is “ Oitlandter,” and that President
“Kreere” is really “Krujer.” He is also
“ Kruzher.”
* * * *
From Sydney D.T.’s special correspondent
with the N.S. W. South African contingent
In the last Australian (Soudan) contingent, there were
a few officers who worried the hearts out of the men by
vexatious severity and stupidly' inconsistent punishment.
Such was the bitterness bred by this convict gang con-
ception of discipline that there were three officers and a
sergeant blacklisted for their bullet if their men got a
chance; certain officers were publicly groaned at and
hissed by the men on the transport returning to Sydney.
On this occasion I don’t find the officers blundering in
the direction of excessive strictness; while the men
themselves are quietly sliding into better form.
* * * *
There is confusion in Heaven. Moderator
Murdoch, the hatchet-faced and amiable head of
the Victorian Kurruk at large, issued an order
that the Lorrud must be besocht for the success
of the Australians in Boer-sticking. The chorus
was accordingly wafted upward, when, 10, a dis-
cordant note ! Dr. Rentoul rushed with bulgy
forehead to the pulpit of the little church in Park-
ville, from whence there forthwith shot up a peti-
tion for all tyrants to be squelched who tried to
crush the Independence of two Little Republics.
Dr. Rentoul, admired by the laity, is regarded
by his brother meenisters as the enfant terrible
of the Kirk. The doctor, whose chief business is
teaching about 17 raw, half-fledged parsons at
Ormond College, is a small, big-headed, pert man,
never happy unless engaged in hot newspaper
war. He is most catholic in his disputes, which
range from a controversy with R.C. Archbishop
Carr, in Age and Argus, down to a shindy over
the Boers with a dour person named Hendry, in
the Southern Cross —Parson Fitchett’s paper.
He never enters a controversy without “keenly
deprecating strife,” and then he hits as hard as he
can—and that is very hard indeed. He scored a
neat point in the Boer dispute—in which he is on
the, at present, unpopular side —by contrasting his
authorities—Olive Schreiner and Bryce, with
poor Hendry’s Rider Haggard and Anthony
Trollope.
• * • *
Will some member rise in each of the seven
Legislatures of Australasia and demand a return
of the number of warriors originally selected to go
to Africa who didn’t go, with the reasons, so far
as known, for their not going? There are per-
sistent rumors about many unaccountable disap-
pearances among the chosen, and it is even
alleged that one man who rashly offered himself
was so knocked of a heap, from excessive joy or
otherwise, when accepted that he promptly cut his
throat. The information is wanted in order to
throw some light on the Australian’s military
sentiments. It may be put as a sum in proportion,
thus : If out of so many men who volunteer for a
well-paid military service that looks more like a
picnic than anything else, the proportion of
absentees is per cent., how many per cent.
ONE THING AT
A TIME.
“ Take a strong nip, Pat, it'll do you good. Will
you take water with it? ”
“ Shure, no, your Riverince; I get wather enough
at home, thanking you all the same."
would probably be missing if this country was
attacked by an enemy, and the willing and the
unwilling were roped-in promiscuously to fight at
nominal pay or no pay at all in a war‘that had no
pic-nic conditions attached?
**» # '
To date, tilBl,ooo has been spent on
building lot. Mary’s R.C. Cathedral, Sydney,
which will cost at least as much more to finish. '


Messrs. Sandeman, of 241 Pitt-street,
Sydney, have been appointed wine and spirit
merchants to His Excellency Earl Beauchamp.*
Natal natives will be surprised when they see a
a powerful lamp to light up the various bridges. It burns
kerosene, and converts it into gas, giving a white light,
equal to 3500 candle power, and brighter than any elec-
tric light yet invented. Messrs. Brandt Bros., lamp
manufacturers, of Sydney and Melbourne, are ahout to
submit them to the Defence Department. Their Primus
Kerosene Das Cooking stoves, specially constructed for
travellers, ought to be of great service, as they can be
packed in such a small space.*
The Bulletin acknowledges the receipt
from the publisher, Mr. 0. F. Maxwell, of Syd-
ney, of a small, concise volume entitled The
Liquor Act, 1898, No. 18. The work is by H. M.
Cockshott and S. E. Lamb, L.L.B.’s and is a
complete encyclopaedia of all that one may do,
and also everything one may not do, when out on
the drunk. The Liquor Act is a most compre-
hensive instrument and with the aid of this valu-
able work one can see at a glance exactly the sort
of language one may address to the barmaid and
what sort of language must never be addressed to
the landlady. Also it can be immediately dis-
covered what sort of blouse the girl in the side
parlor should wear, and in every way the book is
a valuable mine of information on the great thirst
question.
The first requisite towards enjoying any-
thing is the willingness to be pleased. Take Zetz
Spa Water and you will be pleased. Nature's
remedy for dyspepsia and kindred diseases. Kills
uric acid, does Zetz Spa.*
HARDY BROTHERS, Jewellers ..
SOLID SILVER PHOTO FRAMES, with Velvet Backs, in
the latest designs, to take the New Round Photographs.
CABINET SIZE, as shown (inside measurement, 3|") 12/-
Hitto ditto (without bow) 10/-
OTHER PATTERNS IN IMMENSE VARIETY.
From 3/6 to 95/-
fTrite tor Illustrated List of Xmas Novelties.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT BRISBANE.
Bracing!
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Film'd
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
All Substitutes are inferior.
Insist on Buying “CONDY’S FLUID."
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited,
'Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter into
2,°, n nn? O T^ GUAKANTiiEINC! -Customers constant
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices :
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... £1 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete ... ... 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 22 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
NOT ENTIRELY!
WIFE (reading evidence of divorce-case) : “ Five,
co-respondents! And the hussy actually
boasted in court that three of them were anxious
to marry her after the decree nisi I What a
wicked, abandoned woman! ”
HUSBAN: “Wicked, perhaps, my dear; but you
can hardly call her ABANDONED! ”
When each instalment of N.S.W. South
African Contingent sailed there appeared an
official list of the men. And each time it was
promptly followed by a list of “corrections”
something like this :
FIRST AUSTRALIAN HORSE.
For Trooper “ M. A. Cummins ” read M. A. Commins.
For Trooper “ J. J. Lewis ” read J. Louis.
MOUNTED RIFLES.
For Sergeant-Farrier “ J. Hawkey” read J. M. Hawkey
For Corporal “A. Bateup ” read A. H. Bateup.
For Private “F. Oxam ” read F. W. Axam.
For Private “ M. Burke” read M. J. Burke.
For Private “ A. Butler” read A. A. Butler.
For Private “ E. Cleary ” read E. T. Cleary.
For Private “ R. Nethery” read R. J. Nethery.
For Private “ P. Reilly” read P. J. Reilly.
For Private “ P. Sharp” read R. Sharpe.
For Private “ B. Sparing ” read B. C. Sparing.
For Private “ W. Wintle” read W. E. Wintle.
Westralia went one better than this ; it published
a list to the effect that Edgar Waterman was to
be read as George Augustus Morris, and Thomas
Edward o‘Elaherty was to be regarded as Carl
Alfred Eorsberg, and William Schultze was really
Jacques Farquharson Messer, and so on. Appar-
ently about half the Contingenteers hadn’t de-
cided who they were till the very last moment,
and in the W. A. case, it really seems as if eight
men had evaporated at the last moment, and the
urgent necessity for regarding Jones as Thompson
arose through Thompson being non est.
* * * *
lie the cabled, naval activity in Europe.
Something has been in the wind for some time,
and for months back shore-leave has been given to
men-o’-warsmen at Sydney only on the under-
standing that they would be on board again
within two hours of a signal of recall. Several
officers on leave in the country were also recalled,
and directed to remain in Sydney.
* • * *
The departure of the N.S.W. Laneeahs
from London was an interesting function. They
marched through the streets of the misty city on
foot, each man carrying his pitchfork with its
ribbons hanging loose. In front went a band
playing rousing music, also women, dogs, and
small boys. All along the line of march people
hung Union Jacks from the windows and bal-
conies, and kept the front windows and doors
closed in case the hats and cloaks should escape off
the rack in the hall. Passing a warehouse in
Fenehurch-street a panic was nearly produced by
an individual who suddenly appeared at a window
and heaved a heavy-looking parcel at the Corn-
stalks. For a terrible moment it was suspected
that Dr. Leyds was aiming lyddite at the men,
but it turned out to be a parcel of small Union
Jacks, silk ones at that, and each man seized one
as a memento. The makers had thoughtfully
made them the size of pockethandkerchiefs. At
the station the men were harangued by Carring-
ton and Hampden. Altogether it was a great
show, and said by some of the papers to be un-
equalled by anything since the great Jubilee pro-
cession. . . .„ And now 33 per cent of those
warriors aren’t going to fight after all.
* * * *
“ Replying to the Lord Mayor, Her
Majesty dwelt upon the pleasure which it afforded
her to re-visit a city which is associated with the
history of Britain and the colonies.” That was
nasty—for some of the colonies. Not a few
convict-ships sailed to Botany Bay from Bristol.
vVhen the Lyne Ministry has
time to consider the N.S.W. free-news-
paper-postage swindle it might fix its
baleful eye on a fine sample in *the
Southern Cross. The Cross is a
kind of alleged monthly magazine,
though the suffering taxpayer of
N.S.W. pays for the free transit
of the awful thing through the
post as a newspaper. Its chief
business is to spread information
about two advertising doctors.
The writer has before him a copy
of the statutory declaration of
somebody or other to the .effect
that he runs one of the adver-
tising doctors, and that he has
bought 156,000 copies of the
magazine for free distribution—
which apparently means that the
N.S.W. taxpayer pays for the
con veyance all over the province
of 156,000 advts. about the man
who is prepared to treat weak
back, giddiness, prickly sensa-
tion and specks before the
eyes. There is not a vestige
of ordinary news in this
medical organ to justify it
in calling itself a news-
paper and loafing on the
taxpayer in that capa-
city; but it contains a
few scraps of verse; a
photo, and puff of a
person w ho is descri bed
as “the eminent soli-
citor, “and whose six-
roomed office, it
seems, is “ hand-
somely furnished in
exquisite taste ” (it is
even mentioned that
the eminent one has
travelled as far as Fiji);
also a crude yarn which says,
“One wild shriek and Hilda
Harding lay lifeless at the Gold
King’s feet.” This is the organ which is
now blessing the N.S.W. taxpayer with such
a lot of thrilling information about his inside.
The average taxpayer, by the way, has a vague
idea that he is hollow, that he is filled about
half way up with blood and other fluids, and that,
when he eats, his food falls with a splash into the
general receptacle and floats about there. Adver-
tisements about his inside shouldn’t be thrown at
this kind of person too recklessly.
+ * m m
An incredible item from Singapore. Two
Chinese were charged with obstructing and
assaulting a police-officer.
The Chinese were dis-
charged and the con-
stable was allotted two
months gaol, toge-
ther with a fine
of 50dol. To an
Australian this
simply passes
all belief.
Some day it
may be as dan-
gerous to im-
pose on Euro-
peans as it is
to impose on a
Singapore
Chow.
* *
A spruce,
s'mart, billet-
hunting journal-
of 47, only
slightly grey—
and a teetotaller
—made a round
of the Sydney daily
newspaper offices
last week, and in
more than one of
them received a
hint that he was
“ too old ” for re-
porting work.
And yet the
columns of the
Sydney press
supply daily evi-
dence that the re-
porting staffs are
“too young.”
A young man named Davis
was recently crushed to death at a
Maclean (N.S.W.) mill, and it is very
curious that the night before the acci-
dent deceased’s mother dreamt that
another son, employed in another
mill, had been crushed in the same
way by machinery. Was the por-
tent switched on to the wrong number ?
* • * »
The recent fatal shooting-accident at St.
Kilda is a prize object-lesson in the theory of
chances. An eccentric octogenarian was cleaning
his revolver on his back verandah when one charge
exploded. The bullet sped across his yard, and
passed through a paling-fence oft. 6in. above the
ground. On the ether side of the fence was a
narrow recess, enclosed on three sides, and used
simply as a light-area for the windows of the
house, 4ft. distant—a spot which is probably
visited by the.residents of the place about once a
year. But, at the time the charge exploded, a
young woman, who had moved into the house
only a fortnight before, was collecting some
creepers. Under ordinary circumstances, the
shot would have passed harmlessly over her head
she stood but sft. 3in.—but, to reach the
creepers, she had clambered on to the lower rail
of the fence. The bullet passed through the
paling, severed the carotid artery, and she was
dead when her relations found her, 15min. later—
a succession of circumstances which would not
occur once in a million years.
• • * •
A Y.M.C.A. secretary in an Australian
capital has more good nature and less Stigginsism
in him than most of his employers. At the time
of the late Melbourne Cup meeting he had been
out seeing some friends, and as his rooms in
town are close to a newspaper office he promised
to ring them up on his return and let them know
the name of the winner. Unfortunately, how-
ever, a committee meeting was being held in the
building, and the assembled Holy Joes were
horrified to hear the secretary ’phoning “Hello!
Melbourne Cup—Merriwee, Voyou, Dewey ! ” It
all but cost him his billet, and he’ll be more care-
ful in future.
* * • »
A simple little tale of Kerristian indiscre-
tion was told in Melbourne Divorce Court last
week by a deserted husband. Petitioner stated
that on the night of his marriage, 12 years ago,
the bride gave him warning of a domestic event
in store for him, and further admitted that the
author of her trouble was the Bible Christian
minister who had performed the ceremony. Next
morning he (petitioner) went round to the house
of his bride’s mother, where the officiating minis-
ter was a lodger, and asked the good. man why he
had joined him in holy matrimony to the erring
spinster, to which the good shepherd replied, in a
meek Bible Christian tone of voice, that he
“ thought it best, to let things take their course.”
Eour months later the penitent bride gave birth
to her spiritual adviser’s baby, and when the un-
welcome stranger had been registered as the off-
spring of her lawful husband she went away and
left him forevermore, saying it was impossible for
her to carry on any more married life after what
had happened—meaning the baby. This story is
intended to put unsuspicious citizens on their
guard when meditating matrimony with any
young woman whose mother lets lodgings to very
pious personages.
* * * *
It goes without saying that J. H. Grey,
the missing Geelong solicitor, was a shining
churcblight, and an ardent supporter of charitable
movements. No man can figure as a inuch-
respected inhabitant of Geelong unless he travels
around on the religious ticket. Grey’s deficit
is one of the occasional pills that all canting com-
munities must swallow, and if it purges Geelong
of a little dull respectability, the ex-M.L.C. and
entertainer of Governor Brassey will not have
lived and prayed in vain.
* * * *
Sydney Sunday Times is continually
squealing at the mention of a Sabbath edition
from the daily newspaper offices, as if such a move
meant its own doom. [lt is understood that
the Sydney dailies will issue special editions should
any really startling war-news come to hand on Sun-
THE UNEXPECTED .
P.M. (to witness): “ What’s your name?”
WITNESS : “Shohn Brow— hie — own.”
P.M.: “ Where do you lire? ”
W. : “ Oxshley .”
P.M. : “ What are you?”
W.: “ Drunk as—hie—blazes!”
day.] An amusing feature of the wail is that the
Sunday Times was born and reared in a daily-
paper office and was already well-grown when
separated from the Globe, a Sydney evening
paper which preceded the Australian Star as
N.S.W. Protectionist organ.
* * * *
S.A. has a smellful police enquiry on just
now. Certain officials are accused of being in
league with, and sharing the profits made by,
prominent confidence-tricksters, and the fishy
stories became so circumstantial that S.A. Govt.
referred fche whole business to a Board of Enquiry.
It is stated that the evidence already collected
makes extremely ii. .cresting reading. Apropos,
there seems to be urgent need for enquiry into
Police administration in several other Australian
provinces.
The Bulletin has changed its mind, and
is not going to be a bishop. It has become the
fashion not to pay bishops half their screw.
Samuel Ballarat, supposed to get ,£l2OO, starved
last year on <£566 ; and the accounts of the martial
Green, of N.S.W., who wanted to be off to the
war, don’t pan out even as well as that. Which
recalls chat we have lately heard much about S.
Ballarat’s health.
* * • •
The man who made so gross and savage an
attempt upon plucky little Miss Huie, teacher of
the lonely Wellesley (N.S.W.) State-school, has
been captured and has fully confessed his crime.
Writing tb The Bulletin a man on the spot says:
The N.S.W. police score again heavily. They always
seem to have the luck in catching their man. In the
Wellesley case it was sheer luck, and the man almost got
clear. He was within six miles of Moruya, and if he had
only been cautious enough to camp back off the road
Constable Branch would have passed him, and he would
probably have escaped ; a small coasting steamer was
leaving in a few hours, he intended travelling by it, and
could by 10 following morning have been swallowed up in
the Sydney crowd. His capture was entirely due to an
unusually clear-headed constable at Bermagui, who, on
reading the man’s description in the PoliC® Gazette, re-
membered that such a man had passed through the
town, making north, a few days previously ; and he at
once wired the fact to the head office of his district.
But a force which allows its constables to obtain
descriptions of individuals who are “wanted” from a
Gazette published 10 days after the event, does not
deserve any such luck, and is, if anything, very little
superior to the Queensland how-not-to-do-it. The N.S.W.
force were entirely at fault as to the line Bertsch had
taken, and followed unhesitatingly the blind lead he gave
them from Craigie to the Vic. border. It never seems to
have struck any of them that it uas a blind, and that the
man had doubled on his tracks. Still, the fact that he
ostentatiously asked in Craigie the distance from there
to the border should have given them a clue—a criminal
does not usually deliberately leave finger-posts along the
road he is taking. Only 32 years of age, Bertsch has,
during the last 16 years of his life, spent 11 in gaol. He
seemed a cool, determined, powerful man, possessing
clear-cut, open features, with nothing of the hang-dog
criminal in them, and he wrote a good fist. Still, the
fact that, when arrested, he was wearing a portion of a
woman’s underclothing round his neck, points to the fact
that he was probably a victim to satyriasis. He pays
Miss Huie a high tribute as being a “ real game one."
* * * *
Complained that the women awaiting con-
finement in Sydney Benevolent Society’s Mater-
nity Hospital have to sleep two in a bed. The
sad truth of the whole business is that the
Benevolent Asylum is not a State institution with
a bottomless purse, but a struggling organisation
which depends on public subscriptions and pro-
portionate subsidies from Govt, and which does
the best it can with the limited means at its dis-
posal.
* * * »
Queensland Govt, analyst:—
I examined 43 samples of tea; 24 of them failed to
reach the standard, and shipments were stopped. Nine
samples of carbolic disinfectant were also examined,
eight of which were absolutely useless for disinfecting
purposes. All the samples marked salad oil, and some
marked olive oil were not olive oil, but cotton-seed oil.
Poor Queensland ! Its whisky is mostly sulphuric
acid and aniline ; its youngsters are largely hybrid
and mottled ; it is fast becoming a great land of
Hidden Crime and Open Adulteration.
« « * •
A high-toned lady, said to be in the jour-
nalistic line, was interviewed at a Melb. hotel the
other week re her experiences of the nasty Boers.
Her attempt to show reason for wiping out the
barbaric creachaws was painfully thin. Said the
fair authority to her interviewer—
At Volksrust we were searched. I was taken into a
room where a woman, employed by the Transvaal cus-
toms, proceeded to pass her hands all over me. I suppose
she thought I might have firearms concealed about my
person. Even the contents of my pocket-book were in-
spected. I came to the conclusion that I must look
rather a suspicious character.
How shocking! Transvaal customs officers are
evidently no better than the savages who repre-
sent any ordinary European Govt, on the frontier.
A foreigner landing at Dover isn’t less sus-
piciously explored.


The accompany in a illustration is merely used as
a simile for Blackness.
MARK FOY
has no connection with the Prince of Darkness,
beyond the jfact that the deuce is in it if
Hosiery is not as Black as Beelzebub, although
there are those who jwotest that his Satanic
Majesty is not of an extra inky or murky hue.
Be that as it may, Foy’S Hosiery
is of the BEST BLACK DESCRIPTION.
SEAMLESS, SURE,
ai)d LONS LASTING.
All Drapers Everywhere.
W. T. WATERS <sc CO.,
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
Re-building 1 Sale
The Old must uive place to the New.
rREMTSES, 74 and 76 KING STIfEET,
COMING DOWN on Ist JANUARY.
S3T ABSOLUTE
CLEARANCE OF STOCK
I®" NECESSARY
Cenuine Important Reductions in our already mode-
rate prices. We are alive to the fact that Price Lists
are misleading. The favor of your kind visit to
inspect our Goods will be esteemed.
or The Whole of our Fashionable
ssr Stock Offered!
GLOBE TEAS have wo E<tiial
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
The light that (never) failed,” is, without
doubt, triven by the “ Albatross Lamp Wick.” Keep the
reservoir filled and all your work is over. “It requires
no trimminir,” emits no offensive odour, gives a more
brilliant light, saves your oil, and, unless your lamp has
some material defect, it is impossible for it to explode.*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
. _ Sydney, November 14, 1899.
My Dear Myee.—
From gossip dropped by various frier.ds jnsfr
back from the Cup I gather that Lord Beauchamp,
scored quite a sensational popularity in Mel-
bourne. His little speeches were considered!
arrowy and humorous over there, which rather-
puts Sydney to the blush for not having made that
discovery over the prophet in his own country.
There the fashion was rapidly growing of taking-
him thusly : “ The Governor's speech ! What has<
he been saying now?” Also, Melbourne worn era
could never get enough of him, and crowded!
round in adorration wherever he appeared.
I have just been shown a letter from a Mel-
bourne girl to a Sydney friend. “Do ask your-
Governor not to stand on one leg. If lie didn't do.
that, the angel would be quite too perfect for any-
thing.” Didn’t she mean wing instead of leg?
The Grand Commonwealth Fair opened on.
Saturday afternoon at the Town Hall in the.
presence of a large, somewhat Hibernian” crowd.
An ad. in the daily papers that morning said there,
were to be 850 women assisting, so that I was not,
surprised to see only a comparatively few men in.
the hall, and those chiefly reverend fathers. It,
was a mistako all the same, as the stall holders,
didn’t seem any more numerous and übiquitous,
than at any other bazaar of the season. A great
many little stalls ran up each side of the hall” and!
many different-colored draperies are arrayed along,
the tops of the stalls. The Burwood and Strath-
field counter broke out rather prettily in mauve-
and white draperies, the interior draped cleverly
to simulate a cool check pattern, and the stall-
holders all ringing the changes on mauve and!
heliotrope gowns. The ecclesiastical stall of Mrs.
Freehill anil Miss O’Brien showed some marvellous;
needlework vestments, all done by the nuns’
clever fingers. Heaps of needlework of a superior-
kind is on sale at many of- the stalls. The stall-
holders’ frocks are quite a sort of go-as-you-please.
One lot sported white silk skirts, and white serge
sailor jackets with blue sailor collars and silver-
fringed epaulettes. 'I ho Glebe stall was in white,
muslin with pink roses round the knees and pink
and white hats. Among the Saturday afternoon’s,
crowd I noticed Miss Oxenham in a red cloth,
frock braided in black, with a grey velvet hat and;
pink rosettes, Mrs. Mort in black and purple and
white bonnet, and Mrs. Slattery in a black niuslim
scattered with violets.
As the Fair has the appearanceof being entirely
an R.C. affair, opened by the Cardinal, and in aid
of the Sisters of the Good Samaritans Charitable
Institutions, I was somewhat taken aback to come-
across, in the midst of innumerable Misses O F.’s
and McC.’s, and soon, one little lonely “Jewish
Stall,” supported by Mrs. and the Misses
Montague Marks, and dubbed “Los Anglos”'
out of compliment to the stallholders’ pure white-
raiment.
You will be glad to hear that everyone left in;
the city at this time of the year has been listening
to 1 rebelli at the Centenary Hall. Her opening
night saw a big fashionable house, but Saturday
night drew a crowd that was far too large for the
hall. Ever so many people were turned away. In
the dressy front seats I noticed at least two-
oui-dircft, a modern widow with pink roses in her
hair whose engagement to a medical man is.
whispered abroad very softly, and an artist,
chaperoning his latest study.
As usual, Trebelli’s frocks were a large part of
the attraction. In addition to singing like a.
highly-veneered angel she always dresses like a
Frenchwoman of the world. And when. I say-
dresses, I don’t mean only her frocks, for the arc
applies to every detail of her toilette, from the
hair parted in the middle and dressed low on the-
neck in defiance of fashion’s top-knot, clown to her
carefully-slippered feet. She wore on the first
night a lovely frock, cut en princesse, of white-
brocade, patterned in apple-blossoms. The yoke
and sleeves were of transparent lace, and down the
right side, from the yoke to the bottom skirt, were
round lace appliques, embroidered with iridescent
paillettes. Diamonds in the hair and on the
corsage, and a trailing skirt finished a costume
into which the plump TrebeHi fitted without a
crease. At Saturday’s warble she was in glittering
blue, with transparent sleeves and corsage and
pink roses at the neck and waist.
The art of going without gloves, that started in
the back scats in prehistoric times, has reached up
through the intermediate rows, through the highly-
manicured front seats, even unto the platform,
where it is quite the thing now for the artist to
warble with baro white fingers. Men still sing
in new white kidsof the tight old order, diamonds
being forbidden them, but a woman is allowed to
be gloveless pven if her sleeve is a more shoulder-
strap and her arm like a projxisition of Euclid.
Trebelli veils her round arms with transparent
lace; always the prettiest way of showing off a
pretty arm, and accompanies herself with her
head over her shoulder several times during the
evening.
What still strikes one most about Trebclli’s
singing is that she always gives you the idea of
revelling in her vocalisation. She passes through
bewildering passages of trills and roulades and
shakes, and invariably emerges with an easy,
delighted smile that lights up her whole face, and
the entire house into the bargain. On fjaturi lay
night she sang 12 times, winding up with the
Laughing Song, when she produced a wonderful
imitation of that silvery laugh we used to hear so
much aljout before the New Woman came in with
a guffaw to match her bloomers. Trebelli'* tones
are sweet and limpid, although not largo, but even
with half her voice she would be worth listening
to for the sake of her artful way of making so very
much of what she has. Mr. John Prouse, a bari-
tone with a beard, from Maoriland. was the only
•other contributor to the programme, which may
sound monotonous, but was nothing of the sort in
reality.
“La Poupeo” is following the “Geisha” at
Her Majesty’s this week, tilling up time till
“Robin Hood ” goes on next Saturday night. To
my mind, Kenningham is now imparting a too-
•elaborate girly-girlyness to the part of Launcc-
lot, blurring the line between Launcelot and
lunatic. Dorothy Vane tills La Poupeo to per-
fection, especially in her white satin wedding-
dress and roundest stare. You get the meaning
of all her absurd pretty little mannerisms in other
parts when you see her play the doll. She never
gets rid of them—in fact, the toddle of the doll
seems to have become part of her. Miss Joey
Cassilis replaces Carrie Moore as Henri with a
high-pitched voice and golden hair.
The other night, when “ Ma Mie Rolette” was
•on. good old Howard Vernon forgot all about his
(leaf right ear that had been chopped off, and
when a pretty chorus-girl whispered into the right
ear at an off time in the play, heard all she said
and whispered back with interest. A voice from
the gods called out immediately, “the other sido!”
and Mr. Vernon looked dazed.
“ Buried Alive ” is the name of a melodrama at
the Cri., understood to bo the work of a local
playwright, though nobody has had the courage to
own ui» to it yet in public. A large and friendly
house looked in on the opening night. Rignold
sat alone in one of the boxes. He and Mrs.
Rignold are leaving us shortly, going to try their
luck in London. Pretty Lilian Wheeler watched
from the front row her second lead, Miss Roxy
Barton, play leading lady in junk cambric and a
big black hat. From the title of the play you
would scarcely expect much dressing, and this is
one of the few things in which you will not be dis-
appointed. Hope Mayne’s black locks support a
rod rose effectively, and Mr. Diver airs some well-
creased suits and waistcoats, but the rest of the
performance hits rather the head than the eye.
Yon will be sorry to hear the Yietoria Salon is
now no more—you never went to the Salon, did
you ? Yes, Sydney’s latest attempt at capturing
■culchaw in a afternoon tea cup has floundered
hopelessly, and all that remains is the Ladies’
Club, where a woman can go and brush her hair
and look in the glass at her ease.
Everybody has a different reason for the shut-
ting-up of the Salon. Financial reasons are the
real ones. Culchaw didn’t pay its way. But,
then well. Ihirty women left in a bunch once
when Lady Mary Lygon was expected and a
.'Salon official asked them to move off the bannis-
ters, as only the few naicest were to receive. The
.Salonites said that wasn’t what they had come to
•a Salon for ; and all the other reasons are like
unto that one.
The sudden death of Mr. W. B. Mitchell, of
Carthona, Darling Point, has cast quite a gloom
•over a larsje circle. Although less widely known
than his wife, the dashing “Mrs. Willie,” Mr.
Mitchell was much liked and respected. He had
been in indifferent health for years, and awhile
ago the doctors reported that his death mi Hit
happen at any time. On Friday night the
Mitchells had a theatre-party to the “Geisha,”
mid on Saturday morning Mr. Mitchell was seized
■with paralysis, after which he was never con-
scious.
Much preliminary excitement is going on in an
over-tlie-water suburb because a young, unmarried®
male member of the wealthiest Australian family
to date is going to open house over there shortly
-with his mother, who is said to be a very shy and
retiring woman. But on good authority I hear
that this heavily-gilded youth is extremely shy
himself, so that the tons of young lady-like
attentions getting ready to be poured on the new-
comers would do well to moderate themselves by
hundredweights.
An oven newer thing in problems is how" a
certain fascinating, golden-haired actress, mar-
xellousfy well up in the science of perpetual
youth, will behavo now that her father-in-law has
departed this life, and left a fortune to his son,
the adorable one’s husband.
J lie pretty heroine of a last year’s Society separa-
tion suit returned to Sydney with her mother last
week after twelve months in London, where she
was hugely admired. She is prettier than ever,
and only just twenty-one, and it is somewhat of a
puzzle that she so resolutely refused to seek a
divorce. She still says that a separation from her
husband was all she wanted.
Among tho British military going to the
J ransvaal are the bridegrooms of the two most
brilliant London weddings of the year, Lord
Shaftesbury, and Captain Brand, botl’i of’ whom
aro very well known in Australia. It is only four
months since Lord Shaftesbury, late a Brassey
aide-de-camp, familiarly known as “Black Sheep'”
on account of his peccadilloes, married—for love,
they say pretty little Lady Constance Grosvenor,
grand-daughter of the JJuko of Westminster.
Captain Brand, the eldest son of the Hampdens,
was married a couple of months earlier to Lady
Catherine Scott, with all flags flying, and royalty
falling over itself on the doorstep. And now the
two gallant bridegrooms have been torn away to
bloodshed m the Transvaal. Another shock for
Lady Hampden. I‘rionds who have seen her
lately say she lias never gut over her little son
Geoffreys death. To add to her troubles her
third son was lying at death’s door with typhoid
when the last mails left.
W rites my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Tho mismanagement of vice regal ‘ hospi-
tality’ during this last Cup time surpassed all
understanding. Lord Richard and his noble col-
league, the callow Hindlip, did the things they
ought not to have done, and left undone the
things they ought to have done, for all the world
as though they were a pair of wicked practical
jokers, rather than two guileless creatures suffer-
ing from severe mental strain. The cruellest
blunder of the week fell upon pretty tough vic-
tims, who. perhaps, found some consolation in the
thought that a good, solid grievance is often a
useful thing to have about the house. A V.R.C.
steward and his wife —so the story goes—were
invited to lunch in the Governor's room on Cup-
day. 'I hey hadn’t angled for the awful distinc-
tion —in fact., they would have preferred to feed
with their own private party, but out of respect
for the Rritish Constitution and all that sort of
thing they toddled off at the appointed time
to the elegant sanctum under the Grand Stand,
'i hey were met by the wan, worried aide-in-chief,
who stammered something to the effect that the
invite was an—er—awfully vexing mistake, dnn-
cherknow, whereupon the shunted “guests” fled
hack to their friends. On Oaks Day the Vice-
regal invite was repeated, Lord Dick waiting on
the steward in person to wequest the pleashaw of
making atonement for the previous mistake. The
steward accepted with a calm, matter-of-fact
smile, and took his wife along to the Vice-regal
eating-place as before. Tins time they found
nobody outside the loom, or in it. The dazed
aido-de-kong must have forgotten that a guber-
natorial luncheon wasn't ordered. His Ex. had
gone down the Bay with the Admiral, and the
rest of the exalted ones, including Lord Neville,
were taking their turkey and champagne in vari-
ous parts of the carriage-paddock, no doubt.
Anyway, there was no Vice-regal party, so the
twice-disappointed couple fell back once more on
their own refreshments.
“ Delusive compliments to the turfy stewards
seem to have been counter-balanced by his lank
lordship’s omission to issue any carnival invites
whatever to the president of a club where the
Government House mob aro danced and enter-
tained every year in great style. The oversight
was rectified in time to prevent unpleasantness,
but not until somebody bad taken the trouble to
stick a pin into the memory of ‘ Uncle Tom’s ’
myrmidons. But then anything is possible of
the present Guvment House management. It
slights the living and sends cards to the dead
or the unborn. Several late lamented members of
society were invited to the Cup Week junkets,
the card, in one instance, coming two years sub-
sequent to the gentleman's funeral.
“ Looking far back into Gup-week, the snappiest
toilettes of the season were worn by Mrs. Claude
MacDonald (Melbourne’s former society eostu-
miree), fresh from her wedding-trip ’oine. A typi-
cal sain pie of said expert’s frock-series bad glove-
fit guipure polonaise, lined with pale-bine over
massed frills of turquoise silk-muslin. Lisse hat-
strings and bodice-fluffs in faint-green, blue, and
lilac, gave an airy touch to this chic, i’renchy,
serpentine creation.
“Mrs. Dicken, who only lacks diablerie, was
far and away the dressiest little dame in the
Guvment-House clutch. .She allowed Melbourne-
ites to see her only in pink, blue and green, so
that in these shades her moss-rose complexion
shone transeendeiitly above tho pallor of the rest.
“Lady Holled-Smith’s two faithful companions
travel with her ’Ome-a maid and a fox terrier.
1 he quadruped was the bone of some contention.
The General advised his wife to dispense with it.
‘Whom should I give him to’’queried she. A
dozen women were mentioned. ‘Not to ono of
them,’was the reply. ‘He will cost us a fiver,’
remarked the General. ‘He’s worth it,’ she
replied ; and Toby went.
“.No one during the last ten years was ever so
vilified as the matron who has just thrown tho
dust of Melbourne off her feet. Toorakians passed
a hasty judgment on the lady as soon as she
swept down upon them, with a wardrobe, an
assertive air (and a little war-paint), some years
back. Nothing being mentioned of family con-
nections, sassiety concluded sho had none or
worse. So they coined romances and set them
circulating. Now they have to back down. The
lady they so ruthlessly tea-talked over was tho
daughter of an English officer—at ono time
Governor of the Straits Settlements.
“A boyish bridegroom who married a judge’s
daughter last week had an influenza temperaturo
of 103 on the eve of his nuptials. Three members
of the Faculty shook their heads over his case, but
the bride’s prayers seem to have worked a euro.
Anyway the groom toed the line next day—at
Scots’ Church, and moreover braved tho wedding
trip.
“Talking of braving wedding trips? How’s
this for a bridal beginning? A rich Mellwurno
girl and a mailboat officer had the knot tied
securely a week or two ago, but when the deck
swain presented himself with his new-made wife
at the boat, the captain called him aside and read
out one of the ship’s rules to the effect that no
officer may be accompanied by his wife on the
voyage. ‘But she took out her berth in her
maiden name a week back,’ explained the
trembling groom. ‘No matter, ’ said the captain,
‘she’s your wife now and she’ll have to cancel her
passage.’ At the failure of their ruse the pair
were distraught. The bride had friends in the
Adelaide 1\ and O. office. She arranged to go by
train to tho City of Churches, and sec if tho
matter could be arranged. No, P. and O. law is
inexorable—the Miss Blank of berth No. 23 was
now Mrs. Second Officer —and she could not sail
with hubby. Bathed in tears, the bride waved
farewell to the ‘happy man,’ and took passage in
next mailboat to meet him at London.
“A conspiracy on the part of an influential
coterie in Melbourne to secure the position of
military commandant for a society pet, Colonel
Bingham (Chief Justice Madden’s brother-in-law)
has been promptly burst-up by Premier Turner.
When the ex-Commandant went, Col. Bingham’s
friends tried all they knew to capture the post for
him. But Turner and Defence-Minister M'Cul-
loch stood up against the pressure and appointed
retired Major-General Downes, who will hold
office till Federation alters the position of things.
The social ring in Melbourne have been taught a
useful lesson over this affair. They needed it
badly ; but their anger knows no bounds.
“Colonel Bingham, the warrior whom the Vic.
Govt, passed over in appointing a temporary
successor to Commandant Holled-Smith is known
to the Melbourne public as an amateur singer.
Judging from his efforts on the concert platform
the Colonel could repel any foreign invasion by
simply warbling away at the enemy until they
howled for mercy.
“ Janet Lady Clarke at-homed her friends the
minute she got back from her travels, and ever
since has been rolling the hospitable chariot
along. Like most rion-cattish hostesses, S’Rupert’s
step-mother is set down in some q larters as a
match-maker, and during the recent ebothes-
carnival the smartest matron on view was pointed
out as a feather in the cap of the tactful widow.
The latter, ’tis rumored, had a finger in the pie
which blended the fortunes of a clever dashing
woman-worker with those of a moneyed member
member of the diplomate’s clan.
“ A well-known Victorian matron, who died in
race-week, is said to have once seen the Cup in a
gown trimmed with real sovereigns. Old identi-
ties declare that the deceased lady’s first husband,
a squatter, who left her all his money, was re-
visiting his native Orkney when he met his bride-
to-be—a bare-legged lassie rowing travellers o’er
the ferry for a ‘ hard-won penny fee.” As a
wealthy widow, the lady took up house at Toorak.
One pretty daughter, the famous ‘ boy-girl ’ of
long ago, died young. Another offended her
mother by marrying the late David Lee, then City
Organist. The third was still a child with Several
grown-up brothers when her mother married
.handsome bank-clerk Nicholas. Sixteen years
ago, Toorak Presbyterians found it easy as puff
to get their olive branches to church, all on
account of the interest excited by the Sawbath
gathering of the Nicholas clan. An appallingly-
ugly governess, never retained long enough to
pall on observers, was habitually parted by the
length of the pew from her employer’s boy-bride-
groom. Two possible sparks with a whole family
of dampers between ! In the dawn of her Nicho-
las bliss, the ex-bank clerk’s bride upholstered her
drawing-rootn'in pale-green satin ‘so trying to
most complexions.’ For a while, her Idol, who
took much comfort in rousing the angry passions
of former quill-drivers by references to ‘my
carriage.’ &c., was the sunshine of home. Then ho
departed to Geishaland to -return to Toorak
llousono more. Some say he died of small-pox
(what a fate for a beauty man), others maintain
that to this day he blooms in chrysanthemum
country. Miss Annie Johnson who married an
athletic youiig Melb. doctor, died early in her
married life, and poor Mrs. Nicholas, bereaved of
all her daughters, was nursed in her last illness by
a son and his wife.
“One can now scarcely get served in the big
shops—so many assistants are down with influenza.
Foy and Gibson’s, in one recent week, had 253
hands absent from that cause.
“Local parents are taking children to see
‘ Lord Qucx ’ —maybe as a warning against design-
ing women. And the d.c. rarely witnesses such a
rush of old, old ladies in knitted ‘clouds’ and
weepful caps ! It’s hard to explain the latter
invasion, unless the poor old souls, alarmed by
minors of the present play’s fascination for ‘ bald-
heads,’ attend on the quiet to watch over suspected
male belongings in the stalls below.
“ Easily seen why the skittish Duchess (Emma
Temple) bestows that red Jap robe on her maid.
Just the sort of expensive but unbecoming gar-
ment for a well-to-do woman to do the generous
with. Boor Sophie Fullgarney, she might have
played her hand better in the bedroom scene if
she’ll only remembered to bring her handkerchief,
and hadn’t been hampered by a borrowed wrap,
miles too short. A saint would lose her
nerve if she knew she was displaying ever so
much leg to advantage before a strange man, and
simultaneously took the sniffles with nothing to
fall back on but her cuff. N.B.—Why did the
Duchess pass on the souvenir garter to Sophie ?
\ ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Lor inter
Compound Syrup of Hypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Solk Agent for N.S.W.:
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or at least to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa plays an important
part, acting solely as a first-class nourishing food
—it strengthens the system to resist, oppose and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, “So-and-so has "a strong constitu-
tion ” ; follow that up and you’ll find that So-and-
so follows the golden rule of being temperate in all
things, and pays attention to diet and exercise.
Does he or she keep up this strong constitution by
taking medicine or swallowing pills ? No indeed 1
They have discovered that prevention is better
than cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a means
in the hands of everyone to build up amd maintain
a sound constitution, which enables its possessor
to travel his life’s journey without the aches and
pains which are in many cases preventible. Thus
we come round again to sound common sense
based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 Sydney.
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.*
Zealous to prove a boon which nature gave ;
Envy of all importers ;
Try it, for doctors bills you’ll save ;
Zetz Spa—the King of Natural Waters.*
“ The Patentees—Macmven and Cameron, Ltd.,
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen The Pickwick Pen
The ' >wl Pen The Hindoo Pen
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier Lyne will probably be known in
future as “ Early Closing Bill.”
A reference by Emily Soldene to Nellie
Stewart as “Mrs. Musgrove” reads strangely.
Have the nuptials been announced ?
Parallel portraits in the Sketch show a
truly remarkable resemblance between Queen
Victoria and Oom Paul, especially about the eyes
and mouth.
There are' over 40 ex-Ministers of the
Crown now knocking about N.S.W., and every
man of them tells you confidentially that the
country is going to the dogs.
November 14 was the anniversary birth-
day of N.S.W. ex-Treasurer John See, 1851 (Hun-
tingdon) and N.S.W. ex-Treasurer William
M'Millan, 1850 (North of Ireland).
Melb. Table Talk announces that “ Mr.
Reid is laying low.” Well! he has not been
“cackling” so much as usual; but is it certain
he is not “sitting?” Possibly G.H.R. is
“brooding.”
The next Victorian Judge must be selected
from three men —J. B. Box, H. B. Higgins, and
I. A. Isaacs. There has never been such a scar-
city of eligible men for the bench since the pro-
vince was proclaimed.
All three of the Wardens and P.M.’s who
had the tough job of keeping order in the
humming days of the Barrier are now dead, tho’
none of them was much more than middle-aged—
Wyman Brown, G. H. Gower, and C. L. Badham.
Mrs. Search, recently deceased at Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) and alleged to be in her 100th
year, was really in her 93rd or 94th. She was
an Australian native, as also is Thomas John, of
Kurrajong, certainly now in his hundredth year.
The proprietor of Sydney’s most prosper-
ous tote —it is said on authority that the profits
often reach .£2OO a week—was at one time a
policeman and in that capacity was noted as a
most assiduous hounder-down of the illicit betting-
shop.
Melbourne Age alleges that the Earl of
Caithness has just died penniless in Wairoa
hospital. His other name was Murray McGregor,
and he had enjoyed his landless title for a number
of years at Clive (M.L.) where he made a humble
living at odd jobs. Whitaker’s Almanac says
VERY LIKE.
SHE: “ Yes, sir, the sex-question will be the prob-
lem of the twentieth century.”
HE: “ I believe you—it will be so hard to tell them
apart. ”
that the Earl of Caithness is one John Sutherland
Sinclair and that he enjoys his ancient earldom in
Scotland in the ordinary respectable way—so
presumably the Maoriland earl was only a bogus
person with a thirst.
The case of punster Zox, late M.P. for
East Melbourne, is another proof that there is no
money in politics. Zox died quite penniless. At
one time he claimed to be worth a few thousands,
but, if the money ever existed except on paper,
he lost it all. He lived in cheap lodgings, and
had no means but his Parliamentary “screw.”
If N.S.W. Speaker Abbott can hold his
post for three months more he will have sat in the
Chair longer than any of his predecessors. He
first presided in the Assembly 22nd Oct., 1890.
W. M. Arnold was elected Ist Nov., 1865, and
died Ist March, ’75. With the exception of
Wigram Allen, all the other Speakers passed
rapidly.
Percy Claye, aged 47, telegraph-master at
West Maitland, N.S.W., shot himself dead, last
week, while temporarily insane. Like many an-
other good man, he had damaged his nerves by
high-pressure sound-receiving in the head-offices
at Melbourne and Sydney. He was, long ago,
one of Victoria’s crack operators, and the N.S.W.
service contained no more efficient or better-
respected man.
Out of the nine direct Labor
Ms.P. in S.A. Assembly, three are
looal-preaohers—Wood, Carpen-
ter, and Price.
Speaker Mason, of Vic.
Leg. Assembly, entered that
Parliament in 1871, when he
was the youngest member of
the House. After the pass-
ing of 28 years he finds him-
self the second oldest in the
Chamber.
The “arms” of Judge
Redmond Barry are over the
main entrance of Melbourne
Public-Library. They were
once pointed out to Post-
master “Jack” Duffy, who
is near-sighted. “What’s the
crest ? ” says Duffy, straining
his gaze aloft, “a frog blatant?”
W. H. Irvine, M.P. (Vic.),
one of the leaders of the band of
Freetraders who propose to Cob-
denise the Commonwealth tariff,
is nephew of John Mitchell, the
Irish patriot. In his entertaining
sketch of a year agp John Farrell
described the last meeting between
Mitchell and Mrs. Irvine in Dromalone, Ire-
land, since which time she and her family re-
moved to Melbourne.
A well-known figure about Sydney was
the recently-deceased Emile Doublet. Besides
having become, during nearly a quarter-century’s
residence, a favorite with all who knew him, the
kindly old bachelor had been constituted a sort
of godfather-in-ordinary to the children of the
French community in Sydney. “ That is all ver’
nice,” he said, not long ago to the writer; “ very
plea-saunt; but”—with his characteristic twinkle
—“ the ai-rre of Sydney is so good for the ladies
that it corns rathair expen-seef 1 ”
Adelaide holds a curiosity. When C. M.
Bagot, sec. of S.A. Agricultural and Horticultural
Society, died, his billet (worth .£4OO a year and a
liberal commission on subscriptions) • was tem-
porarily taken by W. J. Ashton. The latter was
offered the plum permanently, but declined, on
the sole ground that, as a member of the Rechabite
Order, he could not consistently be secretary of a
society which held a wine-show ! Ashton belongs
to an old Adelaide legal and clerical family,
attached to the same little tabernacle as Chief-
Justioe Way.
When Cardinal Moran was
being “ processionedon his
arrival in Christchurch, M.L., a
few years back, just as he left the
railway-station and entered his
carriage the band struck-up, as
an appropriate quick - step,
“ Where did you get that hat ? ”
“ Biddy of Buller,” Maori -
land’s only female miner, died on
the West Coast the other day in
her 96th year. Biddy, known in
every day life as Mrs. Goodwin,
worked as a miner up till three
years ago, about which time she
began to complain that she wasn’t
feeling the woman shn used to be.
S.A. Governor Tennyson is
the best orator England has sent
to the wheat province within the
memory of this generation. Com-
pared with the hesitant Kintore
and the drivelling Buxton he is a
paragon. Tennyson speaks from
few notes, his English js perfect,
and he never discusses local
politics, Federation alone ex-
cepted.
“ Mrs. Gladstone,” says an
English writer, “is as much
entitled to be called ‘ The Grand
Old Lady ’ as her husband was to
be named ‘ The Grand Old
Man.’ It is admitted on all hands
that the deceased statesman owed
much to her constant help and
oare. The great Parliamentarian
was fond of deluding himself into
the belief that he had little love-
affairs with different girls. When
their billets-doux used to drop out
of his pocket, Mrs. Gladstone
would secretly return them re-
marking : ‘lt keeps my husband
in a good humor, you know.’
How many other wives have
shown such sense and tact ! ”
J. J. Miller, lately defeated at the Hume,
challenges Lyne to resign N.S.W. Premiership and
re-contest the seatwithhim. Thesix-times-defeated
Miller runs largely to cheek—a common failing
with men who have stalked a community as lay-
preachers. Miller, in his itinerant Gospel days,
was known around the bush as the “ Ironbark
Bishop. ”
Northcroft, who proposes contesting
Kumara (Maoriland) against Premier Seddon,
learned something about the relative sizes of
people during his canvass. Among other electors
he found a long-bearded hatter in a gully, and
after gossiping for awhile, Northcroft started in
to talk politics. “ I’m going to stand for Kumara,
Jack,” he said at last. Whereupon, staring at
the candidate with bulging eyes and open mouth,
the ancient exclaimed “ Good God ! is Dick,
dead?” That was the whole philosophy of the
West Coast in a sentence. Dick and the Almighty
are the two unanswerable propositions in West-
land.
IT OUGHT TO BE.
OLD WIREFENCE (from the country, who has been
eyeing the girls on the block): “I say , police
man, is this what they call Darling Point? ”
Rev. Father Kennedy, chaplain to the
Vic-, forces, barracking for the appointment of
Col. Bingham as commandant in preference to
the veteran Downes, said—“ The Boers have many
bad points , but one of their good points is that
they elect their own commanding officers.” Con-
tact with militarism makes jingoes of them all.
The Catholic chaplain and the Protestant ditto
have one religion in common—“ Down with the
bad, bad Boers.”
Gov. Gormanston returned to Tasmania
last week, much to the surprise of many people.
H.E.’s arrangement with Chamberlain is that he
shall spend another year in Tasmania and then
retire from the service on a pension of about
=£2ooo a year—to spend the rest of his days among
his herds and flocks at Balbriggan, with an occa-
sional three months in the season at Park Lane or
Belgrave Square. The Governor and Red vers
Buller were in the 60th Rifles together in the
fifties, and separated by Jenieo Preston being sent
to India to fight the Sepoys.
Vic. Parliamentary law dealing with con-
tempt of Parliament did not always find publishers
as tractable as Ebbsworth, of the Australasian,
and Packer, of the Age. Hugh George, after-
wards manager of S.j\J. Herald, when managing
the Argus declined point-blank to pay any fine or
fee and went doggedly to prison for having
printed the assertion that a speech of Chief Sec.
McCulloch “bristled with falsehood.” Parliament
prorogued, however, a few days later and thus
terminated the trouble. George Dill, another
Argus publisher, was similarly adjudged guilty
of contempt—his paper had alluded to Fraser,
M.P. for Creswick, as “ a privileged ruffian
but like the publishers of to-day he paid the fees
and was released.
An interesting incident in Anglo-Boer re-
lationships. At the conclusion of the negotiations
after Majuba Hill (1881), Major Stewart, who had
been Chief of Staff to the unlucky Colley, and had
taken a prominent part in the diplomatic work
after his chiefs’ death, presented Joubert with a
sword. This was a Stewart family heirloom,
having been worn by the grandfather of the
Major when serving with Wellington in the
Peninsula. Stewart became Genera], and led
the ill-fated flying column during the Khartoum
expedition, when he was killed. Joubert there-
upon returned the sword to his family, with a
graceful letter, duly treasured by them, expres-
sive of regard for a gallant foe. Abuse of the
Boer rarely comes, it is worth noting, from those
who have had anything to do with him.
A newsboys’ fete was given at Hobart the
other day, when the following speech was made
by newspaper-boss Rex : “ I once knew a bo.y as
poor as any of you here. He got 6s. a week in
our (Mercury) office, and used to light fires and
take out papers, but he conducted himself well
and gave all his wages to his mother, who was a
widow. Well, he learned to set type, and he got
a “ease,” and then he began to write reports of
things, and he went to Sydney, where he got
good situations and became a member of Parlia-
ment. Now he is a Minister of the Crown ! His
name is O’Sullivan. Now, if you boys mind your
work, and are good to your mothers, you may be
aldermen or members of Parliament, or perhaps
even Ministers of the Crown.”
Poor old Roper, who lies in Merriwa
(N.S.W.) cemetery, used to look back with
marked pleasure on but one incident of his
long life (he died at 72) —his discovery of
the Roper River. He set out with Leichhardt
from Brisbane to Port Essington in 1844, and
although the whole journey was successful, and
one to be very proud of, John Roper recalled
ecstatically only the one bit to which he was per-
mitted to attach his name. Roper was not, as is
sometimes made to appear, wholly neglected on
his return. He was made C.P.S. at Albury, and
afterwards Inspector of Stock. Besides, he was
personally pushing, and capable of taking care of
himself. He was a Norfolk (Eng.) man, and
arrived in Australia in his 19th 3 7 ear.
W. J. Lambie, the Age war-correspon-
dent, is one of the few pressmen who does his
work with solemn seriousness and “feels ” abuses
with ten times the resentment of the one who
suffers them. Lambie is also a military expert,
or considers himself one, and his criticisms of
the tactics of the British officers, when he returns
and has no censor over his pen, should be most
vigorous. On one occasion Lambie took the local
military authorities to task, and with charac-
teristic fury referred to the imported swash-
bucklers as “ Imperial carpet-baggers.” The par
went in proof to editor Windsor, who promptly
scored it through for its violence and tossed it
into the opening of the copy-lift leading to the
composing-room on the top floor. But at that
moment it happened the lift was overhead, and
the slip of paper dropped unnoticed to the ground-
floor, allowing Lambie’s paragraph to appear next
day in all its pristine glory. Before 10 o’clook
there was a procession of infuriated imported
officers to demand from David Syme the meaning
of this outrage. Lambie in private life is a
small, wiry man of uncertain age, who cultivates
daffodils m his spare time and startles Melb.
Block by turning out in a bell-topper, a khakee
coat and a pair of tweed trousers.
Rev. Taylor, the China missioner who left
Sydney for Melbourne the other day, is head of
a great Taylor family, all of whom seem on fire
to save John’s soul. For instance, he has four
sons, two daughters, and eight nephews and
nieces at evangelical work in that vineyard.
There are 300 single white women connected with
the mission residing in inland China.
“ O. T.” : The Melbourne papers are treat-
ing the late Ephraim Zox badly. In life and
white waistcoat Zox passed for a wit—perhaps his
genial squint had some share in the illusion. But
the poor man is no sooner dead than the journals
proceed to burst up the fable by quoting his good
sayings. Such stuff as any level-headed circus
down would scorn to utter they are giving forth
as poor Zox’s side-splitters. So that when they
go on to write about his sterling qualities of
character, the reader realises that he needed all
the virtues he gets credit for to compensate for
the tortures he must have inflicted upon society
as a professional purveyor of good sayings. It i 3
a lamentable fact that most current Hebrew
humor consists of puns of the hopelessly-Cockney
order. See how poor Salomons, Q.C., is thus
afflicted ! However, the Chosen race can’t give
us Heines all the time.
Dr. Buntine, Transvaal surgeon, who may
be the first Australian Y.C., was one of the best-
known figures of Melb. University seven or eight
years back. He was one of the crack footballers
of the Scotch College when he entered the medical
school—a long, lanky lad, with very fair hair and
a pink-and-white baby face, that made him look
a mere boy even when he had graduated, and
earned for him the sobriquet of “ Baby” Buntine.
Both at school and at the “ shop” he was a promi-
nent athlete, footballed with the defunct. Uni-
versity Club, and once carried off the University
championship in all-round athletics. As one of
the resident surgeons of the Melb. hospital, he
became a popular and jolly figure in youthful
Melbourne, but his juvenile appearance was much
against his chances of success, and he decided at
last to light out to a country where greybeards
were scarce.
The whirligig of time ! The other day
one or two legal applecarts were severely shaken
by a rumor that N.S.W. Govt, had decided to
offer the vacant District-Court judgeship not,
in the ordinary way, to one of the Crown
prosecutors, but to that chilly and deliberate law-
yer, Mr. C. G. Heydon, who is understood to
have long had his steely accusing eye fixed on a
Supreme Court seat. It seems that, as a matter of
fact, the D.C. appointment was actually offered to
Mr. Heydon, who expressed his willingness to ao-
cept it. (A N.S.W. minor judgeship carries, with
£l5OO a year salary, substantial travelling ex-
penses and a retiring pension of £750 a
year, and is a very comfortable post not
HE NEVER THOUGHT OF IT.
HIS LARGER HALF: “ And who’ll mind me when
you are gone ?”
to be despised in these hard times even by
a high-up lawyer.) Then Minister Crick burst up
the arrangement by abruptly telling his col-
leagues that Mr. Heydon should never be made a
judge with his consent, and that if such an ap-
pointment was carried out they could take the
consequences. Crick has a substantial personal
grievance against Heydon dating from Dean-trial
time, but, apart from thet, he is quite right on
the general question. Mr. Heydon is a good
lawyer and a most “correct” person, but he
would make as objectionable a Judge as Justice
Windeyer.


INFLUENZA
Leading Physicians in Paris advise
the use of “ warm alcoholio ” drinks
as a precaution against influenza.
. . Special attention is directed to . .
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
a preventive and remedy that is
unsurpassed, having tonic properties
possessed by no other spirit, that help
the sufferer to fight against the lan-
guid and “ tired feeling ” that in-
.... variably accompanies ....
H A LF-SIC K Just sick enough to (eel heavy-headed
PEOPL E, lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite!
to sleep badly; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed or
to call a doctor, but siok enough to not know what to do
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC *w-
Per port. Is Bd. SULPHUR PILLS
56 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
. 0n...
fir. Fra ok Sci>ior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Rejfal Chemist.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
■ The Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOB, and See that You OET,
Franz J osef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia,
Morgan and Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence - street, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Dominie”: We hear such distressing
tales concerning bush schoolmasters that it’s time
someone gave the other side. The bush teacher (I
am one) is not the unfortunate we read about.
He has a decent salary, and is virtually his own
master 364 days per year (the Inspector comes once).
Reckoning in Saturdays, he spends 14 weeks in
holidays yearly on full pay, is looked up to as a
sort of social king among the bucolics, gets his
milk, butter and firewood practically on the nod,
while his groceries and other parcels are brought
from town to him by neighbor Spinks, who also
gives him a owt. of seed spuds for the garden. In
return, he is sociable; he measures tanks, calcu-
lates road-batters, areas of ploughing, illuminates
the address for the departing postmaster, gives the
local parsons a bob or two, takes a ticket in the
local sweep, and lends The Bulletin. He rides,
fishes, bikes, or shoots, morning and evening,
visits the station where he gets good tennis and
meets a white circle, and then when Easter, Mid-
winter, or Xmas fly round, he’s off to the Smoke.
If the nights hang long he can chum in with Tod-
hunter, Conway, Julius Caesar and other family
pets and fag for the higher exam. The bush-
teacher only growls because there is really nothing
to growl about, and he’s gob suoh a lot of spare
time to growl in.
• * * •
Copy of letter (written in red ink) received
by Central Queensland State school teacher :
Sir,—l want to tell you wot i think o you in black
and white. You hammered Jimmy fur usin bad lanwidge
he ses he ony sed bloody an tole you to go to ell. Now as
is father usis that langwidge an hes better man nor you
an shud no wot is propper fur is owne chile to do an say
i therefur worn you not to be after itting Jimmy agen or
is father will soon be ome from rousaboutin an if i tell
im o your conduo he wud praps go down an pul your
hear an i doant want eny trubble threw the children. I
wud like you to pay moar atension to the speliin of the
children as 1 am pertickler o this part o the lernin insted
nockin them about fur usin a fue simppel wurda that is
armless.
• * • •
N.S.W. sclloolboy’s essay on “ Flowers ” :
Our native rose is a glorious blossom. It’s proper
name is Borneo. The Botanical Gardens gives pleasure
to thousands, 30me of which may not have much pleasure;
they may not have any food or money, but are more
pleased than if they had plenty of food, hut no flowers to
look at. Some men, if you ask them have they got a
flower garden, they will tell you they would not be
bothered with flowers, well they ought to be dead. A
home without flowers is like the home of a savage beast.
The place were flowers is sold is called a Forest shop.
Some flowers shut up at night as merry goes. Even
schoolmasters are fond of flowers.
NOT ELIGIBLE.
"Can’t you persuade your cousin to join our Bible-
class?”
"No good he come. He mallied man alledy!”
“Parcel ”: The fact that the crows in
Booligal district have taken to building their nests
on the telegraph-poles shows that this interesting
bird is a stickler for business before pleasure
when it comes to a choice between superintending
the lambing in the Riverina district and travelling
in search of a sufficiently tall nesting-tree.
» * • •
“ R-W.S.” : A farmer in Camden district,
N.S.W., once ploughed up three eggs, which were
kept for a while to see what the product would be.
When a month had passed without result, the
box containing the eggs was stowed away in a
shed and forgotten for over a year, when it was
found to contain one fair-sized carpet snake and
two tails 1
1-7/1 L In anBwer to “Hooka” (B.
17/10/ 99). Some snakes, notably the cobra,
possess the power of springing. I have myself
seen a, sft. cobra spring from the top of an Bft.
bank into the middle of
a half-chain road, where
he fastened upon the
dewlap of a bullock,
whi c h subsequently
died. As to rate of
snakes’ progress, py-
thons can do 8 or 10
miles an hour through
moderately tangled
bush, but I don’t
know about their
staying powers.
* .
White : “ How
you like lock - up.
Billy?” Kanaka:
He alright a-time belong-a work. He no good
long-a Sunday! ”
* * * *
Tasmania imports much of its beef
and mutton from the mainland and King
Island. Yet, at Hobart, the other day, a locally-
grT-.QooiU u lo ? k wa ® shown weighing 27441 b. alive
and lon Jib. dressed. A guessing-competition was
run on the deadweight of “ Strawberry,” winner
18001 a^°Ut P rize ' mon ey for his guess of
* * • *
The sort of thing that may still happen in
way-back N.S.W. It is a message from Wanaar-
mg:—
. Dr °ver M‘Donald had a lively time when near Wanaar-
mg with the Keroongooloo cattle. Some of his bullocks
went mad and charged the camp. The men took refuge
in the vehicle, which the animals repeatedly charged
after tossing the camp utensils, bag and baggage about
in all directions. Another beast charged a buggy which
was passing along, but fortunately the driver noticed it
in time, and escaped by laying the whip on the horses
and galloping away. A third beast charged carrier
Westlake s bullock-team, and lamed two of his best bul-
locks, but old George, pluckily going to the rescue of his
pets with a cudgel, knocked the animal down, and, stun-
ning it for a time, he drove away, thus getting out of its
reach.
• « * «
“ A.G.” : Recently saw a fire started in a
curious way. When lighting my pipe, I dropped
a few lucifers. Then a hen came along, and,
picking amongst ’em, lighted one, which set fire
to some newspapers I’d been reading. Eventual
damage—’bout £25.
* » * *
Yangan : Re the forensic “ swearing ”of
Chinese. I remember once in Bor-
neo, when a Chinaman was on trial
for murder, the only non-circum-
stantial evidence was that of ac-
oused’s late partner; who duly blew
out a match, and then at prisoner’s request
smashed a plate; but still dissatisfied, accused
asked that the witness should decapi-
tate a white rooster and repeat his
evidence. Fowl procured accord-
tngly, but, as witness refused to
operate, a verdict of “Not
guilty’’was returned. Turned
out afterwards that the wit-
ness himself had committed
the crime.
• • »
“C.E.”: Be “Flabby
P.’s ” par. (8., 7/10/’99), the
fact that a snake changed
its skin when 7in. long proves
nothing but that the snake
was still growing. Reptiles
and fishes do not cease grow-
ing at maturity, but con-
tinue to increase in size at
irregular rates until death.
I don’t mean to assert that if
an adder lived long enough
he would reach the size of a
carpet-snake, but an adder
will certainly keep on grow-
ing as long as it lives.
• * •
“F.F.”: Some curi-
®us _ items of Australian
native - lore. Abundance
of the blue-mountain par-
rot indicates a good mul-
let season ; same of the
black magpie, crow-shrike,
or butcher - bird, means
ditto for blackfish or black
i If n ,° “ °hurwung,” then no “ din-
If the wattle-tree blooms extra well, then
much tailor-fish ; and when the wild-hop flowers
is the time of the oyster’s pink oondition.
• * • •
“ J.M.” : My housekeeper took her depar-
ture some two months ago, during my absence in
BiankvtUe on business. I might mention that the
majority of my clothes took their departure with
the lady. She left nought behind her, but the
accompanying epistle which you may possibly
find interesting, arrived some time later :
Mrs. Brown. M ° Unt Snooker * June
Dear Madam,—-I now fulfil my promioe riting to you
Hoping this will find you, and, the family enjoying good
health and in prosperity of life. I my self is in good
Health thanks to the givir of all perfet gifts 1 have done
farely well since I came hear, the weather Is pretty cold
at present and that lulls my trade, but I always keep
deslmg and trucking to keep the Pot Boiling had I
plenty of stores hear 1 would do a lot better let me know
how your pulce beats by return of male and I will ex-
plane things more plainer than now 1 dont want you to
do any thing to me unless it is done with confidence and
good fealings. If you intend coming hear ooine out first
and sea the place Jamey Smith will drive you out for
about 2or 3 pounds and you can judg-e for your self. I
dont intend Bilding you up with castles in the heir or
tooling you about them days are gone past with me. 1
want a quiet life and a hoppy home I will say no more
at present hoping to hear from you soon my love, and
best respeots to you and your children. I remain yours
respectfully. Alfred Johnson.
p.s-You and I has had a good many chats together
whioh is never to be devulged, to any party and I trust
this will rest the same. A J
IN "PUSH” SOCIETY—LEGITIMATE
CORRECTION.
GINGER: “So yer goin’ ter marry Skippo Nixen?
I s'pose yer know he used ter belt his first
missus with a big stick? ”
LIZ: "It’s all lies, Ginger Green. Skippo
gi' me his solemn afi'y-davy he never biffed her
with nothin’ but his fist!”
How are the mighty fallen ! Queensland,
on account of the falling-off in the quality of its
horses, was unable to supply the War Office with
a few chargers the other day. But you can buy
backblocks weeds and scrubbers at five shillings a
head in the country towns any day. The
übiquitous bike is the alleged cause of the trouble.
m * * *
“ Eller ” : Many N.S. W. bush “darnces ”
begin with a regular rough-and-tumble. “Gents.”
sit one side of the room ; ladies the other ; and
when the signal is given there is a general stampede
for partners. If you don’t manage to “collar a
tart ” first shot—and no more “ skirt ” turns up —
you may as well go home straight.
Tall yam from “ Waira-
rapa ”: —
Have seen sohnapper speared whole-
sale in Maoriland waters. When the
fish get into the shallows to feed,
their fins, sticking out of the water,
locate them, and if approached quietly
they may be speared either from shore
or a boat. A friend of mine who
is a skilful spearer has been in the
South Sea Islands for years, and has
caught fish by diving for them —hold-
ing a foot of line with hook attached.
Fact! Has also dived and tied three
sleeping tiger-sharks together; then
returned to the surface and made a
splashing with the oars, and the fun
bpgan. True ! Natives swim among
sharks with impunity.
» * • *
“Ulawarra”: Came upon
M‘Moran, the other day, knock-
ing out stumps with the back of
an axe. He is a long-armed man
and swings the axe wildly and
erratically around his head.
Noticed the blade of a shovel
secured to the back of his head,
and asked what on earth that
meant ? “ Well,” said he, “ some-
toimes whin Oi hits Oi misses,
and thin th’ axe ketches me just
there. If it wurnt for that plate
Oi’d have had me brains knocked
out ivery t’ree minnits ! ” Then
he made a powerful swipe at the
top of the stump, missed —and,
sure enough, the back of the axe
landed on the shovel-blade with a
bang that nearly put Mac. on his
face. “Didn’t I tould ye?” he
spluttered. “ Be the powers, sorr,
it’s dangerous wurrk entoirely
whin a mahn can’t kape his fut-
tin’.” Told him he should bar
the “La Blanche,” but he hadn’t
heard of that artist.
* • • •
A deputation recently asked
Tas. Govt, that a railway be
made from the Western line to
“ the Promised land.” They’re
great on scripture names in Tas-
mania. En route from Hobart to
Launceston you pass Jerusalem and Jericho, see
the Lake of Tiberius, and get a glimpse of the
Jordan.
* • * *
j jLittle Tom Haynes, aged twelve and a
half, went missing on his father’s Vic. Western
District selection the other day, and Tommy’s
father, after search, found him in the dam. The
small boy was hauled out with difficulty, and sub-
jected to the treatment prescribed for the restora-
tion of the apparently-drowned ; he came to after
about an hour’s hard graft, in which everybody
within call gave a hand. Tommy explained next
day. He had intended to commit suicide, he
said. Having lost everything on the Cup, he felt
it was neither advisable nor customary to live any
longer. His losings, it transpired, consisted of
eigliteenpence and a cocoanut-ring.
* • * *
Last year, while weighing wool at Bulla-
green station, near Gilgandra, N.S.W., a man
lost his vest, watch and chain. The police were
informed, but no find. The other day the owner
bf Bullagreen got information from an English
wool-manufacturing firm that in a bale of wool
bearing the Bullagreen brand was found a vest,
watch and chain ; and now, after many days, the
owner will get back his property somewhat com-
pressed, and suspicion is raised from many people.
* * » *
“ Treb ” : I should like to know the signi-
ficance, if any, of the horizontal scars upon the
chests of W.A. aboriginal men, just over the
breast-bone. I have been informed by several
niggers that the gashes had been made in infancy
with sharp quartz-splinters.
Jimmy Ah Poo, of Longreach (Q-)
“ Shealer bloke come, spen’ one pong ; go way an
say nothin’. Louseabout come, spen’ one shdlin ;
go way an’ say, ‘ Me lobbed I—me1 —me lobbed 1 ’ ”
* * * •
“J.C.P.”: “ S.J.” (B. 2/9/’99) is wrong.
Lightning does strike the eypress-pine even where
other timber abounds. Apropos, as an experienced
timber hand, I consider the cypress-pine the best
Australian wood for building purposes, its white-
ant-resisting qualities making it of special value
in this respect.
» » * *
Dear Bulletin.—Can any of your readers
name for me the animal herewith described?
Size, nearly that of the brown scrub opossum,
which it also slightly resembles in shape, but at
night, when it wakes and stretches itself round
the cage, it is exactly the shape of an iguana in
body. Head, narrower and longer than the
opossum’s; tongue, about long, and very
thick. Third toe of the forefeet twice as long as
the others. Color, broad black and cream stripes
running from nose along back and sides, and
shading into a light grey towards tail. Tail, 18in.
long, with black stripe to within 4in. of tip, which
is salmon-pink color. It does not coil its tail
around anything as the opossum does, neither
does it carry same over its back, like the squirrel.
Its cry resembles that of the flying-squirrel when
frightened, but is much louder and harsher. Its
favorite foods are milk and honey. Not even
20-year Queensland-bush-residents have been able
to “ place ” the creature for me.—G.C.O.
* * * *
Authentic bash love-letter :
My Dear Friend I write these few lines to you to let
you know i am not dead yet i am longing for to see your
smiling face again but never mind the time will soon fly
past. Then i shall be with you and Bill is sticking it on
pretty thick i suppose he is happy when you tell him i
have left . but never mind dear the time will come
when he will have to take off i often think of you darling
when iam at work. My Dear i wont be able to come
home before Xmas but i suppose you will be Mrs. then
and i shall have no show, but iam living in hopes yet i
A DEFINITION.
NEPHEW: "Say, uncle, what is an amateur artist? "
UNCLE : “ O— er—a person that don’t paint pictures for money.”
NEPHEW: “ O ; are you an amateur then?”
am cook to night and Jack is mending his trousers so you
B ® e we < et along well together i was at a ball last Friday
night at there was a lot of fair sex there but you
know i was very bashful and they was very wild so i did
not get on very well with them i only had eight dances
i must come to a close it is five o’clock now and i am near
asleep as you can see where the paper has caught on fire
1 must conclude with my best love to your own dear self
from your lovin ff b °y • xxxxxxxxxxxx take
these befor ® break{ast - w m *
<« a tt » ~ - , . ,
T •,, j’, fP ro P os the revived interest m
Leichhardt s fate
.. Dear Bulletin.— l have resided for years In a part of
5“ country over which he travelled during his expedi-
-1 on > and 1 thl . nk tbe faet worth recalling that, though
the explorer is supposed to have perished on Cooper’s
Creek, in Central Australia, some supposed relics of the
expedition were found on a river named the Tully.
These articles, including part of a dray, were found by a
man hunting wild blacks up into the mountains at the
P olnt 0{ the nfl e* and lfc waB b .y the merest chance that he
dropped across them, as the long grass had grown over
and hidden them. The country round there is rather
low and swampy, with thick scrub along the river banka,
16 is mostly populated now. The Tully River, to be pre-


The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
00.. whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£4Oi),OQO is invested iu the colony. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
WATCHES^
FROM
Manufacturers Direct to the User.
P. & A. G-uye’s “London-made” English
Levers know no superior for strength in rough
wear and riding; for reliable, perpetual accu-
racy under every change of temperature.
IA k
We are their Sole Agents. One of their Silver Hunting Levers, extra jewelled, costs £5 ss.
# ROBERTS^—a-
Jewellers by Appointment to Sis Excellency Earl Beauchamp, K.C.M.G., Governor of New South Wales,
23 Hunter Street (Only), Sydney.
In a recent London Pelican appears a
short Bulletin story, “ His Second Wife ”
almost, as a matter of course, without acknowledg-
ment. The Pelican has joined the literary vul-
tures.
The errors of a giddy old man are apt to
find him out in his respectable parental character.
Stated that the King of the Belgians was lately
taking a quiet stroll arm-in-arm with his daughter
Clementine, who is the apple of his roving royal
eye, when a profane bystander remarked in a loud
voice—“ What! the King has got a new girl !’’
whereat father and daughter hurried blushingly
along. It made even King Leopold turn red.
For the moment, perhaps, he wished he had lived
a virtuous life for his dear child’s sake. And then,
probably, he began to think of all the glorious
times when he wasn’t good—of the suppers, and
the private ballet shows, and the consignments of
Maiden Tribute from New Babylon, &c , &c.,
and his temporary depression cleared off, no doubt.
Sin has such a wealth of memories to draw upon !
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
Pastoralist P. M‘Farland, the veteran
Riverina pioneer, whose weather vaticinations
have so often come out right, marks down 1900
as a very wet year—“ 1899 is like 1869, and 1900
will be like 1870,” he says.
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
There are many curious ways of dying. At
Bluff (M.L.) Freezing Works a young man was
oarrying the carcase of a sheep up stairs. The
suspensory hook was fixed in one of the hind legs
which hung down in front. Carcase slipped back-
wards, and as it went the hook caught in the
man’s abdomen and disemboweled him. He died
two days later.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Australia has been built
to please everyone who desires
the luxury of living in the best
style, at a cost that is strictly
moderate.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
K uppers Elberfeld Lagei
else runs about midway between Townsville and Cairns,
und’about 150 miles from the Gulf of Carpentaria, and
the find was made about 12 miles from the mouth. Upon
the banks of the Tally and other rivers in this vicinity
tows a large tree known as the “ Leichhardt tree,
because the lost explorer once subsisted entirely upon its
fruit for weeks. In appearance this tree resembles some-
what the Norfolk Island pine, the branches growing
evenly tier above tier, and the whole tapering to a Point
at top The leaves are dark-green, trisected, and of the
size of a small plate. The fruit is somewhat like “ three-
quarters,” and is verv bitter in flavor, though after being'
soaked several times in wafer it makes nice jam, and will
give an appetite when all else fails. —A.H.
• * • •
One Tas. cockie rouses his hands out of
bed early in a new way. Bags form their bed-
clothes, and generally before daylight cockie
marches into the hut with, “ Don t want to dis-
turb yez, min, but Mickey is digging in the pad-
dock beyant, and Oi must have a few bags.” And
the subsequent tug at the “ Sydney blankets ”
(slang for potato-bags) would wake the Seven
Sleepers.
» * * *
“X.” : On opening a rabbit which I re-
cently shot, I found in the stomach, besides some
vegetable stuff, a quantity of live worms, about
fin. long, of the thickness of a medium-sized
needle, and tapering to a point at ends. Have
often found worms in wallabies, but never before
in a rabbit. I “ pass ” bunny now.
* * » *
A sugar-mill in the Far North is an in-
teresting sight, and presents a few valuable
lessons. In Cairns district you visit a mill and
notice that nearly all hands are little brown men,
garrnentless—but for a pair of trousers. Fireman
—a vigorous stumpy Jap., all smiles and perspira-
tion. Outside —kanakas by the score, with oc-
casionally a surviving white man cropping up on
the outskirts. The planter’s idea of Paradise.
• * * •
A tale of a man and a dog :
Old Corncob c wned 80 acres of lucerne, and Toby was
his dog—a large, hard-working dog, who got more kicks
than kindness, but did his duty dogfully notwithstand-
ing. He was a conscientious dog, was Toby, and camped
chief!}' on a rise in the paddock which commanded a view
of the fences where neighbor’s cattle could get in. Now,
Toby had never seen his master in a decent suit of
clothes, and didn’t miss h : m when he went to town
to buy a new suit; and on the Sunday, seeing
a gaily-dressed man let down the sliprails, and
jog into the paddock on a horse minus bridle and
saddle, he resolved to Take Steps in the matter. The
man was reaching over, trying to slip home the rail with-
out dismounting, when Toby suddenly put in a volley
from the rear. The horse plunged forward, the man dropped
the rail, grabbed the horse’s mane hard and shouted
“ Lie down yon —— brute ! ” But no horse had been
allowed in that paddock within the recollection of Toby,
and the memory of past kicks nerving him, he heeled
that horse round the paddock. Heeled him and headed
him and twisted him, and never heeded the language of
the rider, and when the church-goers got interested,
Toby warmed up to his work. Maloney’s and Donovan’s
cattle came in at the open slip-rails, but Toby was busy
and didn’t see them. And when, in the centre of the
paddock, in view of a mixed audience, an awful mad man
was shot into a clump of briars, Toby took no notice, but
persevered until the horse was galloping down the road as
if the Devil was after him. Then Toby came back, and
the man being more like his old self by reason of nn’id
and blood and blasphemy, Toby recognised him, helped
to put out the cattle, and went over triumphantly to his
camp on the rise. Now —his bones hallow the spot. He
died, a martyr to duty, of a gunshot wound, and a com-
pound comminuted fracture of the skull.
* • • •
“ Jim Pan ” ; Be Tommy Tanna’s sense of
humor (“ Ros,” B. 14/10/’99). The handy-man ab
the Canecutters’ Curse Hotel, in Twowharves,
was a kanaka, and, one day, when he had humped
a bagman’s traps from the Tomki to the pub.,
the drummer facetiously remarked, “ Here,
Tommy Tanna, here’s a tanner fa ya trouble.”
“"You makum big mistake, mista,” said the
darkie, “my name not Tommy Tanna—my name
Tommy Two-bob.” He got it!
“ Harry ” ; Know an eccentric old
selector in Yic. Western district who has
dug his own grave in a corner of one of his
paddocks. Said he might as well save
somebody the job, and when the grave
was finished laid himself down in it to
“see how it fitted 1 ”
* * * »
“ Meoro ” : Out on the run recently
came across a lamb which was being held
by the tail by one crow, while another
black devil was picking the poor crea-
ture’s eyes out. Division of labor 1
* • • •
“F.” : In answer to “Billyram”
(Bullettin, 7/10/’99), the ordinary green
whip-snake is not poisonous. “ B.” is wel-
come to experiment on me when he likes.
* * . * *
The English Mechanic thus knocks
on the head a notion which has cost the
life of many an Australian well-sinker :
Candles will burn in air that would instantly
kill any man. Nobody should descend into a
well till a caged-bird has been lowered, and
pulled up again, especially as foul air is to be
found in almost every well.
* • * *
In a Western Q. town lately a
State orphan was flogged with a cat-o’-
nine-tails until his back was raw. The in-
genious flogger then tied the youngster to
a horse’s tail and left him in the yard all
night. The bush is fertile in cruelty.
“ R. 8.”: “ C.H.R.” (B. 14/10/’99) takes
pains to describe the Tasmanian devil when the
“mountain devil” had been asked about. The
Tas. devil is a daysure (Australian “ native cat ”
family), but the mountain devil is a small, horned
lizard, fearsomely ugly but perfectly harmless,
found, as far as I know, only in W.A.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Richard Wil. : Cannot even consider it, as
Bulletin never prints stories of such length South-
■ gate : Subject hardly presentable Eller : The sow often
eats her young. Jackass-snake question interred months
back Azile : All very true, but incoherent and un-
usable . .J. A.C. : Not worth while commenting on such
a prevalent misquotation of Lee's “ When Greeks joined
Greeks,” &c. 2. Vide Favenc’s yarn, “ The Parson’s
Black-Boy.” Five Years in Pretoria: As you say,
“ British High Commissioner Milner claimed that Kruger
was bound to give franchise to the Uitlanders without
making them swear to bear arms for the Transvaal
in case of war ; there was no such condition, he
pointed out, in [the oath of allegiance exacted in Cape
Colony.” But if the condition isn’t expressly stated in
the Cape Colony oath, it is clearly implied there, for
allegiance to a state must necessarily mean fighting for
it in the last resort, and the Transvaal Government was
old-fashioned enough to demand that the thing be set
down plainly. Chamberlain’s Stock-Exchange gang
wanted to obtain the protection and privileges of the
Republic without any corresponding return—they calmly
desired to obtain representation without the blood-taxa-
tion which every State has to levy when its life is
threatened John M. D. : Not graphic enough
E.S. : Sorry to see any son of Australia embark on
such an errand. We hope your son will return safely
to his mother ; also, that he will not have oppor-
tunity of imbruing his hands in the blood of any
brave republican fighting for hearth and home in a
cause as honest as that of the diggers at Eureka Stockade.
Molong : The Bulletin presumes that the return-
ing 35 Lancers were actuated by all sorts of reasons;
but if there are any who felt ashamed to go and help a
big State bully a little one, or who disdained to make
their uniform an excuse for taking part in a war of
foreign aggression with which this country has no con-
cern, The Bulletin gives them thanks, and admires
them infinitely more than it does the haphazard
crowd who have left these shores to serve in the Trans-
vaal for a score of haphazard and disreputable reasons
Thomas Brown: Read the article “South African Re-
public,” in the Statesman’s Year Book, and then you
will begin to understand the vastness of your ignoranoe.
Ben S. : Do you propose to seriously assert that there
were 102,647 paupers in Victoria last year—one-eleventh
of the population ? Or do you mean that that number of
oases were relieved—the same person probably being a
“ case ” many times in the year? 6xB: Looks wildly
incredible, anyhow Toby : You say the animal is
referred to in Hezekiah, Ist chapter, sth verse. Well,
there ain’t no book of Hezekiah in our office Scripture.
O.L. : Epitaph old ami beastly. Maori: 99 per
cent, of the stories sent in are little screechy love and
death-gurgle episodes, just like that. The weariness of
it!! Rab : In other words, an Unclaimed Moneys Act
is much wanted . ... T’othersider: Hardly worth discussing
whether Groper or T’othersider pays worse wages. Proba-
bly they both pay worse. Both people generally do
Point : That’s just what it lacks .... Tin Lip: Grievous
lack of skill P.T.F. : “Clifton” will consider
X 42 : Formless and unintelligible J.C. : Very ama-
teurish . John Fitz : Flat and feeble Splinter : You
oan’t stick in us C.O. : May tighten-up a bit and use.
... J.A.K. (W.A.) : Not interest enough for length ...
Zibla : Well-conceived and pathetic, but not strongly
enough handled Binalong : Very old situation,
but the Simple treatment may carry it ... Cygnet:
Interesting and quite credible as a personal ex-
perience, but too loosely put together ... Bob Reefer :
May use Maryborough : Some humor, but too long
and discursive Maude P. : Same old faded-flower sen-
timentalism The Pipe : Sorry none usable Webuna:
Unskilful . . Q.E.D. : You’re the sort that would pro-
bably “ scab,” yourself, if circumstances squeezed you
W. : Ordure-item disrespectfully declined. Marsupial-
breeding question done with M.P. de B. : Just a hint
of originality ; otherwise undistinguished A.A.A. :
Thanks for pamphlet Jas. T. F. : Fine, large, red,
ungrammatical whoop Ripple : Colorless little
yarn P.A. : “ Candidate ” very well done, but
too much dialect. Will consider W. Ryan : Good
Miss ETHEL DAGMAR BARNETT, Pianist.
argument, but already told in less space
Sweetbriar : Cocos didn’t start for the Cup, anyway, and
your poem was a long way out in other respects) For
instance, the bookies don’t “ stand all in a row ” in the
Birdcage—or anywhere else, neither does the starting
machine allow for false starts. That’s the weak point
about the s.m. And then, your metre ! . Mac : Can’t
blame the police for locking up the shooter. He meant
no harm, but he killed a woman and it is a good rule to
lock up, pending enquiry, anyone who kills anyone else.
... Fair Play : Better read General Butler’s “ Life of Sir
George Pomeroy Colley ” which contains all particulars.
You will probably find it in Public Library Manly:
Believe the wife Rets half and next of kin the rest.
Better lay all particulars before a solicitor B.R. : Case
calls for an able scoffer, but alas ! you can’t scoff worth
2£d .G.M.G. : Dreadful screed ! E.E. Mac. : Too
slight L.A. : “Facets,” rather clever in spots, but
generally unsatisfactory C.M.A.: Not well enough
worked up C.H.R. : “ Fingal” mildly humorous, but
too long for its interest ... D. : Just so “ D 1 ”
Cremona: Please give title of M.S. you wish returned.
“ Years,” leads up to a good idea, but is otherwise feeble.
Turkey: Will consider N.B. : Funny; may use.
Jane E. : Xmas number already completed.. C.B.
St. J. : Boer-boar gag very tired ... Prophet G.: “ Cloth
of Gold” vaguely unsatisfactory Ben Sun: “ Day and
Night” may possibly do—with a slice out of the middle....
Novus C. : Some pathos, but interest hardly strong
enough Geo. S. : You can’t write a little bit. . Old
Devon : Cowardly lies, mostly. Brave men like the Boers
don’t “brutally ill-treat alien ladies.” The officers
of position and repute who have fought against
the Boers seem to respect them —that is the best test.
Iv.B.J. : Aborig. items frequently have to be held
over for a time Voyou : Yes. Bee Bulletin, Sydney.
T.L.M. : Bulletin isn’t boosting the swashbuckling
movement . 18 B.: The frantic Fallii.g-over-themselves
attitude of a big section of the alleged soldiery of Aus-
tralia, to go to Kruger-land, is explained by the reason
that “Johannesburg will be a good sort of a place to be
in, after the war is over.” Many “ blokes,” who don’t
know a Lee-Metford bullet from a pea-nut, think they
will be “ all there ” for the anticipated scramble for Oom
Paul’s worldly goods and chattels, when fighting ceases.
The free trip over too, counts for something with this
patriotic brigade
The Little School Marm
For the Bulletin
WACH morning I go riding—
A figure lean and brown—
And pass the school-house hiding
In trees near Coolga Town.
With foolish, fond renewal
Of hope, I pass to see
The little school-marm cruel
Who makes a slave of me.
Her stock of modern knowledge
Ts but a little store,
For in an older college
She learnt her wicked lore;
And she, with gay defiance,
Keeps slyly up her sleeve
The sweetest, oldest science —
The lore of Mother Eve.
Each morn an urchin merry
She kisses, nowise coy,
With lips of reddest cherry—
-0 happy little boy!
She tosses him “ Good-morning."
He shrugs his shoulders thin,
Her sweet caresses scorning—
-0 little whelp of sin!
Were 1 that urchin curly
I could not be so blind;
I would not be so surly
If she would be so kind;
I would not be so stupid
Nor act so poor a part—
But turn into a Cupid
And nestle in her heart
No more would I be riding—
A figui e lean and brown —
My passion vainly hiding—
The talk of Coolga Town.
And she my rose, my jewel,
No more, no more would be
The little school-marm cruel
Who makes a slave of me.
C.R.


THE EART.Y CLOSING BILL.
‘Tn the coungdistncts to close at 6 o’clock on four days of the week."
Here you see a belated customer, after a ride of 20 miles, three minutes too late to
- catch the shop open. Happily he has plenty of patience and tobacco.
o*
<>•
& &&
\cr °
V 4
' „\X *Q* V 3
// <>
•# % ‘ -O'SV*'
x> s -o V
<3> s ~° . v x \
S
“ re you so very old gran’pa ? ”
‘ Well, I’m getting on, dear ;
getting on. Let me see : I'
was boro the year the
George - street tram was
started building.”
"'Undertakers’ shops close at 11 p.m on week days.”
Boss Undertaker: “I can’t help it. If
people will die after business hours they
will have to take the consequences. I
ain t a-going to break the law for no
corpse ! ”
“ Hairdressers’ shops close at 7.30.”
Consternation of Bulletin poet, who has been
advised by the editor to get his hair cut, on.
arriving at 7.31.
HfftALD
&
, V V if/
v //
Jpy/r
4*.?/
<s> *
A «T>
. <s*
sV
sV' «J> ■&>
//»»
V/V’
v //'
/.4^
/jjfr
4/
ir
ST.S.W. Postmaster-General : “Do N
you think you could be honest
on ,£7B a year?”
Applicant, (for letter-carrier’s posi-
tion) : “ I’m afraid not ; I’m married. You see, that’s where it is ; but I
think I could do it on £79 10s., but not a cent less.” '*
Myt?»F Africa
_ -v
“Pawnshops to close at 7.30 p.m.”
Customer : “ If I’d only known it I might
have had the use of my furniture for
another day.”
The Imp (to our artist) : “ I say, r old fellow, don’t you think you
have rather neglected .me than otherwise lately.”
■The Govt, have made no provision for early-closing
pf cricket scoring-boards. Such a clause is much
needed to give occasional spell to the youth
the high collar and a cigarette.
CARTOONLETS.


THE AEG OS,
THE JACKSON INQUIRY.
REPORT Oi ; THE COMMITTEE.
OF OPINION
THE AGE,
THE JACKSON INQUIRY.
REPORT OP THE SELECT COM-
L. MITTEE.
(%'■THE MINISTER OF LANDS
IJJjm EXONERATED.
IM N
S t9£
o°o A
to/ Ui vfkto.^ s 1 yo " yecc *' (
1 ' tytyd Weiner.
-' Well SiV, if yo»V< bit? 'to See '••
|M«' ,
prefer so^e
y
*ye
W*cte of' )ooK }Wj
*
/ * t*st *> /
V£L,
'^lpeci^\-j
I t>|
I
JW*,! Sik / W/lj
7yW t
<2r Wsdl 'ifii/! I
<%r, 7 CSS
ijj?
> ana Jost ail his savin » et
o\«?y
1 I ■
V
WWSmm, ,
IF it Qey- %/- 0 < r - \y
li mm 7 1 K "W
IWI4 s£*
. e>MWaj- ZjLj/
* Mi. Oliver stated that those who will have the
duty imposed upon them of selecting thesitefcr
the Federal territory and giving it a name will
not forget the name of Sir Joseph Banks.
Rested b T)eb°yd°r ,■ —
~ D'yer See Hfffs e r, bee?
<fa r federal CafifaJ f kobes
S ’,re federal 'firr&ry w ,ll 7 0-T^ e r
6 ° V (I
'£> 'xi
kM
'S
W Co^frfo'P^k^^
be
if oof. oMjj/e
Hi ll Mr .ÜBM -i; »“or"°Ul*rtiM ■* \ \ .
■ / s^'A^i^szri fesss }■-<)
K ever if they could get at him ! 1 h “® vampire,
Pthe'ubertitrci the peopfe of
Victoria for his own ends. -
7 b s'!> 5 5 e >°^
MELBOURNIAN A.


A.SAUNDERS
PATENT ELY BACK
SPLIT SECONDS
LEVER
Split Second Fly-back Chronosrraph and Minute
Recorder, JB3los ; not split, £2 2s. Special value.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 18s 6d
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s; 150. Gold, £2.
Latest Style, Solid oold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d; 15c. G ld, 21s.
90. Solid Links and Opals, 30s.
16c. Gold, £2 10s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, £2. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s. Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
French Diamond, Pure Solid
Silver Hat Pin, 4s 6d. Any
Initial.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20j.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Gold Wish Bone Pearl Set Bee, 17* 6d ;
160. Gold, 85*.
A. Saunders.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 16s; 180. Gold, 20s; Silver, 3s 6d.
AMY
Opals, £2 10s;
Larger, £3 10b.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies, and
4 Diamonds, £3, t 3 10s
Jt'4. Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, Band
Bings, pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
M
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
All Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, t 2, £2 10s, £8;
Key, 255, 30s, 365.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, ±7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
5& Gold Heart and Bird, with Ruby and
Diamond, 355.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 15c. Gold
£2. Diamonds, as shown, £2 10s. and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
180. Solid Gold, extra
strong: and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
Registered.” 90. Solid Gold, 17» 6d
150. Gold, 80s; 18a Gold, 85s.
A- Saunders.
18a Gold, pure Double-
out Diamond, £5.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
180. Gold, 2 Opals and
8 pure Diamonds, £4.
A. SAUN DERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS’ New Gold Forget-rae-not
Heart and Chain Brooch, lla 6d’
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d. ’
Registered
“Gold Sword”
and
Spray Brooch,
13 Pearls, Ruby,
or Sapphire, and
Diamond, 255;
without
Diamond,
22s 6d.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
SEND
FOR
Pricb List.
First-class Pure Diamonds, £10; Diamonds and Rubies, £7los.
jIiATEST style.
Handsome Gold Necklet and Pure White Pearls, £3 6s; extra heary. £6.
LATEST LONDON RAGE.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
Solid Gold Band.
Opal, 17s 6d ;
8 Opals, 22s 6d.
160. Gold, 1 Opal, 30s ;
8 Opals, 355.
815 <a€Oß<a€ STREET (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
9c. 2-Bar and Bell, 12s 6d ;
Amethyst, 13s 6d- Special Value.
A. Saunders.
First-class, Hand-madp, Solid Gold Weddinsj
Ring: and Keeper, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s, 30s,
85s, £2. Send for our Size Card.
✓
.'.v;
T7Z
1
555
The Great
Herbal
IS YOUR
Ladies! tl)€ Following
FRIEND! <ss^si
SboOld iQterest Vo G.
NINE OPERATIONS UNSUCCESSFUL-
-14 Years’ Suffering from Hydatids.
Now Thoroughly Cured by “ Webber’s Vitadatio.”
READ !
Mr. S. A. PALMER. Nicholson-street, Woodend, 28/10/ , 99.
Vitadatio Institute, Melbourne.
Dear Sir.—lt affords me the greatest of pleasure in bearing testimony to the genuineness and the
power of your wonderful Herbal preparation, “WEBBER’S VITADATIO.” You may rely on my
doing all that lies in my power to let other poor sufferers know of the benefit I have derived from it.
Briefly, the particulars of my case are as follow: —Some 14 or 15 years ago I was suddenly taken
ill with Pleurisy, and shortly afterwards Hydatids formed on the Lungs. I. was treated by
several of our best doctors, but as they failed to give me any relief, I decided to enter the “ Kyneton
Hospital, ” where I was operated on on nine (9) different occasions, and they wanted me to undergo
the tenth, when one day a Mr. E. Jones, of Kyneton, called on mo and told me that from what he
personally knew of “ Yitadatio ” he was sure it would give me great relief, if not altogether cure me.
As I felt I could rely on this gentleman’s word, and as everything else had failed, I thought I would
give it “a fair trial,” with the result that “I am absolutely cured.” The Hydatids began to come
away very shortly after I commenced the medicine, so you may be sure I stuck to it, till at last every
Hydatid has left me. I can honestly say I AM IN BETTER HEALTH AND SPIRITS TO-
DAY THAN I HAVE BEEN FOR THE PAST FIFTEEN YEARS. For this marvellous
change I have to thank Mr. Jones for his kind advice and “WEBBER’S YITADATIO” FOR
THE COMPLETE CURE. I may tell you that during the time I was under the various medical
men I took innumerable quantities of medicine, without any result whatever. Of Herbalists’ and
Specialists’ medicine I have drunk gallons. One Melbourne Specialist in Hydatids guaranteed to cure
me for £6 ; but my case was beyond him. I can honestly say “ WEBBER’S YITADATIO ” ALONE
CURED ME. I give this testimonial of my own free will for the good of suffering humanity, and
out of a grateful heart. I shall be pleased to answer any inquiries and give full particulars to anyone
interested on receipt of stamped-addressed envelope. Trusting some may be led by my experience
and testimony to give “ Webber’s Yitadatio ” a trial.—Yours gratefully,
MARY ANN COLE.
Witnesses: W. J. Pasook, H. D. Vimpanl
The Price of this Medicine is:
tzr Indian Oil of Cream, 2f6 per Bottle. ia
Large Size, 5/6; Small Size, 3/6.
S. A. PALMER, General Agent for Australasia, India and Japan.
Head Office aod WareboCiSe : CLARCHPON-ST., SOUTH M6LBOURNC
(Late Ferguson and
Mitchells).
Sydney Office - - 184 PITT STREET.
Also at 06 Queen-street, BRISBANE; 238 Rundle-street, ADELAIDE; 481 Hay-street, PERTH; and 39 Manners-street, WELLINGTON, N.Z.


Washington H. Soul
and Co.,
GREAT DRUG EMPORIUM,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Largest, Most Varied Stock of Patent Medicines,
Uhemists' and Druggists’ Sundries, and Surreal Appli-
ances in the Southern Hemisphere. Nothing but best
quality of Goods kept. Prices are the LOWEST in the
01 WE EARNESTLY COMMEND to all who wish to
build up their system, banish sleeplessness, give tone to
the Digestive Organs, and receive energy and capaoity
for persistent efforts of mind, the Health Invigorator,
Dr. Pettifer’s Compound Syrup
of Hypophosphites,
Small Bottles, Is. 9d. each, postage, Bd.; Large Bottle,
3s. each, postage, Is. 2d.
NO OTHER SYRUP CAN BE COMPARED TO IT-
it is SUPERBLY SUPERIOR in every respect.
ENCOURAGED by this enormous success, after care-
ful consideration, and the strictest analysis by the
most competent authorities, we have been induced
to place on the market, ALSO AT A REDUCED
PRICE,
DR. SYMES’ EMULSION OP COD
LIVER OIL,
with HYPOPHOSPHITES of LIME and SODA,
a most Nourishinp Preparation for chest and lung com-
plaints, Is 6d and 2s 6d per Bottle.
CURE FOR CORPULENCY.
Prepared by F. C. RUSSELL, of Wobum House,
London.
DOUBLE STRENGTH. Packed absolutely free from
observation, unlabelled, and at London Price.
21s per Bottle ; postage, Is 2d.
Spartan Tonic
will be found a Wonderful Blood Purifier and Stimulator.
Prices, 2s 6d and 4s.
SPARTAN LITTLE LIVER PILLS, to be taken with the
above, Is box.
SPARTAN BLOOD PILLS, to enrich the blood, la box.
YAALA, for Indigestion, a marvellous cure, price 2s
bottle.
CITRATE OF MAGNESIA, Is bottle.
ITALIAN FRUIT POWDER, 2s.
LONDON HOSPITAL PILE OINTMENT, unapproach-
able, Is 6d per pot.
Dr. ALLEN'S OBESITY TABLETS —an absolute Cure
for Stoutness ; 5s box, guaranteed.
Dr. BUMSTEAD’S COMPOUND EXTRACT OF SARSA-
PARILLA, for Cleansing and Purifying the Blood,
Producing Bone and Muscle, 4s bottle.
CLAYTON’S INSECT POWDER, 6d and Is Tin.
WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, a splendid preparation for pro-
moting tlie growth of the hair ; price per bottle, Is.
ALABASTER CREAM OF BEAUTY for removing freckles
and improving the complexion ; price per bottle, 2s.
Eczene for Eczema,
An Absolute Cure. Price, 2s 6d, postage 3d extra.
Dr. Fettifer’s Fluid Magnesia,
8d and Is 6d.
Crimpoline for the Hair, Is.
KEEPS THE HAIR IN EVERLASTING CURL.
Clayton’s Hair Dye, 2s 6d and 4s.
DR. FIELD’S BRAIN and NERVE PILLS, price 2s 6d,
postage 2d.
DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER and LIQUID sweetens
the breath and whitens the teeth, Is 6d.
RICHARDSON’S HAIR RESTORER, 2s.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and CUCUMBER, for freckles,
etc., Is.
CLAYTON’S AMERICAN BAY RUM, Is.
THE LATEST IN PATENT NIGHT LIGHTS, 10 in a box
price Bd.
SPONGES, SPONGES, SPONGES, for everyone, all prices,
best value.
We offer the best value in
Real Badger-hair Shaving Brushes, Is 6d each, usual
price 3s 6d, bought under exceptionally advantageous
circumstances. Shaving Soaps and Creams, all the best
makes.
Razors.— A beautiful assortment, best hollow-ground,
white ivory handles, highest price 10s 6d ; some at 4s 6d,
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. We stock only the best.
Shaving Stands, with adjustable Mirrors, Cups and
Brush R ick nickel-plated, exceptional quality. Shaving
Pots every make and design, recherche patterns, in
Limoges ware, hand-painted.
Razor Strops, the best value in the city.
Military Hair Brushes, with or without Leather
Cases, Swing Mirrors, with Hair and Clothes Brush
attached.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Dressing Cases, all prices.
Xylonite Puff Boxes ; Menthol, in glass-stoppered bot-
tles; Bath Brushes, Magnifying Mirrors, Smelling Salts
Jars.
RAINBOW SILVER MOUNTED SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLES, the latest novelty'.
Sponge Bags in all the latest patterns.
Yet another Large Shipment of Sure Catch Fly
Papers. Catch ’em alive, oh. 12 sheets for 3d.
REAL TURKEY CANARY SEED and Mixed Bird
Seeds, 61b. for Is.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
THE PREMIER CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
160 AND 268 PITT-ST-, SYDNEY,
CHURCH-STREET, PARRAMATTA,
HUNTER-STREET, NEWCASTLE.
All Letters of Inquiry Must Have
Stamps for Reply Enclosed.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR
("CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
■end order direct to
Norite Catarrh CO re Co,,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your reader* tbnt 1 have bma
cured of Weakness, etc., by A simple and inoxi»en«iro
remedy, and will be pleased to send the mean* of cure
to all "sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KKT,T,OOG, Melbourne Chamber*,
Pitt street, Sydney.
RELIABLE FURNITURE I
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY.
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for £3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rad, and Cane Chair, £G 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, aii Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guine.fs.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
Full Size HALF TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEOROE ST.
Leave Train or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL'S. _
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post r ree.
The Bank of Australasia
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835).
♦♦♦♦»»»«♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
RESERVE o Ton'd I ?£soo,oooinvested in Consols at 95, the remainder being used in the business)
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER
£1,600,000
800,000
1,600,000
! 4,000,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS, WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR
THE HALF-YEAR TO 10th APRIL, 1899.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-yearly General Meeting Held on THURSDAY, sth OCTOBER, 1899.
llep or t.
The directors submit to the proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 10th April last, with the Profit Account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for Brds£ n d C°lpnj*J 'edition of
all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to i 56,312 3s. lid. The additton ot i. 9970 Is. M.,
brought forward from the previous half year, gives a disposable balance of £66,282 ss. 7d., of which the dividend
absorb £56,000, leaving £10,282 ss. 7d. to be carried forward to next account.. assurance that
The latest mail reports from the colonies do not even yet indicate a sufficient rainfall to justify an assumnce that
the unprecedented drought is at an end in all districts of Australia. On the other hand, the prices of tno.t de.cr p
tions of wool and of other Australian produce have advanced. . ontininate that
Several of the colonies have now given their full assent to Federation, and there is reason*:o anticipate that
others will follow and that great advantages will result from a Central Government and a uniform tarilr.
New Zealand’is in a prosperous condition, having enjoyed good crops as well as good prices for her produce, a
the business of the Bank continues to make satisfactory progress in that colony. „ . „
There has been a decided improvement in the Frozen Meat trade during the period under re lew.
ffi P the business of the other Colonies, referred to in the last
tinues, and the sales of properties recorded from time to time indicate a more sanguine view of the future on the part
° f ’The”Dividend declared is at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum, or £1 Bs. per share for the half year, and will be
payable, free of income-tax, in London and in the colonies, on the 6th ° ct °^ ONTAGUE KELSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 21st September, 1899.
Profit Account, fromJLOth October, 1898, to 10th April, 1899.
Undivided profit, 10th October, 1898 n
Less : Dividend, March, 1899 U
Profit for the h df-year to 10th April, 1899, after deducting rebate on bills cur-
rent at balance date (£6544 2s. 10d.), and making provision for all bad and
doubtful debts
Lena l
Charges of management—
Colonial — ....
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the super-
intendent’s department and 147 branches and agencies £74,264 17
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, &c. 20,334 6
London —
Salaries
General expenses ... -
£9,970 1 8
7,827 10
2,864 2
£171,224 12 4
£106,290 16 1
11. Rates and taxes—
Colonial
London
£6,915 11 6
... 2,706 0 10
9,621 12 4
114,912 8 6
56,312 3 11
Leaving available for dividend...
... £66,282 5 7
Balance Sheet, 10th April, 1899.
LIABILITIES.
Dr,
Circulation
Deposits...
Bills payable and other liabilities...
& s. d.
... 459,737 0 0
...13,276,304 19 6
... 2,143,359 14 0
16,879,401 13 6
Capital ... ... .. £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund ... ... 800,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is in-
vested in 2% P er cent,
consols at 95, the re-
mainder beinsr used in
the business.)
Profit account ; undi-
vided balance ... ... 66,282 6 7
2,466,282 5 7
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
£18,345,683 19 1
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion and cash balances
Loans at call and at short notice...
British and Colonial Government securi-
ties . .•••
Bills receivable, advances on securities
and other assets ...
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London
£
3,035,675
1,405,000
Or.
s. d.
1 7
0 0
641,870 10
12,796,682 8
8
466,556 18 8
£18,345,683 19 1
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers
from the several branches in the colonies, and we be* to report that, in our■opinion, the gpeffomic m a
balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Banka affairs as snown Dy
thC London, 14th September, 1899. WELTON, JONES and CO., Auditors.
S. FREEMAN <0 SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES;
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT DE sbAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELI4Y CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYABD SQUABS, SYDNEY.
EYE
DISEASES
■ -
CURED!
The Remedy
of the Age
For Sore Eyes,
Sandy Blight, In-
flammation, &c.
Hickson’s Celebrated Eye Water
A safe, sure, and speedy remedy for all diseases of the
eye. Highest testimonials. Price, 25., posted 2s. oa.
If not obtainable locally send stamps or postal note to
Proprietor, R. HICKSON, Rockdale, N.S.W.
00X0 N & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ON /; MONTH ONLY .
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops.. Ss 9d; ditto Faunt-
lerov ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; dit to, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12,6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY. *
oH&S.JfcilCa-JSkl f=» “JL* JA. -fc-* s
EHSiana
PC
GbEEEiaaf
QETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6rl ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. l’ackets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. I Hus’, catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNE, 846 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
wSSfii
FOREIGN STAMPS.
A RRANGED in Continents—frrand value :
A 50 Africa (all different), Is 3d ; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, is Cd ; 100 Asia, 5s ;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, 5s; 100 South America, 5s; 100
Europe, 3s. Many rarities in the lartrer
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d; 2o0,
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. Remit P.O.O.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
162 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
Wm. Aekland,
PHONOGRAPHS
255.
Swft’"*
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . .
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case.
Albert ir Son,
118 Kin g-st., Sydney.
Manufacturers of the
famous BOOMERANG
Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
Catalogues of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Pol}'phone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
Arnold's Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
■vrOTIJINO so quickly cures Coughs, Colds,-Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, influenza, and Weak Chest as
thisßalsaui. Where children have whoopingcough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant nowin use; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper
By post, I,.s} and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
SM ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DU ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
made with.a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size yon generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have along thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where vou are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
BLACK OR TAM
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASURE
14/g
Orders, accompanied hy remittance, executed ‘within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
Cheques (Is.) Note the Addrees :
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
17* Kim* imn, nkwtoww.
686 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at


“For what you are about to receive, may
the Lord make you truly thankful,” was the pious
wish the London Stock Exchange wired to the
wily Kruger. Another thing they might have
wished him was a cool head, to be obtained by
using “ Federal Shampoo Freezer.” Ask chemists
and barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., agents.*
WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “D.C.L."
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken i n the right way, is
good for body and mind. It preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Not®
“D.C.L.”*
Chronic Dyspepsia Two Tears,
AND CUKED by WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
“For a period of tioo years I was a great sufferer
from indigestion in the form of chronic dyspepsia.
What I suffered from vomiting, pains in the chest
and head, hysteria, and impoverished blood, I
cannot describe. I consulted three doctors and
tried many so-called remedies, but without deriv-
ing any benefit whatever. In the end I was per-
suaded to try Warner s Safe Cure. I took several
bottles before I found it doing me any good, but I
leapt on, and when I had taken my fourteenth
bottle I was completely cured. This is now fifteen,
months ago, and ever since 1 have been in perfect
health. I feel that I owe not only my health but
my life to this medicine.—B. G. MARGARET
MoDONALD, Albert-street, Chewton, Vic.*
! we Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo.Roe&c?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER &C?
82 A PITT ST.
SYDNEY..
still
>
ASK
FOR
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auctibn Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
liave always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auotion Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIP®
Mattalassk and other Unshiunkablk Shirts
are highly recommended.
SS)- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustvalia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
j jQUNTCASTLE 8c SONS, Brisbane. Q'la-id.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/C ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE 8c SONS, Sole Manufactuiers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
POLITICAL
POINTS
■ ' vas absurd to fine the Age publisher
£lOO for the paper’s alleged contempt of Vic.
Parliament in commenting on the Jackson case,
lhe fine should have been one farthing for the
offence against the Legislature’s dignity, plus
*99 19s. llfd. for impudent misrepresentations.
Subtract the few dozens of big advertising
donations from the sum to date of the N.S.W.
bogus-Patriotic fund and what a beggarly total is
left ! Sydney Evening News has now for many
days been whooping-up shilling subscriptions from
the general public and has raked in .£lO or .£l2
in all.
Wanted, a Parliamentary return showing
the members of N.S.W". Assembly who are also
members of any volunteer regiment; and, where
the member holds the rank of officer, how long he
was in the volunteer service before the rank was
conferred on him, and what examination, if any,
he passed.
In a few days more it is estimated that
Redvers Buller will have 100,000 troops in South
Africa. And the whole adult male Boer popula-
tion, both republics included, isn’t 40,000. It is
suggestive of Germany invading France with
20,000,000 men, or Britain sending 50,000,000 to
attack Russia.
For 20 years Melb. people have talked of
getting the Collingwood railway extended into
the city, and at last the work has begun. The
first shovelful of earth was turned on Bth Nov.
Everything comes some day. Even Sydney’s new
city railway-station, and the North Shore bridge,
and the George-street tram will come some day.
Only three short years ago !
“ To go to war with President Kruger, to enforce upon
him reforms in the internal affairs of his State, in which
Secretaries of State, standing in their places, have repu-
diated all right of interference—that would be a course
of actiou which would be immoral.”— Mr. Chamberlain.
Bth May, 1896.
Only three short years ago !
Brisbane Telegraph: “Had the vote”
(at the Queensland Federal Referendum) “been
numerically, as it teas morally, against the Con-
vention Bill,'” &c. Somebody should" take
“ morally ’ into the back yard and slay it with an
axe. The cry of the fellow who was horribly
licked that he was morally successful makes this
globe tired.
To maintain their grasp of office the Q.
Ministry eat the leek daily. The latest is that,
fearing the angry clamor of disappointed followers
hungry for a job on the contemplated Q. Works
Committee, the Govt. declare it to be a non-party
question. Which is one in the solar plexus for
Forrest, Leahy & Co.—the candid friends of the
lioodlewraith.
Henry Copeland’s sledge-hammer battling
for the Sunday-opening of N.S.W. pubs, is only a
continuation, under changed conditions, of the
rum-and-whisky controversy of Gov. Phillip’s
Botany Bay days. In 1801, the controversy was
for a while silenced by an Order-in-Council de-
claring that all pubs., could open on Sundays after
9 p.m. But they could stay open from Saturday
morning till daybreak on Sunday.
It was persistently rumoured that Premier
Seddon contemplated filling some of the recent
vacancies in Maoriland Legislative Council with
women. There is nothing in the Constitution
against the appointment of lady M.’sL.C., and
nothing elsewhere except old habit. And very
old habit is rather in favor of the idea ; the last
" oman-member didn’t disappear out of the Eng-
lish Parliament till about the time of Henry 111.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Reid’s four Transvaal
Contingent attitudes : (1) That N.S.W. should
send no contingent (as expressed in the minute
which Wise read to the Assembly) ; (2) that it
should send one (asexpressed by cable lateronto the
British authorities); (3) that Lyne (who succeeded
Reid just here) had disgraced N.S.W. by not
getting the Cornstalk forces to S’Africa ahead of
other contingents ; (4) when the N.S.W. men (the
Lancers) did get there first, that Lyne was going
off his head over Contingents and making a fool
of himself. More attitudes daily expected. G.
Reid is opening up his consignment of new spring
attitudes and samples will be on view in a few
days.
“It would never do for Westralia to go
into an immediate and unconditional Federation,”
is the good old parrot-cry of the provincialist mob
in Groperland. But who ever asked these weird
persons to do anything of the kind ? There are
over 200 conditions and sub-conditions enumer-
ated in the Convention Bill; the Federation
offered is just full of conditions, about all of which
Westralia was consulted. Of course it wouldn’t
do for W.A. to form an unconditional Federation.
It wouldn’t do for any country to do it. No
country ever did it, or is likely to. There is no such
thing in the world—except in the imagination of
the old Sandgroper, and in the columns of Perth
Horse Marine Herald.
A number of M.L. papers that have
for long 1 been on the rail now begin to fall
off on the side furthest from Seddon. Pal-
merston Standard declares that the Seddon
party has run to seed, and before there can
be again a healthy and vigorous legislative
growth they must be supplanted by an en-
tirely new set of men who will come fresh to
their work, and not sit like jaded warriors as
the present Ministry are doing. Well, per-
haps Seddon is getting tired—he has done
herculean deeds, and colleagues Hall-Jones
and Jock M'Kenzieand Thomas Thompson
are a heavy load for the old man to carry;
but till the new democratic giants fresh to
their work put in an appearance and give
some earnest of their intentions, M.L. can-
not do better than stick to the old captain
who has done so well. The prospect of
goid-rnnmed Russell, who imports his clothes
iroiT l Lngland, and is the incarnation of
haw, is too dreadful.
Brisbane Telegraph again :
A Frenchman feels a little emotion and displays
nhnw.iim ’ wu Enfe - lishman feels a good deal and
snows little. When injustice was being heaped on
Dreyfus, the raqe of Britons was great but forcibly
expressed and calm. 1
True, the rage of Bull at foreign iniquities
is always something appalling. He howls
about the injustice done to a single French-
man the while his mercenaries makeready
to massacre a nation.
The decision of Yic. Attorney-General
Isaacs to carry Melb. Tramway Co.’s appeal to
the .Privy Council argues that the rats are leav-
ing the sinking ship, for if there were no other
reason Isaacs aotio.n would alienate much demo-
cratic support from the Turnerites. The A.G. goes
to bolster up the most privileged and most sweat-
ing monopoly that infests Victoria, in its
shameless attempt to evade its rates and, though
it might be explained until further orders that a
barrister is merely an advocate, the opponents of
the tram Co. would inevitably associate the Govt,
with the boodling scheme.
Carruthers’ effort to coerce Premier Lyne
into urging Britain to take over the German
possessions in Papua was stimulated by a rumour
current m Sydney circles that Germany is already
negotiating with Great Britain for the surrender
ot British possessions there. A similar rumour
caused Mcllwraith to plant the Union Jack there
in the days of his lusty vigor, and it was through a
rumour that Russia was on the move that a N S W
Governor in 1826 planted the flag on Albany
Utterance by Herbert Asquith, British
M.P., dedicated to Premier Lyne and Edmund
Barton—the Australians who say it is not our
business to canvass the right or justice of British
wars—we must follow Britain blindly—
There are those who think that when national affairs
are going wronsr it is the duty of the patriot to be silent
lest he should embarrass the negotiations, and that when
the mischief has been done it is. his duty to acquiesce.
To me that is a perverted patriotism which I entirely re-
pudiate.
And Barton’s “perverted patriot,” is all the
worse, because, whatever the British quarrel with
the Boers, Australia has none.
GRACE AFTER MEAT.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER : “ What is it your father says after
each meal !”
SMALL MEMBER OF INFANT CLASS : “ Please m he strokes his
stummick this-a-way and”
TEACHER : “ Never mind what he does ; tell me what he SAYS.”
PUPIL : And he says —‘ Ha! ha! Richard is hisself again !’”
About the tallest lie yet told by the sweat-
ing brigade was put forward by a speaker at the
recent Sydney anti-early closing meeting—that
“ early-closing in Melbourne had resulted in 75
per cent, of the small shops in certain suburbs
being to let.” The clumsy person who told this
whopper was most careful not to specify the
alleged suburbs where 75 per cont. of the small
shops are to let. As a matter of fact, he couldn’t
find one where 20 per cent, are to let, and he
probably couldn’t find one where the number of
shops to let has increased since early-closing came
into vogue.
AN AMPLE EDUCATION.
MISS TRACT: “ You should certainly send little
Jimmy to school. He's quite an intelligent hoy,
and should he educated.”
MRS. FRIPPS: “ Well, yer know, mum, I WUZ
thinkin’ of sendin’ him fer a couple er weeks. ”
Latest news is that the Somers Vine New
Guinea Land- Syndicate, which nearly managed
to grab the most valuable part of British Papua
without, as provided by law, getting the assent of
the provinces which stand the expense of adminis-
tration, wants <£sooo from N. S. W. for expenses
incurred in its attempted steal. This is the first
case The Bulletin knows of when the burglar
has publicly demanded that the person whose
house he failed to break into shall pay his cab-fare
to the scene of the intended fraud.
“Lithgow ” to The Bulletin :
Holman is not a blank cartridge. He got his blow in
first, fair and square, and then begged poor old Jingo’s
pardon. “ I did not mean to hurt you quite so much,
and it was the other fellow I meant.” We all know
Holman hit straight from the shoulder, and with all his
heart, and when a friend reads his “explanation” he
puts his tongue in his cheek and winks the other eye,
like any other knowing newspaper-bov. When the great
day of Australia comes, as come it will, may Holman be
there to raise again the red flag, first hoisted at the
Eureka Stockade. Also, may Ashton’s keen brain and
steady hand draw up the Constitution of our Australian
Kepublio. Behold the beginning of the Coming of the
Men 1
It is a very poor argument
—poorer than anything- that
sleeps out in the Domain—that
isn’t good enough for an Anti-
Federalist. As an example The
Bulletin receives from Maori-
land a weighty tome of litera-
ture by that absurd self-adver-
tiser, Dr. Laishley, of Auckland,
with this muddy gem embedded
therein :
True, there is further the lofty bon-
bon idea of belonging to a powerful
neighboring confederation, not only
for defence, but for other purposes,
which has been set forth in such per-
fervid language by the Rev. Canon
MacMuray.
But, notwithstanding illustrations
mentioned by the Canon of success-
ful federations, what of the United
States civil war, and the threatened
revolutions in Norway and Sweden,
Austria-Hungary and Finland, and,
also, what of Ireland and Turkey?
whilst England and Japan—isolated
and small countries—shew that Fed-
eration is not necessary for vigorous
and successful national life.
To all appearance this wonder-
ful parochialist thinks that Fin-
land is federated with Russia ;
that Norway and Sweden are a
Federation instead of two dis-
tinct kingdoms only connected
by possessing the same king,
and that Ireland and Turkey,
of all places in the world, are-
federations. And he isn’t aware
that almost the only spell of
peace and prosperity Austria-
Hungary has known is since the
two kingdoms formed their fed-
eration over 30 years ago.
Apropos N. S. W. Labor
Bureau reports re “ the strong
and willing man, the indolent
and lazy, and the old and incap-
able.” Railway-Commissioner
Oliver stated to a middle-aged
man willing and anxious to
work, that the Commissioners had now a rule
under which no man over 37 years of age would
be taken on as an employ 6.
The weary Continuous Govt, of Bananaland
nearly broke its neck, the other evening, over the
Railway Standing Committee Bill. It was gene-
rally believed that positions on the committee
were to be allotted to Govt, discontents as a com-
pensation for certain little disappointments. For-
rest and Leahy joined hands with the Opposition,
but a Labor pervert saved the Dicksonian bacon
at the eleventh hour by a single vote. The
beginning of the end !
The Bulletin is ready to bet that it can-
nominate a speaker who, on any big gold-mining
field in Australia, granted a fair hearing and a-
representative (i.e., unpacked) meeting of miners,
will obtain a majority in condemnation of Austra-
lia’s aid to England in the Transvaal war. The
Bulletin selects a mining audience because it
regards the gold-miner as the most intelligent and
manly of Australian citizens, and the salt of the
nation.
According to London Chronicle, Cham-
berlain had agreed to submit the wildly-humorous
Transvaal claim for ,£1,000,000 on account of
“moral and intellectual damage” by the Jameson
Raid to arbitration. The damages awarded, if
any, were to have been paid by the Chartered
Co., and Rhodes had promised to refund the co.
the sum, whatever it should be, out of his private
purse. No wonder Rhodes worked for war, see-
ing that the war has sunk this question in
oblivion. At the same time the Boer claim was
absurd. All the “ moral and intellectual damage ’’
suffered in the famous Raid was suffered by the
boodling invaders.
The Maoriland Tories, in proposing to go
back on the principle of State land-ownership and
State leasehold and revert to the old land-sale
policy, are terribly hard-up for an excuse. In
fact, they have no excuse, save their love of land-
lordism, land-jobbing, land-grabbing, and land-
booming. Up to now, every bit of decent land
offered on State least-hold has been applied for
over and over again. If the people wouldn’t take
State leaseholds, then it might be reasonably
alleged that they wanted freeholds instead, but
when they are falling over each other to get the
leaseholds, the cry that the principle is generally
disliked is mere foolishness.
Brisbane Telegraph sticks manfully to its
old lie that the Convention Bill does not provide
for One-man-one-vote in Commonwealth elections,
because though an elector may only vote once in
Queensland there is nothing to prevent him
voting again in another province. It is thin
bunkum, but it is probably the best that the
three-preacher paper can invent. The Bill simply
says (iclauses 8 and 30) that at elections for
either Federal House “each elector shall vote
only once ” —nor that he shall vote only once in
each province, or in each electorate, or each parish,
but that he shall vote “only once.” It Wouldn’t
be more specific than that if it tried.
“A ‘fine old English dish’—the Boar’s
head,’’ writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “and John Bull knows this is the very time
for him to sit down and carve it, comfortably.
The Venezuelan difficulty over, Germany squared,
France lame, Russia busy in the far East,
America laurel-blinded ! why, there’s only the
boar’s tusks to guard his head. Tim latest betting
on ’Change is 7 to 5 the war is ended before the
yacht-races, and 3 to 1 ‘ we’ are in Johannesburg
in three months. The old moth-eaten lion has of
late been much camphorated, and is,-no doubt,
making stupendous preparations to impress the
stalls, where Europe sits observant.”
Melb. Argus, for a change—and no doubt
as a political move—takes the side of Public Inte-
rests in opposition to a powerful monopoly :
The Tramway Co. is notoriously before Parliament at
the present moment. Legislation which deeply touches
its pocket' is being pressed forward by one section of the
House. Not only that, but the Tramway Co. is in the
hands of the Ministry, for the Government is entitled any
day to introduce.a bill to revise the fares charged on the
lines. . . . It may be confidently submitted that no mem-
ber of the Ministry ought to lie in anyway allied with the
Tramway Co., and yet we find the Attorney-General ac-
cepting an enormous fee from its coffers, and leaving hie
duties in order to plead (in London) for the company as
against the municipalities.
Premier Lyne wisely decided not to com-
mit himself to the gorgeous proposal to hold a
Great Exhibition in Sydney in 1901. Sydney had
an exhibition in ’79 and the result was a dead loss
of .£258,000, Just at that time N.S.W. suddenly
increased its borrowings from ,£BOO,OOO to about
■£2,800,000 a year, and its revenue increased by
about .£1,500,000 a year, almost the whole of
this sum being derived from the adoption of a
riotous policy of wholesale auctioneering of publio-
lands. The boom created just then by the throw-
ing about in all directions of the new loan and
land-auction funds is commonly set down to the
fact, that “ the exhibition made the world ac-
quainted with our products and opened up new
markets,” but it was a loan and land-sale boom,
pure and simple. In any case N.S.W. made a
Great Exhibition of itself on Circular Quay, the
other day, which is quite enough for the present.
TO BRITAIN
The mighty have the strongest claim :
Use force, where peoples will not grant 1
But do forego your pious plea.
That makes all nations mutter : Shame !
To your abominable cant,
Your damnable hypocrisy!


Po YoCi
Realise
Wbat tbe
It Means
YOUR SAFEGUARD
when Buying at
PaLINC’S .
Oldest
Largest and
Most Reliable
House means
When applied to
piano s
ORGANS
and MUSICAL c\
INSTRUMENTS \
T(je OLPEST (Here since ’53)
Hence the greatest Experience
Tbe LAR<a€ST
Because they do the
Biggest Business
Tbe MOST
R€LIABL€
r^-Lin^ro-’s
r c(
e^
c ,
\S*&
AS
<P
Violins
Cornets
Pianos
Organs
Music
9
Banjos
Guitars
w
Mandolins
Autoiiarps
Accordeoxs
Concertinas - - and
All Known
Musical
Instruments
V
CALL OR WRITE EOR CATALOGUES—EREE.
N. PALING *C° L™ 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
aOeqSug
puv
Dational Cash [{agisters.
Storekeepers’ CoCipop Register
No. 92.
USERS . .
OPINIONS .
•
“ All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
•
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q.”
fa
. BENEFITS
. OF USE.
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
•
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
• Only Tnie $ Effective Coupon System •
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to
National Casb Register
COMPAKTY.
393 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY .
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Off to the War!
c
o
Copy of letter received from the
well-known Albury cyclist, Mr.
J. Scanlan:
“ Naval Brigade Barracks,
“ Port Melbourne,
“ 7/11/’99.
“ Manager Dunlop Tyre Co., _
“ Melbourne.
“Dear Sir.—Just a few lines
“to thank you for your fore-
“ thought in sending me a pair .of
“ your latest Multiflex Dunlop
“ Tyres for use on the cycle I am
“ taking to the Transvaal. 1
“hope to have an early oppor-
tunity of doing some despatch
“riding whilst with the N.S.W.
“troops, and will certainly feel
“more confident knowing thfit
“Dunlops are fitted, for I well
“ know the good qualties of these
“Tyres when hard riding has to
“ be done on heavy tracks.
“Many thanks for good wishes.
“Yours sincerely,
“J. SCANLAN,
“ New South Wales Infantry.
“F.S.—Wo sail by the s.s. Aberbeen to-day.”
A Very
Noticeable
Fact in connection with all riders of
is that they all recognise the great wearing qualities of these Tyres—and
are not afraid to trust themselves over nil kinds and descriptions of tracks
—thus affording splendid testimony of their Durability and Comfort.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for Tivclvc Months.
$Ae (gimlop pneumatic gyre (go. of (Australasia Lim l d,
4SG KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
fflont de piste Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST. f 74
SYDNEY *
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOKTXHC.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department France.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual pfe
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 George Street ( facin ? Brid g e st -> Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W.Jl'Millan.M.P., A. W. MeekS, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED ... 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
» ~ 2 Years, 5 %
>• „ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGISR,
Aldershot, Queensland.
& LaocaSbire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, Manager.
Tie genkof gorlii Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Sliare-
- llol(iers ... 250,00(5 ... £350,000
TO LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending- you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-082 Gkoroe St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
V\Test & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 25, 12 Noon,
Konoowiirra, Tues.,Nov. 28,12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., December 2,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., November 28, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., November 28, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE 'v
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON f
BUNDABERG J
Tyrian, Sat., Nov. 25, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Nov. 28, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., December 2, 2 p.m.
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., Nov. 25, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., December 2, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GEKALDTON
OAIUNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
r> t Return Tickets Available for Six Months,
return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M'llwraith, M’Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tin Tr6st€€s, CxccOtorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED.... - £160,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... , £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY Jlisoiooo 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,380,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: P. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; .John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
„ FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager. •
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government • .. .. 2,000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 50o'o00
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. _ £3,150,574 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Itishopsfjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenball Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES'
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aerency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robrrts.
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,650.
Policies issued, 79,765 assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PiTT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manageh.
Batik of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Cojonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking' business.
The Bunk also issues Circular Notes in sums of 1:10 or
t 2(), negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RD€€N LINC.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
. T Jl e , follo wing magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
f ?u S3 ?. n ?, e !? by this route t 0 London will avoid the heat
Of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
JDalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.;
ENGLAND
AMERICA
VIA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Leave
Auckland,
Arrive at
San
Franoisco,
25 Jan.
22 Feb.
19 March
*—«.a.iiauio uiiuii used, and Saloon
Passengers can break, their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
* T lnformatio . n > apply Union Steam Ship Co.
i '■?** ktd., Equitable Buildings, George Street
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
(!l‘|lairaith,(l|‘EacharnB (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE GE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL-
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
YX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining: Properties and
' Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer;
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
john Brandon,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNE Y MA IIKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
Star MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address oh application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY 00., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD. .
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK A CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO.. LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON «Ss CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHAUD & 00.
J. 0. YOUNG & 00.
SMpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAISHIPCa
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullarra, Friday, Nov. 24.
’S.S. Wollowra (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, Nov. 28.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And ail North West Ports..
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
November 24.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Tuesday, November 28.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Aliinjra, Friday,
November 24.
S.S. Adelaide, Saturday,
November 25.
Best <(; Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
o. H. YIJILI, AND CO., r.TD., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY,
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Aim meneetorward every alternate week. Kates of
PM.sage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, J 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
Tma . for Passages from England. EDWARD
No. 5 BENT STREET. Sydney
Huddart, Parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST A CSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australians. S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE
nnr) d ? B A P D^ C KT e Melbo,lrl| e and Sydney to CHINA
and JAP AN PORTS at regular intervals—
«^.T ERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply co
GlbbSj Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.I.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reer. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Bum in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons' cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing; Qualities Maximum Speed,
barety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers Or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
the popular passenger link
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS hooked to Bontbav, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES- ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marsei-lles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everv assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
The ways of many waters
By E. ,J. Brady. Price 5/-.


Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
TIIB famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
TTAS TTTT7! T A aa t tti a mtt
OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence SufW>r-Q t , -r, . ~ ,
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are R „hW. V« rvjk JT O L® .??. Ugh ’ Hoarseness, Pain
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither Comr’horA w'l im ' aluable > as effects a . Complete Cure.
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine No I " . to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop, consumption ims
and a Complete Cure is certain. fly with this medicine, ho house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
It is most com*
Consumption has
B€WAR€ OF COU<*HS!
REMEMBER THAI EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO
THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTEBESTED THAT HE
CAR 111 ED OFT THE EMPT V TURTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received front nty mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will'glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a nmrtvr to ,
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to nte.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is verv
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld front publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEAKNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
«r> o- T ■u . “Dergholm, Victoria.
Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressinglv bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’without, avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had hut two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may-depend upon my making known the efficacy of vour
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
dose^L? 86 ?. o^“ y - *"* “ cured each of them in from one to three
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. aT B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Padding-ton, Sydney.”
both au-onderiul rLd °of w 79,a ?? 1 ani §' ,a,! to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria!" ' f d fgod> L hav ' nB ' q u,ck| y cured us both.-R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
mtiSIZ&S b«““ * »■«"’. *• U>«»»»the,m g h*. C.,».
“I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid’medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
culty of tes'all^one?—J. S N.”s! W?”* 6 thC time ‘ The di ®'
Queemstree?! d Melbourne!” "’ aS ’ dist « ,peared after Uv ° doses.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
The cur.™
“Your Bronchitis Cure /s usual, acted splendidly. -C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
valuab^SirinT'ty! .)' ’jf
G. S BYTE R, 6 "bo uric e^Nei^ I South ow *\ Th ; result was -marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.-W. LETTS, Hey wood, Victoria.”
sidi^Ne iAVahfs”™ ,S th<? # St 1 6Ver had ' lam recommendin F !t to everybody.-S.
Point,™®,■ D?rlingforf, r y"cffi.”° U . re 1 ffot from >’ ou " as -agical in its effects.-CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OAYN
CIRCLE.
“ Th e Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street; Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during’ the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three vears ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
‘ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
. nr n “69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine-, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in. the sales of vour
Bronchitis Cure.’’-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S. W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
'W. Gr. HE AE AE, Chemist, Greelong*, Victoria.
rwcx Oo • T n-M/M/v A « n J «.1 .1 1 /VI • - .
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address ufan not obtainable Locally.
(LIMITED), •
(LaTsie Illawarra), near SYDUEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
producers
OF
fine silver.
Si
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
•.brand of..
SOFT LEAD.
mchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS TEWT-Ttt^®.
BI0B » ™ OES ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT SWEEP
* or all mloimatioa regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manag
KEFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
;er, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food for
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of nil Wh o/ ,. 5 „,,, House* -
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
The aged.
-T~3 o oltß. -Books. Books.
p°PULAR KDUC AT OR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for 11. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
, U C .^. C ' o P®*“ a , bound half-calf, up-to-date edition, lO vots.,
ti 10s. for i 2 15s. The Historj' of Australian Bnshrarifr-
inir, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6cf. each. All
books sent post. free. Kindly mention this 7'>o.per.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
106 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
VafOable Books-
Man, Know Thyself,
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOR 63, IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
w. N. Jeokios,
41 Stephen Street,
• Melbourne.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
J",l no^™ ite Pari ° ian taste. Seventy Samples Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes,' and Large IlhislVated
25 a s S - Care i ul, y s elected aMoftments, ?6s.
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNKRT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEN [) FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
0F RARE, CURIOUS,
. f AND la ughable BOOKS.
As advertised in the li,u;strathd LoSDon Standard.
Post Free from
_Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st , Sydney.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
THE SILVER RIBBON name-plate on the
EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
stands for your money’s worth in Bicycles.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters -Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted freo on application
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, etc.—at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very tuoder-
at rates.*
• * • •
“ Asmodeus ”: To a recent pigeon-match at
St. Albans (about 40 miles from Windsor, N.S.W.) a boy,
who has never been away from the village in his life, took
a box of carrier pigeons’ and for every “ bird ” missed he
tossed a carrier in the air, which would entice the other
bewildered pigeon home to the boy’s pigeon-house, the
shoot-birds being strange to the locality. He thus secured
a lot of pigeons. No occasion to teach the young idea,
&c., down that way.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and IIow to Cure Them,’’ by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Let those who have never been bamboo-
zled betake them unto Hordern’s in Pitt-street and
there undergo that experience in an entirely new
sense—due to the surprising variety of bamboo-
blinds which that firm is now showing. The
quality is only one (the best), the sizes and prices
are many, the place is 203-211 Pitt-street, and the
time is now —“Summer is a-comin in ! ” *
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
K
4
K
l
K
i-
it HZ it
Sled Siird Quality dproeket.
Found only
1900 Model
Red Birds.
Another feature in improved bicycle construction, first introduced by us,
is the Cycloidal Sprocket. Notice the way the chain fits! No friction!
~ No wear! No lost power! Compare it with other block aud roller chains
after a tew months use, and while you will find one worn and useless, the Red Bird pear will be in
perfect order.
Our chain is made with a tempered pin, nickel steel plates and block*. We make them ourselves,
as no part of our cycles is trusted to parts makers. For this reason Red Birds run easier and last
longer. They re right, because they’re built right at the start.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
Cbe 6oold Bicycle Co., Ctd
Factories:—
Brantford, Canada.
everywhere.
Australasian Branches
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in 4uc->
261 Collins-BT., Melbourne, Vke.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Vic-ft>RiA-ST., Wellington N.Z.
AGENTS WANTED IN ALL TOWNa
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
4-lOyds. running supremacy, contested
at University Oval, Sydney, on Saturday, was won by
Buchanan, with Lindsay, 2yds. away, second. Both are
pupils at Sydney'Grammar School, whence world’s chain,
pion amateur swimmer, Lane, came a year or two ago.
Barton, crack middle-distance Bananaland ped., who ran
tnira in Australasian quarter-mile premiership, recently
occupied same position in event under notice. Satur-
day s time (Msec.) was only l-ssee. slower than Shea's
(Vic.) for the burger honor in Brisbane, Nov. 9. Austral-
asian amateur record (50 l-ssec.) stands to the credit of
W. r. Macpherson, and has remained on the books seven
l e Z S ' bas been covered twice on Stamford
Biidge (London) oblong track in while American
" ' ? 7^ er - P ,c l ef * atrainst time on a straight course, put
" r,te r recollects, over 20 years back, when
Theo. Richards, Charlie Rush, Pal Simpson, giant-
cricketer Bonner, and demon-bowler Spofforth used to
compete at Association Ground, Sydney, one or more of
them could throw the 440 behind in about 48 dead, or
very little over. Deterioration in value of performances
n )?y Probably account for lack of public interest in our
athletic games.
* * • •
At Metropolitan Amateur Games on XJniver-
S 'u 9 val (Sydney), Saturday, Dawson (Crown-street
school) won 100yds. public-schools championship (17 and
under) of N.S.W. by 3yds. from Henderson (Dulwich Hill
school) in the very for a youngster, of llsec.
*i. i^P ond, i li f”(^* n « eB » W - A -)s “ Re assertion
that Chapman jumped Oft. over cross-cut saw at Wilcan-
ma (N.S.W.). ltoh Chapman never jumped 6ft. high in
his hte. Can count Australian high-jumpers with
authenticated records of Oft. ami over on lingers of one
hand.” Bulletin only knows of one (Conroy), but has
heard about others, chiefly from themselves
* • • a
Last year Bacon beat Deerfoot's record for one
hours running. Now Watkins has eclipsed Bacon’s
record ; also beating Cummings' 10-mile record by a
second during the journey. Cummings’ performance was
done in an actual match against \V. 0. George, whereas
Watkins was running time and was aided by pacers.
* * ♦ *
Black Tom Mitchell and white Tom Foy—each
credited with a long list of battles, of a sort—were
br ught together Saturday night by Golden Gate A.C.
(Sydney). Cognoscenti admired the club’s pluc-k in giv-
ing a fat purse to two such unreliables. Referee cau-
tioned them that there wouldn’t be a cent for either if it
was anything but real fight from the word go 700
people looked on. Foy, short, thick-set, muscular, stood
inches under the lank, lathy-limbed negro, who
about as if on wires. Mitchell sent straight jabs home
unerringly every time Foy led. None of the coon’s
punches were heavy, but they got there often. Now and
again Foy landed and made the dancing darkev wince
but, as a rule, his savage rights—and he relied on the
dexter member most—described parabolas in the air and
brought up against nothing. So matters progressed
very tame on the whole-till round 7, when white let
himself loose, and banging away fiercely with both hands,
gave black a direful time, but couldn’t get the settler
home. Ultimately, midway through the ninth 3mins.,
Foy cried a go, alleging that his arm was maimed. This
may have been correct, but writer thinks that the same
old weak spot asserted itself owing to the failure of the
onslaught two rounds previously.
* * * •
In three fight* at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney)
last week, white opposed black; former (Watson, Smith
and Foy) were pitted against “ Warrigal,” chocolate God-
frey, ami Tom Mitchell respectfully. To-night, at same
place, black meets white again in the persons of Tom
Easier (“ The Kaffir ”) and Tom Cox, of W.A
* • • •
Monday next, at Golden Gate A.C., Sydney
Maorilander Otto Cribli will be up against what looks the
stilfest task yet set him, in the person of sturdy, deep-
chested, muscular Jack Tuekwell, of Riverstone (N.S.W.)
meat-works. 'Twill be a great night for the butchers,
who are sure to he on their champion to a man. Cribb
listens to all that is said re the man-eating capabilities of
his prospective adversary, and then quietly remarks—
“ I’ll collect the purse and stakes on Tuesday morning.”
Same night at West Wyalong (N.S.W ) iniddleweights
Jack Conlon and mine-manager Jack Goggin meet again.
Latter has been preparing in Melbourne under the crack
Vic. trainer Jack Marshall for a month or more. Conlon
—brimful of confidence in himself as a result of his
previous quick win—kept on laying the odds on pony
oourses and did the Cup instead of getting ready. Up
to -date, he has only put in two weeks’ work—hence
Goggin's chance doesn’t look too bad. There’ll be heaps
of coin for the miner and a good lump for the Sydneyite.
M.L. Tim Murphy (Vic. champion middle-
weight) is in Sydney, “ spoilin’ for a fight.” He has been
trailing his coat round—first among his own division, then
among the heavyweights of all the provinces, but nan-
one picks up the gage. Tut Ryan made a grab, anil
looked like toeing the mark, but he backed down, begging
to be excused. Meanwhile, at his wits' end how to raise
the wind for a trip Americawards, Timothy offers £1 for
every round any man—bar Bill Jennings', Peter Felix,
Bill Doherty and Mick Dunn—will stand up to him,
Murphy taking the “ gate ” if he triumphs.
• - • » •
Champion swimmer Lane continues “down
under.” At Shoreditch Baths (Eng.), 14th ult., he got
away with Thistle club’s I33yds. handicap in 1 min.
4-sths sec. ; but at Otter S.C. gala, when seeming to
have his heat of 100yds. Invitation Handicap well in
hand, lie eased off, allowing someone else to get home.
English swimming scribes say that, judged by the time
of the final, Lane couid have won with seconds to spare.
Later, Southern Swimming Association Council met, and
attention was drawn to the fact of a competitor at Otter
S.C. function not persevering in his heat; delegates de-
cided that offender should be carpeted. If Lane was re-
ferred to. it is any odds the matter was susceptible of
explanation—he was ill, or something else. Betting is
not likely to have been the influence, as very little of it
is done in swimming, and then only when champions
meet for stakes.
» * * *
Oct. 2 English champion swimmer Jarvis
created new figures, 13tn. 435. for 1000yds., lowering pre-
vious amateur best by lm. 195., and professional fastest
by 10s. All records from and inclusive of 50vds. up were
eclipsed, times being—sooyds., om. 38s. ; 600, Bm. 3s. ;
700, 9m. 2S£s. ; SOO, 10in. 58 2-ss. ; 900, 12m. 17 2-ss.
» * • *
Sydney’s experiment in sending an 8-oar crew,
rowing on sculling principles, to represent her in the
liiterprovincial race at Melbourne on Saturday last was a
failure, as Victoria at once took the lead and was not
afterwards troubled. It was thought before the race that
for a mile the N.S.W. eisiht might take the lead when the
exhausting style would be sure to bring them back, and
so it proved in their showing with Q. and South Aus-
tralia. After the first dash died out t hese latter drew up
level with N.S.W., and it was only when the latter
changed their style to a long steady stroke that they came
away and left the pair to fight it out. The Victorian
rowing was machine-like. In future, when experiments
in style are to be made, it would lie as well to try them
on other than ail liiterprovincial race.
In J. J. Daley, who won the amateur sculling
championship rowed after the 8-oar race, N.S.W. possesses
the best amateur Of his weight Australia has vet pro-
On Saturday his only opponent was the list. 101 b«
W. r. Slack, of Brisbane. Slack dashed away with the lead
but Daley, who did nob bustle himself in the least, soon
passed him and pot home 15 lengths to the good. Daley,
who is only a handful of a youngster—9st. 101 b.—is an
enthusiast who throws no chance away in his training,
and invariably conies to the post fit. Good judges give
him a great future at the game.
• • • •
“ Uncle Tom w Brassey created a diversion at
Saturday’s yachting shivoo by seating himself in his
dingy, and rowing through the calm with his little
yacht hanging on a tow-rope behind. The crew lay
back enjoying themselves, while Uncle did all the hard
S'raft, and earned only the cheers of the crowd on the
pier.
* * • .
They all do it—but Bill Beach. Edward Hait-
ian now owns a pub. in Montreal, Canada. And, by the
way, Beach has broken out in a fresh place, being- now
judge at the Dapto (N.S.W.) Racing Club. Also, he has
broken out in two fresh places. In the recent batch of
new N.S.W “Jay Pees" is the name “ William lieach,
Dapto." “To such base uses 1 ”
... *
The luck of the game was shown in bowling-
matches between N.S.W. premier club (City) and Vic-
torian clubs last week. M.C.C. beat the visiting 16 on
Monday by 3, despite the fact that latter secured a long
lead in the early part. Tuesday, Albert Park beat the
Sydneyites by 23, but Wednesday saw latter whip
J-leinington and have 30 to spare. Then came Prahran—
a match between N.S.W. and Vic. champion teams.
N.S.W. won, after a tussle, with 5 to the good.
• * * •
Secretary A. E. Butler, of Sydney champion
bowling club (City) died on Saturday, aged 72. He was
45 years a howler. Few better authorities on card-games
particularly whist and its offshoot, solo—existed. Under
the pen-name of “Old Reciprocity’’he solved and pro-
pounded d.d. problems of the stiffest character with coin-
parattve ease, and enjoyed the work. He was at Ballarat
m the stirring early fifties, and owned mining interests
there. Saw bruisers Harry Sallars, Joe Kitchen, Black
Douglas, Jack Carstairs and Dick Hunt get to it when in
their prime. By and by deceased was a butcher, in a big
way, and later held the post of city-treasurer at Rich-
mond (\ ic.). The land-boom collapse ultimately left him
stranded, with thousands of others.
• * * »
N.S.W.—Q. cricket match aroused little inter-
est, though the same old crowd gazed hour after hour at
the newspaper office scoring-board from the opposite side
of the street. Rain on Friday caused a postponement of
the beginning till next day, when 3000 spectators scat-
tered themselves about the ground—a£9o gate resulting.
Monday saw only 600 (all told) looking on. The cricket
in many instances was good, though it dragged weari-
somely at times. Previous match between these two
provinces was played in Brisbane two years ago, when
N.S.W. won by an innings and 101 runs. Trumper, hero
of present match so far, was the 12th man.
• * * *
There was no stonewalling about the two
century men (Trumper and Dorman) in N.S.W.’s innings
against Queensland on Sydney Cricket Ground last
Saturday. _ After luncheon both men were in the forties,
and the pair rattled up the score, run for run, till Donnan
was 9S to Trumper’s 96. But the latter was first to the
century, and then outpaced Donnan by running to 145,
whilst Donnan scored 113 and lost his wicket. Trumper
continued to score at a rapid pace until 208 stood to his
name, when he was caught by Campbell. Trlunper has
come hack from England a hard hitter—the most pro-
nounced difference in his play being that he now lifts the
hall where he used to send it along the carpet. When
nearing the half-century he gave two chances, but after
that the innings was faultless.
*'* • •
S.A. and Victoria meet in the first Sheffield
Shield match of this season on Adelaide Oval this Friday
(24th). If “paper” form is anything, S.A. should win.
Darling made 259 (not out) in his first club-match after
his return, I.yons has made two centuries, and Reedman
and F. Jarvis one each. Jones is in great bowling form,
hut Giffen is being thumped by club batsmen, and has
much gone off. Melb. batsmen have had such bad
weather that S.A. has a strong chance of catching them
out of form.
* ' • *
Failing a speedy settlement or compromise,
S.A. and N.S.W. will not meet each other at cricket this
season. The first match is invariably plaved at Adelaide
early in December. S.A.C.A. has decided to stand by its
latest offer (one-third of gross takings, less 15 per cent.),
and as both Associations are adamant and declare that
the other body is “ bluffing,’’ an early agreement looks
unlikely. If these two matches are lopped off the season
where are the rising Australian players to get their ex-
perience for next year’s battles with England ?
* • • *
Wardill returns to Australia determined.that
the next cricket-team doing England must have better
terms. Marylehone Club cleared £6OOO from the first
test-match—an eye opener. Many of the English county
clubs almost depend on the Australian matches for their
existence.
* • • •
Jim Phillips, the evergreen Melb. Club prof,
bowler and Australian umpire, has abandoned cricket
and is studying mining. He acted as scorer for the just-
returned Australian team.
*”* » •
Favorites for the big wheel-event of the year—
the Austral—are thick as Geo. Reid even now. Parsons
(90yds.) is among the best-fancied—a fair measure of his
old dash would almost see him through. Italian Boidi,
lately hack from W.A., improves on last season’s form,
arid with 80yds. should be dangerous. McCombe (N.S.W.),
140yds., will give trouble. R. W. Lewis, one of the first
batch (20yds. in front of the scratch division), is said to
be travelling at a greater rate and with more stamina
than ever. P. R. Beauchamp on 150yds. has prospects
second to none. Sutherland (the M.L. rider alongside
Lewis), plucky, speedy and level-headed, must be con-
sidered. Farley (120), Dawson (150), and Doyle (180),
look like leading the back-makers a merry dance.
“Piugger” Bill Martin (scr.) may work himself to the
front—but it will be a big task.
* * • «
Handicapper Dakin wrote to|V.R.C. commit-
tee, last week, asking for an inquiry into the running of
April Fool at the Cup meeting. On the Thursday (Oaks
Day), the handsome “Fool” finished nowhere‘in the
Carnival Handicap (1J mile), hut, two days later, he
made a holy show of a big field in the Final Handicap,
over the same distance. Mr. Dakin complains that “such
performances make the work of handicapping on equit-
able lines an impossibility,” hut the V.R.C. committee
is not likely to do anything to soothe his feelings. April
Fool’s sudden improvement was only a little more startling
than Parthian’s. In the case of Mr. Long’s colt, the
jockey who bestrode him when he was badly beaten on
Cup Day attributed Parthian’s failure to the greasy
going. The course was also somewhat greasy on the
Thursday, when Parthian won. Yet the explanation
was accepted. Nobody could deny that the greasness
had diminished in the meantime. April Fool’s jockey
trainer, and owner can plead much the same excuse!
The erratic animal was unable to do well on the rather
muddy course, wheieas he could travel at a great hat
when the ground had hardened a little, it may be said.
If the slight difference in the “ going” between Tuesday
and Saturday was considered sufficient to account for a
great difference in Parthian's form, the further slight
change which happened between Thursday and Saturday
must be accepted as an explanation of April Fool’s eccen-
tricities.
• • * •
A Melb. insurance man, who was expecting an
event, dreamt that he saw by his bedside a cradle of
twins, and he set to work to interpret the dream. He
finally decided, over a list of possible starters for Derby
and Cup, that Providence had given him the straight
wire, and he backed' Merriwee for the double, and
pocketed £5OO over the deal.
* * * *
The most cocksure man who has ever fluttered
on the Australian turf turned up at Remington on Derby
Day with a large yellow handbag, strapped over his
shoulder, in which to carry home his winnings. When
Caulfield Cup was run this sanguine young man was
clerking in a riverside establishment.. lie went to Caul-
field with no knowledge of horses or of the mysteries of
the ring, and backed every winner, bar One, converting
30s. into 450 in a few hours. Then the favorite of fortune
went incontinently balmy on betting, believing himself
inspired with an unearthly power of picking winners.
He took his £5O to Flemington, and his bag for the spoil,
and lost every cent he possessed on the first two races.
* * * *
When the rain was driving in cataracts up the
lavvn on Cup-day the V.R.C. secretary stood on an
eminence by the stand, with the breeze whistling through
his patriarchal whiskers, a monument of woe. Then an
X« e ?I ln,r P ressnian yelled from the members' stand :
Cold blows the blast across the Moore ! ”
• • * •
The publication of snap-shot photos, of the
Miller family seems to he the Australasian's first object
in life. It is a safe thing to bet that the next number of
the bulky weekly will contain more or less Miller in its
inevitable race-meeting illustrations.
* * * m
Mayo is considered to have a mortgage on
Hawkejbury (N.S.\V.) handicaps, but what must be said
ot W. It, Wilson in re Williamstown (Vic.) Cup? In '9O
he won it with Merman, now in England. '97 saw him
run second to Battalion with Majestic. He got home
with Auriterous in '9B, and this year succeeded with
Delusive.
"** * •
Sixteon started for M.L. Cup, won by Major
George’s Seahorse. T«te div., £l3 2s. Just prior to
the meeting, the Nelson-Monga colt had gone out of the
market, and rumors were current that he would not face
the flag. Rider Lindsay had £390 to nothing from
owner.
• • * *
How superior the trotting-horse is in Maori-
land may be judged by the fact that Boswell, by Boston,
a maiden, lately won a two-miles trot in smin. 4J4sec.
* * • •
M‘Manus, who shot himself in Sydney the
other day, was, until a year or so since, a prominent
figure on the turf and occasioitall.va higgamblerat pigeon-
matches. It is stated that he ruined himself “ punting.”
lie owned, among other horses, Survivor (now in Eng-
land), until it passed into Kelso’s hands.
• * * *
At the recent Gawler (S.A.) meeting, those who
took a 10s. tote-ticket, and planked it on Parthian in
Evanston Handicap, collected £5B 14s. 6d. Bookie's
price, 10 to 1.
* * • •
“ The * Water Lily,’ as Mrs. Langtry De Bathe
is now called,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “lost the Csesarewitch of’99 assisted by Merman.
She intended to win with ihe old Melh. Cupper’s (Grand
Flaneur’s) progeny, and far and wide laid on all her
friends—they are now ‘laid out.’ Nightly, on the con-
clusion of ‘The Degenerates,’ has the fair owner sped by
special train to Newmarket to press a kiss of grease-paint
on Merman’s brow as he slept coiled in his manger with
lus head beneath his wing. At Kempton Park, in the
IJ4-mile October Plate, at 3 to 1 on, he led to the last
400yds., only to be beaten by St. Ja, and to fall from 9’s
to 25 sin the Caesarewiteh betting. But the money went
on, as the ‘Lily’ was confident still. Practically at Ihe
last moment Robinson, the trainer’s relative, was ordered
off the pigskin by the owner, who proposed that Charley
Wood should mount. Then the trainer otitspake : ‘lf
you do, out go your horses from my stable,’ and Lily
became the ‘ woman who didn’t ’—after a battle—and
Merman sauntered home third last, while his backers
took oaths re women-owners—and whiskies. The handi-
capping of the race was shown to he grandiloquently
idiotic, the winner (Scintillant, 7st.) and runner-up
(Ereildoune, 7st. 91b.) carrying 91b. and. 101 b. respectively
over their original weights. Mrs. Langtry has decided
not to write her‘Life.’ It is well —for if she did, 6he
wouldn’t.”
• • • •
“Turncoat Bill” Copley, sneering at the S.A.
Govt.’s employment of miners to keep its cyanide plants
going, suggested that the Govt, should buy some horses
to run on the racecourses it owns. Well? Anyhow,
Paisley (Scotland) Municipal Council has just started its
own race-meetings.
* * * *
Mao., though a councillor and secretary of the
local racing-club, has not “ had the advantages.” So
when a local horse-owner decided to call his neddy
“ Spondulix,” Mac. waxed indignant. “Spondulix be
hanged !” he said. “ Call him something that a man can
spelt.” “Well, how would Carbine do?” “That’s
better,” said Mac., and he serenely jotted down “ Kar-
byne.”
•‘• • •
At present about half the Adelaide population
is laid up with influenza, the other half rides a bike;
what is left devotes its time to tote-betting. According
to a local divine, little girls going to Sunday-school,
instead of discussing the iniquities of Sodom and Gomor-
rah, dilate at length on the respective chances of horses
for the next race. And pennies that should convert the
heathen float away to Ikey Mo or the machine.
* * * *
At a recent M.L. trot-meeting the driver of the
certainty in the big race wore a spectacle-looking
arrangement which stuck out about a foot in front of his
nose, said glasses being represented by two little mirrors
faced backwards so that the driver could see other com-
petitors behind him. He came in second.
* * * *
Van Bruggins’ Gravy Beef, heavily backed for
the chief race at a recent Smellbourne pony-meet, dead-
heated with de Smith’s Ginger, who was “ dead hut
hard to hold. Everyone knew that Ginger was “stiff,’’
and as he went out for the run-off, with his owner walking
beside him, the “books” gathered round and bawled to
the jock, “Lay yer five yer don’t win,” “a tenner yer
go down,” etc. “D’ye think they’ve livened him'?’,
enquired Van Bruggins, anxiously, when de Smith
returned. “Dunno!” said de Smith. “Don’t matter
much ; I’ve just sneaked a hunk of lead out of his hag.
Nothin’ like luttkin’ a cert ot it.” The hooks loudly
snorted applause when Ginger won, hard-held, but they
tore their hair and groaned when he was declared “short
weight,” and the race given to Gravy Beef. “ Nothing
like making a cert of it.”
* * • *
One Sydney tote-runner has, in seven years,
paid £ll6O in fines and court costs (to say nothing of his
personal legal expenses, &e.) for breaches of the anti-
gauibling law.
* * * *
While the world’s premiership fight between
Fitzsimmons and .Jeffries was progressing in New York,
the various blows anil situations were recorded on
screens in front of ’Frisco newspaper offices thousands of
miles away, and ’Frisco Examiner had two top-notch
bruisers in the office being photo’d in probable positions
when any particular punch was delivered. London,
Glasgow, and N.Y. journals went one better over re- •
cent Goliimbia-Shamrock drifting-matches. All worked
together; 50 experts flashed every movement of vessels to
various offices. A swift yacht was chartered to follow
the “race,” paying out loose cable connected with At-
lantic submarine wires. On eminences of Coney Island
and New Jersey, reporters stood with powerful telescopes.
London, Glasgow, and N.Y. papers, concerned in the
compact, gave shifting illustrations (termed “ Cincyach-
tographe”) of the contest as it proceeded. Evening
News screen on Thames Embankment; was viewed by
40,000 at one time. N. Y. sea-board and a stretch of the
Atlantic were depicted, yachts travelled to the stake-
boat and back in grooves cut on the screen; Shamrock
had green, and Columbia red lights.
The Glory of Man.
The crown and glory of manhood is strength—
power. All human conquests have been won by
it; individual and collective. The earliest sign of
decay in man is not usually pain, but weakness of
some kind—of mind, or body, or both. This may
be the inevitable sequence of advanced years, or
it may, as we all know, show itself at any period
of life. But it always means that the sources of
strength are failing, as the lessening of the water
in a river means a drying up of the springs and
streams which feed it.
I said “sources” of strength, using the plural
word. I should have said “ source ” of strength,
for in human beings there is but one. What is it ?
Perhaps the experience of Mr. David Jones will
help us to an answer.
“ In the summer of 18S1,” he says, “ I began to
feel ill and out of sorts. I was weak and tired
and quite worn out with little exertion. I had a
poor appetite, and after eating had pain and
weight at the chest. My secretions were scanty
and thick. My back felt stiff and gave me much
pain as I moved about. For three years I suf-
fered like this, being at times better and then
worse. I consulted a doctor, who gave me medi-
cines and recommended Turkish baths ; but I got
no better for any kind of treatment.
“ My brother then told me about Mother Sei-
gel’s Curative Syrup, but I had no faith in adver-
tised medicines, lie, however, urged me to take
it, and after taking a few doses 1 experienced so
much relief that I continued with it,and was soon
strong and well as ever. Since that time I take a
dose of this remedy when I feel at all ailing, and
it sets me right. 1 have praised Mother Seigel's
Syrup to all my friends, many of whom have
tried it and been benefited by it. You can pub-
lish this statement if you like. (Signed) David
Jones, 1 Dunlace-street, Walton, Liverpool, July
31, 189 G.”
We have room for one more short letter before
we try to come at the answer to the question with
which we set out. It is exactly in the same line,
and ought to make the results of our enquiry all
the more clear and plain.
“ In the spring of 1888,” proceeds the writer,
“my health began to fail me. I felt languid and
heavy, as if something had come over me. I had
a bad taste in the mouth, my appetite was poor,
and the little food I took gave me pain across the
chest and between the shoulders. My food lay
like lead on my stomach. I was constantly
spitting up a thick phlegm, and when in bed
heavy sweats came over me. I got weaker and
weaker, and from time to time was confined to
bed. Often I was so bad I could not dress or un-
dress myself.
“Now better, now worse, but never well, I
suffered for over five years. I took different kinds
of medicines, and had a doctor, but got no real
benefit from anything.
“ In July, 1893, a hook was left at my house in
which I read of cases like mine having been cured
by Mother Siegel’s Syrup. I got a bottle from
the International Tea Company, Yeovil, and be-
gan taking it. In a short time-1 felt much benefit,
and, by continuing with it, gained strength. I
could eat better, food agreed with me, and by-and-
by I was strong and well. But for Mother Seigel's
Syrup I believe 1 should not now be alive. You
are at liberty to publish this statement. (Signed)
(Mrs.) Jane Cronel, 82 Huish, Yeovil, November
29th, 1895.
What, then, do these cases show to be the source
of strength? The answer is, Digested Food. That
and nothing else. All strength, of body or of
mind, comes from that, and that only. What,
then, is the great enemy of strength, the fountain
of weakness? Indigestion—dyspepsia. You see
why and how. A child could not miss the argu-
ment. What, then, restores strength ? Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. In what way? By setting the
digestive machinery in healthy operation. That
is what it did for our correspondents and does
daily for multitudes. Use it if you need it, and
pass the news to other weak ones.


" POINTS TO REMEMBER "
for SMOKERS.
JULIAN
KEEP YOUR PIPE CLEAN;
ROLL YOUR TOBACCO UP
CAREFULLY; LIGHT IT
WELL, AND SEE THAT
IT BURNS PROPERLY
FROM THE START. . .
THEN ALWAYS GET
DERBY
Tobacco.
This Is the finest, both in flavor and manufacture,
In the universe* Nothing could possibly be better.
Smoke nothing but “DERBY,” and you will always
get the maximum amount of pleasure out of your pipe
WHAT KRUGER WANTS BADLY
*' (Just Now)
A Cool Head!
LIKE MOST PEOPLE THIS HOT WEATHER. To be
obtained by using
Federal SbafQpoo Freezer
(A Dry Shampoo). Ask Chemists and Barbers for it.
Elliott Hr os. , A (tents, Sydney.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ Kin°;-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. _ __
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
A FEW “POINTS”
9
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
O
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT,
AND
Soothes the Aching Part.
and wherever pain is present Homocea 01
Homoeea Embrocation should be used.
Sold bv all Ktaraksgrri. General Dealert, and Chemists.
*
ffRFECI
r
r»*
TUB
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘ DOMINION ’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEY
Sol? Distributing Ag?l)t
for A6&tralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-260 Clarence Street, Sydney .
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0K...
Opals, Pearls * Sappbirss
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. BENJAMIN aod SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
1,0 any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, I Us. 1!«l.
Sole Agents:
\
‘me liexu.lt.
Craig & Aitken, 680-63.2 G3orge-st.. Sydney
Public Notices.
MEMORANDUM
FOR
of
REGISTRATION
THE QUEEN RIVER GOLD DREDGING AND
SLUICING COMPANY, No Liability.
1. The name of the Company is to be The Qu»en River
Gold Dredging and Sluicinu Company, No Liability. _
•2 Tna first place of operations (or intended operations)
is at. the Queen River, near Queenstown, Tasmania.
3. The first registered office of the Company will be
situated at 85 Clarence-street, Sydney.
4. The value of the Company’s intended property, in-
cluding the plant and machinery,-is £22;, 500.
6. The amount of money at the credit of the Company,
or any person on its behalf, is £750, and the -total
liability of the Company or which the Company is in-
tended to assume or undertake, is £23,000. _ .
6 The nominal capital of the Company is £3O,C ,0 in
30,000 shares of £1 each, of which 22,500 shares of £1
eac h are to be issued as fully paid up. .
7. The number of contributing shares subscribed for is
3500. ... . .
8. The name of the provisional manager is Charles
Alfred Edgar Banks, 85 Clarence-street, Sydney.
9. Ten per centum of the contributing capital has been
dulv paid up in cash. ... , . . ...
10 The only contracts f cred into on behalf of this
Company are' those of wl.a.h the particulars are stated
hereunder— .... . , r
1. AGREEMENT dated twenty-ninth day of May, one
thousand eight hundred and nine-nine, between
EDWIN GEORGE CLARKE, Vendor, of the one
part; and CHARLES ALFRED EDGAR BANKS,
Purchaser, of the other part.
2. AGREEMENT, dated the tenth day of July, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, bet ween
CHARLES ALFRED EDGAR HANKS, of Sydney,
vendor of the one part, and EDWARD
PRICHARD BASSETT, of Sydney (as Trustee
for the Company), of the other part, for the
acquiring by the Company of ten acres held
under Gold-mining Leases Nos. 102-98 and 103-98,
and three miles of river bed in the Queen River,
held under “ Licenses for Dredging Claims.”
Dated this seventeenth day of November, one thousand
eight hundred and ninety-nine.
We, the persons whose names and addresses are sub-
scribed, hereby apply to Register the Queen River Gold
Dredging and Sluicing Company, No Liability, as a No
Liability Company.
Witnesses. Signatures.
John Scott R. H- V. Kelly, clerk, 00 Bayswater-
road, Darlinghurst.
John Scott Arthur Roberts, accountant-, 40 Dar-
linghurst-road, Sydney.
John Scott Frank A. Waller, merchant, 85 Clar-
ence-street, Sydney.
John Scott Marcel Cuenod, merchant, Paynton,
Clenmore-road, Sydney.
John Scott James Connor, clerk, Waverley-road,
Waverle.v.
John Scott R. St. Clair Johnson, clerk, Rugby,
Manly.
John Scott Chas. Banks, Hotel Australia, mer-
chant, Sydney.
DECLARATION VERIFYING MEMORANDUM FOR
REGISTRATION.
I, CHARLES ALFRED EDGAR BANKS, of Sydney,
in the colony of New South Wales, Company Manager, do
hereby solemnly declare and affirm that—(l) lam the
Manager (or Provisional Manager) of the said intended
Company ; (2) the above statements are, to the best- of my
belief and knowledge, true in every particular. And I
make this solemn declaration as to the matters aforesaid
according to the law in this behalf made, and subject to
the punishment by the law provided for any wilfully false
statement in any such declaration.
Cl lAS. BANKS,
Manager (or Provisional Manager).
Declared hefore me, this seventeenth day of November,
1899. WM. MOVES, J.P.
WOODLARK ISLAND GOLD-MINING COMPANY
(NO LIABILITY).
tJ<IIE
Notice is hereby given that the SHARE REGISTER of
the above Company will be CLOSED from 30th instant.
All Shareholders wishing to protect their rights must
send in their Scrip for transfer before that date.
By order of the Board.
G. A. PARKER,
lfitb Nov., 1899. Legal Manager.
28 Hunter-street. Sydney.
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ganger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labour required. Anyone can learn to operate
llie Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
•'To the Davlesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is
perfect. Tins Stiff turned oft is splendid. It is the
best speculation 1 have entered into since I joined the
Licensed Victuallers.—Geo. Niciiolls, lioyal Hotel, Swan
urn." „ T . .
Mr. Kluq-, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.” .
Mr P. Kennedy, Hotelkeeper, Coolgardte, \\ .A., says .
Profits saved by making my own supplies of Aerated
Waters with the Machine purchased from you, pay the
rent of my Hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, of Old England Hotel, Heidelberg:, says :
«•' 1 have now had one of your Aerated Water Machines in
use for three years, and have made thousands of dozens
of the best Aerated Waters with it, and it has not
required si.vpence worth of repairs. No Hotelkeeper
should be without one of these Machines.” ■ ;
Mr. W.' Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Hotelkeeper, Yalgoo, W.A., says: My
Aerated Water account was formerly A3O per month.
Since getting one of your Machines, and making my. own
soft stuff, I have saved the price of the Machine ten times
over.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many
small centres of population, where a deeply-felt want
exists FOR A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED W aTERS. OIISERVB
THE PROFITS. Call and see these Machines, or write for
Circular describing them, also Price List.
Davlesford Henburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
MEMORY!
Linnean Memory Lessons.
TAUGHT BY CORRESPONDENCE.
Easy to Learn. Success Certain.
Satisfaction Given or Fee Returned.
PROSPECTUS, WITH TESTIMONIALS, etc., FREE.
Send your Name and Address.
. . . Inquiry Desired.
f\VER 600 practical illustrations, showing how to
Memorise, with rapidity and certainty, history,
geography, figures, dates, foreign languages, chemistry,
physiology, ledger folios, names, addresses, and the
theory of music, counter-point, harmony, etc.
Prof • Brown,
SCHOOL OF ARTS. SYDNEY.
TESTIMONIALS.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof, of Music, Sydney.—"lt
has increased my natural memory for music to a remark-
able degree. To musical students it will be a great boon,
and a sure stepping stone to success.”
Mr. IV. LAKE, Student, Hobart.—" It affords me great
pleasure to testify to its thorough efficiency and sim-
plicity. By its aid I can now do with ease and certainty
that which was almost impossible. 1 find it a wonderful
help in learning languages *
Mr. A. 11. BROWN, Constitution Hill, Tas.—" History
with its dates was always my dread in exams., but by
your System I have just gained 92 per cent, of the
possible in it. 1 also used it in geography, Latin, &c.,
with equally good results. With a knowledge of your
System no one need fear the examiners. It is as easily
learned as the multiplication table and cannot be for-
gotten."
M DOW RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Amd GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
A Sydney milkman was recently fined for
vending milk not up to Board of Health stan-
dard, the magistrate remarking that “ he was
perfectly satisfied that the milk was supplied
just as it came from the cow, hut as it did not
carry the prescribed butter-fat contents he had
no option but to inflict a penalty.” This
decision has now been upset by the unanimous
ruling of the Full Court. Chief Justice Daki.ky
said that “ he was of opinion on the whole case
that the magistrate was wrong in holding that
when a man simply asked for milk and got
milk as it came from the cow the vendor was
liable to be convicted of any offence. If a pur-
chaser asked for milk of the standard fixed by
the Board of Health and did not get it, that
might be a very different matter.” And yet to
the simple lay mind it would appear that any
milk below the Board standard is not milk
within the meaning of the Act, and vendor
should therefore be punishable. If a standard is
fixed, which no cow can be expected to main-
tain, then it should be lowered ; but if it is fair
and reasonable then vendors should be kept
right up to the mark and so compelled to dis-
card worthless cattle. Anyhow, the public
wants a law which will work that way.
«
Melb. Age, on the precious Jackson case
report: —
As we anticipated from the evidence, the report com-
pletely exonerates Mr. Rf.st from the charges brought
against him A Parliamentary tribunal was ap-
pointed to inquire into Mr. Graves's charges, and he
himself was made a member of it. . . From that enquiry
Mr. Best has emerged w it.hout a stain on his character.
Melb. Argus on the same report :
But the minor charge that the brother-in-law was
favored in the department, remains. ..... There was
something both reprehensible and extraordinary In the
swift promotion of a telegraph operator to a position in
the hands Office requiring much experience in the details
-of administration. . . . How-far was the Minister respon-
sible fur this “ blunder,” or, as some would put it, act of
favoritism? Mr. Outtrim's draft report declared that
the Minister’s retention of Mr. Jackson in t he position for
nearly three years, despite protest and discontent, was
“an act of bail administration.” Had Mr. Graves voted,
as he was legally entitled to do, the vote would have been
three against three, and then the vote of the Chairman
(Mr. Outtrim ) in support of his opinion would have made
it four against three. So the Minister has been saved
from an adverse finding by the self-imposed restraint of
his accuser.
*
William Wilkinson Wardell, architect of
the two cathedrals of St. Patrick’s, Melbourne,
and St. Mary’s, Sydney, died the other day at the
age of 70. His talent' and services were referred
to in a recent BULLETIN article.. Coming to Aus-
tralia as a young man, his life despaired of by
leading London doctors, be found bis life-work
before him. For twenty years he was bead
of Vic. Public Works department, and he
.designed many of the chief buildings in that
province. Fur forty years he watched the progress
of his two cathedrals to their stage of temporary
completion, and he has left behind him all the
plans for consummating his designs. In virtue of
achievement, Mr. Wardell was by far the most
eminent architect who has lived in Australia, and
his professional zeal and genius would have given
him high rank anywhere.
From Sydney Telegraph leading article
21st November :
All Lh-it is contended for in this war is that British
people shall i.e given that right to govern themselves
which has proved enormously beneficial wherever it has
been conceded, and ilie denying 1 of which has caused, and
js causing, in other countries endless trouble.
If the man who wrote that knows enough to- tell
why three beans don’t make five will be answer
this question : Seeing that British people haven t
the right to govern themselves in Scandinavia,
Denmark, Holland, Belgium, France, Spain, Portu-
gal, Germany, Austria, Italy, Turkey, Greece, Swit-
zerland, Russia, United States, Mexico, Club,
Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, Venezuela, l'.eu ad or, Para-
guay, Argentina, Uruguay, Columbia, Morocco,
Persia, Japan, &e., or even in the British
colonies or protectorates of India, Lgypt, Gibral-
tar, Hongkong, many of the West Indies, &c.,
why doesn’t be demand that this right bo de-
manded all round? Or does the alleged right
onlv apply to a small, weak country, which has a
rich goldfield to be stolen?
While he remains a Minister of the Crown,
N.S.W. Postmaster-General Crick should not
appear professionally as a solicitor at the police-
court in gambling or other ctses. But, above all.
he should refrain from appearing to defend in such
a case as that of Ware, the man now .arraigned
on a charge of setting fire to an inhabited house
(the Macquarie-street boarding-house in which so
many incendiary fires were ineffectually lit).
S loi'ild Ware be convicted, Minister Crick could
take no part at the Fxecutive table in deciding his
ultimate fate ; and it is not meet that any Mini-
ster should, in a caseof life or death, be disqualified
from giving the State the benefit of bis advice.
Nor would it be fair that the other members of
Fxecutive should, in considering the fate of a
be in any way influenced, in the ordi-
nary course of human nature, by considerations
arising out of the fact that their colleague had
taken part in ucfeudiug the prisoner.


ANOTHER RADICAL CURE.
To Convince Sceptical Readers or Unbelievers.
IMITATORS CLA-IN" COPY BUT BIYAL.
Dyspepsia and Neuralgia Promptly Cured.
MRS,
Th® G&®© of
. ELIZA!
{Reported for “ The Redfern Times.”)
Within gunshot of Redfern Railway
terminus our reporter found the residence
of Mrs. Elizabeth Phipps, at 418£ Elizabeth-
street, Surry Hills. This lady was at home,
and, in answer to enquiry, freely gave
an account of her recovery from a serious
case of anaemia and distressing neuralgia.
My general health has not been good
since I was a child,” said Mrs. Phipps. “ I
was not strong, and some months ago I got
’•'to an exceptionally low state. My diges-
tion became impaired ; I lost my appelate,
and had no taste for food I had, at times,
a sharp pain between the shoulders and in
the left side, but my most distressing
symptoms were neuralgic pains that, coming
up my neck, spread all over my head and
face with unbearable pain. At last this
pain became so serious that it affected my
eyes ; they became weak and dazed. This
was followed by a nervous, trembling pain
in the arms, especially the right arm, so
that I thought 1 was going to be paralysed.
-My husband tried to laugh me out of my
fears. I noticed that the neuralgia pains
were worse in hot weather, and always came
on towards sundown, and, continuing in the
night, robbed me of sleep. Towards
morning t hese pains would ease, but only to
return again the next night. Sometimes,
when I tried to lie down, suffering from this
terrible neuralgia, my throat would seem to
swell, my breathing became difficult, and I
leib as though someone was trying to
smother me ihis feeling was so distressing
that even if I could have gone to sleep I
telb my breathing would have ceased.
-Naturally, I was distressed, and in very
low spirits.” J
“ What remedies did you try, Mrs.
■1 mpps ? enquired the reporter.
I took a mixture from the chemist’s
and advertised preparations, but they were
far from improving my general health, and
very soon my neuralgic pains returned as
badly as before.”
“ 'V bat did you try next ?”
“By accident I came across one of the
pamphlets of Clements Tonic, and, on read-
ing the testimonials, I found the names of
several persons I knew This gave me
confidence. I knew what was said was
genuine, and I became convinced that
Clements Tonic would suit my case and
cure me. This is how I came to purchase
the first bottle. ”
“ And vvliat was the result, Mrs. Phipps ? ”
“ After taking the fourth dose, that is,
on the second day—for I took Clements
Tonic three times a day—l noticed a decided
change for the better, and as I continued
to take it the improvement was perceptible
and constant I know it was Clements
Tonic that did me good, for, owing to our
changing fiouse and being Very busy, I
neglected for a short time to take Clements
Tonic, and I found that during that time
my cure was retarded The first and most
welcome sign I had that Clements Tonic
was doing me good was the return of my
appetite. I could eat my meals ; and, after
that, all my other pains went away ; or,
rather, they did not come again, as they
used to do, particularly the terrible pains in
my face and head that had come every night
so regularly and made sleep impossible.
Only last week I recommended a friend of
mine, who is in a very low state of health
from overwork, to take Clements Tonic,
and already it is doing her good.”
‘ Have you any objection, Mrs. Phipps,
to your experience being made public ?”
“ Not at all. You can freely add my
name to the numbers of those I know who
cannot speak too well of Clements Tonic.
It is a grand medicine.”
' STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Elwahrth Phipps, of 4181 Elizabeth-street, Surrv
ll ‘ le - colony ° f Wew South Wales, do
solemnly aim sincerely declare that I have carefully
lead the annexed document, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that t contains and is atrue and faithful
account or my lllnessand cure by Clements Tonic, and
also contains my full permission to publish the same in
any way , and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue nthe provisions of an Act made and passed in
inHHd'in . r al ; the of her present Majesty,
6C ™ ot for . lhe nlore effectual abolition of
Uaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New
booth Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu
the.ieof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits ”
Declared at Surry Hills, this Ist day of July, on
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me r
W. J McDOXNEEL. J.P
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
%, OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
f J^ av e beer. Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
foi Superior Excellence, and should always be used
?n H?rCHma o tes aSa ' nSt Infectious D^eases-especially
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
The Life of the System.
m
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
FREE
PAMPHLET
FROM
mi
THE OWL
OUT RA.TB
DRUG CO
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION. Australia
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS-Regular Price, £1; Cut Price, 18b. 6d.
cs
Db. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerye,
blood and brain tonic that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reirivigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wdhderful medicine ever placed before the
pub ic.
Complete Exhaustion -Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. Whde you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.-In these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
for °ur suffering people as Dr. Clarkson’s
gorato r, . Austral 'ans are the greatest sufferers
fl J. k d r C ° nl P' a,nts and diseases. Bright’s disease is
f*V e °, a K u You nlay have !t wit -hout knowing the
f, Ct uJ h * erefo - ]? e 0,1 the safe s, de; take the Rein-
Th ra a,| d destroy the earliest germs of the malady,
iiie Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. Tliis
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
kindred" r'mi’ble;^I pav es the way to Bright s Disease and
Astounding ResiiKs.-The greater the weakness
»nHnn n tlo £, m , or e astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson s ReinVigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
. e heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigora or.
Charlatans and Humbugs —You are only wast-
ing tune and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate j our com-
plamt or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor. K
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
P r „ e P. a . r ® for » Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price-
One Guinea
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane.
And Acts Like a Charm.
p T f h ® ® n °rmous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No mitn
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
SltffioST! 1 " 1 influenza> sciatica ’ pains in
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
“."‘X The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
®?‘ ' t ' f ! c P lln oip!es, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
lip the system in a speedy and permanent manner
Current Conductors. —lfy means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
fnthe" system 6SSed ° f ’ the more life and ener &>’ there is
Conjoint Action . —Aided so ably by Dr Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A trood Belt is worth its weight in gold The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances. i
Liver and Stomach. -The action of the electrm
current on the liver and stomach is one of the'
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifieatfv
shown that the remedy most required to afford speed v
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and
eiierq to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial. ‘
A Trying Wi ;ter.~Our customers,' who safe
guarded their constitutions with the Electro Band
during the past trying and damp winter months
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took thi
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence. -The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received rrive ih»
Electro Band the pfemier place among all comneH
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellent
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured "
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune it n'n
good without the health to enjoy it. e ls> no
Worthless Belt . -Throw off the worthier ui,
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your Hfel
Postpone old age ! • >uur IIIe <
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
3 - ,r - Hughes’s Pitsepilep
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND eit<? i,, e , . , ~ , . .
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest nniL h™ ° f the . wonde *'? of l j} e a^e -
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free! Tamphlet Post Free? Curatlve effecls^
pyramid File Cure.
INWAIin oMUrrw urn i“Fn^ CU n N( ? HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate ,
hnvoc i d ( " 'Y I HiltS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s 6d i»r , rac^er of
boxes for 10s. Postage (id. extra. Write for Pamphlet. 00 • P er box, or 3
TeeToTCHARGE 1 L^ all {;^ a]ifif : d and Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
n a lescnptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address:
Cor. Bliza belli and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Country Trilll Order respectfully Solicited.


Hsr RaSSnjGSScij’S Alfaliijc Herbal Remedies*
jVTore marvellously Snccessful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
■ • if'
V: : ! "
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, arid it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have al&o
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit- as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
. testify. truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Orown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
V TAU ATKINS
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Muryvillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
’.finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
• they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
■ doctors without effect. For the benefit of I hose who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, vouare perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity. Yours Grate-
fully THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Grihkrt.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr EASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his inter-
colonial Branches.
P o
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A if aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for. all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 12s„ posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d„ posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
alfaline BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course. 435. 6d.
ALP ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., ~nd 65., posted.
AlfalineTJniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Hate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H-R-, Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain coyer. Any particulars desired sent free.
APVKC FREE.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mcssen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justioe of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Aifaiina Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo iderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmiissen’s pad Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SIDDEI
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
154 Rnndle-street (near York Hotel)
IM.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W. A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
tOOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Ereemason Hotel)


“ Shall I slay my Brother Boer ? ” was tho
title of a plea for peace issued by editor Stead.
Qne London editor politely refused to advise on
Mr. Stead’s “family arrangements.”
Amongst the Rand wick Dri 11 and Rackarock
Co. business mentioned in last issue as having been
purchased by Mr. R. A. Hervey, should have been
included the Co.’s Queensland connection.
jf The Mayor of Warrnambool and the local
Seaside lourists’ Association’’ are greatly ex-
cited by the “enterprise ” of the Leaden in un-
dertaking to issife an illustrated Warrnambool
supplement at Amas-time. When the Associ-
ation held a public meeting the other day the
Mayor “ expressed a hope that it would purchase
as many copies of the forthcoming supplement as
the proprietors could spare.” Rather a rash sug-
gestion. The Leader can spare a terrible lot of
copies on an emergency.
Superintendent O’Callaghan not long ago
gave the policemen, at Melbourne Barracks, a
lecture on “The Duties of a Constable.” The
following amusing parody is in circulation through
tho force:—
I attindid at the lecture that was given yistlrday
By the Inspector Mr. Barney Hooligan,
’Tis himself can trate the subject in an ilorpiintial tray,
He’s tremenjus on the flute, is Barney ilooliiran,
An’, ses he, the humblest pleeceman should indevour to
uphold
The thraditions of the service, an’ h’ll find himself when
old
Wid a terrace in the suburbs, an’ a watch av solid gold—
'Tis the pleecenien’s solid goal, says Barney Hooligan.
If ye hear a cry of “ Murther,” ye should niver be afraid,
Only take yer time, says Barney Hooligan,
In the opposite direction he should quietly procade,
It’s on dignified to “ haste,” says Barney Hooligan.
An' if walking out on duty' in some dark and lonely
strate
Ye should mate some Carlton larrikin in an obfuscated
state
Wid the utmost resolution ye’ll continue on your bate—
Don’t mix up wid low companions, says Hooligan.
Niver interrupt a burglar if ye’ve raison to belaive
That he’s working at his trade, says Barney Hooligan.
Under all circumstances it’s your duty to behave
Wid discretion in the case, says Barney Hooligan.
Ye may safely lave the inmates to enjoy their well-earned
rest,
To ignore the whole procading is the course ye’ll find the
best,
For remimber that the family is probably ondrest—
Tis ondacent to disturb them, says Hooligan.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre*s vour finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion i If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
piav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
lx allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. \ov may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, or
. n,t t 0 amputation ; but do not, for I(. AN
UlKh YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I AVILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured
tend at once for
ALBERTS GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLI.S,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lees
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hamls, luniours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bionchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Al’npnS?’ l?ri’ain, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
AI BLR 1, <3, l arrmgdon-street, J.ondon, Ki gland.
Agents t LLL»O 1 1 BltOS., Sydney. Purchasers shou.d
look foi the registered trado mark of the Orasshopper on a
green lalel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afHicte<l with N**r\ottsness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
llox IGG, Sydney, ho will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
Government Notices.
Proposed Sites for the Federal
Capital.
TSERSOXS desirous of bringing under the notice of the
Commissioner any area as a suitable site to be
ceded to the Commonwealth for the Seat of Government,
are invited to forward their suggestions, in writing, ad-
dressed to the Registrar of the Land Appeal Court. Syd-
ney, if possible before 31st December proximo.
Such communications should afford as full and accurate
Information on the subjects hereunder set forth as can
be obtained.
I. CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.
(a) Range and mean of temperature during each quarter
of the year, beginning with January.
(f>) Altitude above sea level, and mean altitude of the
area as a whole.
(c) Rainfall.
11. ACCESSIBILITY.
(a) By railway (existing or to be constructed).
(I>) By road.
(c) By water.
The conditions under this head should deal with the
approaches to any proposed site as from the several con-
stituent States of the Commonwealth, and distances, in
miles, from approximate centre of area to the Capital
Cities of such States should be given.
111. PHYSICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Nature of soil.
it) Water supply and catchment.
c) The possession of, or proximity to, stone, timber, aid
other building material.
(d) Drainage.
(e) Other physical features.
IV. OWNERSHIP AND VALUE.
(a) Area of alienated or private lands.
(6) Area of Crown Lands (including Church and Schoa
Lands, reserves, &o.)
(c) Estimated value of private lands (unimproved).
(d) Estimated value of private lands (with existing im-
provements).
V. MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS, &o.
(a) Character of neighboring country, having regard to
1. Facilities for food supply.
2. Mineral products, especially coal.
3. Capacity to support a considerable population.
4. Conditions favorable to commercial and industrial
development.
Upon the receipt of such suggestions, the Commis-
sioner will as soon as possible appoint limes and places for
the holding of public inquiries, at which evidence will be
taken, and due notice by letter will be given to persons
who may intimate their wish to give evidence, as well as
by advertisement in the local newspapers. Attention is
invited to Clause 125 of the Commonwealth Bill.
125. The seat of Government of the Commonwealth
shall be determined by the Parliament and shall be
within territory which shall have been granted or
acquired by the Commonwealth and shall be vested
in and belong to the Commonwealth and if New
South Wales be an original State shall be in that
State and be distant not less than one hundred miles
from Sydney. Such territory shall contain an area
of not less than one hundred square miles, and such
portion thereof as shall consist of Crown lands shall
be granted to the Commonwealth without any pay-
ment therefor.
00l
[Mrs. Em
\ /LYNN
\ UNTON ,
F The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Malvern,
I January i6tli, 1896.
|“ I have used your ‘KOKO’ 11 ow since
, June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, -which had been ex-
I cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation. ’’
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandritf, Prevents
Hair Kailiug, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing lor the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undcnbtedly~the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i l -, 216 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists.
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO LTD,, i
16, Bevis Marks, London, England. (
The ways op many waters
By E. J. Brady.
Tub Bulletin News. Co., George-st.
Amusements.
TIUINCEBS Til EAT It I?, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and MusQROYR.
Sub-lessee, Mr. Robert Brough.
POSITIVELY FOUR WEEKS ONLY!
Tbe BroCigl} Conjedy Coy.
LAST NIGHTS !
The Gay LordL Qu.es.
SATURDAY, Nov. 25—THE PHYSICIAN.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan's and Menzies’.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Wiibin three minutes’ walk of Town llall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Torms Modcrato.
Mrs. M‘CLELLANT>
(nee UOLGEU).
Missing; Friends.
yA MES COJIBES, formerly of Longley, Tasmania.
To your advantage to communicate at one* with
Herbert and Ada Combes, Longley, Tasmania.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Tre&s., J. li. Moutrie.
Last Four Weeks of Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Last Two Nights 1 .•. Last Two Nights!
“L.A. IPOTTIPIEIE-”
SATURDAY, November 25—“ ROBIN HOOD.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. VW~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
r« RITEKION THEATRE, SYDNEY!
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
A New and Original Sensational and Emotional
Melodrama,
BURIED ALIVE.
Depicting THRILLING and TRAGIC events recorded
in the Calendar of Crimes of England.
PRICES AS USUAL—3s, 2s, Is. Commence 7.45.
Business Manager and Treasurer, llarrie Skinner.
T IICEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING!
JOTTN P. SHERIDAN
JOHN P. SHERIDAN
ORACIE WHITEFORD
QRACIE WHITEFORD
“ Little Christopher
Columbus.”
By George R. Sims and
Cecil Raleigh.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as Mrs. BLOCK.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
«,UAND CONCERT.
w Y.M.C.A. Hall, Thursday, Nov. 30.
illiss Ethel flagmar Barnett.
THE AUSTRALIAN PIANISTE.
Plan and Tickets at Paling's. J. E. SYKES, Manager.
PALACE THEA T U E. SYI)N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success, Tremendous Success, scored bp
Mr. T. COSTELLO. First Appearance Sig. Jesse Brandani
HOWARD & ST. CLAIR.
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM nnd LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, Frank Uowen,
Wallace King, Arthur Ilahn, J. Watts, Elsie Golding,
Lulu Eesch, Alice JefTery, All. Lawton. Thorne and Dell.
I‘Ol‘E nnd SAYLES, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. llurry Rickards.
Most Enthusiastic Success ol
Gr eo. "W . Hunter.
MR. PAUL PELHAM. SIVItONI.
Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
VIRTO and IRENE, Howard Chambers, Fred Duncan,
Geo. Dean, Will Whitburn, Neva Carr Glynn, I.orrie St.
George, Little Fannie Powers, Keenan Bros., Chas.
W. Cogill, Clarence Sisters, and all our Brilliant Co.
Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Ilolloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING 1-
Tbs Power ai)d tbs Glory.
THRILLING TRIUMPH
Of this Stupendous Dramatic Production,
rrtin Power and the rtiory
Prices—3s., 25., Is. od., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
muirs
PALE ALE (EMU BRAND)
AUSTRALIAN BITTER ALE
NEW BREW (1809) NOW READY.
FINEST OF TABLE BEERS.
MELBOURNE
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Any Design.
Chain Connection.
2a. <kl.
Ladies’ Muff Chains, Is and 2s 6d
Chain Bracelets, 3s Cd and 5s Od
I’aris Diamond Studs (Front or
Collar), Is and 2s Cd
Nickel Watch and Chain, 5s (one
year’s guarantee)
Alarm Clocks, 2s Cd
Musical „ 16s
All the Rage 1
Twin Swallow
Itrooch,
with lie'll or Stone
l'endanl, 2s 6d.
LUCKY CHARM.
Spider, Shamrock or
Heather, Is Stl.
Bar Brooch, with Amethyst and African
Diamond. Remarkable Value. 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone. 2s 6d.
Swallow Rrooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2s (id.
E 3?“ Mention The Bulletin . .
J.
Thousands of other Designs. Call or Write.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
C. O’BRIEN & CO.
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
TH€R€ IS ONLY ON€!
Mignon Piano. there is only one
]\Tanon Piano. there is only one
Roniscli Piano. there is only one
Beclxstein Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
HSf“ Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
BSF” Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
Christmas and
New Year Cards
l<'Oß IS 99 anil 1900.
rpo come to business at once, here is our PRICE
x LIST of CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR
CARDS, CALENDARS, &c.
NO. I Rox contains 0 Beautiful Cards ana
Envelopes. Post Free, 8(1.
NO. 2 Box contains 9 Artistic Folding Caras
and Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 6d.
NO. 3 Box contains 9 Exquisitely Designed
Folding Cards and Envelopes. Po-t Free, Is. 6d.
NO. 4 Box contains 12 Choice Folding 1 Auto-
graph Cards and Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 6d.
NO. 5 Box contains 20 Specially Selected High-
class Cards. Post Free, Is. (id.
NO. 6 Box contains 8 Well-assorted Cards
(Black and White) and Envelopes. Post Free,
Is. 6d.
NO. 7 Box contains 10 Cards of Exceptional
Value (Black and White) and Envelopes. Post
Free, 2s. Oil.
TIIE “COMMONWEALTH’ Box of 20 Cards
and Booklets, with Envelopes. Post Free, 3s.
TIIE “CABINET” of 25 Cards. Post Free,
Is. 4d.
" CHRISTMAS MESSAGES ” Box of 10 Cards
and Booklets, with Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 4d.
TIIE “ CHIMING BELLS” Packet of 25 Cards.
Post Free, Bd.
THE “MERRY BELLS’’Packet of 50 Cards.
Post Free, Is. 4d.
LOOSE CARDS, Od., Is., 25.,35.,45., Cs., 9s. and
12s. per dozen. Post Free.
AUTOGRAPH CARDS, 8 in a box, with
Envelopes. Post Free, Bd. 10 in a box, with
Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 3d.
VIEWS OF SYDNEY. Post Free, 6d.
THE BOOKLET OF TIIE YEAR.—“Austral’s
Sunny Climes.” Charming Vignette Views in
Black and White, each with artistic border and
appropriate Christmas and New YearMottoesfor
friends abroad. The whole enclosed in an
embossed cover, cream and gold, with half-tone
illustration, “ An Australian River Scene," and
neatly tied with silk cord and tassel. No. 1,
New South Wales; No. 2, Victoria; No. 3,
Queensland. Price, Is. each. Post Free.
Calendars for 1900 from 2d. to 10s. Cd. eacb.
TIME TA lil. IC.
Mails Leave Arrive in
Sydney. London.
Nov. 28
l>ee. 6
l>eis. 12
I >eo. 17
Deo. 28
Dec. 31
Jan. 7.1000
Jan. 14
Jan. 21
Jan. 28
MAILS FOU
AMERICA.
Leave Sydney Arrive
at ’Frisco.
Dec. 6
Aorangi Jan. 6
Dec. 20
Aloana Jan. 19
Hordern Brothers,
203, 205.207, 209.211 Pitt-st., Sydney
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR! 1530
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OL'R
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, lifted at £2 Ids.
(Lady’s or Gentleman's), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE: —
| Q«E P’OP’E Q»E D*S* IM Y. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Wesleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 29/4 ’99.
Dear Sir. —I beg to acknowledge receipt of Watch and
Chain, and aui pleased to state that both aie very
satisfactory. Yours truly, 51. COCK.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Rankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
|re you Run Qouin ?
The present summer promises to be a
severe one. Weak people, therefore,
should fortify themselves by taking a
course of
Minerva Tonic w
For promoting an appetite, strengthen-
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
ITon. E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINERVA as “an
admirable tonic,” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australia,
30 Days' Trial.
£T WE GRANT EVERY PURCHASER
of our
Electric Belts
and Appliances
a Trial of 30 days before
payment.
Our
Electric Belts
will
CURE ALL
DISEASES
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to
ROBUST
HEALTH!
Address:
Electric Appliance Agency,
63 Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.


ARTI FICI A L TEETH.
FULL SETS, £9 10a.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be tt>oroug[h^^
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIOESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be con)plete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £'s.
Thorough MasticatingPowerand beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
D.S .MAI R
op
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold engraved Bar Brooches,
English Hall Marked, Name engraved free, 5/-; usual
price, 76. - ,
D. S. Mair for Solid 15 carat gold, and first-olass Opal
Dress Ring, £1 17/6 ; usual price, £2 10/-.
D. S. Mair for Silver Hunting Keyless Watches, 15/-;
guaranteed 3 years.
Note address— oo4 George Street, Sydney.
Xmas Gift Parcel! —A Monster
Gold Mine!!
mo introduce our new Illustrated Catalogue, to obtain
-*- New Customers, and make ourselves tallied about,
we will send our Monster Gift Parcel, which contains all
of the following articles and a free gift for ss. ; carriage
paid in N.S.W., ss. Bd. ; any other colony, ss. lid.
Money refunded if not more than satisfied : —3O Good
Xmas and New Year Cards, 1 Cabinet of Beautifully
Embossed Stationery, 4 Handsome Motto Pictures (2
large and 2 small), 1 Set of Draughts in Box, 1 Guide
Book to the Scientific Game of Draughts, 1 Bottle of good
French Scent, 1 Magnifying Glass which will make a
“ Flea” look the size of a “ Fly,” 1 Good Mouth Organ in
Case. 4 Meteor Balloons which display Brilliant Meteors
and Fire Balls as they ascend, 6 Sheets of Good Transfer
Pictures for decorating Walls, Mirrors, Ornaments, etc.,
12 assorted colored Crayon Pencils in Case, 1 Patent
Pencil Sharpener, 1 Amateur Fortune Teller (will tell
anybody’s fortune), 1 Miniature Book on Queen Victoria’s
Record Reign, 1 Golden Egg filled with Lollies, 1 Specimen
of the Celebrated Queensland “Tick” (very amusing,
his antics cause roars of laughter), and our New Illus-
trated Catalogue, which contains 4 pages of Up-to-date
Tricks and Puzzles, including the Great Transvaal War
Trick ; also as a Free Gift to all our new as well as old
Customers, we will send in each Parcel half-a-dozen good
quality Cambric Handkerchiefs. Carriage paid in N.8.W.,
ss. Bd. ; other Colonies, ss. lid. In return for the Won-
derful Value we give we certainly expect you to show
your friends the whole lot, introduce our Catalogue, and
give our name and address.
6 6 —A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6.
, To every purchaser
of one of our 2/0
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
oondi t i o n s or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for os. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY 1
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULESYE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tb« B. ai>d N/Trcatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying- to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
boss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important, to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
"•reatest care bv an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors fake |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
ir themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
ablefor Hi IDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
a “ d LOZENGES.
file Australian Widows’ Fond [ife Assurance Society [td.
mHIS SOCIETY, In addition to transacting all Unusual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
7. h 'Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy In the case ol permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M.D., M.L.O, Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Fund* ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Trice, £7.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Jevy Simple. Clockwork Action.
Jtecords, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cinemato-
gra plies, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPSSOH ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
IF. tT. y. Oldershaw, Manager.
(£
Tbe R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Sole Proprietors
JJ
larrison &
0 to
\'A
4
tf
c~.<y
I IK
w
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY,
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s :
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by t
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
’ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- |
: CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
j THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER*
i LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can i
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly- '
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, t
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. j
I They impart vigcand potency to every function,
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and |
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and j
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE
£ s.
1 0
1 10
2 2
3 3 0
0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments. ..
Ladies' Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 -
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee ana
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
REGISTERED
jsi
Bra
—n ii
Effective Cu«!
Bucht!nflam"o Eyes&luk
Weak Eyes Dimness E t . c
531 GEORGE ST .
a&™.r*a
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —-
ROSS’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rijl* Shooters and Professional Men of all Clatut.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle. sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
-—SAUCE.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
THE
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
m
Lime Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
•Sauce be r ore the Public. It
is also half the price of
first class Sauces.
JOHN 'WOODALL,
Master in unites
so far lack <is 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy : —“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Linte juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jutes Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
JHOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ’’
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World*Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist .
m.
i-
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE s AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
jf,B. Old Model Coraeta always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
TH ROUGHOUT-TH E WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Co-. LcL London
AM USEMENT for OLD and lOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, lilondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716V6 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
HIGH-GRADE BICYCLES £3 Is
-vjtOß export we furnish new 1900 model high-grade
-C American Bicycles for £3 Is., and ship to any part
of the World, payable at your nearest Bank thirty days
after shipment. We furnish Bank reference in Sydney
and Wellington. Cut this notice out and send to us, and
we will send you by first post (postpaid) our Bicycle Cata-
logue with full particulars.
SEARS ROEBUCK & CO.,
CHEAPEST SUPPLY HOUSE ON EARTH,
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
1 Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. Ail you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G.R00T,28, ENDSLEIGHGDNS.,LONDON,ENG.


D.Braham&Co.
TAILORS, “
Habit and Breeches Makers,
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranieed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - -
TAILORING
AT REFORM
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS I
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costuiues.
£ ole Agents for Cellular Undencear:
David Braham &Co,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
GAS COOKERS.
The “ gureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A astral inn Gaslif/ht Company hy payment
of £1 Cash atul lOs. Monthly, until paid tiff'.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to tile Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash rurchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
I3f TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
RAHERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
LiqCior Habit.
N INTERESTING PAMPHLET on th
• Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
lbs
EOcrasy
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CO., G 2 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collius-
street, Melbourne.
N.B.—Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
SPRING & SUMMER FASHIONS
E.ADIES
Beautiful spring and summer weather has come, and
ladies want to wear something seasonable, pretty, and
comfortable. C. G. Hatte’s Home Buyers have despatched
a large and choice assortment of some of the newest and
most fashionable goods, which he is enabled to sell at
prices which are simply bargains. You can get nothing
better than the following, and will have to pay nearly
double the price anywhere else.
BLOUSES.
A Nice Assortment, all latest shapes, both Stripes and
Fancy Patterns, from 2s
White Muslin, elaborately trimmed with embroidery, 3/C
Fancy Muslin, in all colors, trimmed lace, 3 11
SKIRTS AND COSTUMES.
Ladies’White Skirts, trimmed frill and Torchon lace 4 6
Splendid variety of colored Zephyr Skirts, trimmed lace,
from 2s ll^d
Ladies’ Black Figured Lustre Skirts, full width, 4/11
Di,t,to ditto extra wide, ft/ll
Ladies’ White Pique Skirts, latest shape, 4/6
Ditto superior (splendid value), 6TI
Ladies’ Norfolk Holland Costumes, from 7/11 to 18/11
~ Pique Eton Costumes, 15/6
„ Pretty Striped Cambric Costumes, for morning
wear, 4 11
~ Lace Shoulder Capes, from 6 11
„ Lace Threequarter Capes, silk yoke, trimmed with
jet ai d ribbons, 16/11
Children’s Print Costumes, light and dark colors, 3/11
Boys’ Norfolk Coats, in fawn, navy, and butcher blue,
trimmed braid, 2 11)4
And everything in the way of Parisian Millinery,
Dress Materials—all that is latest and most fashionable—
AT
C. G. HATTE,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
TdZ.
a r
OLD
ac
uvi
UN By
fIWG
"1
fed
HA
V
&.C
O'
O
Y
M
£
n
%
p *IET
ORS
OYV HEADY.
N
PAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSIiS.
2nd Edition. I‘rice 4/6.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
DRAPERS « FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE:
Orr. Funders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basing hall Avenue, London E.C.
DUNCAN’S PAT€NT
SUMES
Treatment Plant
AS USED BY
PUMCAMS HOYES $ CO., WyaloQg, €tc.
LICENSES GRANTED.
AGENTS :
NOTES BROS.,
SI O'Conncll-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne,
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation all prices—ss. to 123.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
IAMOND SONG BOOK,
m SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever hound
together between the covers of one booh. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other song*. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful hook will be sent anywhere for onlv 2ft. 6d.« posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 45." George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. A. 1.1 exchange to postal notes’ Agont9 wanted for thli
and other Fast Selling Books, Mention this paper when writing.
ILLUSTRATED
m
"VyITH numerous anatomical
' ' colored plates and enjrrav-
in<fs, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the (fraud truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
beinp imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 25.,
postage (sealed) Is. extra. Circu-
lar, explaining contents of book,
sent on receipt of 2d. (stamps) for
]ionag-e. Address, PRIVATE, Box 4f.2, G. P. 0., SYDNEY.
ES
ILLUSTRATED
* BOOKLET °Lokl e
Post Free for One Stamp
MADAME PANZA, I
Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney!
■v
1
:
W ; -
SSSiilt
' .
■ TIT
'•:?m
m
■
;
istiil
W
m
X A. WILKIKTSOIff’a
COOL ALTA VINEYARDS.
Offices : 374 George Street, Sydney.
46
IMO
—London Medical Record,
MAM6
TRADC
tS'Thh I'npvovcdfom^J^,'"^
and Younr CMWrw,. oatrideu*
b. rf gt~l v.ia» “ * '«••* •** „d
*« lot luv.Uda. C.nvalMMld*
Ui« Asad.
NEW STYLE,
THE
i
A Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards.
Tib® p? F©@<d Ho »fl
Tib® “Alleijfourys 9? F@©4 Ho* 2
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing- the
addition of hot
water only.
Tbe“Alleoburys” /*\alted Food N 0.3
hitherto known as "Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.
Ask for
WbiSky aod
‘Scbv/cppc’
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
QUEEN."
SCHWEPPES
SOPA WATER, Ac.
Ask for
Brai)dy a t)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSWII COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition m the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
to
m
ERANCAI
%
I A.it F. PEARS
IP
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Fan's Exhibition,
i 1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
EDWARDS
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing.
A LUXURY AND A
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
m
•ffl
Si
Restores (he Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
‘HARLENE’
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children's Hair.
'/'Mn
Full description and directions for use In 20 languages supplied with every bottle .
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottlo of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 96 & 96, HICH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C,
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tno Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician's Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
KL'i
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.— ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
n \
m
ftSK FOR
COMBINES
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
WHISKY
£ ,£< £
ft
Business, Robbery, etc.
Every good brand of cigars has close imitations,
lie hail been travelling for a tobacco firm and had on hand
some boxes of alleged Rothschilds, and resolved to make
a sale with a little Hebrew out lledl'ern way. Spent an
hour thinking out a pitch and dressing in seaman's
clothes. The tobacconist heard the yarn with smiling
approval—how he had left the ship, and these were the
captain's best smokes bought contraband, etc. “ Dot
vas very good ! very good indeed ; but 1 vas in the same
line myself) young man. 1 tell you vat—l sell you some
of dein for half de moneyand he pointed to a well-
stocked shelf.
• * 9 9
Brand in crown of hat bought at West Coast
Tasmanian store :
ADVANCE TASMANIA
(Coat of Arms.)
Ot'R Island Hows.
Made in Belgium.
* * * •
It will hair-raise the R.C. faithful to learn that
the oils retailed in Sydney for sacred purposes, at about
Bs. a gallon, are principally supplied by an Israelite and a
Chow at 2s.
* * * •
The working-jewellers of Melbourne are agi-
tating fora good hall-mark on precious-metal goods. The
same thing is badly needed in N.S.W., where goods
marked by the makers, 9, 15 and 18-carat, often contain
hardlv any gold. Writer saw a ring tested recently.
It was marked 15c., hut the test showed it to contain
about one-fourth gold.
* * * •
“V.”: Since the abolition of gates some Vic.
railway-employes art* virtually forced to rent llie £«te-
most of which have only three rooms. Imagine
the comfort of a family of eight (and there are mam) in
one of those, and luxuriating on (ss. (id. a day ! The rent
returns over 0 per cent, on capital cost of the houses, and
they were built in boom-time.
♦ * * *
“Adam II.”: Re man (B. 9/4/’O9) who openly
claimed the stolen slugs as his. At Mickeyvilte (XI. L.) once,
a fellow went lo a “ Hy-catching ’’ claim at night, roughly
streamed down the sand in the “ tank ’’ (tin-lined case),
carried the result off in a tub, planted it in the hush, and
waited. Kobbery duly reported to the local constable,
who lent his revolver ’and “ bracelets,” but declined to
crack-up himself. So the owners of the saiai did so,
found the tub, and hid thetnsehes to watch. When the
thief came along he was se ed, handcuffed, taken lo the
“logs,” and tried ; but as die sand could not, of course,
be identified, he had to be discharged, whereupon lie had
the “ neck ” to sue for “ illegal arrest and dejamatton oj
character."
* * • *
“Frank R.”: An utterly neglected question,
affecting the public health, is the trade done at Melbourne
in connection with “slinks” —the technical name for die
bodies of very young calves. The calves are knocked on
the head as soon as born, and sold to the lowest class of
butchers—or “scavengerswho turn them into “Ger-
mans,” “poloneys,” Frankforts, and soon. All is fish that
comes to the nets of these wretches, who snap tip
even unborn calves taken from dead mothers, and
who haunt the various saleyards for this purpose. Owing
to the growth of the dairying industry this nefarious
trade is spreading, and 1 saw some slinks the other day
put on hoard a train 100 miles from Melbourne, and con-
signed to a “ butcher.” I am going to Melbourne myself
shortly—hence these tears.
It is now a trick of well-dressed dead-beats to
make pretty certain of two square meals a day by calling
at boarding-houses about accommodation just as the hell
rings for a meal. The inquirer is, of course, satisfied with
the place and terms, and the landlady can hardly do less,
in the circumstances, than invite the prospective new
lodger to “ join them.”
* m * •
“ Ellerdale ” : I know a young woman who bad
her teeth extracted and an artificial set supplied on time-
payment ; but having missed five payments, she had to
surrender the “ Ivories” again, and was left toothless and
lamenting.
* • * *
“ Tas.” : Worked in Launceston (Tas.) once for
a publican who used to “break down” his rum with
honey and water. He was locally renowned for rum ;
and when, ou one occasion, the excise officers took a
sample for analysis the analyst’s report made no mention
of honey. But there are many kinds of analyst.
* * * *
“ Ben.” : Some phases of Vie. railway manage-
ment are wonderful examples of business capacity.
Tenders are called for firewood for stations in Jots of 800
tons or so, with the result that a sweating contractor
si metimes trucks wood from a sparsely-timbered locality
into a forest. If orders were given locally where wood
was available there would be a saving anil a crumb for
local splitters.
* * » *
“Tas.”: Tn some Sydney eat ing-houses tram-
tickets and postage-stamps are accepted in lieu of cash.
Saw one day in a fourpenny “ hash-foundry” a customer
put down a train-ticket, a penny stamp, and two coppers
as paymeut for a meal.
c • * •
“ C.F.” : Is this a brand-new fake? The other
night in George-street I struck an apparent sea-faring
man, looking half-seas over, who asked me the way to
Balmain ferry. Started to show him, and presently he
stooped and picked up an envelope, which turned out to
contain a 3-stone gold ring wrapped in well-known jewel-
ler's receipted hill for 355. The “sailor-man ” was unfor-
tunately sailing next day, he said, and the reward would
be at least 10 s. Consequence was we parted at the ferry;
he with my half-sov. Next clay 1 made inquiries, and
now for a single boh that simple mariner can have his ring
back !
* » * *
“Stylus”: Was recently asked hy a friend to
buy him a long cane. Called at first coy-and-lolly-shop.
“ Don't keep canes,” replied the woman, quickly, in
answer lo request; “if I did, children wouldn’t come
and buy of me.” Is boycotting a developed trait of the
juvenile mind, dating from the famous Dish episode, or
is it a natural form of protection, practised unconsciously
and instinctively ?
• * * *
“ C.TI.” : “ Old Stoney’s” statement (B. 26/8/’99)
that town-employers are forced to attend to sanitary
arrangements vvili be news to many. Writer, when broke,
once worked in a Sydney restaurant, and slept with
others in a room 18x10ft., lift, high, and below the street-
level. The kitchen was adjoining, and the fragrant pig-
tub at the door. Imagine it in summer ! Wages, 10s.
a-week and tucker, for 14 hours' work a-day. Also, a
night in the “glory-hole” of some of the coasting
steamers would he more than any pig could stand. The
bushtuau is no worse off, after all, than the town or sea-
grafter. » * »
The latest advertising dodge of a big Melb.
drapery firm is to have women riding in trams and trains
wilh boxes and bags conspicuously labelled with the
firm's name.
* • * *
“ E.D. ” : Rubbish-sorting doesn’t seem too
bad a game. Know four men who pick over the Moore
Park (Sydney) “ tip,” and make about £BOO a year.
Wouldn’t believe it till one of them showed me account-
sales—rags £45, paper £32 —for a month’s operations.
* * * »
“Wooli”: Re “Sheoak” on Tweed River
illicit stills. The industry also flourishes on the Clarence.
Some time ago a visitor to the wild part of the district
accidentally dropped across three stills in one day while
searching for a friend, and no attempt at secrecy was
made hy those in charge. In same locality the police
failed to find even one, allhough they searched a house
in which a “ worm ” was packed in a box. Two years ago
the police, “acting on information,” discovered a still in
working order, with all accessories, in a canefield adjoin-
ing the town of Maclean, within 200yds. of the main road
and less than a mile from the police-station. At a later
date a local white lady sued her spouse at a district
police-court for assault, and deposed that hubby’s quarrel-
someness was the result of chronic indulgence in spirit
made by him in his house in town.
-nt o ttt m . . ■ , i __.ii .
N.S.W . 1 hartnacy Act, winch should ] recent
the non-quahfied from dispensing poisons, is cut through
daily by the coach-aiid-four of ihe resourceful quack. A
quack, or a couple of him together, employ a Imid-up
pharmacist; pharmacist doesn l see the patients or their
letters ; quack, after examining patient or letter, wI des
on slip of paper, “ I’am m hack of head, or stiff knee,
or “red nose," and throws it to the dispenser ins-
penser knows the formula which these conq.lamts
denote, and fills up accordingly. Quack, if officially
questioned, swears lie ordered no poisons, and shows slips
of paper in proof. W hat the Hoard now u resiles « ith is
some plan whereby such dispensers can he disqualified.
* * * *
A Me b. Coffee I’alace porter was lately fined
£25 for selling liquor on the premises. Yet Westraha’s
Fall Court decided only last year that coffee-palaces and
boarding-houses were entitled to keep liquor for sale to
occupants providing it \'iis bought at a licensed
victuallers. most accommodating view.
* * „
As Germans have of late taken to figuring
largely on the hooks of the Australian Patents Hepart-
ments, it is worth noting that the Govt, of the Fatherland
grants no patent unless a guarantee he given that the
articles concerned shall he made there. Further, if there
he no local workmen aide to manufacture the articles tlie
patentee must import workmen who will thus spend the
wages in Ihe country and teach the new industry to
Teutons besides.
*•* . *
“Jack Shay” ; To detect sixpenny kerosene
try tfiis racket, one often worked on the pirate Flossie
who sub-rents a private bar. Most men have a particular
fancy in kerosene ; some like Johson's Special, others
M'Malt’s V. 0., or u’llarley’s iievil's Own, and so on. Hut
judges, as a rule, fight shy of Uur Own Special Very Old
Matured in the Wood served out of a cut-glass decaliter,
If you favor Johson’s Special, when you catch hold of Ihe
bottle scratch the label with your nail, and take a note of
the mark. Next day, or next week, or tlie ensuing half-
year, if you're having Johson’s Special again, notice the
label. Have seen a marked bottle doing duty for a week
in a house that claimed to sell in that time 10 to 12 dozen
of that particular brand. Gave that house best.
* • * *
“Straight Griffin”: The guinea-pig director
not being quite so frequent ns of yore, investors have a
new trouble— that of guinea-pig secretaries. Some of
these with only the mental equipment of the average
clerk, have secured many companies' secretaryships, and
with the secretaryships an absolutely fictitious import-
aiice. The actual legal management is done by a staff of
clerks, and the apparent secretary lias little knowledge
of the working of his companies beyond the fact
that he gels the earliest information from the
mines, and uses that information in transactions on
’Change. Also, in many cases, directors are not eon-
suited aliout printing-orders, and, as a general rule, no
tenders for printing are called, and i fie favorite printer of
anv particular office gets the work at his own price.
Thus money is thrown away in exorbitant legal nianage-
ment charges, while the mine-manager is cutting to
the bone actual mining expenses. A friend of mine—a
one-time legal manager—told me recently that when
very young and green to the business lie was ap-
proaelied by a printer who offered him taeafy-
five per cent, commission on the gross amount of
all printing accounts ! The young secretary accepted (his
am! for some months was paid the proportion quoted.
Finding the charges became hot as mustard the seere-
tary shut down on the game, and although throat-
ened by the printer, was mail enough thereafter to submit
his printing orders to competition. Directors should in-
sist on printing being let by annual tenders on a fixed
price for scrip, balance sheets, reports, circulars, &c.,
oth envise in nine cases out of ten they are tacitly agree-
ing to a fraud on shareholders. Yet another swindle is
solicitor’s costs for “drawing up” and printing articles of
association. Tiiere is plenty of swindling in mining by
St only 1 th^begi in nhnj of' a
iau * * * *
A young fellow entitled to a bequest of .£5OO
under his father’s will, came of age a few years ago, hut
on consulting the trustee co. managing his affaire was in-
formed that the estate would not stand the
oNvniir to the depreciation of values. A conference witn
the rest of the family led to their guaranteeing him a loan
of £5OO, which the trustee 00. advanced at 8 percent.
Years passed, and t’other day the girls got an auditor to
go through everything to ascertain their position. The
man of figures was received affably by the trustee co.,
anil on miming though llie paper* be discovered that
the lost £r>oo lay in the local iiai ings Bank, untouched
ami forgotten. At t lie lime of the banking collapse the
trustee co. had carefully drawn it from us regular in-
stitution and lodged it in the Sa» iugs Bank for safety,
and lud then proceeded to forget it. And it was just
because the forgotten boon was taken out of the estate
that there wasn't sufficient estate left lo meet the claim.
Meanwhile, Hie young man has been paying s per cent, for
the use of Ins own money.
. • * •
“ Bar.” : lie crust struggles. Once, when beam-
ended, answered Sydney advi.—“ Clerical vacancy, £2 a
week ; apply,” &c. Ki\e minutes before the time found
Ou applicants wailing; gave my last shilling lo the jani-
tor, slipped into the front office (vacant), and, taking off
iny bat. explained to the crowd that a gentleman bad
been engaged. Two minutes later employer arrived,
found me the only applicant, gave uie the job, and talked
for weeks afterwards about ‘‘how well things must be
going with clerks when only one turned up for a £2 job.”
Another lime applied for clerkship—no wages specified;
85 applicants. Passed in at fronl door, through manager’s
room, and out into side street. Told to come hack three
hours later. Did so, found 22. Drafted through again,
reduced to 12; last draft reduced to four, including
myself. Having the best references, 1 was asked the
lowest I would lake. Said 80s. “ Unit, you're mad!”
said ibe manager. “ Here is a man who will come for
AT." I left, without charging anything for being drafted
like a prize merino.
» • • •
Sydney pub. Sunday-trading isn’t all gilt. A
favorite *• push ” trick is to get into a pub. on Sunday,
Swamp up a drink each, and refuse to pay. The publican
is powerless, and many of linn have tints suffered. Hut
one Bung was the victim of about the smartest Sunday
“balancer” practising. The sharp bad a drink, then fell
talking to Bung’s bar-oriiameuls. Presently lie shouted
for the lot—lB drinks —and got a bottle of three-star 10
take out. Altogether 1 Is., for which Bung cashed a fiver.
Sharp lingered a bit, shouted again, and then was let
cautiously out. “ Begob ! ” said Bung to the lest, “ that’s
not one of your mean men, that would get one pinched
for a threepenny drink. With a few more of hi# sort I
could stand a line.” But, on Monday -iiing, the liver
came back from the bank branded “ Forgery."
A shareholder at a meeting of Ballarat
Woollen and Worsted Co. :
“ 1 believe we are the people chosen by God to teach the
people of the world to walk in the way ol righteousness
and integrity, and with that assurance 1 look to the vic-
tory of British arms in all the engagements in the present
war. ’’
“ To teach the people of the world to walk in the
way of righteousness and integrity.” llow beauti-
ful ami how true ! Who was it said that to attain
righteousness ye must sell all ye have and give
to J. Built
At the N.S.W. Congregational Union
Annual Session a certain Rev. Win. Allen, amidst
laughter, as duly reported in parenthesis, re-
marked :
Many people spoke highly of President Kruger. lie
believed lie was a good man, a son of gqodOld Testament
man.
A good Old Testament man, mark you ! All very
well in his way, of course, but not the new, up-to-
date, quick-firing religion which discharges (JGO
shots a minute while you turn a handle. Rev.
Allen further remarked that—
lie believed that England was called to take up th»
white man's burden in Africa, and uplift the downtrodden
native races.
Britain has uplifted a good many nativo races,
too. Some of them that were uplifted as much
as 100 years ago have never come down yet, so
must have been uplifted very high. And since
the invention of the lyddite shell Britain can
elevate native races faster than ever.


• •
Tlie After Effects of
INFLUENZA AND TYPHOID
Can be Permanently Removed by
Dr. Williams’ Pii)k Pills
which will also ward off these diseases altogether IF TAKEN IN TIME. Influenza, like
typhoid, is an epidemic fever. When you experience a severe cold in the head and chest, heavy
headaches, rheumatic pains in back and limbs, digestive disorder—influenza is coming. Symptoms
of approaching typhoid are pains in limbs and back, increasing weakness, headaches and fever at
night, loss of appetite. In either case Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills used NOW will purify your
blood, banish the headaches and feverishness, remove digestive troubles and pains, and make you
STRONG AND WELL in place of being a prostrate victim to these dangerous and lowering
diseases. The cases below (two out of many) prove it.
Influenza’s Dangerous Effects
Banished.
Miss Jamieson, of Autumn Street, Ashby, Geelong,
Vic., is a young lady who has thoroughly proved the
value of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in curing the after-
effects of influenza. Miss Jamieson’s case was par-
ticularly severe. “ Although,” she says, “ I generally
experienced robust health, I became a victim to in-
fluenza. A severe cold in the head and chest first
attacked me, then
Miss Jamieson.
feverishness came
on, I began to feel
depressed, severe
headaohes attacked
me, and aoh i n g
pains in the back
and limbs were also
preseut. My diges-
tion was disturbed,
and I became
weaker as the
disease progressed.
When at last I was
able to leave my
room I was so thin
and debilitated that
my friends hardly
knew me. I never
got strong again,
and sometime
afterwards pains in my right side became chronic. I
always felt weary, and too weak and depressed to
take pleasure in exercise and in those duties which I
had always performed light-heartedly before. A
physician whom I called in said it was the after-
effects of influenza, and I was not to worry ; but the
severe pains continued, and I did worry. I even
went to Melbourne to consult a specialist. He said
it was partial paralysis, and put me under treatment
which did not cure me. A week afterwards erysipelas
set in on my face, which became tense and painful,
and for several months I suffered the greatest agony,
becoming weaker day by day. At last a friend recom-
mended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to me. A few days
after using them the pains began to lessen. I con-
tinued with them until quite cured, and am now
Btrong, healthy and as active as I used to be.”
Saved from the Scourge of
Typhoid.
West Australia, of all the oolonies, may be said to
be noted for typhoid. Mr. James Mooney, the
celebrated dancer and vocalist of Mr. Harry
Rickards’ Co., and who is now appearing with
tremendous success at the Palace Theatre, Sydney,
Mb. Moonbt.
whilst in Perth last
had a narrow escape
from this epidemic.
Several members of
the Co. became vic-
tims to it and two
of them, unfortun-
ately, died. Mr.
Mooney was like-
wise attacked. Se-
vere burning pains
in limbs and back,
exhaustion, racking
headaches, loss of
appetite, and fever-
ishness, were unmis-
takable symptoms of
typhoid. Medical
advice was sought
and acted upon, but
without apparent effect. Meanwhile Mr. Mooney
became worse, whilst his weakness was increased
through complete inability to eat. At this stage he
decided to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, believing
they would benefit him. Even the first box made a
marked improvement; the next box enabled him to
leave his bed, and by continuing with them he was
soon entirely freed from every trace of the fever, and
was able to undertake his professional duties as
heartily as ever. In giving his testimonial he re-
marked that he had been saved, not only from
typhoid, but from death, by the timely use of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills cure Debility,
Anaemia, Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Scrofula, Eczema, St. Vitus' Dance, Bright's
Disease, Dyspepsia, Insomnia, Sallow Com-
plexion, Irregularities, etc., etc.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers, and by
the Dr. Williams' Medicine Co., Queen's
Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per Box; 6 Boxes
15s. 3d. (post free).
FA CSI MIL IE GENUINE PACKAGE.
D? WILLIAMS ’
SUNK
Pw
NAME IN RED ON WHITE PAPER.
The Rovers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some born of homely parents
For ages settled down—
The steady generations
Of village, farm and town ;
And some of dusky fathers
Who wandered since the flood—
The fairest skin or darkest
Might hold the roving blood.
Some born of brutish peasants,
And some of dainty peers,
In poverty or plenty
They pass their early years ;
But, born in pride of purple,
Or straw and squalid sin,
In all the far world corners
The wanderers are kin.
A rover or a rebel,
Conceived and born to roam,
As babies they will toddle
With faces turned from home ;
They’ve fought beyond the vanguard
Wherever storm has raged,
And home is but a prison
They pace like lions caged.
They smile and are not happy ;
They sing and are not gay;
They weary, yet they wander;
They love, and cannot stay ;
They marry, and are single
Who watch the roving star,
For, by the family fireside,
Oh, lonely men they are 1
They die of peaoe and quiet—
The deadly ease of life ;
They die of home and comfort;
They live in storm and strife;
No poverty can tie them,
Nor wealth nor place restrain —
Girl, wife, or child might draw them,
But they’ll be gone again 1
Across the glowing desert;
Through naked trees and snow ;
Across the rolling prairies
The skies have seen them go.
They fought to where the ocean
Receives the setting sun ;
And, where shall fight the rovers
When all the lands are won ?
They thirst on Greenland snowfields,
On Never-Never sands;
Where man is not to conquer
They conquer barren lands ;
They feel that most are cowards,
That all depends on “ nerve,”
They lead who cannot follow,
They rule who cannot serve.
Across the plains and ranges,
Away across the seas,
On blue and green horizons
They camp by twos and threes ;
They hold on stormy borders
Of states that trouble earth
The honor of the country
That only gave them birth.
Unlisted, uncommissioned,
Untaught of any school,
In far-away world corners
Uneonquered tribes they rule j
The lone hand and revolver—
Sad eyes that never quail—
The lone hand and the rifle
That win where armies fail.
They slumber sound where murder
And treachery are bare—
The pluck of self-reliance,
The pluck of past despair.
Thin brown men in pyjamas—
The thin brown wiry men 1
The helmet and revolver
That lie beside the pen.
Through drought and desolation
They won the way Out Back ;
The commonplace and selfish
Have followed on their track ;
They conquer lands for others,
For others find the gold,
And where shall go the rovers
When all the lands are old ?
A rover and a rebel —
And so the worlds commence 1
Their hearts shall beat as wildly
Ten generations hence ;
And when the world is crowded—
’Tis signed and sealed by Fate —
The roving blood will rise to make
The countries desolate.
H. LAWSON.
Estimated number of Polynesians in
Q .eensland at the end of ’9B was 8485. The
number introduced was 1181 for the year, and the
number returned 847. Deaths, 202. The
Islanders’ fund in the Savings Bank amounted to
.£24,211 Bs. lid. Nearly all this money is spent
in Queensland, and goes to the islands in the
form of clothing, lamps, axes, etc. When will Q.
statistics give us reliable figures on the hybrid
and half-caste question ?
Writes “ J.E.N.” to The Bulletin
Editor Bcna/nm.—l would have troubled you long ere
now had I not been utterly ignorant of the fact that our
big capitalistic press is so enthusiastically patriotio.
Now, indeed, is there hope for our far .ners, our distressed
laborers, and backbloek selectors. 1 have (like Gov.
Beauchamp) heen amongst, the latter class lately, and I
tell you they are in a bad state. They are not an
‘•insignificant minority.” The Governor knows it. He
expressed his wonder how they live. Will you please
hurry up (you have always taken a kindly interest in the
hack-blockers and revenue-producers generally), and see
that Mayor Harris has Sydney Town Ilall in readiness to
receive subscript ions. M eanwhile, to cheer the almost
broken hearts of the drought-stricken, if would be as
well to give them a hint that assistance is at hand.
Patriotic enthusiasm is rampant, and God only knows to
h<it flifiires this fund will mnoiiiit when the Sidney
patriots know it is for their own hardy revenue-fighters,
who have been driven back wounded, crushed, and
almost conquered.
The Lash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MORNING of cloud-ripping breezes and tri”mph-
ant sunlight; a morning to open the heart and let
its pent-up joyance fly in the face of convention ;
a new, untarnished folio of a day.
Passing out from the nerve-bound city, we
paused to admire the expanding unhedged country,
and then turned with a sigh to the gates of the
prison—funereal and forbidding by contrast. The
gum-trees growing on the roadside had life in
them ; they flung their hardy glistening foliage
gaily to the marching wind ; but on the bleak
immobile wall-face, the sunlight turned to a sickly
gray. Around the wall’s abrupt angles and
breaks the wind lost its happy tone and moaned
like a lost spirit. The ugly, stubborn bulk of
masonry rose suddenly before us like a rubbled
and buttressed materialisation of that whioh
always comes between man and ideality.
They passed us through with a convincing
parade of guards, carbines, padlocks and brogue,
and we saw between the files of our blue-coated
Hibernian escort two grass-plots set with military
exactitude in the centre of the hard-paved yard.
Here, two thin, sour-faced convicts, presided over
by a warder with a gun, were shaving off the
scanty verdure with scythes. One of them was in
irons, and the clank of his leg-chains when he
stepped upon the pavement was a grim and
ominous sound.
Preceded by a large, imposing official, we
passed through a wicket, which was opened for
us with a lever by the sentinel above—keeping all
the time his rifle in his disengaged hand and his
eye on the universe. Crossing a bare, gravelled
yard, we entered a long bluestone building, and
were conducted to the prison-library to wait. It
was a small, stuffy room, surrounded by unplea-
sant religious books—the table littered with tracts
and missionary literature. Not an enlivening
place 1
For a time there was an eloquently dungeon-
like quietude ; then footsteps sounded in the cor-
ridor—the jangle of keys and the turning of a
lock. “ That,” said my companion, “is the man
who is to be flogged in private. He has been on
the triangles before ; they say the lash cuts fright-
fully the second time. Besides ”
He was interrupted by a long, mufflled wail,
which oozed in through the half-dosed door, and
set my hair a-bristling. Others followed in quick
succession. I longed to close the door, but some-
how didn’t like to move. My friend also kept his
seat, and there we remained grinning painfully at
eaoh other till the awful echoing monotone ceased
and a warder came to lead us to the torture-
chamber.
I felt a growing abhorrence as we passed into
the corridor, with its austere walls of painted
stone, and grim, grated cell-doors, and when we
entered the flogging-room this feeling intensified
to a sickening degree. I trembled at the
thought of what we were about to wit-
ness. My every sense was nervously quick-
ened, and I actually smelt the pain-wrung
sweat of the victim who had just been removed.
It was a small room with whitewashed walls and
board-floor; its only furniture a table with an
electric battery on it and the “ triangles ” —a
wooden tripod with cross-bars on one side. Pre-
sently two men, wearing false beards (the hang-
man and his assistant), led in a man with a
hideous canvas-mask over his head. This they
removed and revealed a low-browed, brutish face.
He was a young man, and his crime had been a
loathsome one—cruel, motiveless and unaccount-
able. Yet something in the helplessness of his
condition appealed strongly for pity. He stood,
while his sentence was being read, glancing
shiftily at one and another of his custodians, and
anon hopelessly at the grim torture-frame and the
half-dozen “ cats ” placed on the floor conveni-
ently near the flagellator’s hand.
As they bared the prisoner’s back the officials
spoke in half whispers, but as soon as the subject
was strapped to the frame with arms and feet
spread wide, one called out with startling loud-
ness “Fifteen lashes!” Immediately the flagel-
lator stepped forward, whirled the knotted thongs
once around his head and brought them whistling
down across the white shoulders. The stroke was
dealt with the precision of long practioe, and the
victim, taken by surprise, caught his breath with a
gasp and strained desperately at the unreleasing
bonds, the muscles of his shoulders and arms
quivering convulsively in the effort to free his
limbs and get one solacing writhe under the
sudden, unavoidable, tormenting sting. Fail-
ing this, the wretch threw back his head and
screeched forth the pent and raging resenfc-
ment of his body, with an intonation hideous,
heart-piercing and unforgettable. The sound was
comparable to nothing else in nature : it ex-
pressed all that is meant by despair and mortal
other strokes followed in orderly mechani-
cal sequence, and I watched them every one. At
each stripe the tortured wretch howled anew, but
above his screams could be heard the shouts of the
man whose duty it was to count the strokes, and
—between —the vicious “sing” of lash and
its gruesome “ splash ” upon the wealed flesh. At
the ninth stroke the doctor ordered the hangman
to vary the direction of his blows. He did so,
after staying to run his fingers through the clotted
lashes and to flick the gouted blood from them
upon the floor. The five last strokes were punc-
tuated only by deep, rhythmic sobs from the victim,
who now seemed to be numbed and stupefied by
pain.
When it was finished, they covered up his face
and body, and took him quickly away to the
hospital.
M.
Cables in Australian papers told us that
the Cape Government were helping the Boers to
arm, and that a heavy oase of goods, consigned
over the Cape railways to the 1' ree State, was
found to contain rifles. But they didn’t tell us
that, on further inquiry, this case was found to
contain only private letter-boxes for the new post-
office at Lucahoff. Also, they told us that shots
were fired at some Hussars before war was de-
clared. But they didn't tell us that, on further
inquiry, it was ascertained that the supposed rifle
shots were only the report of some blasts in a
Natal Govt, quarry. These corrections arrived
gradually and very obscurely by mail
“ Piripi” on tree-planting in the streets :
It should be made a criminal offenoe to plant dark-
foliaged trees in the environs of Sydney. The mono-
tonously-dark tone of the natural bush wants relieving
with lighter tints, but the tendency has been to go on
putting in firs, and pines, and Moreton Bay figs, until the
sameness of sombre color almost incites to suicide. Then
the aldermen who have been to Paris bring away with
them a mind-picture of the Boulevards, in which the
plane-tree predominated—a tree charming enough in
France, but not too suitable to the Australian climate,
and, at any rate, being deciduous, an eyesore and a
nuisance for nearly half the year. So, simian imitative-
ness is threatening us with an epidemic of plane-trees.
The best tree for street-planting, in present writer's
opinion, is the camphor laurel —in leaf all the year round,
showing the loveliest shades of living green, delightful
in perfume, unequalled as a shade tree, and having soft,
accommodating roots that will not upheave footways and
disintegrate walls.


It Keeps the Blood Pure
Give 9 Nerve-power, Prevents Nervous Exhaustion,
Keeps up the Physical Strength.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
V
i
m
&
m
I am a Professional Cyclist.”
“I am anxious to obtain all the prizes and honors possible. To do this I
know I must keep my blood and system in good order. For this purpose I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and the results have always been satisfactory.
“Training and racing make an excessive nervous strain and loss of nerve
force and physical strength. To quickly restore this loss of nerve energy and
power I have never found anything equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. The Sarsa-
parilla keeps my blood pure and this tones up and strengthens my whole body.
“Today I have the honor to be the champion cyclist of Forbes, thanks to
your wonderful medicine. I send you my portrait on my good steed that has
carried me with waving colors over the track.”
This is the testimony and portrait of the well-known cyclist, H. H. John-
son, of South Forbes, New South Wales.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out all impurities from the blood. It changes
thin blood into rich, red blood, such blood as healthy nerves and muscles must
have. “Ayer’s ” and only Ayer’s is called
“Tbs World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
All who are thin and pale need it. All who are weak and easily tired need
it. All who are nervously depressed from a warm climate need it.
AYER’S
It Invigorates the Whole System.
Ayer’s Pills Cure Biliousness and Sick Headache.
PLAIN HOME TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COBaiWrON SENSE.
By De. K. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, biit about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers. '
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is (id post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.—SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG- BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
PSBI WILL
h ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER
CHEAP
BOOKS
wfnnumv-imw
PLAIN HOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. S >nd for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Every Man His Own Builder, 224 illustrations, Is 6d ; Metal Working for
Amatki rs, brazing, soldering, gas fitting, brass casting, etc., illus., Is 6d.
Electrical Apparatus for Amateurs, Telephones, Electric Light, Coils., etc.,
illustrated, Is 6d. How to write Sikhs, Tickets and Posters, 170 illustrations, Is 6d.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is (id, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or. How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 16. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator. Is ; post Is 2d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian
Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
Out List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL -A.™
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Ways of Many Waters.
IEB.V 33. J. BoFt^3Z»'s2-.
A. -collection of Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
x?r r . b T C T Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Phystcal Energy of the human frame. These
are ‘facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debiliiated is that Beecham's Pills have the Laryest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEE CHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOIUA STUEi'; L\ SYDNTISY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Up*: A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised l>y thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nmv Oxford-st., London, i** Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
<p.
4
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; ,
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
UGE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOK, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
THROAT EASE
SUM fIBfUWE
ONAVJ£ND£\
DON.
'O
INVALUABLE TO
L SINGERS & SPEAKERS
cP
fer
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
ss
Instant Relief
Speedy Cure.


TEBTNISGOODS.
Slazenger AT London prices.
, Ba Belle, 6/-; Renshaw, 10/6 ;
XVtICKCIS “ Pastime, 15/- ; Whitehouse, 21/- ;
EGr M, 25/-; Boodie, 25-.
Slazenffer Balls Uncovered, 6/6 ;
° Covered, 13/-.
Ayres- - 1899 Balls Uncovered, 7/6:
Covered, 14/-.
(Association Bates to Members.)
TeHllis Special Quality Rubber on all our
Shoes.
Shoes Prices from 4/- to 25/-.
Rubber Goods of all Descriptions*
PERDRIAIJ & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
RQBEHTS’
George and
Board or Apartments at Option.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mm
?s>HE IfsßO#
MW
J. & J. MAX FIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCBI, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES
__
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works ,
<^GLASGOW.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
Birmingham 33 Albert st.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
m
w*
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wspITEIIT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Gxiaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents : mi mini' l ITliii
Wm, Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The sa me remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting- less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only-|d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appieeiated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be
only from this
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
£3
a
$
&
THE VERY FACT THAT
If
. ..\-i
RILLS
Have been made and sold by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
500 at the Anaconda Mines, Butte, Mont. 80 at the Homestake Lead, South Dakota.
14 by Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J.
is the embodiment of all that there is good in
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
ROCK DRILLS
Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads
AIR COMPRESSORS
Types and
Patterns.
Sole
Agents:
A
1 \
Man ufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, TLagines and Boilers.
60 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS’ and nrrr
GJE NERAI* MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY 8c MELBOURNE.
SIRAFSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
for Every Service.
BOILER FEED PUMP
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
