

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY, IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
CSrXTARAKrTEBP ~F=»TTl=?tt* COCOA. ~ ——— M 118
and EXTRACT or MAL’
X.
&pilP HR P _ J^
107 Kent Street, Syaney, " "*
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinerv Mini no- Po/mi<,o«»
lail|oylV ' : ~ BUILDERS' A»D GENIAL IRONMONGERY. KEW am, SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWATO AV» rrf»r j ße^UlSlteS »
JEFFREY
Spatial CHAINS
GIBSON, BATTLE '& C° ss Htt street, SYDNEY.
Elevating; America.
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors Seamless Stepl TTWaf™. n„„i * n • + , . #
Cram Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machineryf Coll Washingand mSiW * -saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bu&kulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST wTne^>
AUSTRALIA.
S3T Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THORNE’S
M WHISKY.
s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE .SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs; Kiinunster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT , BILLIARDS.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
wrMPOfclS'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
——
h'adleys Orient (jote!.
It/',
u
CL
CO
5
Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHTT!AT»t;pt AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTi,
117 York. Street.
SYDNEY. f;
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth, W. ! Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the Systenk”
,
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d. /
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
erang Brandy
ONE S? 2S?t.oo EADing DOCTOTIS has stated that should it
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
Tlie 3Kost Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
&n;=
EdISWAnY
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.'
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
wynyard square
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHERS “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS}
Flummer Love JSbs Co.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
V01.20.—N0. 1030, J
[Saturday, November 11, 1899.
Bettered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


For the LUNGS, the THBOAT, the VOICE
Coughs, Colds f
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of
B. The Trachka or windpipe.
C. The Bronchkil Tubes of a
dissected lung.
B, A. lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
rubifa
Speakers.
A
SUITABLH FOi* OLD
AMD YOUNO.
HUDSON’S ElOTOTHOL o JUJirBES (Registered)
Sold by all Chemists. Tins. 'ls- 6 £
Queenalaod, f«c Postage Stamps of any I rcfvl
Contain 1 TO cocaine
— Or from the Proprietor—G. HUDSON,
SYDNEY AGENT-S.' TAYLOK, 5 and
Chemist, Ipswich,
7 Queen’s Place. f
THE RED PAGE.
Credo Paien.
Je orois en ton baiser par-dessus toutes chosea.
On m’a dit ton niensonge eternel
Et quo tes mains pleines de roses
Avaient meurtri les fleurs pour en etre plus belles.
On m’a dit que tes yeux qui m’ouvraient l’infini
N’avaient que du neant au fon.Vde leurs prunelles,
Et que e’etait inon reve jamais enfui
Qui se reverberait en elles.
On m’a dit que les mots proferes par ta bouche
Ne puisaient leur magie que dans ma volonte
Que tousles sahglots de ta couche
Retentissaient dans la nuit vide, et que ton ame
Etait vide comme la nuit.
Les hommes m’ont appris l’histoire de tes siiicles,
Ton sillage de poings tendus derriere toi,
Tes bhchers inonstrueux de heros pour ta gloire,
L’liymme des sanglots morts attestant tes victoires
Et le sang des martyrs immoles pour ta foi ;
Et I’on lfi’a dit aussi ta face de vengeance
Crispee, mais une fleur meurtrie aux levres,
Et je sais tousles pleurs de l’humaine souffrance
Vers ton temple oil le monde avait rue ses fievres...
Mais qu’importe ! Je veux croire en tous tes men-
songes!
Lorsque le soir descend des colline3 aux plaines
La terre palpitante enfle sa chaude haleine
A travers les forets oil l’ombre se prolonge ;
Les fleurs ont entr’ouvert leurs calices d’amour,
Un frisson dont on meurt passe a travers le soir,
Et ton temple infini surgit jusqu’aux etoiles !
Je crois en tes bras blancs, endormeurs de nos
fievres,
Berceurs de nos sanglot3, caresseurs de nos reves,
En tes bras parfumes des baisers a venir;
Je crois en ton giron si doux et maternel,
Asile et porte de l’espoir et du souvenir,
Vers qui, tout frissonnants, les desirs eternels
Ont eourbe leur attente;
Je crois en tes seins de tendresse :
Parfois, le front sombre d’un songe, _
J’ai repose sur eux tant de lourde tristesse
Que j’avais peur,
Et leur caresse lente endormit ma douleur ;
Je crois en tes yeux bleus, en tes yeux noirs, 6
Femme, ,
Ton ceil est le miroir oil j’ai trouVe mon ame,
Dans ton regard j’ai lu de tels destins,
Tant de heros passes sur ton chemin
Qu’ils avaient grave sur ta face
Un blanc rayonneinent de gloire et de splendour,
Et ton regard a pris tous leurs regards
Que rien n’efface
Pour le triomphe ou pour la mort
Sur le parvis du temple
De celui-l& que ton regard contemple
Et qui t’adore.
Je crois en. tes Rvres promises,
Source et claire au milieu du desert.
Supreme apaisement qui nous berce et nous grise,
En ton baiser comme un martyr en son idole !
Je crois en tes paroles.
Malgre la sagesse des sieoles,
Je n’ai pas distingue l’ombre de tes mensonges;
Ta parole est la vraie et le reste n’est rien,
Seule consolatrice aux heures mornes,
Quels que soient les vieux mots que redise ton
songe,
Clest l’accent de ta voix qui se prolonge en moi,
Flhte douce d’automne ou chant voile du soir,
Ta parole est la verite que je veux croire,
Car elle seule est douce et passe comme,un baume.
Je crois en ta parole endormeuse et profonde...
Que le soir se prolonge k l’infini du monde
Vibrant de parfums lourds et de baisers lointains
Dans la spleudeur violette et bleue des grands
chemins,
Sue l’aube argente les collines
'e tintemejits et de lumieres,
Toujours monte des bois eette fete divine
De ton corps, de tes yeux et de ta chair enti&re
Pour que les univers tendent leurs bras vers elle.
Car ils sont tous venus, de l’aurore et du soir,
Courber leurs fronts, lever leurs yeux,
G-uerriers ou pretres,
Toute aureole et toute gloire
Ont disparu devant ton geste ouvert;
Tes bras en croix dans les couchants
Ont detruit les bras d’or des dieux,
Les heros ont oueilli leur palme en ton sourire,
Les pretres ont brise leurs idoles k tes pieds,
Et depuis tant d’4ternit6
Nulle hostie n’a valu la messe de ton corps;
Voici que les orgues du soir
Font vibrer les forets profondes de ta gloire
Oil vont tousles chemins du monde.
Dresse ta nudite au seuil de nos desirs,
Les temples de3 vieux dieux s’embrasent devant
toi.
Tout s’ecroule, et ta chair a pali le soleil.
J’entends chanter au loin vers l’horizon vermeil
Un ohant d’extase doux qui court de feuille en
feuille,
La terre a et tu parais—sereine
Au fond du soir, au fond du soir la-has ;
Je plus lee etoiles
Ni la splendeur de la nuit parfuimie ;
Toi seule parfumes et eolaires,
Je ne vois nien que ta beauts
Et je ne crois en rien qui ne soit pas ta chair !
ALBERT FLEURY.
[Translations may be sent.]
Bush Lingo.
Some of our bush phrases were transplanted
from America, probably per the California digger
and Yankee whaler of half a century ago ; but in
transplantation have become so Australianised
that their own coiners wouldn’t recognise them.
Among others- our “hills too steep for a crow to
fly down without a breeching.” is akin to the
Yankee “hills so steep that chain lightnin
couldn’t go down ’em ’thout puttin’ the shoe
(break) on.” J. R. Lowell claims old-world
origins for nearly all Yankee words, but holds
that most of his countrymen’s quaint prases are
native. Some day, soon, we will be in a position
to justly make the same claim to originality. Of
oourse the Australian’s quickness to adapt old
similes to local requirements will always make it
difficult to satisfactorily draft our quondongs
from Yankee nutmegs. Also, the similarity of
our surroundings with those of early America*
folk—big distances, big trees, lack of history,
log huts, bullock teams, the solemn, stern fight
with unkindly Nature, the common language—
will certainly produce a similarity of phrase, and
(barring that tired feeling) even character, which
will be scarcely distinguishable from plagiarism.
However, surely the bulk of the following—
many of thtffii in common use and ail heard in the
bush —are genuine kangaroos :
A man “so short that to mount his horse he
had to stand on his head to get his foot in the
stirrup.”
A sheep described by a shearer as having
“enough heather (loose skin) about his neck to
make (say) dewlaps for a team of bullppks.”
Another sheep described as having “as many
wrinkles in his hide as a concertina ” ; or “ wrin-
kled from breech to breakfast time,” or “from
afternoon to appetite,” meaning, in sailors’ par-
lance, from stem to stern; but the Australian
bushman generally puts his sayings stern first,
“like” —this isn’t Australian—“a hog goes to
water. ”
A Monaro native, on hearing a banjo played for
the first time in his life, said it was “ like a goat
stamping in a tin dish.” (He really said “ blanky ”
goat, and substituted another word for “ stamp-
ing,” but these are details.)
“ A snake longer than anybody can remember.”
A long journey with an indefinite goal—“A
thousand miles the other side of sundown. ”
An aperture so small and tight that “you
couldn’t drive a tin tack in. with a ton monkey. ”
Blankets so worn and devoid of “nap” that
“they wouldn’t catch a burr if you dragged ’em
from Bendigo to Bourke.”
Anybody “too slow to catch worms,” or “to
catch cold,” or to “go to his own funeral,” or to
“get out of his own road.”
“Greased lightning ” is of course Yankee; the
average Australian has no better standard of
speed than “he’s pretty sudden,” or “swift,” or
“he can run (or jump) like a blanky kangaroo
with a pot of horse blister stuck (ahem!) to his
tail.”
“From jackass to jackass ” is sometimes varied
with “ from jackass to mopoke ” —(dawn till dark).
There are thousands of mere exaggerations used :
“Hands like feet and feet like No. 4 shovels”;
“head like a woolshed,’’ “mouth like a horse-
collar, etc., etc., but the comparisons are seldom
incongruous or quaint enough to raise a smile.
Poverty of simile accounts for a.lot of blanky in
the bush : the hottest day is only spoken of as
“ hotter than blanky hell with the blanky lid off,”
or “as hot as the blanky hobs of hell.” Next to
blanky, hell is the word most used by our natives.
They run, jump, swear, ride, fight, shear, skite,
and lie like hell; and the cook can even cook like
hell. Or rather like ’ell, for the man from
outback rarely uses the aspirate except for
emphasis. He always “ ’olds ’is ’orse’s ’ead
up ” when he isn’t excited; but if his horse falls
down he gently kicks it in the ribs and exclaims,
‘ ‘ Hup yeh git! ” or “ Stand hup, yeh blanky cow ! ”
Urging another in to fight he probably says,
“Goo on, hin to it! ”or “ Hin to ’im, Bill 1 ”
A round-barreled horse is often “ ribbed up like
a mosquito ; ” a round-barreled man is generally
“ribbed up to the neck like a mosquito.”
A horse with good staying power has “a bottom
like a camp oven.” So has a g.ood fighting man;
but the latter is generally “overloaded with
science” as an additional reason for “taking to
water,” or fighting shy of a “go ” with him.
The bushman isn’t a Bible reader, hence one
seldom hears a biblical allusion out at the back o’
Bourke. But the Yankee revels in that kind of
thing, thanks to his Praise-God-Barebones Pilgrim
Fathers. The Australian never had a Pilgrim
Father; it wasn’t religious freedom that our Dad
came out here for. I have heard the terms ‘ ‘ old
as Methusaleh’s cat,” and “as poor as Job’s
turkey ” in the bush ; but these are American.
The horse we want to dispraise is only “ as old as
the blanky ’ills,” or “as poor as wood,” or “ dog
poor,” or “dog tired,” or “dog lazy ”; seldom
“as poor as Lazarus.” The average Australian
doesn’t know Lazarus, and doesn’t want to ; he is
too often “as stiff as a crutch ” himself, and his
tucker bags not seldom have “ necks on ’em like
blanky emus.”
A dirty, careless mate is slyly referred to as “ a
real clean bloke ; he washes himself every six
weeks whether he wants it or not,” or, “he gets
up at nine o’clock every morning, daylight or star-
light.”
The wittiest bush similes are unprintable in a
polite paper like The Bulletin ; but, my colonial!
aren’t they expressive and original !
JOHN DRAYMAN.
La Live Gauche.
Boxes of books line either side of the Seine, and
stooping figures hover about them : but the Rive
Droite and the Rive Gauche have little in com-
mon. The first is blase, or it is bourgeois. It
does nothing, or it bawls at the Bourse. It is pre-
maturely old, or it totters on a stick. It is pale,
and must use rouge. It has tasted every joy ;
strained every nerve ; exhausted every sense.
Youth possesses the other side. Blithe figures
caper about. Upon this jeunesse, Notre Dame
casts her shadow ; the dome of the Pantheon rises
proudly above it. Faces are fresh, voices gay :no
one mumbles about his liver, or is conscious of
having one. Dissipations, too, are different.
Theatres stop glittering before yo* have crossed
the bridge ; the Noetambules and Muse, artistic
cabarets, begin. No one pulls on white gloves.
No one sits in a stall before a ballet. Toasts and
blessings are delivered in the Cafe Harcourt, mad
measures performed at Bullier’s ; P&uiand Pierre,
wild lights of the Latin quarter, rejoice. Both
love to clothe themselves in corduroys, and wear
ties and capes that fly. Both are givun to dancing
down the 'street, arm-in-arm, linked to Gaston
and Georges, an amazing row. Both prefer song
to study, bocks to books, pipes to pen, and night
to day.
Some trials, nevertheless, torment the Latin
Quarter: four of them, quarterly events, when
landlords come out. They arrive at mid-day :
and find Paul in bed. He is polite. He is pale.
He is sorry, and—forth comes his plea, harrowing
but simple, full of promise, of infinite hope, pre-
pared overnight. It is cursed and refuted ;it
grows in melancholy. It soothes ;it moves ; a
final vow '■ it wins ! Touched by this mercy,
Paul immediately starts a hoard. He lays a
foundation sou. He tells his friends. He
is proud of his thrift. For .days he nurses
his store, but no sooner is it one franc old
than he covets, and falls. He confesses his crime
to Gaston, and Gaston gi'ins, and shows him nine
sous, and says he has i.ad them as fnany months,
and secretes them again before Paul can see that
they are Argentine and English, worthless and
worn. Of Paul buys an account book. He carries
it *Vith him. He forgets its existence. He is
surprised to find it a week later, and fills it in a
njfht with card sc/ 63 and character sketches.
Next quarter Paul’s cffcumstances require a bhange
of landlords ; be is seen “moving.” A seedy man
with a truck takes his goods; pathetic
rubbish, wanting in varnish and legs, a crazy
wreck. It is escorted through the streets by Paul
and friends. Passing students salutfe the cortege.
Sad song is chanted oyer.it. In a side street, at a
poefr little wineshop, it sto’ps, and Pavfl and friends
toast and christen and cheer it. A modest room
near the Seine is its new home, conveniently
ologe to Pfcre Pognon’s. Efts meals are popular
in The Latin with a bottle of wine,
one frano. Wfinderful stews and the queerest
curries appear twice a week; Paul and Pierre pro-
claim them £patant. Both have a slate that
records their week’s eeAifigs. Every Saturday
they give the sleeveless garqon half a frano. A
rival establishment stands next door, emblazoned
Cremerie, hung with portraits and sketches left
by needy painters in exchange for a steak. _ Other
treasures are held in pawn : poems, the first act
of a tremendous tragedy intended for the Odeon,
a pair of bursting boxing-gloves, a meerschaum
pipe. On a grander scale is the “diner des
Princes, ” equipped with thinner glasses, napkins,
and a table-cloth. The feast costs one franc fifty,
and includes a variety of dishes, far from plain,
steeped in sauces, magnificently named. Each has
its surprises. None are natural. You meet amaz-
ing trifles wherever you stab; even your beef has
been tampered with.
O.ther feasts occur from time to time, royally
conducted at the Harcourt. Feasts in honor of
an inheritance, or of a triumph, or, grandest event
of all, in honour of a departure. Gaston was the
last to give one : Gaston as tat. 25, summoned home
to Rouen to commence his professional career.
He calls meetings. He concocts menus. He con-
sults wine lists. The Quarter starts hoards that
do not dissolve prematurely, and makes Gaston
gifts. He accepts them with emotion. He feels
very sad. He issues invitations to supper, at
which every guest’s arm must be bound with
crape. Of all ceremonies this is the saddest. By
it you bury your youth, your past, and your follies.
You are old when it is over. It is d;he last mad
moment of your career. Memories haunt the room
in which you sup. It has heard you sing ; it has
felt you dance. What grim change has come over
it ! How transformed it is ! Festoons of flowers
have given place to cords of crape. The mirror is
draped with it ; the chandelier shrouded in it.
Knots and bows are about, all black. Gaston
enters, thick in crape. The mourners follow,
armed with crape. And waiters appear, with
bows of crape. Every mustard-pot wears mourn-
ing, every menu a black rosette. There are
sombre threads round every spoon and fork. Soup
is served from a vessel grimly adorned. Bottles
arrives; alas l their slender necks bear further
symbols of Gaston’s fleeting youth. No one has
much to say. Laughs are faint; jokes rare. Each
new dish is clothed in crape. As the bottles cir-
culate, Paul revives. He wins the first laugh ; he
begins to smile. He calls Gaston “mon vieux,”
meaningly ; and Gaston sighs. Bold voices refer
to Rouen as a place in which no one capers. Its
cafes are dim; its people glum. More bottles
appear ; alas ! their once golden stems have gone
black: they are labelled Carte. Noir. Coffee
comes, and liqueurs. Everyone whispers, watches,
waits. And Paul, drawing on a pair of black
gloves, rises, calls for silence, proposes the first
toast. A tribute to old age is his topic, coupled
with the name of the venerable form who sits at
the top of the table. Gaston, he says, your eye is
dim, your frame feeble, your voice weak : you will
rejoice no more. Rouen claims you; oarefully
clothed and combed, you will practise law, take
a wife, and conduct a home. Alas ! poor
Gaston, we, the jeunesse of the Latin Quarter,
lament your transition to bourgeois spheres,
grieve over the putting-away of your corduroys,
and pray you leave them ami your tie behind you
as relics of your brilliant youth, now dead. Think
of us, Gaston, as your fire burns and your respect-
able clock ticks, as you lay your head on your
pillow at the worthy hour of ten: pray for us,
Gaston, and we will pray for you. . . . Slowly
the old one replies, with emotion. He thanks the
Jeunesse, he envies the Jeunesse, of whom he is
Row doyen. He will scatter his raiment among
them ; each shall have his share. He mourns
his youth: spent, he admits, wildly, but free
of stains and scars. Looking back on the five
years he has spent in the Latin Quarter, he
remembers no mean or dishonourable action com-
mitted by either his friends or himself, and he is
proud of this and thankful for it, and thinks that
principles and honour have more home with the
Jeunesse of the Rive Gauche than with the
rakes and bourgeois of the other side. He drinks
to this Jeunesse, to the Quarter, to the Sorbonne,
the Harcourt, and Notre Dame. Everyone rises
for the toast, drinks it in silence. And slowly
the students pass by Gaston one by one, a long
line, and wring his hand and say something affec-
tionate in a husky voice, then collect their hats
and coats, and go out into the night, noisy again,
an amazing row.
Dawn breaks ov»r the Latin Quarter, and police-
men yawn. “Ce sont les etudiamts,” they growl
when voices, ring out. Good-hearted bourgeois
are disturbed: “la jeunesse qui s’amuse,” they
say. And the students dance on. Down the Boul’
Mich’ they go, to sip hot coffee at Madame Ber-
trand’s, open all night. She serves it herself, a
motherly soul. She lectures Paul if he reels from
bock ; reproves Pierre for being out if he has an
examination to undergo. When they have gos-
siped themselves hoarse, she tells them to seek
their homes. And the students dance out. Arms
join again, legs go, stopping only on the bridge.
Notre Dame, great and grey, stands to the right
of this Jeunesse, and it is to her that Paul and
Pierre and Gascon lift their hats, to her towers,
over which a cloudy sky is breaking. Hat in hand,
they linger, dishevelled dreamers. Gaston sighs ;
everyone sighs. Gaston takes a last look at the
towers he loves. And the students dance home.
From The Saturday Review.
John Milton: Poet and Cyclist.
It is not generally known that “Paradise Lost ”,
k a poem based on a reported case of slump in
celestial stock, or else a big coasting expedition,
which evidently -concluded with a general smash-
up, for quite early we read of some one being
Hurl'd headlong, flaming from the ethereal sky
With hideous ruin and combustion, down
To bottomless perdition, there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire.
Any rider who has done an extra swift run down
an ugly hill, and has woke up from a long spell
of unconsciousness with his cigarette jammed
down his throat, his head through his front wheel,
his new Renold chain tangled round his ankles,
arid his pocket on fire from rubbed vestas, will
fully appreciate these allusions to penal fire,
chains, hideous ruin, etc. The particular passage
as to “coasting” is the following
... he then survey’d
Hell and the gulf between, and Satan there
Coasting the wall of Heaven—on this side, night;
In the dun air sublime, and ready now
To stoop witli wearied wings and willing feet
On the bare outside of this world, that seem’d
Firm land Unbosom'd, without a firmament,
Uncertain which, in ocean or in air.
This passage is surely the most magnificent idea
of a coast ever conceived by mortal man, and
proves that John Milton, although blind when
writing, must have been a most enthusiastic
and daring cyclist. Miltop is believed by
many to have great claims on the world’s
consideration for having written such works
as “ Areopagitica,” “ Eikonoklastes,” “A De-
fence of the People of England,” and others;
but these claims all pale before the marvellous
conception of a single coast of (>OOO miles, one
quarter round the globe, say from Pole to Equator,
with a final launch off into space. There are
many other passages to support the contention
that Milton was a cyclist, and to again prove
there is nothing new under the sun. Clearly
there was a celestial “ battle of the gears, ” for the
poet says—
Above them all
The golden sun, in splendour likest Heaven,
Allur’d his eye ; thither his course he bends
Through the calm firmament; hut up or down,
By centre or ecoentric, hard to tell.
This clearly means his new gear was not yet
patented, and so was closely covered by a gear-
case to prevent the cycling journalist giving the
thing away too soon. That he suffered from
punctures is very certain, from this passage :
and to each inward part,
With gentle penetration, though unseen,
Shoots invisible.
As proof that Milton was a careful rider, we have
the following very proper expression of contempt
for the mere scorcher, who tears along without
any regard to the beauties of the way:
• Mammon led them on ;
Mammon, the least-erected spirit that fell
From Heaven, for e’en in Heaven his looks and thoughts
Were always downward bent, admiring more
The riches of Heaven’s pavement.
In another short passage we have another refer-
ence to the gear question, coasting, and lighting-
up .
Took leave, and toward the coast of earth beneath,
Down from the ecliptick, sped with hop’d sucoess,
Throws his steep flight in many an aery wheel,
Nor staid till on Niphntes’ top he lights.
It would almost seem that he was dodging a
bobby because his lamp was not alight at proper
time. And while Adam and Eve are sleeping,
Gabriel calls for a cycling Gymkhana
The Cherubim,
Forth issuing at the aocustom’d hour, stood arm’d
To their night watches in warlike parade ;
When Gabriel to his next in power thus spake :
UZziel, half these draw off, and coast the south
With strictest watoh ; these others wheel the north—
Our circuit meets full west.
Then follow some marvellous evolutions which
would make the fortune of any showman, but all
the time the Devil is inside the ring tickling Eve’s
ear. Many other proofs of our general contention
can be given, but probably the above will b©
enough to cause cyclists, when next packing up
for a tour, to include a copy of Miltop in the
‘ ‘ Hold-all, ” and recognise once again “ How
great wits jump together.”
T.S., in The Freethinker.
Reprints.
SPRING MUTINY.
I do not wish that love should come to mo.
I choose to live my life as large and free,
As I do new,
With no man’s love to lay its hand on me.
I have laid out my future fair and clear-
Safe from these things that others hold most dear.
Eager and sure,
That no man’s eyes shall hold my joy and fear.
I hate a hungering heart that stakes its life, —
Its bliss, its anguish, on that soft word, “wife.”
I stand aloof,
And scorn love’s harmonies, and mock love’s strife.
But yet
The soft spring breeze comes fragrant o’er the hill,
Blossoms and moonlight set the land athrill,
Down in my heart,
Comes a great wrenching cry I cannot still.
When the whole world goes crooning a love tune,
When the whole world is hurrying to its June,
That traitor-heart—
Oh Love, if come you must, come soon, come soon !
E. A. Hallowell.
IN AN ATTIC.
City roofs give no hint of spring,
Though it whispers from the sky,
So over the paper the ink I fling
And the old stub pen I ply,
When suddenly up from the street somewhere
Comes the lilt of a dance’s maze,
And life moves on to a gayer air
When the organ-grinder plays !
I oan see pink blossoms floating down
From the slant of an apple bough,
Where a blue-bird, perky and prim and brown,
Is making a rag-time row,
And something stirs in my heart—a thrill,
And over my eyes a haze,
And I know it’s spring by the blue-bird’s trill
When the organ-grinder plays !
Up in the sky there are clouds abloom
In a glory of drifting blue,
While down on the dingy roof-tops’ gloom
Creeps a glorious golden hue.
And here’s where the end of the rainbow’s at
And dallying primrose ways.
Oh ! it’s good to live and feel like that
When the organ-grinder plays !
Kate Masterson.


KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
By using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/6 and 211- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEN,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wi4ea6e4.
s9leii) tyideotiery
,<( £iymo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“Woolloston House, Castleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligrnolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligrnolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligrnolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is.
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligrnolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
5 is. and. *7ss. 6d. Each.
£s?"Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney:
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPVNE.
Caution.- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHOHITIS,
DIAEEHGhA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all
cases ol anaemia and
FER BR&YAIS
general debility.
Highly recommended
tor weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/tfcai all
the good, effect s of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
SOI n BY CHEMISTS Al l. THE WOHI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER
- ■■■, ■ ■ ■ 1 "■"»
FOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
■" T TTOTT*riT*T>
Offices :
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores -Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Life of the System.
nuoksPL
m
hu
WSk
m
Intending Travellers by Sea or Lant
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 Greorge-street, SYDNEY
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
£3T The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for on
Goods areLONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE
[TSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUCKS,
egulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 l 33 86
£6 6a £6 16s £7 7s
li PUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 18 20 22 24
Lined iean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH’S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 65s
HUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT OASES, in tan can-
vas bound with leather, size 20in. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d eaoh. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
HUSH’S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT OASES
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap
sible, a splendid bag for hard usage and
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Prices frcn
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH’S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value e
55s up. Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P,0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to b
added to country cheques for exchange,
mm, PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.,
MANUFACTURERS an
IMPORTERS . . .
403-405 George-street, SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84'-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15,9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hate, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
/"'I IVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
v* GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design,
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduce
DR. VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One trial
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d, for which we
will forward you post free one box (three tablets) of DE-
VON MULLER’S PEARL CiIEAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved on
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants <b Importers.
. Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
tf&turaf Curly, from 3/3 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
gtlln. long, fi/s. all real half.
CUTTINGS & COMBING*
worked up, s>/6 per oz.
Wo are the cheapeMo Aqp
trolia for all Hair Work,
Send Color of Hair. '''
w. H:wi«z«n>
‘HOW ILMAVI STTIBBT.
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe Lilt.'
Prappt attention given to Country Order*
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be pi veil secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sidney's leading physicians. Write for
Pamnhlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R- CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A, M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CKAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE ’
HIGH-GRADE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.
(alcp’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Hud. Brelimer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents-
W. H. (aLEM & CO.,
359 Georg’e Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS. Hobart.
SANDHURST 0. November 29.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEKSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Address,
NEWCASTLE C. December 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Jte A ,
Address
£ t :
CARRINGTON S.
December 30.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
SUMMER 0. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


THIN
5
HA R
Lots of peo*
pie have thin
hair. Per-
haps their
parents had
thin hair; per*
haps their
children hare
thin hair. But
this does not
make it neces-
sary for them
to have thin hair.
One thing
you may
rely upon-
makes the
hair healthy
and vigor-
ous ; makes
it grow
I
Hair
visor
thick and long. It cures dan-
druff also.
It always restores color to
gray hair, —all the dark, rich
color of early life. There is
no longer need of your look-
ing old before your time.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies the blood,
and clears the complexion.
Pnpartd by Or. J.C.Aycr&Co.,Low(tl.Mxss., 0. S. A
c
c&
\<*
AC'*
OO
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
xr^ n w l 1 a * Rubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ANTHOS
FOR THE
Oitaorem, Cluluoph«f Mudd, r.L.a., Prtnc. of Viler Unt-^tn
Sot a Grease, purely So tan leal.
Melb. Unlvendt
P* : J. Kobkkt Lke, M'b„ B*B
“ rfgl-eiull
tfie I It bn irr oil
1 ItV is wi II
v« ntk Ha r alii
lie i I Bot ;| e '
. ia id VjSfO tjhll inb
y«riliyec©lTii p tr
pie hoi lie oi 11 ahiudb.
_ Colonial KepnnemetiTe for the Proprietor*:
Fred. <l. B. PblUlps, 817 Golllna Bu, Melbourne.
refiee
lerg h
I a
o jt
or. c i.
ISCtU
Old
laill
nthoa
CSS-0 TO HELL-
KSOI.AND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
Hsts gratia
Of THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by effecting
» Policy with that Office before the close of the year. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the yeur
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 81st DECEMBER, 1899 (all bonuses vest
Immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among the
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Intending proposes should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direct or through the
Society s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
Dlreotor*The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, K.0.M.0., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman ;
A. W. Meeks, Esq. ; Joseph Abbott, Esq. ;J. T. Walker, Esq.; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Aotuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.LA., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sbarc of tbe Profits
to
AiKwZs
-a
m
Sulkies, £4 165., £6 165.,
£8 165., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboardg, £8
10s., £lO 10s.
Boggy Harness, 80/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send lor Price List.
H. H3XLIER, 135 & 137 Snssex-street.
Work*: MELBOUB.NE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
The L*rifeet Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyer* of light Vehicles
The Beet and Cheapest.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN,
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the -weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-BT., OONOOED, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams kc., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEAL®**.
RELIABLE FURNITURE I
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALT, and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Oouoh, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for A 3 10s.
60 others, 6, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnnt Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, £6 15s.
SO Bedroom Suites to select from.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
Pull Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattreu,
Sec Best Bedding, £3 15a.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 663, 665 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or TBua at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
CHE
‘Plum’
P/D
THB
* Plum*
ENTLEMEIs who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
. 1 hia razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings Ilk® & bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, \\e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor far Tim Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
. _ ‘ Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price ■
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful moroooo leather case 21a.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful ease, 30a.
Sole
Agents
Jieinstered and sent Post Free to any part ol the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
UNT.tei. W .
& Saddlery Ma,nf. Comnanv
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY *
When in town, pay ua a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying: from us.
O.ur One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring 1 Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptionof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
sent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUB SPECIAL No. t
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Rail nays, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bouquet’s Burden.
A half-moon leant on the eastern hills
As I flung the window wide,
And I saw the sky grow opal-white
In the wash of her silver tide.
A wandering breeze went drifting by
And sang in a minor key,
And I told my love in its careless ear
For want of sympathy.
’Twas told by the wind to a bold sunflower.
Who reared his head in pride ;
He spoke the tale to a shy sweet-pea,
Who drooped her blooms and sighed;
She dropt the words to the flowers beneath
And all in the garden knew—
The while a cricket chirped his song—
That I was in love with you.
The story ran from flower to flower,
With all its sad refrain,
That though my love lay at your feet
You passed it with disdain ;
And, when their fibres felt the stress
Of this emotion new,
They hung their heads in mute regret,
And wept in tears of dew.
I rose this morn when in the east
The sky was stained with red,
And plucked the sympathising blooms
Still wet with tears half-shed ;
I wrought them in a cunning bunoh
Of mingled white and blue,
And now I send this brave bouquet
To bear my love to you.
JULIAN MITOHELL
One Man’s Ideal.
Nob to month platitudes of human wrongs.
Nor passionately rant of human right;
But to unknit the swollen snaky thongs
That bind and bite:
Not to strike blindly lest we strike his friends j
To patiently trace out the master flaw;
To gather up the many broken ends
And find the law
Which, working dumbly in a vicious maze—
Wrest from its purpose, warped from all it
meant—
Turns good to evil, glooming all the days
With discontent;
Not cursing Nature for her selfishness,
But trusting rather that the iron decree
Doth hold within it wisdom and redress,
Could we but see
What dire malignant stress of circumstance,
What fatal misdirection, changed what might
Have been as song and festival and dance
To dirge and blight:
Not looking for some miraole to chase
The stormy passions from the human breast |
Holding that what is common to the raoe
Is also best —
Best in essential self, though marred and rent,
Pure in its essence when it most seems wrong.
Defects of musio in the instrument
And not the song—
That vioe is often virtue curbed and thwarted.
And evil, goodness dwarfed, misunderstood—
Wise instinots poisoned, turned awry, distorted
In the heart’s blood;
Streams welling purely from a mossy grot,
Kissed by the winds that come and laugh and
pass,
But damned by guile or ignorance to rot
In some morass.
So will he see the seething world through eyes
Moist with divinest sympathy and ruth,
And learn to catch in clamorous din of lies
Some lilt of truth.
And delving ever to the heart of things
Disclose at length the fault that mars the plan,
And see, far off, the golden dawn that brings
Day and the Man.
And hear—transfigured in that thrilling hour,
Alone and voiceless ’neath the paling sky—
Paint thunders of the pageant and the power
Of Liberty.
And cry, “ She comes ! ordained from endless
time,
Freighted with all the hopes of all the years ;
Earth’s crowning good and recompense sublime
For toil and tears !
“ To vindicate the true hearts of the past
Who scorned the threat and loathed the pander’s
feast,
And fought, with hard-set teeth, the craft of
caste,
And king and priest.
“ And would not bow the knee, and, falling, died
Defiant, smiling in the tyrant’s face,
Clothing with loftiest dignity and pride
Death and Disgrace.
“Of whom the years were full; forgotten most,
But living evermore in triumph won ;
In freedom broadening from coast to coast,
Beneath the sun;
“ In knowledge waiting by the poor man’s gate ;
In thoughts that range unfettered as the sea ;
In yonder vision of that perfect state
Which is to be.’’
T.J.H.


IT IS
CHEAPER
THAN IRON
Laid on Galvanised
Wire Netting.
RUBEROID
ROOFIHG
E. RICH & CO., LTD. (For Full Particulars) SYDNEY, BRISBANE
ii-'Vi'.'i,.;:
m
[tHul pjgjil ItKil
Where to stay in Sydney ?
TERMS MODERATE.
Tirrusiu’s
HOTEL
PITT STREET.
w. J. Adams, Manager.
Painless Dentistry,
THE .. ..
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. IjEVEU, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mb. S. D. ASH hit, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKH I COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
STieK TO
SAME©
CIGARETTES
NOBEL-6LRS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
vA
im
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over =£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899 ; or over <£looo more than any other powder. —Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PARVO 2-ineh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
One Million lbs. Tobacco
TON
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being !)0i Tons above any other manufacturer.
OODLEc
Dixson’s Great Leading' Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 20.—N0. 1030.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1899.
Pbicb 6a
THE SILVER LINING.
FATMAN : “ There’s no doubt, my dear madam, that this splendid action on the part of our Government in sending troops to fight for the dear old Mothe r Country bears some what
heavily in individual cases like—like yours. But you should take a broader view. It has got me my title, and just think how it will increase our borrowing-power!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians- ”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• £1 n ° °
Half-yearly ... ... ••• 0
Quarterly... ... ... ••• 0 b b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added wher
which you may pay by Post Office Oi province’
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian P^wne f>
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you evet y
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclf.od, Managing Onectoi.
Literary Communications to be addressea a.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this neivspaper are
the publishers. The right to reproduce
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, aclmowledgein the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or Articles
Verse Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOW words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. Adi
communications will be regarded as slrictZ;/ con/ h '
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly undeist
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient Onmt
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, oi any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current etent,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Anypictuie con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.eany picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the of ice of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordonand Gotch, Ludgate Cucus, S >eel
de Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.—A A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street , Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Mout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on 7 ntervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside■ N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lkd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exactedly the Queensland Post Ofice, a special lhynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1899.
The Australian’s Faint-Heartedness.
That, in the opinion of this House —(a) all revenue de-
rived from the sale, lease, or other occupation of Crown
lands should in the future be devoted only to the con-
struction of public works; (b) no loan moneys in the
future shall be expended in other than reproductive
works, such as railways, telegraphs, telephones, and such
other works as will yield a direct return to the Treasury.
—Motion by Chanter. M L.A., on the notice-paper of
N.S.W. Assembly.
The other day, in N.S.W. Legislative Assembly,
Chanter, M.L.A., introduced another motion to
the above effeot —one that had been on the notice-
paper for about a year, and which all parties had
combined to block on every possible occasion.
When, at last, the painful subject wouldn’t be
blocked any longer, the great Borrowing Parlia-
ment ruled it out on a point of order. The state-
ment at the head of this article represents
Chanter’s renewed attempt to bring the subject
under discussion. Some day or other the N.S.W.
Parliament, and every other Parliament in Aus-
tralia, will have to seriously consider the great
borrowing curse—to seriously discuss its easy,
shiftless, cowardly device of refusing to face its
financial difficulties, and passing the responsibility
on, and letting the thing slide, and paying it
out of loans because debt is the refuge of the
tired man, and the fool, and the person without
grit, and the great Wilkins Micawbek family
generally. It will have to consider where it is,
and where it is going to. And it will have to say
distinctly whether it considers roads, culverts,
gaols, lock-ups, sand-shifting and forest-thinning
jobs, crockery, repairs to public buildings, new
wood-blocking, bridges, new wharves to replace old
ones that are still unpaid for, wages of public offi-
cials, the expenses incurred in floating loans, fortifi-
cations, ammunition, &c., to be in any fair and rea-
sonablesense “permanent and reproductive works,”
and as such fairly chargeable to loan funds. So
far Parliament has refused to say anything either
way. It hadn’t the courage to say “yes,” and
put the disgraceful statement formally on record.
It hadn’t the courage to say “no,” and face the
consequent obligation to live on the old easy
swindle no longei. It doesn’t want to say any-
thing if it can avoid it.
* * * ♦
The Bulletin has put the case over and over
again, as regards Australasia in general, for an
absolute cessation of borrowing. It now puts it
again, with Chanter’s motion for a text, as
regards N.S.W. in particular. To begin with,
the people of that province, so far as appears from
Statistician Coghlan’s official figures, are, with
the single exception of the people of Great Britain,
the richest community on earth. On page 964 of
the “Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.” for 1898
he sets down the private wealth of N.S.W at
£370,000,000 —or £275 per inhabitant. Mulhall,
in his “ Dictionary of Statistics ” estimates the
private wealth of Great Britain at £302 per
inhabitant; France £252; United States £234 ;
Denmark £230 ; the rest of the world, by com-
parison, nowhere. (But it is a notable fact that,
while most of these show an increase on
last previous estimates, N.S.W. shows a
heavy decrease.) These are private possessions
only. N.S.W., in proportion to population, has
more State wealth than any other country in the
world, bar none. It has a net income, according
to the figures for last financial year, of £1,700,000
from public lands. This is more than the land
revenue of all the other six provinces put
together. It is, in proportion to population,
an immensely larger income from sources
apart from taxation, than is enjoyed by any other
country in the world. Outside Australia it is
doubtful if there is any country which can show,
in proportion to population, one-sixth of such
wealth. It is an endowment that has cost the
province nothing. It is pure steal—for the size
of the community the biggest steal on earth.
* * * *
And N.S.W. is specially favored in other ways.
It has no war debt, therefore it has escaped a
great unproductive burden that has fallen heavily
on every country in Europe and in both the
Americas. It has never had to pay an indemnity
to a foreign enemy. It has never been so seri-
ously threatened as to be driven to any elaborate
preparation for war, or any costly system of forti-
fication. It has never had any war damage to
make good. It has no military and naval expendi-
ture worth mentioning—at least, the bill has up
to now run to 3s. 6d. per inhabitant per annum.
The outlay of other nations is: Turkey, £1 7s.
per inhabitant; Britain, £1 Is. ; France, 19s. ;
Germany, 14s. ; Holland, 135.; Chili, 11s.; Ar-
gentina, 10s.; Italy, 9s. ; Spain, Portugal, Greece,
Sweden, Norway and Denmark, each Bs.; Russia,
Austria, and Switzerland, each 7s. ; Belgium and
Roumania, 6s. per inhabitant per annum. And
yet N.S.W., claiming to be the second richest
community in the world in proportion to popula-
tion, so far as concerns private wealth —the very
richest in the world according to population in
public wealth —with no unproductive war debt,
and about the smallest military, and naval expen-
diture on earth, moans that it is too poor to pay
its way in times of absolute peace, and make a
road or a bridge or a culvert, or repair a public
building, without ceaseless borrowing ! It is a
pitiable spectacle.
♦ * m *
If N.S.W. resolved even now to swear off bor-
rowing it would be, despite its big debt and its
past profligacy, in a far better situation than
most countries. Assuming that it decided to set
aside its splendid land revenue for the construc-
tion of new public works, and to entirely abjure
loans, its situation would be this: It has to pay
£1 17s. 10d. per head annually in interest and
charges on its public debt. The net revenue
(revenue, that is, over and above working ex-
penses) from the railways and tramways and
other works built with that debt amounts to about
£1 11s. per head per annum. That leaves the
country to pay its own current expenditure out of
taxation, as every decently-financed country does,
and to pay out of taxation 6s. lOd. per head in-
terest on its debt. That and the expenditure
on military and naval charges put together,
would be about 10s. per inhabitant annually
—far less than half what Turkey pays per
inhabitant for naval and military charges alone ;
about half the naval and military expenditure
per head in France and Britain, and far less than
that per head in Germany or Holland. Or, if
N.S.W. even decided to set apart £1,000,000 a-
year of its land revenue for new public works, and
to make that suffice, its situation would be this :
The balance of the land revenue and the net in-
come from railways and tramways would pay all
the interest on the public debt. It wouldn’t be
necessary to impose on the people a single farthing
of taxation for interest purposes. So far as tax-
ation was concerned, N.S.W. would be in the
blessed condition of a country with no debt. It
would merely have to raise enough taxes to cover
its expenditure, and because of its very small naval
and military outlay, it is in a better situation as
regards expenditure than nineteen-twentieths of
other countries. And it would get its public
works gratis—the public estate would pay for
them. It doesn’t require much courage to face so
easy a problem as that, but N.S.W. hasn’t the
courage. , « *
The reason commonly advanced why the pro-
vince should borrow is that “ it is a new country.”
And it is such a fool of a reason that its constant
repetition creates doubt as to the sanity of an
allegedly intelligent community. It is just because
it is a new country that N.S.W. doesn’t require to
borrow a single farthing. It is because it is a new
country that it has a net revenue from public lands
of £1,700,000 a year—an endowment that falls like
the blessed rain from Heaven—a splendid income
that comes to its Treasury without toil or taxation
of any kind —sufficient to construct every new
bridge, railway, and public building that the coun-
try requires without borrowing a copper or taking
a copper out of the taxpayers’ pocket. If N.S.W.
was an old country like the States of Europe, the
public estate would have been stolen by robber
barons and magnates centuries ago, and there
would be no such revenue. It is because N.S.W.
is a new country that it has never been ruined by
war. It is also'because it is a new country that it
has no huge war debt to pay interest on. It is on
account of its newness that it has no great and
costly armaments to keep up. The theory that
the borrowing policy is necessary and justifiable
because the country is new, and rich, and has no
old burdens handed down from the dark ages, is
about the worst insult to human intelligence that
Australia has produced.
Almost every “old inhabitant” has recollections
of certain good old times when N.S.W. was much
more prosperous than it is now. Also he has a
hazy, babblesome idea that the difference is owing
to the Labour-party or the general cussedness of
things. The fact that the ever-growing debt has
anything to do with the matter seldom occurs to
the old inhabitant. Yet the debt is very largely
responsible. Going back no further than 1881 :
In that year the railway contribution to the
Treasury was £716,000, and the gross lands
revenue was about £2,550,000. In other words
N.S.W. had a glorious revenue of £3,266,000
without raising a penny by taxation. And it paid
£685,000 interest on its public debt, and was still
£2,581,000 to the good—in other words a yearly
income equal to over £3 per inhabitant dropped
into its lap without having to be earned by any
form of labour. Then it borrowed to the extent of
another £3 per inhabitant. There were practically
no taxes ; the State was half inclined instead to
pay a dividend to the alleged taxpayer. But the
ever-growing debt ate into these glories. In lo.Jo
the railways yielded £1,454,000 net, and the gross
land revenue was £2,002,000; total £3,456,000.
And interest on the public debt absorbed
£2,400,000, leaving £1,056,000 to the good—a com-
parative trifle of 15s. 6d. per inhabitant. lhe
splendid endowment which N.S.W. possesses m
its public lands is being eaten up by the interest-
bill, and, as the bill grows, things will become
steadily worse ; yet the old inhabitant looks out
on affairs in general with a bleared eye of wonder-
ment to see if the good times are coming back.
* * * *
The Bulletin merely suggests that the N.S.W.
native should have the same grit and courage as
the Dutchman, and Englishman, and German,
and American, and perform the not at all remark-
able feat of paying his ordinary expenditure out
of ordinary revenue. The only reason that can be
suggested for not doing so is that he is morally a
coward. He may have courage enough to fight a
battle—it is impossible to say, for he has never
fought one yet. He may have courage enough for
football, or cricket, or bruising, or for being a
contingent. But he certainly has never yet
shown that he has enough of it to face
the every - day burdens and responsibilities
that are faced without turning a hair by obscure
European nations, by brown men,- Dagoes, and all
manner of despised “ foreigners. ” He has been
blessed with the grandest opportunity that has
fallen to any community this century—and he is
fooling it away because of the soft spot in him
which makes him collapse whenever he comes face
to face with a dull, prosaic, uninteresting diffi-
culty. The same objurgation applies to the people
of every other one of the Seven Provinces, but it
applies to the Cornstalk most of all because he has,
in his land-revenue, a bigger endowment than the
rest ; therefore he has less excuse for lacking the
courage to pay his way. When war comes to
these shores, as it must some day, either the Aus-
tralian must become a very different Australian,
or he must go ignominiously broke. A rich coun-
try which fails to keep solvent in time of absolute
peace has a poor show in war-time. War ’« an
expensive luxury nowadays.
Childbirth, and Nationbirth: A Statisti-
cal Statement.
The shawms and the trumpets are silent, and the
voices of the captains shouting in the trenches are
heard no more for a little space, and the weary
are at rest. The people of Five Provinces have
achieved Federation. They stand a-tiptoe to the
future as one “Mighty Nation ”; and the leaders
rejoice together with exceeding gladness. Now
that the noise of battle and the hurtling of strife
have lifted, and there is a brief moment for
thought, it may be profitable to consider for a
moment our future prospects of puissant nation-
hood. They are not reassuring ; for right on the
knell of the hour comes Mr. Coghlan’s “ Study
in Statistics” on the subject of “Childbirth,”
revealing a condition of things full of evil pre-
sage. Women, not politicians, are the “Makers of
Nations, ” etc., and, according to this pregnant book-
let, the women of Australia have resigned their
office. Here we have a Continent of nearly three
millions of square miles in area, and its popula-
tion annulates only the coast: for all practical
purposes the interior is untenanted, and it bids
fair to remain so.
* * * *
In Russia, says Stead, the cradle “never ceases
to rock.” In Australia its rhythm on the nursery
floor is becoming fainter with each decade —it
threatens soon to become an echo lingering only
in the memory. The N.S.W. Government Statis-
tician is no romancer. He is no rhetorician. In
the unique brochure before us he deals only with
cold, absolute figures. From painfully compiled
statistics, he shows that in N.S. Wales (instancing
only one province), in the year 1885, there were
112,546 women between the ages of 18 and 50
years ; in 1898, there were 165,767 ; yet the same
number of children were born in each year. In
other words, the average birth-rate has declined
about one-third. And this is true of the entire
tire Continent. “From Maoriland,” he writes,
“comes the cry that the children are not suf-
ficiently numerous to fill the schools; while in
Victoria there must be a like state of affairs, see-
ing that there are now a less number of children
under 10 years of age than in 1891.” A fine pros-
pect, truly, for the building up of a “Mighty
Nation.”
* * * *
From time to time the cry is raised : “ Put the
people on the land ! ” It has been explained that
there is no land left to put the people on ; that
the “ eyes ” of the country have been picked out;
and that what is left is valueless for settlement.
If things go on as Mr. CoGHLAN shows them to be
at present —and there is every indication that they
will do so—there will soon be no people to put on
the land. Instead of a community driven desperate
by a rabid earth-hunger, there will be a Continent
starvingly gaping with a people-hunger. The
“Mighty Nation” will be mighty, indeed, in
acres, and Federation will be a federation of long
distances; but an aggregation of meridians of
longitude and parallels of latitude do not consti-
tute a State.
* * * *
The oft-repeated, old-time question, “ What
shall we do with our boys ? ” is becoming obso-
lescent ; and London Punch’s rejoinder, “Marry
them to our girls,” no less so. In these latter
days of prudence and exhaustion we have neither
boys nor girls wdiose future welfare need give us
cause for reflection. And it is, perhaps, just as
well. The avenues of life are becoming closed by
barricades of machinery. The only usefulness of
a community is the provision of a market for
machine-produced goods. The only men wanted
by this new world of machines are inventors and
engineers. It is, after all, a question of supply
and demand. Men are not wanted : they are,
therefore, not produced. Our Eight-Hours Demon-
strations are yearly growing feebler in character,
and their participants fewer in number. Not,
perhaps, because the trades have grown lukewarm,
having 'achieved all their objects; but because
there are no longer any trades left to celebrate
their victory. “Put your boy to a trade!”
Diogenes with his lantern searching for an honest
man had never more hopeless quest.
m * * •
But whether it be a mere question of supply and
demand or not, Mr. Cogiilan shows, with painful
conelusiveness, that the fertile marriage is a thing
of increasing infrequency. He admits the pro-
bability of a similar condition of things obtaining
in most civilised countries ; but so far as Australia
is concerned the decline in childbirth can be
stated with absolute exactitude. A genera-
tion ago there were nine fertile marriages
in every ten contracted ; at the present
time there are only eight, and the decline
is common to all but the youngest ages, and is
more marked as the age of marriage increases. He
admits, of course, that statistics cannot solve tne
problem as to how far this condition is due to pre-
vention, or to natural sterility: but statistics do
show three things, viz., that for all women the
proportion of fertile marriages is declining ; that
among fertile women the birth-rate is much re-
duced as compared with what it was 20 years ag°>
and that women of Australian birth are less tor-
tile than the European women who have emigrated
to Australia. Regarding the general question ol
the decline in fertility, he shows that the average
birth-rate throughout Australia is now not more
than 20 for every hundred women between the ages
of 18 and 50 years, while as recently as 1884 the
number was 30 —a decline equal to one-third. In
New South Wales the birth-rate among married
women who have not had previous issue has fallen
from 337 per centum to only 26'5; while for
women with previous issue, the rate, which was
27 "8 in 1887, is now not more than 19. “At every
age of child-bearing,” writes Mr. Coghlan, “ the
reduction in the birth-rate is visible. Taking
Australia as a whole, and including Maonland,
the fall in the birth-rate is such that there are
47,000 births less than would have occurred under
the rates prevailing as late as 10 years ago.
important a development of social life must have
far-reaching consequences, although its economic
effects are only beginning to be visible.”
There is something pathetic in the efforts made
by Australian Governments in past years to secure
a population by State-aided immigration, free
grants of land, and various other special induce-
ments held out to the desired settler. Where do
we stand to-day? Immigration is practically a
memory of the past ; and State-aided immigra-
tion on a large scale is never likely to be revived.
Labor-in-politics would never allow an influx that
might threaten wages. We increase, it is true;:
but the increase is due to the lowness of our death-
rate. The number of children born to women
of Australasian birth is about 3‘5 : in France, the
lowest in the scale of European countries, the-
number is given by the Registrar-General of Eng-
land as 3’4 —and France is an object-lesson to the
nations that rock cradles.
* * * *
Mr. Coghlan says that while the couples with-
out children are, in proportion, twice as numerous
as they were in the last generation, the number to
a couple has, on an average, fallen from 5’31 to
4'o4 —that is to say, by 127 children to a hun-
dred families. There is a growing tendency to
postpone marriage from prudential motives ; but
this does not account for the great decline in the
fertility of wedlock, for it is found at every age of
marriage. The bride of 20 formerly gave her
country a family averaging 6.2 ; it is now 5'3 ; at
the age of 30 the decline is from 3'4 to 2‘2 ;at the
age of 39, from IT to o‘s ; and so on, at every age.
Mr. Coghlan is, however, careful to point out
that large families have not ceased in the land,
and instances the case of 29 children claiming the
same father, and, again, that of a mother who gave
birth to 21 children. But such cases are getting
rarer as the years roll on. There are few Aus-
tralian patriarchs who are able to send into the
field 50 fighting men, their own adult descend-
ants, as can the Boer President of the
Transvaal, Paul Kruger. But the marriages of
a generation ago produced an average of 5‘31
children. To women of British or Irish birth the
number of children to a family was 5'6; to Aus-
tralian women the average was only 47. The
number of all classes has now fallen to 4 children
per marriage, the reduction affecting both the
native-born and women of British birth ; but more
largely the former. If we are not getting more
immoral, we are becoming more prudent—or
should we say selfish. The women who bear
large families are, as Mr. Coghlan points out,
lacking in prudence, they are careless as to the
number and fate of their offspring, ready at any
moment, like the sentimental Jean Jacques
Rousseau, to transfer their obligations of parent-
hood to a complaisant community. To this class
the Government Statistician very justly adds two
others—viz., the women who look upon child-
bearing as a necessary condition of the married
state, to be borne as best may be; and those
who regard prevention as a crime against the
Almighty.
* * » •
The question of conventional morality plays an
important part in the matter of the population of
our future “Mighty Nation.” The married state
is conventionally a moral state. Ante-nuptial
conception and conception outside the pale of
wedlock are conventionally immoral. But from
a conventional point of view prevention is abso-
lutely immoral. Almost any system of ethics and
every form of religious belief inculcates this as a
basic principle of human conduct. I lie God of
Abraham adjures the “Chosen People” to in-
crease and multiply and replenish the earth.
Christians of every variety of religious belief insist
upon the sanctity of generation. Yet—assuming
prevention, . and not natural sterility, to be
the cause of the appalling decline in our birth-rate
—it is the poor waylaid girl to whom marriage
becomes the necessary token of fair fame, and the
less fortunate girl forsaken in her trouble, who
obey the divine injunction in all its fulness.
Those betrayed ones successful in obtaining the
social recognition which marriage confers, develop
(so would it appear from statistics) a discretion, or
a prudence, or a selfishness, after marriage, that
they would more wisely have exercised before it.
Yet, on the other hand, the correctly wooed and
conventionally won (again assuming that preven-
tion and not natural sterility is the cause of the •
falling-off in the birth-rate) ; how do they, and
their male partners, stand in the fierce light of
abstract morality, and more or less revealed
religion? The worst girl ever betrayed into,
motherhood, who bore unflinchingly her human,
burden, stands a saint of dazzling purity in com-
parison.
• * * •
Let the builders of the “Mighty Nation,”'take -
pause and reflect“ln New South Wales, during
the past six years, there were 13,366 marriages in.
respect of which there was ante-nuptial conception,,
and as the total number of marriages was 49,641,.
at least 27 marriages in a hundred followed con-
ception. During the same period the illegitimate-
births number 14,779—there were therefore 23,145.
cases of conception amongst unmarried women ; in;
13,366 instances marriage preceded the birth of the ■
child, so that the children were legitimatised in:
rather more than 47 cases out of 100 !;” A table in i
Mr. Coghlan’s able brochure of the number of
first-births, during a period extending over six
years (1893-8), gives the following astounding
facts: Total number of first-births, 56,163; of
these 28,018, or 49‘89 per cent., were of post-
nuptial conception ; 13,366, or 23'8 per cent., were
of ante-nuptial conception; and 14,779, or 26'31
per cent., were illegitimate. In other words, of.
56,163 first-births, 28,145, or over 50 per cent.,
were due to ante-nuptial conception*
* * * *
A table, pregnant with meaning, shows the
decline of the birth-rate in the various callings of
the people. Agricultural occupations-showed a*
decline, from earlier to recent marriages,.in. child-
* “ Childbirth in New South Wales : A Study in Statis-
tics.” Illustrated by eight diagrams. By T. A. Oogiilan,
Statistician of New South Wales : Honorary Fellow of the
Koval Statistical Society. Sydney : William Api’LßGAtk
Gi llick, Government Printer. 1899.


bearing, from 6'7 to s’l; pastoral and dairying,
from 5'7 to 4'3; industrial, from 5'2 to 3‘9 ;
mining, from s'l to 3‘9; domestic, from 4'B to
3’6; commercial, from 4'7 to 3'6; transport (sea
and land), from 47 to 3‘5; and professional, from
4 - 4 to 3'3. The professional man is the French-
man of Australian social life, and the number of
children to his family approximates the French
statistical standard.
• • • •
Mr. Coghlan’s “Study in Statistics” is a small
book, but its suggestiveness is inexhaustible; its
scope embraces the whole subject; its data are as
complete as it is possible to make them ; ite style
is lucid and comprehensible, and .its argument
convincing. Within 67 pages, including appen-
dices, are discussed everything connected with the
statistics of childbirth, and information is given,
similar to which none has ever before been pub-
lished. The book is further rendered valuable by
the inclusion of eight diagrams, illustrating differ-
ent phases of the subject.. The questions treated
of embrace the expectation of married life, the
period and duration of fertility, the proportion
of fertile marriages, the number of children to a
marriage, first births, barren marriages, the effect
of postponement of marriage on fertility, mono-
genous natality, bigenous natality, ante-nuptial
conception and illegitimacy, sex in its relation to
the age of parents, plurality at a birth, and deaths
in childbirth. In this article it has been possible
only to consider Mr. Coghlan’s remarkable data
in reference to the question of our national future,
and the conclusions forced upon the independent
investigator are disspiriting in the last degree.
• * * •
“Australia, a Nation ” —a favorite toast, and a
patriotic. But! —and the “ but ”is a conjunction
of great pith and moment. Let us assume the
decline in the birth-rate with regard to Australa-
sian-born women to be due to natural sterility, or
rapid exhaustion of the generative system : what
follows? Would it not appear that this outworn
Continent is incapable of inspiring resilience in her
children ? Our richest forms of life are Insectivora
and Reptilia. . The dingo is no native; therefore
our Mammalia has not got beyond the order
Marsupialia—a sub-class of the animal kingdom
extinct in every other land on earth except
America, where it is represented by the opossum.
Our aborigine, if not the lowest, nearly approaches
the lowest, variety of the species Homo. Our
birds have plumage, but they lack song. Our
flowers are rich in beauty, but their scent is a
niggard’s dole from the bountiful lap of Nature.
Australia is the precocious child among the Conti-
nents, with a huge body but an undeveloped mind
—arrested at parturition. Expending all her
vitality in the effort to keep alive, she has no life
to transmit to others. Hungry for life, she absorbs,
but never imparts it. Maybe she is the evil
succuba; not the good genius, and can never
support a “Mighty Nation.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sweater Reid on the Horrors of Early
Closing.
The jST.S.W. Tory party is against Premier
Lyme s Early-Closing Rill as a matter of course
the Tory party is against it everywhere, and
against everything like it. And ex-Premier
George Reid, as one of the boss Tories of
A.S.YV., upended himself on his two short
foolish legs in the Assembly, and told the old,
old wheeze about the 16 small suburban shop-
keeper, and all the rest of the stock gags of
the Long Hour Party, all over again. Here
are some beautiful samples from George Reid
on the blessings of long hours, and slavery, and
big gas-bills :
He was prepared to strain a point to secure such legis-
l. atlo ! 1 - But j> e would be doing scant justice to the sub-
ject if he did not go more closely into it than some
speakers had done. . . . What was the evil they wished
to remove? In legislation which touched vested in-
terests it was wise to drop everything that could be
dropped in order to render opposition as slight as pos-
sible. . . The Government had gone on lines which
would shipwreck the bill. The evil they proposed to
deal with was the injustice to shop assistants, arising
from the unfair length of their hours of employment,
lhafc was the heart, and soul of this movement. * If the
shops had a half-holiday every week, and no shop-assist-
ant was worked more than 52 hours a week, or nine
hours on five days of the week, and 11J4 hours on one
day, no one would wish to bring in a bill of this kind, the
effect of which would be to close thousands of small
shops in which there were none of the evils complained
?*• • : ” 18 objection to this Bill was that it proposed
to sacrifice thousands of persons throughout the country,
in whose shops none of the abuses complained of were to
be found. And there was no necessity to do this in order
to bring about the reform desired. . . For everv shop
which would come under the ban of the Bill—that'was to
say, shops employing assistants for unreasonable hours—
there were ten small shops shut up where no assistants
w ere employed. The mischief they were trying to sup-
press was the mischief of sweating human labor. He
would assert that in five out of every ten shops in the
metropolitan area there existed no such sweating. The
House ought to pause before it injured hundreds of thou-
sands of colonists who were interested in the small shops.
No wonder the large shops supported the present Bill,
those at the head of them kne»v that if the small shops
were compelled to shut up at 6 o’clock it would result in
making the big shops bigger and the large trade larger.
The evil to be dealt with is the overworking of
employes through the shops keeping open for
excessively long hours, and the Lyne Govern-
ment, in its simple-minded honesty, proposes to
remedy this hv making the shops keep shorter
hours. And Reid, in his darkly astute way,
says that this simple device of shortening
hours by making them not so long isn’t the
right device. He doesn’t say what other device
there is ; but simply poses as the murky oracle
who knows all about it but won’t impart his
information. Of course the story about injuring
“ hundreds of thousands of colonists who are
interested in small shops ” is the silliest
variety of rot and childishness ; all the
small shopkeepers of N. S. Wales and
their families wouldn’t amount to 100,000.
Early-closing doesn’t touch anybody’s “ vested
interests.” The people will need as much
food and clothes and boots when the
shops shut early as when they shut late; the
only difference will be that these things will he
bought at a different hour. The small shop-
keeper, who employs only his own family, must
be shut up at the same hour as the large one.
The law can’t prohibit a man from working a
stranger for excessively long hours, and yet let
him work his son or daughter or wife any
hours he pleases with impunity. Moreover, if
the small shopkeeper is allowed to keep open,
then keeping open becomes compulsory. Those
hardest of all sweaters, the working-man and
his wife, are incurable late shoppers if the
chance is allowed them. If the small dealers
are allowed to keep open late some of them will
do so from choice, to get ahead of their rivals,
and the rest will do it from necessity to keep
these unprincipled few from stealing their
trade. So to give the small dealer the
chance to keep open if he wants to is
practically making him keep open whether
he wants to or not. As for the theory that
compulsory early-closing all round will help
the big city emporium at the expense of the
small suburban trader, that is the weakest
twaddle of all. If every workman who lived
in the suburbs worked in the city, and he left
his work at 5 or 5.30, and he habitually did the
family marketing on his way home, then the
theory would be all right. Under the Early-
closing system he would make his purchases
before he left the city, because the suburban
shop would be closed before he got there. But
he doesn’t always work in the city and he
doesn’t do the marketing. His wife does it,
and she is at home all day, and the only
difference will be that, instead of buying (in
the city or in her own suburb, as pleases her
best) at 8 or 9 p.m., she will buy (in the city
or suburb as she pleases) before 6 p.m. As for
the complaint that a large number of shop-
keepers don’t sweat their employes now, that
has no possible bearing on the case. A large
number of city firms close at 6 p.m. now, and
let their employes off at a reasonable hour.
The Bill won’t do them any injury ; it will sim-
ply leave them where they are. Besides, all
the pleas of George Reid and other champions
of sweating are out of date. Experience has
killed them dead. The short answer to them
all is, that compulsory Early-closing is in force
in other provinces. And it hasn’t damaged
any vested interests. It hasn’t ruined the
small dealers. It hasn’t diminished trade, and
made people do with one boot instead of two.
It hasn’t driven trade from the suburbs to the
city. It has injured nobody except the gas-
companies. They have suffered a little through
diminished consumption of gas.
♦
The “ Mail’s ” Wail.
The Western Maid (Perth, W.A.) on the
Federal situation :
The extreme Billites not only oppose any amendment
as unwise. They regard it as certain that an amended
Bill would be merely tossed aside, and that if our people
reject the Bill as amended by the Premiers, it simply
means making it impossible for’the colony to enter as an
original State. A great deal too much importance seems
to be attached to the “ original State ” idea. Some of
our people are so blind to the rapidity of the colony’s
progress that they fear that the Commonwealth will
impose penal conditions on us if we enter the Federation
a little later than the others. As if, during the last five
years, any other colony had progressed as we have done
or more clearly demonstrated its power to stand alone.
. . . The Imperial Parliament amended the constitutions
submitted to it by each colony. Will it do less with the
far more important measure of self-government now being
forwarded to it for approval ? It is difficult to think so.
And may it not fairly be requested to consider not only
the Bill, but the suggested Western Australian improve-
ments, especially as the latter are of only local effect ?
The one colony that holds a third of the continent, and
that can show greater proportionate progress during the
decade, and a greater gold output than any of its rivals,
surely deserves some consideration.
Truly a great deal depends on the way a thing
is put. If the same thing is put another way
the case which Westralia has to lay before the
Imperial Government will read like this :
We were represented at all three meetings of the
Federal Convention, and didn’t ask for these amend-
ments. We were represented at the Premiers’ Con-
ference, and didn’t ask for them. Our Premier came
back and said he approved of the old Bill. Then
Hackett, the owner of his soul and soul-case, told him
to rat and he ratted. If we get these amendments
our Premier will rat again and ask for a new lot
if Hackett (or the man who bosses Hackett) tells
him to. As soon as all the other provinces had accepted
the Bill we stated that we wanted quite a different
Bill, and asked that the business be started over
again. Our delegates were not elected by the people.
The committee which fixed up these amendments wasn't
elected by the people. The people didn’t refuse to accept
the old Bill before we started fixing up a new one—we
didn’t give them the chance. Our Premier’s promise to
take a straight-out vote as the other provinces did on the
original Bill has been broken—our Premier being a big,
weak, cumbersome man who would break if
Hackett and Brother Alick told him to. We are the
most gloriously progressive province in the group as
evidenced by the fact that we are the only one which has
to offer 4 per cent, to raise a little loan to keep us off the
rocks, therefore we ought to overrule the other five any
time we please.
Here endeth the case which the Forrest
Government proposes to lay before the British
Parliament.
+
A Much-Respected Enemy.
“ The British press,” it is cabled, “ is unitedly
calm and confident of the ultimate success of
the British arms.” The Bulletin should
smile ! About 50,000 troops have sailed from
England during the last three weeks or so for
South Africa. When these, together with the
Australian and Canadian contingents, arrive,
there will be about 70,000 disciplined and well-
armed men available for action, including those
already at the front. The Boer population in
the Transvaal and Orange Free State has been
officially estimated at about 150,000. This in-
cludes women, children, and old men incapable
of bearing arms. The British Government has
considered it necessary, in order to crush its
opponents, to forward a body of trained men
numbering nearly half of the Boer popu-
lation. France had a # population of about
36,000,000 in 1870 at the outbreak of the
Franco-German war. The Germans sent about
1,000,000 men into the field. Had they treated
the French with thesame respect that John Bull
now treats the Boers with they would require
to have invaded France with‘l7,ooo,ooo men.
When the American colonies revolted in 1776,
they had a free population of about 3,000,000.
There was probably not more than 100,000 troops
launched against them during the whole conflict
and certainly not 1,400,000 as would have been
the case had they been attacked by the same
proportionate numbers as are to be utilised
against the Boers in the present campaign. Dur-
ing the whole of her iiistory Britain has never
treated any foe with the same profound respect
that she now manifests towards the handful
of Dutch farmers against whom she is
hurling so gigantic an armament. ‘ And
yet daily-newspaper scribes, tell us that the
Boers are curs and cannot fight, and curse them
for not coming out into the open and dissipating
their scanty forces in attacking huge bodies of
trained soldiers in strong positions. The
opinion of the Australian press as to Boer
fighting capacity is evidently not shared by the
Imperial war office.
Rejected Warriors.
A surgeon discourses to The Bulletin on a
topical matter :
The medical selection of the members of the Austral-
asian Transvaal contingents has caused the hearts of
their rejected brethren to be filled with all the bitterness
of Amara. Private Billjim’s opinion of the doctors who
refused him is mostly unprintable. “ Fooled round for
an hour,” he tells his friends; “then he slung me out
and took that cove, Middleware. W’y, I can give *im
four inches in the chest, and me brother done ’im in two
rounds at Maginnis’s darnce!” And so on with much
more to the same effect.
All thi3 makes the professional judge of men to smile.
The lay idea of physical excellence is apt to vary widely
from the professional one. To the man-in-the-street, it is
the fellow with the squarest jaw, the biggest chest, and
the most corded arms who appeals as the ideal of physical
soundness, to be picked where hard work is to be done.
But the professional may note beneath the left nipple of
the arched chest a pulsation that tells of a heart enlarged
and strained to supply the needs of the great muscles.
Or, a delicate curved ridge twists over the temple, and
the surgeon knows that the artery beneath is brittle and
liable to rupture under strain—and by inference, other
arteries. Step by step he follows up the weak points in
the machine, and at the end another rejected man hints
darkly at “ squaring,” and curses the supposed incom-
petency of his judges. Finioking? Unpractical? It
may appear so to the ordinary observer (or non-observer),
but the work to be done is not that of to-morrow or next
week. It is not to last for any definite period, it has no
fixed hours, it must often be carried through on
inadequate food. It is a machine that is wanted.
Not a man who can outdo his fellows on a
burst of exertion, but a fighting-machine that will march
all day and all night in ignorance of its destination, on an
inadequate amount of fuel, and be able to hold its rifle
straight and obey orders at the end. Moreover, there is
no time to go into doubtful points. The surgeon must
work quickly, and though he may be at times unjust he
can take no chances. A scar behind the ear may have
been the result of a kick from a cow—or it may suggest
an operation for middle-ear disease. Branching venules
over the cheeks may not be the result of bier or heart-
trouble, but there are plenty of men waiting with no
suspicious points about them. Only the best are
required. Naked, and often very much ashamed, the
candidate is scanned minutely over. His muscular
development may be lop-sided or top-heavy—a
Hercules with weazened legs is of no use as
a first-class fighter. The hypertrophied calves of
the cyclist must have a proportionate lung-capacity to
supply their need. A small varicose vein may develope
into a large one after marching, and cripple an other-
wise good physique. Scars about the knees may be
barbed wire or blood-disease. A commencing-bunion,
or corn between the toes, or on the sole, may interfere
with marching, quite as well as a broken leg. The civilian
will argue that his corns don’t trouble him—he keeps
them cut. Exactly, but circumstances may arise where
the soldier’s boots will be on his feet for a week—then,
perhaps, he’ll have to cut them off and go barefoot, as
many Americans have had to do in the Phillippines. An
old fractured ankle may give out, a lump on the skin de-
relope into bone-trouble—the list is endless.
Supposing the man is clean-limbed and unmarked, a
closer examination is to come. Weight, height, and
“ vital capacity ” (breathing power, as the try-your-lungs
men aptly call it) must be up to standard and preserve a
mutual proportion. The “apex beat,” that small pul-
sating space which normally shows midway between the
end of the breast-bone and the left nipple must not have
moved to the left. A strained hypertrophied heart may
yield under the work of a long double up-hill, and leave
its owner a blue-lipped gasping, hospital subject, of no
more military use for the time than his comrade with a
bullet through the liver. The effect of exertion and ex-
citement is tried—the candidate perhaps hops about
naked on one leg. His heart-rate is then counted, and
compared with the normal. A man whose pulse is
normally 75 will not be able to hold a rifle straight with a
pulse of 180 per min. booming in his ears after a long ex-
cited rush up-hill. The stethoscope comes into play to
detect valve troubles. Then the lungs come in for a share
of attention, and the search is conducted throughout the
bodily organs. Concealed ruptures, marked digestive
trouble, throat mischief, and other weakness are looked
for, and Private Chinstrap is sent out to join the waiting
crowd.
It is all practical and fair. Dreadful rumors have been
spread of men who were refused on account of a defective
tooth, and the injured warrior’s friends have been indig-
nant. But hard biscuit and corned beef need good
molars, and an abscess does not improve a man’s endur-
ance—besides which there was probably some other
reason. The layman judges the man at the present and
with his uniform on—the surgeon looks into the future
and removes the gauds and paddings. In the Transvaal
case there were plenty to choose from, and only the best
were wanted. The others had to stand aside, and, very
naturally, they don’t like it. They may console them-
selves with the fact that the examination was probably
one of the strictest ever held.
An Early-Closing Fish-Yarn.
The other day a deputation of Sydney suburban
shopkeepers waited on Premier Lyne with this
amazing fish-tale about Early Closing (Daily
Telegraph report) :
The case from the view of the suburban shopkeeper
was yesterday put before the Premier, when it was repre-
sented to him that compelling the suburban shops to be
closed at 6 o’clock would mean ruin to their owners.
This view was supported by the statement that all the
customers who patronised the shops in the suburbs worked
in the city in the daytime, and therefore could not shop
before 0 or 7 o’clock at night. One gentleman said that 25
per cent, of his trade would be lost if the bill were carried,
and another placed the proportion of his trade done after
6 p.m. at seven-eighths. They asked that the hour of
closing should be extended till 8 p.m., but expressed
themselves in sympathy with the object of the Bill. A
suggestion was made that the shops might open later in
the day, at 10 or 11 a.m., and thus shorten the hours of
the assistants. Mr. Lyne gave the deputation a sympa-
thetic hearing, and promised that he would pay atten-
tion to their requests, and if he found that effect could
be given to their wishes without interfering with the
principles of the Bill, and without the alteration
adversely affecting the employes, he would consider
amendments in the direction they suggested.
Or, to put it in another way, the deputation’s
yarn is as follows :
(1) All the suburban people (the people who support
suburban shops) work in the city. The theory that there
are industries in Balmain, Pyrmont, Newtown, and other
working-men’s suburbs, is mere delusion.
(2) In every case the father of the family buvs
and personally humps home the steak, potatoes,
bread, butter, baby-linen, infant’s boots, under-
clothing, &c. And, if the city and suburban shop 3
both close at 0, the father (who always works in
the city and always buys everything himself, so
that the family never starts to get dinner ready till he
brings home the leg of mutton in his grimy hand) must
buy in the city. The suburban shop will be closed before
he gets there. His wife, being invariably an idiot and
also paralysed in the head and both legs, can’t possibly do
the marketing herself.
(3) And whereas one-fourth or seven-eighths of the
suburban family’s clothes and food are now bought after
0 p.m., it is obvious that all that trade will be lost if the
shops shut before 0. The suburban family won’t buy
before 0 ; it will simply do without. Those families
which now buy practically all their food and clothes after
0 will go naked and give up eating altogether.
And Premier Lyne, instead of telling the
deputation that it was the poorest and most
unconvincing liar he ever heard, appears to
have taken it quite seriously.
Wanted—New State Constitutions.
Melbourne Age propounds the eminently
sensible idea that, in each of the federating
provinces, a Convention should be appointed by
popular election, as the Federal Convention
was elected, to draft a new State Constitution.
The idea has so much to recommend it that
The Bulletin hopes to see it taken up with
enthusiasm by all the provinces. Every State
which goes into the Commonwealth wants a
new local Constitution. The existing ones were
quite large enough when each State managed all
its own affairs; they will ho ridiculously large
and cumbersome and expensive when so much of
the most important business is transferred to a
Federal legislature. If a Federal Parliament
of about 112 members, both Houses included,
is to look after the most important concerns of
six provinces, it is absurd for N.S.YV. to have
about 185 members, Victoria 143, Queensland
112, and S.A. 78, to look after the smaller
affairs of one province. The numbers want to
be reduced, and the pomp and the bill
diminished. Also, the States have to decide
whether they want two provincial houses each,
or whether one is sufficient ; how they should
be elected ; whether they want a whole Gover-
nor apiece ; how many Ministers they require ;
and many other things. The provincial
systems must either be entirely overhauled in
one act, or else altered and patched and re-
paired piecemeal, and there is a great deal to be
said for having a complete overhaul. The
patching business is never satisfactory. On an
occasion like this the people certainly ought to
be consulted—not ineffectively and indirectly
at a General Election when the matter is mixed
up with a dozen other issues, and no definite
verdict can be arrived at, but consulted de-
finitely and directly. They accepted" the
existing Constitutions when circumstances
were very different, as being machinery
suitable for the whole work of Govern-
ment. Now that the local Parliaments
will have to do only half the work, it is ob-
vious that a smaller, cheaper, and handier
machine is required, and the people should
decide what sort of machine they want. It is
absurd to leave the matter to the State Parlia-
ments themselves. If a man has kept a cart-
horse to draw' one-ton loads and finds that, in
future, he will only have lcwt. loads to draw, he
generally wants a lighter horse, but he doesn’t
leave it to the old horse to decide what
kind of a new horse is required. The Conven-
tion process was adopted to make the new
Federal Constitution ; it answered admirably,
and the process which was good enough for the
preparation of a new Constitution for all Aus-
tralia should answer quite as well for the other
purpose also. The Parliaments which endorsed
the principle in one case can hardly allege in
the other case that it isn’t a sound principle.
At all events there is no other that promises so
well.
In January, 1896, Jamieson’s gang of free-
booters were captured after a stiff fight at
Krugersdorp. According to international law,
President Kruger might have had every man
captured shot; had the raid been directed
against Germans or Frenchmen, much less
Spaniards, the raiders would undoubtedly have
been so treated, for they were simply land-
pirates, and deserving of no sympathy or con-
sideration. Kruger, however, handed them
over to the British Govt., and not a hair of
their heads was injured by the Boers after the
fight in which they were captured. There
perhaps never was an international act of
greater magnanimity than that displayed by
Kruger and the Boers to the conscienceless
plotters who were prepared to bathe their
country in blood. We hear very little about
it now. In Oct., 1899, a portion of the Boer
General Joubert’s command was shattered by
the British forces in battle near Glencoe. In
the attack on the Boer position General Symons,
the British leader, was mortally wounded, and
died a few days later, he and the other
British wounded being left in the hands
of the Boers. Joubert immediately tele-
graphed his sympathy to Lady Symons,
widow of his late victorious opponent—an act
of chivalry that recalls the days of Bayard.
And yet, not only are the Boers not credited
with manliness, but we are told that they are
dirty, treacherous, narrow, ignorant, and un-
progressive, and cowardly to boot.
*
The Lyne (N.S. W.) Government’s Early-
Closing Bill makes the usual exceptions with
regard to restaurants, fruit-shops, and a few
other lines, and S.M. Herald’s usual con-
venient correspondent (the Herald is against
all social reforms, and every paper gets the
kind of letters it u'ants) propounds what he
evidently thinks is an unanswerable conun-
drum :
If a grocer is compelled to close, what can the proposed
Bill do in preventing a fruit-shop, or ham-and-beef shop
proprietor from selling after hours the few profitable
lines in a grocer’s business? Their shops would not be
considered as grocers’ shops. If a tobacconist is com-
pelled to close, can the Bill prevent his customers being
supplied from the nearest fruit or refreshment-shop ? As
so many persons in business nowadays dabble in so many
different lines of goods, what is to constitute a “ refresh-
ment” shop (where tea, tobacco, &c., may be sold), an
eating-house (where provisions of all sorts may be sold),
or a fruit-shop (where lines other than fruit may be sold)?
And is a grocer’s-shop to be considered as a dairy-produce
shop (schedule 2)? If not, must a grocer shut up while
others “exempted” may sell the principal lines in his
business ? Must a tea-dealer close his door while tea can
be sold in the exempted shops?
They gob over that difficulty in Maoriland by
the use of a little plain brains. If a man called
himself a fruiterer, yet sold goods commonly
sold by grocers, the law classed him as a grocer
and fruiterer. A grocer had to shut on certain
occasions when a fruiterer could keep open,
but the law shut up the compound man as a
grocer, and ended the dispute. If it had done
otherwise the big draper would have laid in a
dozen oranges, and called himself a fruiterer,
and kept open, and the early-closing law would
have been a dead letter.
People can get a hint of the hideous frauds
which have been perpetrated on them by the
“great and “ loyal ” papers throughout this
S. African tragedy if they analyse the alleged
cable messages published during the last three
weeks. Compare the messages in the S.M.
Herald (which has not whooped very much)
with those in other papers—even in the' abso-
lutely Conservative ” Argus. Precisely the
same messages which in the former occupy a
column are in the latter “ expanded ” to far
more than double that space. The ordinary
cable-expansioq is quite a harmless effort of the
imagination ; but, in connection with this war,
messages which were no doubt originally
prejudiced have been materially altered
by the gratuitous addition of details, varying of
course as British or Boers were affected. In
this way motives have again and''again’, beep


Baker « Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
()
m
••^var.
rrv
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
260 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
... THE CELEBRATED ...
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE.
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
375 George-street, Sydney.
81 Qdekn-st., Brisbane. 65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole At/outs
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
imputed, nearly always damning to the Boers
and adding glory to the British ; and these
things have gone out with the lie “ London,
Oct. ”on their face. If the public know
they aro being fooled, well aud good. But pre-
sumably men are expected to form their
opinions on these messages, and thereupon to
act in their capacity of voters and citizens ;
and if they do so it is a serious matter —morally
quite as bad as it would have been to have
issued a faked Commonwealth Bill before the
Referendum on the real Bill was taken.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Geisha.”
Lyceum “Little Christopher Columbus.”
Criterion “ Man to Man.”
Palace Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Gay Lord Quex."
Theatre Royal “ Our Native Home.”
Bi 'ou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Vengeance is Mine.”
St. George’s Hall Dante and the “ Theatograph."
“ Little Christopher Columbus ” rose up
in its own affably insane way at Sydney Lyceum
on Saturday night, and did well under adverse
circumstances. It rained hideously, and the audi-
ence came with its moist umbrella, and its dripping
watertosh, and its goloshes, and its life-belt, and
stopped on the stairs to empty a pint of rain out
of its pocket and to drain its back hair. Even
with these conditions there wasn’t a vacant seat
or .much vacant standing-room in the Lyceum.
“Columbus” is rather a promising thing of its
kind. There is plenty of it; instead of going
slow to try and make the tail of a skimpy play
spread out as far as 10.30, as was the case with a
recent lamentable visitation, the co. had to hustle
considerably and make the solitary interval very
short to get through by 11.20. The audience
swam home about midnight. Obviously it is
necessary to cut something, and what can be best
spared are the puns of the thin man with pipe-
stem legs ; also his truly wretched Jingo verses
about Kruger aud the Contingent—verses which
even a Jingo Sydney audience received with frozen
silence. These things are a disgrace to an other-
wise deserving entertainment. They are also a
grievous wrong to the thin man (Fred Sinclair)
who, though his singing doesn’t amount to much,
does creditable work when he has the chance.
Johnny Sheridan, as a rich Irish lady from
Chicago, whose husband has a colossal trophy
of sausages in the World's Fair, is the
old Widdy O’Brien over again to a hair.
John is always the Widow more or less—
the stout, broguey lady with blue and green
clothes that bark at the audience, and a moa in
her hat, and the uncertain temper of one who has
just drank a bull-terrier. Miss Gracie Whiteford,
as little Columbus, is a plump Spanish cabin-boy ;
it is the peculiarity of the Sheridans that Mrs S.
is generally disguised as a boy and Mr. S. as a
girl. If Sheridan had a brother in the co. he
would probably appear as a dog, in order to round
off the family. The small plump Columbus
became a favorite on his first appearance, and
remained there permanently. Fred. Sinclair, the
Irish skeleton already indistinctly referred to, is
irregular and uncertain. Part of the time he is
excellent, but on his first appearance he stands
before the footlights in a painfully perpendicular
way, and gets off 16 alleged jokes, the youngest
of which used to make the Philistines feel hot and
cross 3000 years ago. Leon Roche, Miss Maud
Denny, and Miss Celia Mavis can be praised
without any reservations whatever. Miss Denny’s
cat-chorus song is a quaint little warble about an
animal that failed to get on in the world, and
earned the disapprobation of leading cats in its own
oircle, by want of energy; and the wet Saturday
audience encored it three times. Miss Mavis con-
tributes a fine, clear voice, and a large quantity
of drooping eye-lash, but her part isn’t large
enough to give this clever and promising artiste
the show she deserves
• * • *
“Columbus” is blessed with more plot
than most musical comedies, and there is a larger
skeleton on which to hang the flesh of the alleged
jokes. The rich pork-packer’s wife in the blue
and green clothes is wandering through Europe,
trying to buy a cheap duke as a son-in-law, and
meanwhile her daughter falls perversely in love
with Columbus, the cabin-boy. Not knowing that
he is the lost heir to the dukedom of Veragua, the
lady discourages Columbus severely, and would
gladly spank him if it wasn’t that his superior
velocity keeps him ahead. Failing everything
else, she gives her private Irish detective, who is
retained to investigate the morals of possible
dukes, one dollar to get Columbus arrested, and
Don Jqan, the gaoler, puts him in a dungeon.
But th</ daughter offers Juan 100 dollars to let him
out, r/nd Juan hires his own sweetheart to
personate the prisoner for a few hours, inas-
much as the new Governor is coming on a
visit of inspection, aud there must be some
kind of prisoner to show. And the detec-
tive who is also in love with Don Juan’s
sweetheart, gets an inspiration ; he personates the
new governor, and in that capacity inspects the
solitary prisoner, who is Don Juan’s best girl in
boy’s clothes, and sternly orders her removal as a
hardened criminal to some place of safer keeping.
In fact he removes the offender himself, aud Juan
can only howl inwardly with smothered rage as he
sees his best girl being taken away. Juan’s
struggles to disentangle things afterwards give the
play, something to go upon. In which respect it
has a great advantage over the average American
musical comedy, which consists mostly in a number
of people drinking cocktail and telling each other
what a good time they had downstairs.
** # *
The Bulletin went to press unusually
early this week by reason of a birthday, the pro-
perty of some person who is still at large, which
birtfiday disorganised the mails and railway
arrangements. These remarks are written on
Monday, and it is understood that Williamson's
opera company and “ Ma Mie Rosette ” are due at
Her Majesty’s on Monday night. By the time
these non-committal remarks get into ink, how-
ever, the public will know a great deal more about
the performance than The Bulletin does. The
usual way of dealing with such matters is to state
that the production was wholly satisfactory, and
all the principals were in good voice, and every-
body was pleased. The press takes an awful
number of chances in this way, and it generally
comes off all right. Then, some night, the lead-
ing lady’s hair and clothes take fire and are all
burnt off in the first act, and she is taken away
shrieking to the hospital; and a large piece of
scenery falls on the hero and stuns him ; and the
drum bursts; and the funny man cornes on
very drunk and abusive ; and finally the theatre
falls down in the middle of Act 111., and buries
the audience; and the ruins take fire, and the
conflagration spreads over a whole block, and the
tenor and baritone both become permanently
deranged through shock. When things like that
happen, and a paper which went to press before
the catastrophe comes out the day after it with
a statement that everybody is pleased and that it
hopes to see similar performances frequently, the
remarks give rise to incivility and misapprehen-
tion. So the writer merely says that “Ma Mie
Rosette ” is a pretty pastoral tale, and if it came
off on Monday night it was a splendid show
(unless it wasn’t) ; and that it has never been
played better since the last time it was played.
The present company is the best opera co. the
Firm has ever organised— at least, people who like
that kind of company best are unanimous in their
opinion that it is the best company ; and the
mounting is splendid—provided nothing went
wrong with it. Also, the co. sang well if it was in
good voice, and if it wasn’t, then it didn’t. In
this way the writer hopes to guard against acci-
dents, and yet make himself agreeable to every-
body. The “Geisha ”is due on Saturday.
Bill the Homicide will cease wrecking the
Criterion express train at the end of this week, and
in view of the fact that Bill is an interesting ruffian
in his own large hoarse way, the public is cordially
recommended to see him before lie leaves. Bill
is the last event of the Rignold season.
,** * *
At Sydney Palace there is tumultuous
applause while Irving Sayles dances and yells and
falls over himself. Sayles’s performance is billed
as a comic song, whereas in reality it is a funny
rout with a full company chorus. The Tivolians
like their Sayles, and on Saturday presented him
with a balloon squeaker with red, white and blue
streamers, a button-hole, and a toy Union Jack.
Missies Thorne and Dell are a vision of vanishing
feet amid billowy clouds of lace. Costello con-
tinues to march round in uniform, and displays
great moral courage by gibing at the military.
The only Palace people this writer actively dis-
likes are George Dean and Howard and St. Clair.
Miss St. Clair’s voice gives him the earache, and
George Dean makes him ache all over.
* * * jfc
On Saturday night Charles Faning’s
Minstrels opened at Sydney Opera House. It was
a dreadful night and when The Bulletin had
swum safely through the raging torrents it found
the ancient playhouse full up and slopping over
into the storm-swept streets. The unhappy Faning
was actually refusing cash. After four encores
that blackened comedian appears as a new
soprano from Bendigo and takes his top notes on
a squeaker. Miss Hetty Patey sings a song of
“As your hair grows whiter” —a pretty song
nicely sung by a nice girl. Millar Fraser sings the
“March of the Cameron Men ” and on Saturday
night got two encores. Faning’s burlesque of
Cinquevalli is probably his best effort. He waves
five balls about on five strings ; balances two balls
on the top of a cue so tightly that he cannot shake
them off ; and otherwise guys the great man in a
way that would be very funny if it wasn’t that
almost every blackened nobleman is doing
travesties on Cinquevalli, and the travesties are all
so very much alike. The two K’s do bicycle tricks
on the big old-fashioned “ordinary.” Considering
the paucity of stage-room their performance is
excellent, and they are the clever people of the
show. All things taken into account, however, it
is a very poor show, but in spite of the pitiful
rubbish and stale jokes of Faning he can do no
wrong and every time he opens his mouth the
building shakes.
* * *
Some up-to-date person unknown to the
writer has opened a “Jubilee Waxworks” in
Kidman’s Buildings, George-street, Sydney.
Having struck Sydney in its most warlike mood,
the proprietor makes a speciality of the wax
“ figgers ” of Paul Kruger, Chamberlain, Red vers
Buller, Rhodes, Jameson, and other individuals
who are, either personally or by deputy, going to
point cannon at “ our ” troops, or going to direct
“our’’troops bow to point cannon at the other
fellow. Also, the usual Chamber of Orrors is
announced.
#* * *
It seems that the mob of 40 black “min-
strels,” whom Curtis took to Maoriland, have con-
trived to pay their way since the manager left
them. As a matter of fact they made a fair
success at Auckland, Wellington, and other
“pitches,” therefore, before opening in Christ-
church, the darkies called upon Curtis to cash-up
their salary arrears. Curtis proudly declined to
cash up, so the Co. summoned him and got ver-
dicts, with immediate execution —but Curtis
didn’t stay to be executed. He retired in good
order. The bailiff seized the bits of scenery which
the Co. bought for £lO, and at latest dates they
were still alive “on their own,” with hopes of
getting back to America. One of them, ’verting
from minstrelsy to jockey-riding, steered a win-
ner at Hastings in the Tod Sloan style.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the blind heiress
continues to drop from the deck of a small steamer
into the Mersey, and the angular villain invariably
dredges her body from the river bed as though she
were a bucket full of mud. Miss de Winton
doesn’t fall within the dredge’s sphere of useful-
ness, and she couldn’t get captured by one of the
buckets anyhow, but the effect of a nice clean
lady travelling upwards in the limelight is
undoubtedly new and original. Nothing
more original could very well happen to Miss
Winton, although there is still a chance for
the villain to put her through a sausage mill,
or make an attempt upon her life with a patent
reaper - and - binder. As a reaped and bound
heroine in a bundle of straw she would be an
interesting novelty. Further inspection of “Our
Native Home” has revealed no particular excuse
for its presence on the Royal stage. The first two
acts can be forgiven, and the YVide Ocean looks
somewhat wet in spots. Nevertheless, the drama,
as a literary production, reflects no credit upon
the British empire, which is a regrettable circum-
stance, considering that the empire just now
wants all the credit available.
** * & .*
The annual birthday of Albert Edward
Prince of Wales is affecting The Bulletin to
such an extent that it can’t speak with any. cer-
tainty about the re-appearance of the Brough Co.
at Melb. Princess last Saturday night. This
paragraph, in fact, was written before the re-
appearance took place, so it merely goes on to say
that Brough and Co. duly turned up unless a
statement to the contrary was forwarded by wire
and got lost in transit. The Brough intentions
were “ The Liars ” for two nights, followed by
“ Lady Ursula ” on Tuesday and Wednesday, and
“ Lord and Lady Algy ” on Thursday and Friday.
“The Gay Lord Quex” is billed for Saturday
next (lltli).
** * *
Sivroni, at the Bijou, must likewise be
taken for granted. Sivroni was to arrive from
London, or elsewhere, in time to strike Australia
for the first time on Saturday, and he is probably
a bulwark of the Rickards show in Melbourne
this week. G. W. Hunter, Pelham, the patriotic
songster who jingoes through his nose, the
Valdares, and a considerable co. are still proceed-
ing at the Bijou, and the intense loyalty of the
a mphitheatre is probably expressing itself in
c horusses as usual.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, which came to Mel-
bourne on a three-weeks’ mission, will get to the
end of that period next Saturday, and previous
arrangements, of a firm, decided chai’aoter, seem
likely to prevent the elephant and the lion from
stopping to get sober after Cup week. The lion is
a noble animal, but he has a tendency to drink at
holiday times. Also, Lizzie looks upon the wine
when it is red, and once or twice lately her deport-
ment on the bicycle lias been rather rocky.
** # *
Trebelli’s tender warbling of “Home,
Sweet Home,’’to her own accompaniment, is one
of the best things on that gracious spinster’s bill
of fare. She gave it as an encore after the
‘ Laughing Song,’at the end of her positively final
Town Hall performance, last Thursday. There
were shouts for something or other—several dif-
ferent shouts seemingly—so Mdlle. Antoinette
settled the matter by going to the piano and lull-
ing the audience into furtive sniffs. The mere
thought of how Amy Castles stood up to the same
old job was enough to make one weep.
** * *
Dante and theTheatrograph are prospering
at St. George’s Hall if nothing has happened to
check the career of that bright magician. And
the Alexandra, doubtless, is doing its best with
“ Vengeance is Mine.” The names of the people
concerned in the transaction are mostly unknown
to fame, but Augustus Glover is a large undeni-
able fact. If the unknown ones keep their weather
eye fixed on the leading man, ’Gustus will go a
long way towards pulling them through.
At Poverty Point.
Queer that George Darrell foretold the Soudan and
Transvaal “Contingents" in his play, “The Forlorn
Hope,” staged at the old Melb. Princess in ’SO, five years
before Dailey sent the Sydney men in search of the Soudan
goat, and 19 before Turner, Lyrie arid Co. sent the A.N.’s
to be Boered in the Transvaal. T’other night, at Hobart,
George had the Tasmanian contingent at the Theatre arid
made a jingo speech that must have resounded by the
very hearths of VV’apping.
The dancing Earl of Yarmouth was, at latest dates, in
New York suffering from differences with his creditors.
Remarkable fact that most of the earls who visit Aus-
tralia seem to get awfully boah d by money-matters
sooner or later. Yarmouth has seemingly been boah’d
into accepting an engagement with one of the Frohtnan
theatrical companies, and now comes the news that a
judgment has been got in London against the Earl for
£74, for—hosiery.
Laurence Cautiey (he died the other day) is remem-
bered in Sydney and Melbourne as a suggestion of the
Kyrle Bellew who came after him. He was an imitator of
Bellew, but in 1891), when Cautiey reached Australia
under engagement to the Firm, we hadn’t made tire
acquaintance of his prototype. Not so strong as Bellew, he
was, all the same, a picturesque player of romantic charac-
ters, and he made a capital hero of one of the best-acted
dramas that the Firm ever put on the stage, viz, ‘ Moths.”
Cautiey figured as Correze, the opera singer, the cast in-
cluding Olga Netliersole (Vera), Cartwright as Prince
Zouroff, Emma (Wynne as pretty gushing Lady Dolly,
Edward Sass. Mary Kingsley (a brilliant Fuchsia Leach),
Maud Williamson and Jenny Watt-Tanner-all of them
physically adapted to their parts. A most imposing show
was tint first Australian production of “Moths.” Mr.
Cautiey married Mrs. Andrew, widow of Prof. Andrew, of
Melb., and daughter of Sydney’s old friend, the late Mrs.
Carl Fischer.
It is believed by people about the house that as Mus-
grove has a big interest in Melb. Princess he will make an
effort to keep the place a going concern. There is talk
of an early re-appearance of a George Edwardes’ Gaiety
Co. with a little “ Belle qf New York ” oof at the back
of it.
“ Melb.”: My hair stood on end t’other night. I went to
Pastor Bevan’s Collins-street Church, which has been
likened to a theatre. Well, this time it was a theatre and
no mistake. The people were enjoying themselves with
what they called Tableaux from “The Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress”—simply the mechanism of the Princess Theatre
imported bodily. There was a stage fitted up in front of
the pulpit, with a curtain and changes of scenery, the
limelight being also introduced for every picture. Voting
ladies disported in gauzy garb, as angels and seraphic
personages, hut were none the less appetising. Yet 1
must say that this alliance of Church and Stage only
showed the stupidity and folly of the idea.
A real live feature of a current London music-hall show
i 9 a “ drawing-room fight,” in which the two performers
smash chandeliers, mirrors, doors, decanters, vases,
lamps and glassware to the tune of £4O per night. This
hair-raising “ turn ” has not impossibly been suggested
bv the gory scrap which took place a few years back in
Northumberland Avenue, London, between a well-known
military man and a sporting notorietj’. But they bashed
each other murderously round a table with bottles—the
concomitant furniture-damage being only a detail.
Charles Warner thinks of returning to Australia. He
says that in Melb. he and his m magers cleared l 10,000
between them in 10 weeks, and that his two years' work
in Australia showed a clear profit of £35,000.
Charles Warner's son Harry is said to be the most
promising melodrama-hero on the English stage. Harry
Warner, at ’22, is a tall, handsome young fellow' with the
breezy style that made his father a favorite in light
comedy' before he became famous as Coup-au, in “Drink.”
The famous Druidical remains at Stonehenge, Eng.,
have, with 1300 ac. of surrounding land, been offered to
the nation for £125,000, and Govt, is urged to accept the
offer lest “some American millionaire may bid for
notoriety by transporting the relic bodily across the
Atlantic ami setting it up there on show.” It’s quite
“ up to ” a Yankee speculator to do it, too.
“Constance Clyde”: The Dreyfus drama which was
lately hustled off Sydney Criterion stage “ in deference to
the French Consul” might have defied that potentate a
little longer if the piece had been slung together less
hastily'. As it is the water of melodrama arid the oil of
realism don’t mix. The romantic designs of Esterhazv
upon Madame Dreyfus don't match wirh the prosaic bald
head that Alfred gets at his island. Whether the bald
head was caused by- scorpions or by' the witticisms of Mr.
Sweeney doesn't alter the fact that the usual stage hero,
when grief-stricken, never goes further than to grows
lot of beautiful white hair which makes him look more
beautiful than before. Another unexpected touch of
realism Considering how “ The Three Musketeers” was
bowdlerized, it is astonishing to see Miss Margaret openly
referred to as Dreyfus's mistress. It would have been so
easy to make of him the usual stage Joseph who turns
from her with loathing, whereat she loves him all the
more, and determines to save him—after four years. The
Birthday' celebration in the First Act, hv the way, is a
little out; French children doia’t have birthdays; they
celebrate merely the Fete-day of the patron saint after
whom they are named.
From London to Sydney D.T. “Lilia M‘Carthy is a
great success at the Lyceum in ‘ Silver King ; ’ indeed,
'tis hinted she is gradually superseding Miud Jeffries,
just as the latter superseded Miss Eastlake. Mauri, I
fancy, enjoys her meals, ller beautiful figure is growing
bounteous, and losing its classic outlines. A lladdon
Chambers ‘ boom ’ is on in theatrical New York apropos
of the ‘Tyranny of Tears,’ which the critics with one
accord pronounce the ‘ finest comedy of our time.’ Mine.
Cecilia Staunton, now touring with the recognised Carl
llosa Co., made her debut as Carmen the other evening
at Llandudno, with gratifying results. Her histrionic
and vocal interpretation of the exacting role met with
the warmest appreciation of the audience and t he critics.
In the English version of ‘ Ma Mie Rosette,’ as play ed now-
adays, Juncker’s little song, ‘I was dreaming,’ intro-
duced in the Australian version by' Nellie Stewart, figures
and promises to become as popular here as it was ‘down
under.’ ”
Dear Bulletin.— Why call Arthur Hahn the “new”
basso? For about two years he has been singing alter-
nately at Sydney Tivoli and Melb. Opera House and
Bijou, and liis wonderful voice has from the beginning
been the admiration of all, except, perhaps, musical
critics, who go into ecstacies over thin, bloodless girls (of
both sexes) piping slender, spiritless songs in the most
outrageously unnatural, but altogether polished, fashion.
Hahn’s organ will serve him better than all tiie twaddle
that’s written about training—you see if it doesn’t It
was a treat to hear him thunder out “ baker” from the
top of a bread-cart.— Narraxgiii Boori.
The very excellent portrait of the late Signor Foli,
which appeared in last week’s issue, was from the Falk
Studios, Sydney.
It was decidedly in accordance with the
fitness of thinirs that Brisbane, the town dis-
tinguished above all others for its opposition to
the cause of Australian Nationalism, should also
be particularly enthusiastic over its heroes who
were departing to crush the cause of Africander
nationalism. Evidently Jingoism and Parochial-
ism can go hand-in-hand.
The Bulletin’s printing and publishing
arrangements have this week been disorgan-
ised by the fact that N.S.W. keeps the Prince
of Wales’ birthday as a close holiday. There is
no holiday in England, and nobody there (save
Albert Edward’s own relatives) takes any notice
of the occasion. This paper, having to come
out a day earlier in the week, has been obliged to
neglect many current subjects.
It is printed that J. P. Badcock, of the
Citizens Life Assurance Co., encountered on board
the Medic two Contingenteers who wanted to
know who would get the money (of their proposed
life-insurance policies) if they were killed. When
they learned their wives would get it, they said
they would rather not be assured, and they asked
whether they oould not make a will leaving
the money to someone else. These “ patriots ’
evidently go to tight the B iers because they are
tired of fighting “ the old Dutch.”
T’other evening, in Queen’s Square (Syd-
ney), a mob of gaudily-upholstered volunteers
were discussing the war and loudly expressing
thirst for Kruger's gore, when a small boy ad-
vanced and threw a bag of flour at the crowd.
Immediately the bloodthirsty warriors stam-
peded, and the council of war broke up in
disorder. Which suggests a motto for the
Volunteer Foot: “Kill me, but spare my uni-
form.”


A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNO & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’s
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
n d particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
The Engineering Works of Mephan Ferguson
are at present fully occupied, giving employment to a
large number of hands, in the different colonies. In
Western Australia, the patent rivetless locking-bar pipes
for the Coolgardie Water-supply are now being delivered.
The South Australian works are busy manufacturing and
supplying pipes for the Hundaleer Water Scheme, and at
the General Engineering Works, Jlelb. orders are being
received for bridge work, pipes, fhiming, earth scoops,
forgings, refrigerators, machinery and ironwork. A large
number of patent Nelyambo scoops or tank-cleaners are
being manufactured to meet the increasing demand.*
The Western Mine, Zeehan, Tasmania, has cut
six inches of first class ore at No. 7 level in the south
drive on the main lode. A complete Luhritr concentrat-
ing plant on the gradual reduction principle is erected at
this mine with a capacity of 100 tons per day, and consists
of stone breakers, trommels, rolls, jiirs, classifiers, Luhrig
A'anners, etc. Since the erection of this mill the company
have paid about trioo.oix) in dividends and the mine still
promises to continue its prosperous career. Luting
machinery may he obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere. Melbourne and Broken Mill. A lwo-to-
five ton experimental plant is erected near Melbourne.*
Scottish Critic, September, 1809: “ The
management of the Colonial Mutual is in the hands of pru-
dent, earnest men, and the lines of policy pursued are
those which lead to permanent success.”^
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 240 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining rcqui-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rook Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &e.*
Mr. J. A. Wallace, pioneer of the gol d-d redoing
Industry in Australia, holds a Ion? stretch of the Sandy
Creek, near Yackandandah, and intends installing an elec-
trical plant to operate several dredges. The Austral Oti*
Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, are to supply high-
class compound condensing engines, with Corliss valve
gear, of 400 h.p., with boilers and fittings to operate the
first section of the plant. A duplicate plant to this will he
installed later to work three electric dredges on a stretch
of about two miles of the creek. Each of the dredges will
have a capacity of about 150 cubic yards Der hour.*
Norman Godkm, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or derelope, with option of
purchase, " hi-r prospecting shows ” (eithec. cold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
1
\
*1
wm
m
Wm
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.—Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
3QINVAO
guaranteed
- - 93/100 y
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
_ All Alining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv- Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Melbournh;
tl Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Cume-sL, Adel.; S7 Eagle-street,
B'nsO.; Lamb ton Quay , Wellington t N.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenue returns for Oc-tober, 1899, so far as
concerns the five provinces which are civilised enough to
issue monthly returns :
Revenue for Increase as compared
October 1899. with October, 1898.
Queensland £398,810 .. £76,196
New South Wales 792.203 .. 30,868
Westralia 226,497 .. 27,038
Decrease as compared
with October, 1898.
Tasmania 80,725 .. 9,478
Victoria 556,301 .. 60,262
The revenue returns for the financial year in six provinces
(so far as the financial year has gone) are as follows. No
Maoriland returns are available so far as the writer knows,
but Maoriland's information appears to turn up once a
quarter, and then it seems liable to be 7i weeks late, and
the local press takes such little interest in it that even
leading papers sometimes omit it for nine months at a
stretch. S.A’s returns are only up to the end of Septem-
ber, that province also having the quarterly system ;
though, unlike Maoriland, it is punctual when the end of
the quarter comes. Tasmania’s financial year begins on
Ist January, whereas all the mainland provinces start
their year on Ist July.
Increase as compared
with corresponding
Revenue, period of 1898.
Queensland (4 months) £1,647,150 £203,086
Westralia ( „ ) 847,297 84,838
N.S. Wales ( „ ) 3,036,196 43,710
S. Australia (3 months) 61u,930 48,569
Tasmania (10 mouths) 781,718 39,268
Decrease as compared
with corresponding
„ , . , period of 1898.
Victoria (4 months) 2,237,025 13,350
Victoria has certainly struck a bad shock, all the splendid
increase of the July-September quarter having vanished
in a single month and left, a shortage instead. The drop
last month is practically all in probate duties, but as it
must be in something that fact contains no special conso-
lation. Queensland’s big rise is partly through the col-
lection of £50,000 probate on the Tyson estate, and Wes-
traha’s through heavy new taxation. Tasmania’s reduc-
tion arises through non collection of land-tax. The con-
duct of both Tasmania and Victoria in wasting money on
contingents is all the more reprehensible in view of the
falling off in revenue.
* » « *
. I* l proportion to population the improvement
is about at the following rate per annum :
Increase of revenue
per inhabitant
. per annum.
Westralia .. .. ... .. £i 10 3
Queensland 15 0
South Australia ’ 10 6
Tasmania .! *4 Us, 5 4
New South Wales .. _
Victoria jjij
* * * •
N.S.W.’s expenditure up to the end of October
was £3,447,723, so there is a deficit so far of £411,527.
Still the new Government appears to be materially reduc-
ing expenditure. During the last three months of the
Reid regime the outgoings increased at a fearful rate, the
expenditure for July, August, and September being
£306,446 more than for the corresponding quarter of 1898.
And with all this ex-Treasurer Carruthers had the gall to
assert that when the Reid Government left office expendi-
ture was diminishing. During October, however, the
Lyue Ministry contrived to make the outgoings t 137,497
less than they were for October, 1898. Still the shortage
is £120,238 more than it was at 31st October, 1898, so
unless Premier .Lyne can find some new sources of revenue
things are likely to look bad at the end of the financial
year.
The October expenditure returns from Westralia
have not reached this-side of the continent yet, but for
three months to 30th September, Westralia’s ou tgoi 11 :r $
were £75,740 less than the receipts, and the old deficit
was reduced to £171,609. If Forrest can keep on at this
rate his deficit will be wholly wiped off by the end of the
year. Queensland has a surplus so far of £741,267, but
Queensland's bill for interest on the public debt comes
mostly in a lump at the end of the year, so the province
always has a large surplus till then. Expenditure of the
other provinces is more or less a matter of mystery till
the end of the year.
• • • •
The ill-luck of the Victorian Permanent Build-
ing Society (Melbourne) still sticks to it. Its recent
record is as follows :
Loss on Loss on
Ordinary Property Total
Business. Sales. Loss.
1893 .. £7,832 .. £4,138 .. £11,970
1894 .. 15,809 .. 511 .. 16,320
1 g95 •• 8,107 .. 3,931 .. 12,038
1896 .. 7,439 ... 1,906 .. 9,345
1897 .. 6,946 742 ~ 7,688
1898 6,910 397 .. 7,307
1899 5,479 .. 169 .. 5,648
£58,522 £11,794 £70,316
In 1894 the Victorian negotiated a reduction of interest
on its deposits from 5 to 2)4 per cent., which accounts for
the improvement shown in 1895. Since then income ha=
got every year a trifle nearer to outgoings, but there is
still a huge and hopeless-looking gap to be filled. Where
the income is £lOO,OOO and the ordinary outgoings
£105,479, the gap isn’t very serious after all, and it can be
closed by economy. When, as in the case of the
Victorian, income is £5046 and the outgoings £10,525,
the deficit is exactly the same, but it looks very
hopeless. On paper the institution has £3293 of its re-
serve still left. It has (strictly on paper) assets to the
value of £557,606. They consist almost wholly of mort-
gages, and the gross income last year was equal to 18s. Id.
percent, per annum on their nominal value. (The net
return was £244—income £5046, less expenses ±4802
which is 10£d. per cent, per annum on the nominal value
of the assets). Assuming that sound mortgages should
yield 4 per cent, gross all round (which is a very low rate)
the Victorian Permanent’s assets are worth about
£126,000 at present selling values—which means, roughly
speaking, that the capital is all lost and the society is in
a position to pay (on the present values of its assets) about
7s. 6d. in the £to its creditors. Anyhow, a concern whose
assets yield lOjd. percent, per annum net, and which has
to pay £2 10s. per cent, on the money it borrowed to
acquire these assets, and which has £246 net income to
pay £5723 interest on deposits and overdraft, is in a
pretty tight place.
That somewhat remarkable concern, the Provi-
dent and Industrial Insurance Co., of Maoriland, issues
its tenth balance-sheet, being that for the year ended
30th June, 1899. The revenue account figures out thus—
leaving out calls which are not in any sense revenue pro-
duced by the insurance business :
Receipts. Expenditure.
Premiums .. .. £8914 Claims £2835
Rents, Interest, &c.. 263 Expenses charged to
Apparent loss .. 120 the year .. .. 6326
Expenses incurred
but not charged,
being carried for-
ward as an asset to
be written off in
future .. .. 136
£9297 £9297
The best that can be said on this subject is that the pre-
mium income is larger by £515, and the expenses are £1375
less than they were last year. And the loss is only £l2O,
whereas in 1898 it was j_ 1094 and in 1897, about £lOOO.
The Provident and Industrial looks bad in quite
a number of ways. The income, as shown above, was
£9177, and out of this the co. professes to have saved and
added to its assurance fund only £l6 16s. lid. But it
hasn’t even done that. This institution has a long-stand-
ing paper asset, which is made up by not charging all the
current expenses against revenue, but carrying them for-
ward to he written off at a more convenient season. In
other words, it makes the accounts look better by putting
down money that is spent as an asset. And as this paper
asset has increased a little during the year as against the
apparent improvement of £l6 16s. lid. on the other side,
the assurance fund has really diminished. The said
assurance fund purports to be £3617, but as a very large
proportion of it only exists on paper, and has no assets to
represent it except the alleged asset of money spent in
extending the business, the real situation is about as
follows
Liabilities. Saleable Assets.
Capital paid-up ... £4825 Deposit £5OOO
Various liabilities ... 5383 Agents'Balances ... 139
Assurance Fund ... 918 Outstanding Pre-
miums 631
Property 4598
Sundry Debts ... 235
Furniture 596
Cash 17
£11,126 £11,126
Last year the fund, as far as this paper can figure it
out, was £lO38 —in other words, there were visible assets
to represent that sum. (It was erroneously set down in
this paper as £BB5, through £152 unpaid capital being
treated as paid.) Therefore, the diminution in the fund,
as represented by saleable assets, is £l2O. In other
words, it appears that, after ten years’ business, the
Provident and Industrial has accumulated a sum equal to
a little over five week*’ premiums. What the liabilities
under the company’s policies are this paper doesn’t
profess to know, not having seen the actuarial report,
but in a business which collects £8914 of premiums in a
single year, it seems very unlikely that £9lB will cover
them.
And even this very humble sum is not legitimate
accumulations—in fact, the Provident and Industrial
hasn’t accumulated anything, and all along it has spent
more than its earnings. About a year ago it suddenly
got out of a tight place (on paper) by altering the valua-
tion of its leasehold property from £1268 to £4508. In
other words, it created a new asset (on paper, anyhow)
of £3240. Considering the very great improvement in
Dunedin property values during the past ten years it is
possible the property has increased in value to that ex-
tent above the original cost price, but that doesn’t alter
the fact that the Provident and Industrial's assurance
business, taken by itself, appears to have been a losing one
up to date. When the increase, or presumed increase, in
the value of the property is left out the assurance busi-
ness by itself appears to show these results :
Liabilities. Saleable Assets.
Capital paid-up ... £4825 Deposit £5OOO
Less apparent-loss ... 2322 Agents’ Balances .. 139
Outstanding Pre -
2503 miurns 631
Various liabilities ... 5383 Property at old
Assurance Fund ... Nil valuation ... 1268
Sundry Debts ... 235
Furniture 696
"Cash, 17
\ £7886 £7886
Therefore it actually appears that the assurance business,
taken by itself, hasn’t succeeded in accumulating a single
penny to meet the liabilities under policies, and has lost a
very large proportion of the capital as well. An industrial
co. is expected, in the first few years of its existence, to
spend more than its earnings, for industrial business is
very costly to acquire in the first place, but after ten
years it ought, to be in a very different situation from this.
So, despite the optimistic strain of the directors’ report,
The Bulletin still regards the Provident and Industrial
as the worst life-assurance concern in the Seven Pro-
vinces. The best that can be said is that this year wasn’t
nearly so bad as last, and if next year shows an equal im-
provement, the institution will be definitely progressing
at last.
It is a solemn fact that the Provident and In-
dustrial—a concern ten years old, with a large business
and an annual income of over £9OO0 —on 30th June last,
the date of its balance-sheet, apparently had in all the
wide world only £l6 15s. 2d. of immediately available
assets. It had £5OOO on deposit with the Government,
but that can’t be lifted—the said £5OOO, by the way, is
apparently all borrowed money. It had its building and
furniture, but they are not immediately available assets ;
and sundry amounts are owing to the co. Blit as regards
realisable assets actually in hand (the kind which in
other offices are represented by mortgages, State and
municipal securities, cash in bank, &e., &c.) there ap-
pears to be absolutely nothing except £l6 15s. 2d.
* * * *
The extensive St. Joseph's Investment and
Building Society (Sydney) issues its balance-sheet for the
year ended 30t.h Sept., 1899, with a despondent report
attached thereto. On the face of things it certainly
seems to this writer that St. Joseph is more despondent
than the case calls for ; in fact, as times go, the balance-
sheet looks a rather cheerful document than otherwise.
The society has investments (almost all property in
possession) of a nominal value of £130,166, and the gross
receipts for the year are £7s4s—practically £5 16s per
cent, per annum on their paper value. After paying
rates, repairs, taxes and office expenses the income is
£sB4B—equal to nearly £4 -10 s. per cent, per annum net
on the paper value of the property. In 1895 St. Joseph
wrote £42,881 off its assets out of capital, thereby
reducing said capital to £28,588. It also wrote off
£6072 out of earnings. It wrote off a further
sum —how much the writer doesn’t remember—
in 1896 ; £5OOO in 1897; and £3500 in 1898 all out of
earnings. This year, after paying 3 per oent. interest to
depositors and all expenses, and adding £l7 to profit and
loss balance, it is able, out of earnings, to write off
another £2600. Considering that the properties yield ' 5
16s. per cent, gross or £4 10s. per cent, net on their
present paper value, it would certainly seem that the said
value isn’t very excessive. The institution has £28,588
paid-up capital, and (this is where ttie great trouble comes
in) it owes £105,438 to depositors. These individuals
receive 3 per cent, and whenever the society can raise the
money it. pays them Is. in the & off principal. To do this
it is forcibly sacrificing, in a weak market, properties that
yield a very decent rate of interest, and the big society is
practically winding up. If the depositors would agree to
take 3J per cent, and, let the whole of their principal
remain~for, say, ten years, the society could sit down and
nurse its properties, and the results would probably be a
lot better. On its latest figures it looks like a very res-
pectable concern which takes too depressed a view of
itself, and is sacrificing its best-paying properties in a bad
market.
• • * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Griimvade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites', price Is. 3d. post free.
* ♦ * •
The last round in the long row on the B. H.
Junction Board seems to have been finished now—the
row that climaxed with a directors’ rough-and-tumble,
and a subsequent law suit. General manager Phillips,
who was in charge of the mine throughout the proceed-
ings, lately sent in his resignation, and the tnostly-new
board did not hold it over for consideration. During
seven years at the Junction, Mr. Phillips saw shares go
from pence to pounds ; and if his record did not include
the awful collapse of the workings (for which, however,
the directors were quite as much responsible as he), it
would have been one to be very proud of.
« ■ • •
British B.H. figures wobble remarkably—this
half a loss, the next a profit. As a general rule, the pro-
fit conics when carbonates are mined. This last six
months there has been a steady output of this class of
ore, and profits have been .£23,430 —though whether that
allows for depreciation cannot be said till the reports come
out from London head-ofiice. Anyhow, a div. will be
payable in Dec.; and though carbojiate shipments have
eased, the sulphide faces are looking better than usual,
and the mill runs steadily.
Geo. Brookman, C. De Rose, and others, are
sinking thousands in attempting- to make a big thing of
their copper-show at I.eigh's Creek (S.A.). They hold
600 acres of country alleged to he rich, and assays have
been encouraging. Geo. Brookman will probably see how
the London capitalist likes it, as he goes to England
shortly.
• • • •
Sydney D.T., publishing a Melb. wire re the
Chillagoe co.’s alleged right to build a 10-mile branch line
from the Chillagoe line in the direction of Mt. Garnet,
says that from the end of the proposed branch to Alt.
Garnet will be 16 miles, and to Alt. Cardwell 10 miles. As
a matter of fact, the distances are, or—as the 10-mile
branch aforesaid is a long time away from even beginning
construction—will be, 28 miles and 20 miles
The Chillagoe co.’s ideas of distance are as funny as their
finance.
Queensland Government lias decided to make
the Chillagoe-Bedford and ML Garnet Co. Ltd.’s Bill
authorising the construction 0 f a railway to Alt. Garnet,
a Government measure subject to the Commissioners’ re-
port being favorable. As the departmental report is
favorable the C.G.’s scheme is likely to go through.
* • • •
“Mainshaft ” to The Bulletin, on some Cnil-
lagoe matters :—“ Dear Bi’M.ktin, —You say that the re-
ports from theChillngoe Co.’s mines are very disappoint-
ing, and therein you are right-, but it may not therefore
be concluded that the prophecies of the men who were
on the field 10 years ago, and condemned the Chillagoe
mines, are about to become true. The ore is there,
although it does not appear in the manager’s report, and,
by the way, a want of imagination in managers’ reports
should he a welcome change, liere are some facts of the
field to-day.
“The Queenslander (Chillagoe Railway and
Mines) has proved an immense ore-body by its No. 1
tunnel. This tunnel is in an immense lode of siliceous iron
62ft. from the footwall, and has not yet reached the
hanging wall. Along the footwall side a drive is in 40ft.
north-easterly. In places, the lode is worth 18 per cent.,
but the average is about five percent. On same property,
No. 1 shaft is down 57ft, —46ft. in siliceous iron, and from
that depth the shaft is filled with red oxide of copper
alternated with bands of chalcotrichite (i.e., capillary
crystalisations of red oxide—a very rare form of the
metal and native copper. The last few feet of the shaft
have produced ore worth 20 per cent, of copper, 20oz. sil-
ver, and 2dwt. of gold.
“ Plenty men are wanted at Chillagoe, and
contract men average 15s. per day. On such a wide field
as this conditions are bound to vary, and so there is
great jealousy among the contractors because the ‘ other
fellow ’ has secured a soft sink at a big price, and the
little blind devil of chance has given the grumbler hard
shooting stuff.
“ Garnet rock is the cupriferous rock of the
N.Q. fields. It has been found under the granite in the
Hobson (Chillagoe R. and M. Co.), it is carrying copper
pyrites in the Boomerang (C.R. and M.)and is associated
with calcite as a gangue for bornite in the Magazine Face
(C.R. and M.); it is carrying down all the way in Alt.
Garnet Freehold, and it is the lode in the Alt. Ruby.
Atkins’ shaft on the Alt. Ruby is filled with a lode aver-
aging 20 per cent, from the surface to the bottom, and
the tunnel now being put in at the lowest point of the
mountain should strike the deposit—if it is there— in
about 40ft. from the present face. Alt. Ruby is either a
promising “kidder" of the worst kind or a very big
mine.
“ Present Chillagoe management is struggling
against the idiocy of its predecessors who sunk the new
shaft of the Harper on the wrong side of the lode. To be
exact, it is in the lode and is 300 ft. down in ironstone, but
it isn’t on the run of the metal shoots, and the old shaft
on the other side of the lode should be continued.
“Standing in Calcifer township one can see four
mines which, I believe, will run the silver mile at Broken
Hill close for payable tonnage. The Boomerang, Hob-
son, Mollie, and Harper have the probabilities of four
great mines, and the main shaft now being sunk to the
sulphide zone on the Boomerang should make its own
probabilities certainties before long.
“Ono of the greatest of the Chillagoe R. and M.
properties is+he P.P.A.— known on the maps as 37 M.
The greater portion of the Western crosscut (45ft. wide)
over the blow bulks 13 per cent, copper, 15oz. silver and
4dwt. gold. There is at another point a width of 80ft. of
garnet rock impregnated with copper, and this width
does not carry the cutting through the lode, the crop
rises 150 ft. above the plain. At the Atherton there is
35ft. of lode, and of it 25ft. is worth 13 per cent, copper,
20 per cent, lead, and 13oz. silver. At the Magazine Face
there is exposed a lode 58ft. wide, consisting of red and
grey oxide worth from 60 per cent, to 70 per cent, copper
and up to 4ft. wide. The ‘ mullock ’ between
these veins is impregnated to such an extent
that it is worth all of 8 per cent. From the
foot wall of the Magazine Face a tunnel has been driven
northerly 218 ft. At 80ft. from the face of tunnel it cut
the Nordville lode. Along this a drive was put in easterly
26ft. in a garnet rock carrying bornite. A winze is down
40ft in same lode matter, and the whole lot of it is worth
11 per cent. At the Girofla a cross-cut from the bottom
of the shaft has been driven through the lode 105 ft. The
bulk sampling for the whole distance issooz. silver, 27 per
cent, lead and a trace of gold, and the cross-cut has
another 50ft. to go before reaching the wall. On the
Griffith the new shaft to open up the collapsed workings
is down 220 ft. and crosscutting for the lode is proceeding.
Although apparently some distance from the lode yet, the
crosscut is in garnet rock, showing splashes of sulphide.
This Griffiths and Girofla line will, I believe, prove one of
the richest, largest, most continuous ore-bodies on record.
Although there is apparently little connection between
the Griffith at the eastern end and the Girofla at the
western end of the Mangana group, the pumps on the
Griffith Hill exhaust the wells in Girofla township
half-a-mile away. There are immense ore bodies exposed
also on the MMlwraith, Penzance, Kelli', and Ruddigore
and Otho, but the project is so immense that nothing
under 500 or 600 men will suffice. At present there are
200 men employed, and the co. wants more—2oo men are
lost. Nearly that number are employed on Mt. Garnet
Freehold, and there are at least three Mt. Garnets at
Chillagoe. For another thing, the railway construction
is slow, and the co.’s proposal to build a branch to or
towards Mt. Garnet will make it slower. The Chillagoe
R. and M. have got the biggest and most lucrative scheme
for running other than gold that has ever been known,
and the sooner thei' recognise that and are content to
chew what they have bitten already the better for every-
body concerned. The Chillagoe R. and M. has treated a
colossal scheme badly so far. The ore-deposits are
mighty, and there is now, judging from the Boomerang
and Griffith shafts, no doubt of their permanency. If
they are allowed to do so, the lodes will soon redeem even
the company’s humorous finance."
Garnet Freehold smelters. Construction going
on apace. No. 1 bench is prepared for a length of 200 ft.
and before many weeks a face 70ft. high by the length
aforementioned will be exposed. Winzes in garnet rock
carrying high-grade sulphides—no alteration in value or
width, but length of shoot north and south increasing.
Estimated to be over a million pounds worth of ore in
sigtit.
Adelaide, which takes a boom in its teeth and
mns away whenever it has a chance, seems likely to take
the threatened (Queensland tin-boom in hand.
* * * •
Explorer David Lindsay, director of the S. A.
prospecting co., who has got hold of a number of N.Q. tin-
claims, surprises Southerners by describing the workings
at Irvinebank—where John Moffatt has his crushing and
smelting plant. The Vulcan, for instance, has followed a
nearly vertical tin-bearing lode down 600 ft. The vertical
shaft is down 700 ft., and the owners are going to open out
again at 800 ft. The methods of working he describes as
expensive ; yet £40,000 has been scattered in divg.
* • * •
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc.C.E., is-visiting the Cool-
gardie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
* * » *
The Hampden Copper Co.’s report has not con*
tained any reference to H. H. Schlapp’s alleged unfavor-
able report about the bottom levels. The par. r« Schlapp’s
report practically knocked out the Cloncurry district, and
the public, especially those of them who paid £OOO for
shares, are asking why Chairman Orr, in his glowing
speech, did not say whether the lower levels have beaten
Schlapp, or whether Orr’s original good report on the
mine was correct in its forecast.
There are mutterings of discontent nmongsb
Lyell Co. shareholders at the proposal of the directors to
join the copper combine and restrict the mine's output.
There has been altogether too much mystery about tho
negotiations, and ugly things are being said ; in fact, tho
ugliest since the famous flotation of the Lyell debentures
amongst half-a-dozen people one Saturday morning some
years ago. Ghost of Crotty I
A tricky mine, the Queen Margaret. Has been
crushing an ounce and over for two years, but never a
div. What do they do with the money ?
* * * •
A further decision has been given against the
Westralian alluvial diggers. This last case was hurried
on (that is, so far as they hurry on anything except syndi-
cate jobs in the West) for two reasons. First, Cowley’s
case looked fishy. Cowley did not instruct anyone to
argue it; neither did the Alluvial Rights’ Association.
Yet it was argued. There was an explanation, of course,
that a misunderstanding had occurred ; but the diggers
replied that that didn’t help them out of the soup. That
was one reason why this O’Rourke case was taken. The
other was that in the Cowley case the powers (if any)
given to diggers by the ’9B Mining Act were not touched
at all—the digger was bayonetted off bv the ’95 Act. The
Cowley decision said that the digger could not go on
leases issued before ’95 ; the O’Rourke decision fences in
those issued since. And the most lamentable feature of
the whole business is that Parliament dees not seem to
know whether these decisions express its intentions or
not. The fact probably is that Parliament had no inten-
tions at all ; it was simply led by the nose by less than
half-a-dozen men who are supposed to know all about
mining, but who really know little beyond the makino- of
a mining deal. The moral of it all is'that it's a bad plan
to start putting on the roof of your house before you’ve
got the foundations out and the walls built. The Westra-
lian diggers got a Mining Act (several of them, in fact)
before they had a decent Electoral Act. Hence these
curses.
Word of the Wild Cat again—the Wild Cat of
Murchison. It is a specimen mine; 73 tons have given
7410 z. Now the owners have got into another pocket
containing specimens so rich that Paris Exhibition is
going to see them. Zeb. Lane, it is said, has designs on
Paree for at least one co., and this no doubt will help It
is the same district that yielded the marvellous specimens
he has in his portmanteau.


Cl.
A NEW DEPARTURE
|n Orient Suit to measure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
63T We pay carriage, on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
9AVID JONES & COMPANY,
/ Opposite \
G.P.O. )
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
Latest USTe-vvs!
20,000 Britishers SSlOt
within the next few months with one or the other of
HARRINCTON’S SNAP-SHOT CAMERAS.
We could fill .1 whole page of this paper in describing our IMMENSE ASSORTMENT of
UP-TO-DATE CAMERAS, but space does not permit us to more than mention some of the
kinds we have in stock. The VICTOR ; PREMO in all grades ; SCIENTO; LANCASTER
in various styles; KODAK in all kinds; OPTIMUS; JFRENA; PRIMUS; RUBY;
AMBER; DUPLEX; CLIMAX; GOERZANSCHUTZ, etc.
Just now THE PHOTOGRAPHIC WONDER IS . . .
The Federal Camera & Outfit for 5/-
Post Free, 5/8
Complete with Chemicals, Materials, and a simple Book of Instructions; takes photos, 2|x2£in.
See that your Camera bears our name—it is a guarantee of its genuineness and quality.
Harrington & Co., Ltd-, Photographic Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY (near George-street),
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
The loudest shriek for massacre in the
whole community comes from the parsons.
These men of peace are almost unanimous
in demanding slaughter, and the example of Pastor
Tucker, of South Yarra (where the boot-trunks
come from), has been followed by a long line of
dancing dervishes demanding that Blood should
trickle. The latest Kerristian is out with a
prayer, “God speed the Bullet,” and proudly
announces that he himself volunteered for service.
After all, what is the difference between the
shrieking devotee in his jibbah and the cultured
divine in full canonicals ? Principally the canoni-
cals.
* * * *
Jingoism will never die laughing. The
other Sunday services of farewell to the Transvaal
contingent were held in a Southern city. At one
c hurch the parsou held forth on the iniquities of
the Boer Republic, and prayed soulfully for the
success of British arms in the current shindy. The
congregation joined heartily in the singing of
several hymns—“ Onward Christian Soldiers,”
and things like that. Then there were some more
remarks from the parson condemnatory of the
Boers and their disreputable Republic. Some
more prayers. When the service was over the
church slowly emptied itself to organ music. The
tune was the “ Marseillaise,” yet nobody, barnii g
the organist, smiled.
• * * *
Contingent item from Sydney paper :
Private O. Jones, of Yass, rode 200 miles in two days so
as to be in time to offer his services for the Transvaal.
We can see the poem coming: “Jones’s Ride!”
There is already “Sheridan’s Ride” and the
“ Ride of Paul Revere,” and the poem about the
three men who rode with the news from Ghent,
and Byron about the Giaour who rode on a black
horse, and “ Banjo ” about the man who rode on a
grey horse. And now “ Jones’s Ride ”is coming.
What color was Jones’s horse? ”
• * * *
One of the loveliest Imperial-hogwash
items yet printed relates (in a Sydney daily) how
at the final practice of “Judas Chamberlain” —
The Bulletin means “Judas Maceabseus ” —by
Sydney Philharmonic Society, “ there was a sin-
gular display of patriotism. The oratorio is full
of martial airs, and the orchestra and chorus, who
on this occasion were their own audience, broke
forth spontaneously into loud cheering. The
spirit of the times no doubt inspired the singers
with patriotic fervor, for they sang extremely
well—so well that Signor Hazon exclaimed,
‘ Bravo ! Splendid ! ’ Then followed the remark-
able applause, the vocalists, of course, cheering
the spirit and sentiment of the choruses rather
than the excellent singing.” And all because of
what ? Because 70,000 or 80,000 troops had been
sent along to garotte a gallant little Republic
fighting for its hearth and home. “Patriotism ”
is indeed “the last refuge of scoundrels.”
* * * *
A S.M. Herald wire from Marulan
(N.S.W.) :
The constable’s horse has been selected for service in
South Africa.
Yet there is no reference to any banquet, send-
off, or loud cheers for the equine hero.
* * * *
The sergeant-major engaged in drilling
the Vic. volunteers, who imagined when they
joined the Contingent that they knew soldier-
ing from A to Z, is horrified at the want
of dignity among the kerlonial officers. A
lieutenant who called for a bugler instead
of deputing the command to his orderly,
shocked him terribly, but later in the day he saw
a captain carrying a hammer and tin-tacks across
the barrack-yard, and finally he encountered
another officer who called a private “Billy!”
What that sergeant-major thinks of the lieutenant
who made use of his valedictory speech to pat-
ronise his superior officer ought to be worth
hearing.
* * * *
“ E.G. : Recently saw someone’s baby
and the family cat eating decomposed chicken.
They were having alternate bites, and seemed to
understand each other thoroughly. The nurse was
talking, over the fence, to a policeman.— Y arrum.
THE POT THAT FAILED.
FIRST POTTS POINTER: “Bai Jove! just missed it; a second off."
SECOND DITTO: "Yaas, hard luck, old boy; the coup hasn't come off.”
CUTTTE: “ You’re right, mister; 'cis a cow —'eoughter be sold for cats'-meat.”
A pretty little game played in Victoria
for many years by the Crown Law Office
and the detectives was blown on ”in the
Criminal Court the other day. Judge
Gaunt did his best to shoo away the ques-
tion, but it advanced sufficiently to get into
the press and ought to
be a warning to honest
jurors. Two young fel-
lows were placed on trial
for assault and robbery.
The jury disagreed and
were discharged, while
the prisoners were re-
manded for a second
trial. Immediately the
detectives set about find-
ing out the points in the
Crown case about which
the jurors had had any
doubt. One of
the d.’s waited
upon a jurorand
tried to tap him,
but on discove
ring that he was
a detective the
juror came back
to court and in-
formed Judge
Gaunt, remark-
ing that he
thought it was
hardly fair to
the men who
had to stand a
second trial. The
Judge put him off
by referring him to _
—the Police authori-
ties ! Of course the
object of ascertaining tl: i
points in doubt with the
first jury is very obvious. . It is so easy to
strengthen these particular points at the next trial.
* * * *
TWO IN A TRAIN.
[For The Bulletin.
“ Yield me your lip 3 : I’m all athirst for kisses . . .
Ah, so ! . . . Your lips are sweet as they are shy,
Reluctant yet responsive. Tell me, why
Do maidens fear a joy so pure as this is—
This most innocuous of primal blisses ?
Your rake-at-random (since you won’t reply)—
Your vulgar lecher, battening swinishly
On mercenary loves, our transport misses 1 ”
On raced the train (Old Time raced quicker still)—
Love laughs at leagues ; these two cared not a whit
Until He woke to prudence with a sigh.
“ Sweet girl,” he said, “ although the thing sounds ill,
I own I’m married—while I think of it.”
The lady : “ All the better. So am I! ”
Melb. Byron Borer.
# * * *
Whispered that the time has now arrived
when it is necessary to appoint a N.S.W. Royal
Commission to enquire into the mysterious delay
of the report of the Royal Commission which was
appointed to enquire into the inexplicable delay in
starting the George-street (Sydney) electric tram.
Identification can at
times become too accurate.
In a northern coastal town,
years ago, the nude body of
a woman was found on the
beach ; and as fish had ren-
dered recognition by the
features impossible, and no
clothing had been found, the
coroner was going to record
an open verdict. Just then
one of the jurors, who had
been shudderingly eyeing
the corpse, exclaimed ex-
citedly, “ I recognise her
now. It’s Miss X.” The
coroner stared. “How do
you know ? ” And recklessly
the rash one pointed to a
curious and unmistakable
birth-mark just below her
knee. Only when the court
began to grin significantly
did he awaken to the irre-
futable inference to be
drawn from his knowledge.
Enquiries after the lady con-
firmed the observant gen-
tleman’s statement; and
when his wife read the re-
port in the paper next day
the coroner very nearly got
another job. Now that
citizen wouldn’t identify
his mother-in-law if she had
committed suicide right be-
fore his eyes.
A Carlton (Melb.) citizen has an original
method of dealing with his obstreperous wife,
The lady has a weakness for fixing a glazed eye
on the beer when it is long, and often she roils
home much elevated in the tardy hours and goes
to sleep anywhere. Then when the husband has
hunted the family cat into the hack yard, and put
the milk-jug on the window-sill, and wound up
the clock, he carefully carries out the beery
sleeper and puts her on the pavement. By-and-
bye the “ cop ” stumbles across her prostrate form
and runs her in, and the Carlton Bench, of whom
she is an old acquaintance, fines her 10s. The
husband pays up, and the scheme seems to work
smoothly all round. If he deposited the lady
privately in the coal-cellar instead of publicly on
the pavement, it would be a great saving of money,
but he seems to love splashing capital about.
CLEANED OUT
AFTER THE “ CUP.”
WIFE: “John, John, there’s a burglar in the
house."
JOHN: “ Alri’ m’ dear, let 'im find his bloomer
out himself.”
The chronically-accurate Q. Agent-General
on the Q. contingent for the Transvaal:
They are well-drilled, well-disciplined, with fine horses,
and specialty adapted for the sort of warfare which the
Boers have adopted. Our men are excellent shots, good
at shooting from behind boulders, skilled in the bringing
down of game, and as they are used to roughing it, they
would be invaluable in Africa.
As to the drill and discipline it is no uncommon
thing for the gallant defenders of Bananaland to
curse their officers blue when the beer begins to
circulate at the annual encampment and gross
cases of insubordination are of frequent occur-
rence. As to the “ bringing down of game ” and
“ roughing it,” most of the men are town-bred.
* • * *
One of Melbourne’s awful J’s.P. was
found lately travelling on the State railways
without a ticket— i.e., on a previous month’s ex-
pired periodical ticket. The great man was
THE SAMEOLEGEORGE.
G. H. REID (sometime Premier, now barrister, cross-examining
witness): “ Come, now, a straight answer, Yes or No!”
(Then he wondered what everybody was laughing at.)
astonished at first, but quickly became in-
dignant. “It was disgraceful that he, a regular
traveller and a constant monthly ticket-holder,
should he bailed-up and regarded as a common
swindler.” Then he was requested to observe
that his ticket was 26 days out of date, and that
he therefore owed the department a good round
SUI p f° r fares, as well as looking like a common
swindler. _ The usual person who does this sort
of thing is at once summoned and fined, with
costs, but Victoria has a powerful and grovelsome
respect for its J’s.P., wherefore the department
let his Worship go with a caution. But it fined
the badly-paid porters on the gates for permitting
the “ gentleman ” to travel so long on an expired
ticket. It didn’t fine the gentleman himself, you
observe. The stinkful justice of Victoria never
fines a “ gentleman.”


The Elixir of Life. Have you tried it ?
Purely natural. Take it with your meals. Zetz
Spa Water.*
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter into
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
,ne Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices:—
Pori able Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... £1 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete ... 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 22 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Bracing: 2
Refreshing 1 !
invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
All Substitutes are inferior.
Insist on Buying “CONDY’S FLUID.’
gunKjiht Qjj (Jake
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33! per Half-dozen, free Oi/ post throughout
A astral in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on App” • U ion
E. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
H A LF-SIC K Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. laz.v,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post, la 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
I S PATIIONAGE^
.. 0n...
Mr. Fra ok &€i)ior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he lias appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
A member of the Broken Hill Miners'
Association became nnfinanoial at 12 midnight.
He knocked off work at that midnight (he was on
afternoon shift), and in coming up the shaft
missed his footing, fell, and was killed. Of course
the Association under its
rules could not
pay out a penny.
The White Star s.s. line has always dis-
couraged much intercourse between officers and
passengers; but on the monster Oceanic the
arrangements for the brass-buttoners are almost
monastic. Above the promenade deck is a
“ navigation deck ” —barred to passengers—upon
which the officers not only carry out their duties,
but practically live altogether, their mess-rooms
and cabins being there situated.
* * * *
A certain Melbourne clerk understands
the beauties of the commandment as to minding
one’s own business. He was sitting in Albert Park
one recent evening, with a lady friend, when they
heard loud screams proceeding from the lake,
about 100yds. away. Next morning the body of a
girl was found floating thereabouts. At the ensu-
ing inquest the youth was cordially invited to ex-
plain his “masterly inactivity.” “How many
screams did you hear ? ” “Fouror five.” “What
did you do? ” “ I looked along the bank, but saw
nothing.” “Did you go towards the screams?”
“No.” “Why not?” “I don’t know.” “Be-
cause you were afraid ? ” “ No, it was not that. ”
“Well, why was it?” “I was just going home
at the time.” Albert Park lagoon is about 3Jft.
deep, but it is wonderful how many people man-
age to have their bodies discovered in it, and how
many clerks sit wearily on the shore while they
drop in.
* * * *
TAR’S TRIOLETS.
[For The Bulletin).
W’en the last line thet ’olds us is gone from the quay
Take yer last look at Somebody’s Daughter.
Oh ! the tug-boat is pluckin’ us out to the sea
W’en the last line thet ’olds us is gone from the quay ;
With a 'and-over-’and we kin feel it is free,
An’ it wriggies like eels in the water.
Oh ! the last line thet ’olds us is gone from the quay —
Take yer last look at Somebody’s Daughter !
For it’s John, you rise up so thet Jack kin sit down
Take yer last look at Somebody’s Daughter.
We’re a long time at sea an’ a short time in town,
So it’s John, you rise up so thet Jack kin sit down,
An’ we’ll sing out “ Belay ! ” if ye preach with a frown
Thet our blood should he lime-juice an’ water.
Oh ! it’s John, you rise up so thet Jack kin sit down -
Take yer last look at Somebody’s Daughter !
Eiffa.
* * « *
Understood that Inspector Sharp, the new
head of Vic. Criminal Investigation Dept., will
attempt a considerable reform of the present dis-
organised system. The selection of young con-
stables for detective work has been a failure in the
past, and too many men are scrambling for the
jobs, anyhovv. In the multitude of ’tecs there is
more rivalry than wisdom. If a number of the
physically strong, but mentally dull ones, were put
back into uniform, the new chief would find it all
the easier to sift the wheat from the chaff in the
remaining (say) dozen and a half, some of whom
are notorious rogues. It is sickening to see these
corrupt identities making themselves “right”
with press paragraphists at the hotel bars.
A young and popular Australian military
man, who has recently been very prominent in
connection with the Transvaal, has had a some-
what remarkable career as regards luck. Of
humble extraction, he nevertheless received a
good education, and, going to England at Jubilee-
time, made influential military friends. With
the backing he now possesses he may come out of
the Boer war with a colonelcy. That lucky young
man is further, it is said,
engaged to a Sydney
widow of much coin and
social standing.
Frank
satisfied
ing game
Farnell, not
with the big trawl-
he has in hand, is
anxious for N.S.W. to go regularly and heartily
into the shipping of prawns to England. If Syd-
ney prawns could be landed in London with full
flavor, there would be money in the business.
Picked Port Jackson prawns in perfect condi-
tion would be worth at least 2s. a dozen wholesale.
* * * *
While Cardinal Moran was being feted in
Rockhampton at the recent opening of the new
R.C. Cathedral—begun 20 years ago—he attended
the usual course of school concerts, but the mono-
tony of at least one was broken in a cheerful
manner. The ring of accompanying prelates
were endeavoring to look with the benignant eye
of Charity on the efforts of the kiddies to amuse,
when a tiny tot of about six stepped forward to
give her solo. The last line of the song was,
“ Now, what would you take me for, daddy ? ”
and the youngster assisted the effect of her query
with a most paralysing wink at the Cardinal,
which brought the house right down.
* * * *
In N.S.W. Assembly, the other day, John
Haynes asked the Colonial Secretary for an ex-
planation of the continued existence of so
many Chinese gainbling-shops, operating pub-
licly day and night, in George street and
other parts of Sydney. And he also wanted
to know if the police were aware of the
existence of those shops (which one can
smell as far as Manly) and if they had
reported their inability to cope with it.
Then glib Colonial Secretary See rose
up softly and replied :
The Police Superintendent of the Metropoli-
tan District reports that there are a considerable
number of Chinese dwellings in which games of
fan-tan and pak-ah-pu are played, but so cau-
tiously as to render it difficult to obtain the legal
evidence necessary to prove a breach of the Bet-
ting Houses Suppression Act. There have been
prosecutions, but with no satisfactory result.
And yet the lottery business is carried on
so publicly that a force of baboons, not
utterly incapacitated by having revelled in
too much palm-oil, could prove it. The shops
stand wide open, and the lottery-tickets are
hung around the walls and sold to anybody who
likes to pay his cash.
* * * *
A old Auckland identity, Dr. Bakewell,
who has a bad habit of writing vitriolic letters to
the papers without payment (the sort of writing
the M.L. papers love) has risen to speak dis-
respectfully about the great army of women who
are volunteering for nursing-s rvice in South
Africa. He declares that a big percentage are not
ministering angels, but designing hussies with
schemes to marry any well-to-do officer who may
get broken in the scrap. As for the real minister-
ing angels he remarks that they are, as a rule,
quite useless, and have to be attended to and p'ied
with raw brandy on account of shock to the
system when a heap of gruesome-looking cases
comes in after a big fight.
Here and there a church does do some
solid progressive work. There is the North
Adelaide Primitive Methodist, for a conspicuous
example. As the result of some reform activity,
10 years ago, Hugh Gilmore was imported for that
pulpit. His personality was remarkable, and he
impressed some of it on nearly every one of the
students and younger ministers of his deno*
mination. The success of his preaching
made social reform sentiments more popu-
lar in the pulpit than they had ever
been perhaps in any other province at
any time. Gilmore died within three
years, and J. D. Thomson was im-
ported to take his place, chiefly be-
cause he had somewhat similar poli-
tical views. He did some good fight-
ing, yet hardly more than kept the
pot boiling. Then Methodist Union
was coming ; Thomson feared that
smug Wesleyanism would over-
whelm the smaller Me-
thod y bodies, and got back
to England to be free
from it. After that Brian
Wibberley was imported ;
and he has already several
times stunted local Con-
servatism never, how-
ever, so much as when,
the other day, he made
a slashing attack on the
jingo fever that was
organising “units ” of
Australian swash-
bucklers for South
African service.
But just as Hugh
Gilmore tinted
Primitive Metho-
dism in S.A. with
a deep-red radi-
calism, the connec-
tion of Chief Jus-
tice Way with the
sister-sect, the Bible
Christians, has in-
clined that little crowd
(far more powerful in
S. A. than in any other province) more and more
towards Toryism.
* * * •
Canterbury Times (M.L.) on the recent
case of Low v. the S.M. Herald :
One question on which it was hoped some light would
be thrown did not receive any elucidation during the
proceedings, though it was eagerly looked for. How isi
that a paper like the Herald, which clearly pays its staff
liberally, and usually has about half-a-dozen leaders and
sub-leaders in each issue, manages to avoid with such
preternatural adroitness and dexterity anything w'hich
may throw light on the real ills from which society
suffers ? No one would believe it to be possible, unless
the fact stared them in the face morning after morning.
Perhaps it is just because they are paid so well
that they manage it. If a dozen able men are en-
gaged at liberal salaries to say nothing, they will
probably manage to avoid saying anything, es-
pecially if the man who keeps the largest amount
of brilliant silence gets the best salary. The Bul-
letin, unfortunately, was very stone-broke in its
early days, and couldn’t afford to pay its staff
enough to keep them quiet, so they used to break
out and say things in print. And they got so
much into the habit that they keep saying things
to this day. The holy calm of the Herald can
only be attained by a very rich paper.
* * * *
Sydney City Council has drafted a bye-law
to come into force shortly, providing that every
’bus licensed to carry more than 20 passengers
CONSOLA-
TION.
BRIDGETTA : “You mallied
man, John?”
JOHN : "No feah —me no mally wife; too muchce
spendum money. But you no cly, Blidyet—
some udder man makee you happy some day.”
must have at least three horses attached. The
reform comes none too soon, and is none too large.
In fact it isn’t large enough- a heavy omnibus
with 20 passengers, and a driver, and sometimes a
vociferous boy to collect the fares and shriek
horribly on the back step, weighs two tons when
full ; and even under the new regulation it will be
regarded as a two-horse load—one ton per horse
to be hauled at a trot up and down hill over
slippery wood-blocks. Also, there is need of some
strong legislation as to the number of miles each
skeleton is expected to do per diem, and some
thing needs to be done about ensuring the poor
brutes a square meal regularly. And in addition,
the driver’s hours want compulsory shortening,
and a minimum-wage for drivers isurgently needed.
When all that is done the penny-bus will disappear
VARIETY THE SPICE OF LIFE.
“ The doctor has ordered me a complete change."
“ And what do you intend doing?"
“ Changing my gear."
and it can’t disappear too soon. It can only exist
by long hours, low pay, by excessive mileage
for the poor hungry wrecks in the shafts, also
excessive loading, and under-feeding, and hard
flogging by a soured driver with a cheap whip
mended with clothes-line in order to keep the
horrible combination from all falling down
together in the streets. Every patron of a penny
’bus is a sweater, and an accomplice in the worst
form of cruelty to man and beast.
* * * *
Though officially denied on day of depar-
ture, it is still a fact that 14 of the Queensland
Contingent to assist the tottering Empire, “ ab-
sented themselves without leave,” and are still
persisting in their contumacy. The oause is easily
explainable (apart from the speechifying to which
the men were subjected) by those who were fre-
quent visitors to the camp. Most of the contin-
gent came in from the country districts in good
condition from heavy work with teams, on farms,
&c., and were immediately set such tasks as
“doubling” for hours up and down a ploughed
paddock, “to make them hard.” Also, the at-
tractions of the metropolis—cheap beer and Pre-
mier Dickson’s speeches—proved irresistible to
many.
• • * *
Dr. Fraser, of St. Kilda (Vic.) who was
shot in the head by his wife, with whom he for-
merly led a cat-and-dog life, is being tenderly
nursed by that lady (now out an bail) and when
he is fully recovered (he says the bullet isn’t in his
brain —he swallowed it) they intend to take a
house, and live together again, and be quite
happy. Possibly the lady will have to do a few
months in prison first as a matter of form, but
that makes no difference in the good intentions of
the lately-shot one and his affectionate shooter.
True love is a queer thing. ! '
• * * *
The lady who, the other night, attempted
to address the Speaker and members of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly is Mrs. M'Sweeney, who formerly
kept the Hope and Anchor Hotel, a Sydney
“tied house.” When the brewer put in a bailiff,
her husband ejected him, and a siege took place.
At last a constable arrived and called aloud that
he had a summons. A string was let down from
the window, and, the blue paper being attached
to it, service was effected. Shortly afterwards
Mrs. M'Sweeney wrote on the window, in large
letters, “Hope gone, but anchored still.” The
result of litigation was that Mrs. M'Sweeney was
ejected. This was the trouble on the lady’s mind
which induced her to attempt to address the
House.
* * * ♦
Experience shows that at least nineteen out
of twenty women’s tales of violent assault are
naught but fictions, born in the evil imaginations
of the not assaulted ; but there seems no question
whatever as to the truth of the story told by Miss
Huie, teacher of the lonely Wellesley (N.S.W.)
public school, who, after school hours, was set
upon by a rifle-armed ruffian, whom, after a
desperate struggle, she was happily able to repel.
Her eyes were blackened; she sustained a nasty
gash 3in. long on the side of her head ; her arms
were much bruised and blackened, as was also her
throat. The criminal is being pursued by the
police. The episode is notable as affording the only
apparently bona fide story of attempted criminal
assault in Australia which has come under public
notice for many a long day. Than Australia,
there is, in all the world, no safer place for the un-
protected woman.
The Girl in
Rational Dress
For
The Bulletin
Art you a novel yenaation
When crushed 'neal'h monotony's slre^
And the world i& an empty negation
With boredom alone in exceyy ?
'fry your hand ar an ardent flirtation
With a girl in a Rational Dresy •,
One you fancied before , when she petficoaly wore,
Instead of Ihe Rational Dreyy
when you walk where The beach iy,
Devotion you fry fa expresy,
Jhose kmckery will your fme speeches
And Humor will sfatj c cjbur caresy.
/Jo poet has to Teach us
fo “pop’' k> a Rational Dress)
just think how Twill be when she yity on
your knee ,
And ijouVe Tangled iti Dresy!
Your thoughts you may focu§ and rally,
Y°ur Jgve hard To confeyy-,
B<-d the wordy ancl the feelings wont Tally,
Andyou sitfh , slalkino* off m distresy;
Oh, why do I think of ftie ballet,
/if. a
And the bag<,' that" brin<£ huntsmen succeyy
When f stand af the side of the century's pride-
The Qirl m the Rational Dres'j? ”
J.H.G.


SpriQg Beds baVc BOrSt
MARK FOVS!
A Riot of LoVlipeSS.
All Drapers Everywhere.
ad
Absolute
Fact —*
No pood Costume as low-priced—
No low-priced Costume as good.
fi Ji J* J* £
To state a case doesn’t prove it, and yet
when we say that our
Holland Costume at 10s. 6d.
is a marvel of cheapness
we have the hearty en-
dorsement of numberless
oustomers
/ /
W. T. WATERS & CO.
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 7, 1899.
Mr Dear Mtee.—
Heroes and hero-worship nnother thrilling
week of them. All sorts of patriots, from the
green bush-boy to the busked and waisted officer,
and all sorts of devotees. One withered yellow
lady of 80 charged frantically at a turnstile at the
Quay on Friday afternoon. The turnstile-man,
noting her excitement, told her that the soldiers
had gone by. “MyGord!” She threw up her
hands, rolled her eyes, and dropped her jaw, as if
the end of the world had come. “ Got anybody
going ? ” asked the sympathetic man. “ Oh, no ! ”
She “ ’ad nobody goin’. Didn't even know no-
body who noo anybody goin’.” Yet it was a sheer
case of “ My Gord ! ” all the same.
Lots like her, whole lots, crying “My Gord,’’and
knowing nothing whatever about anything, except
that there were soldiers and a crowd. Also, hear
the voice of the women who saw “Sich a beautiful
sight, I never did see the likes of it, and old
George Dibbs “paddlin’ along beside them in
the mud 1 ”
There you have two good types of the average
women who tore round with the crowd on Friday.
The woman who didn’t know anything, crying
“My Gord ” as if her heart had been torn from its
resting-place in her bony chest, and the woman
who saw the absurdly-caparisoned Colonel —or is
he a General? —and reckoned it the beautiful lest
sight, and was mysteriously touched at the sight
of Dibbs paddling along in the rain. Where’s the
touchingness? Oh well, he’s old, and he’s Dibbs,
and he’s Sir George, and lie's six-foot eleven high
and there’s no mistaking him, and it’s raining, and
he trotted round after them last Saturday, and it
was raining then, and his hoots got awfully wet,
and it’s pathetic somehow, if you can only see it —
if Heaven will only permit you to see it.
At the great “Patriotic” Fund meeting, last
Thursday, it was a study in emotions to watch the
crowd blaze up like tinder under the fire of certain
words. With much cunning, politicians Reid and
Lyne scattered matches to the populace. “Is an
Englishman to be despised and trampled on ! ”
“ Gladstone ! ” “ Soldiers of the Queen ! ” “ Vic-
tory ! ” “Volunteers!” “Brave men !” “Horse-
tralia! ” The Town Hall went out of its mind
with cheers and handkerchiefs. The fund did hot
get on very quickly; but Mayoress Harris is
hastening back from. the Cup to preside over
another meeting.
The Aberdeen departure was more of a swagger
function than any other part of the sensation. The
Chief Justice and wife, Mrs. French in an affect-
ing purple bonnet, the Misses Darley and the
Misses French, Mrs. Lassetter, Mrs. Wise, and
many others came down through the rain to see
the last of the officers. Speechifying followed the
warriors even to the water’s edge. At the last
minute Mr. Lyne found he had a few words to
say, although to a common ear they sounded like
all the other things that might have been left un-
said before. The first sensible “fewremaiks” that
graced the whole sensation came from the pic-
turesque Chief Justice. He stood bareheaded in
the rain, with the sweetly stern expression he
wears when passing seven years’ hard, and Lady
Darley held a big black umbrella over him while
he begged the heady Australian youth to “ bewar-
ahof impetuosity.” “You will,” said the Chief,
supplicatingly, “be cool and determined in battle,
and ready to obey orders.” Beady to obey orders !
It came like an arctic blast on that ebullient top-
wavy, seething, thrilling mass of glorified kharkee.
Only two women among the 260 men. And yet
one hoped that the other wouldn’t, go. Mrs.
Williams, wife of Major Williams was one. Mrs.
Yilliers, wife of War Correspondent Villiers, was
the other. One of these ladies sings seductively
in a low, sweet twilight contralto, so there’s balm
in Gilead, otherwise Aberdeen, after all. I nearly
forgot to mention that both these ladies’ husbands
are going with them.
By this Great Grab War Sydney is losing one of
its new exotics, aide-de-camp Lindsay, whose
reed-like figure can hardly be distinguished from
His Ex.’s. That makes the fourth aidefi'om Aus-
tralia. Capt. Pelham has joined on to the Queens-
land Contingent. Capt. Lascelles goes from the
Tennyson suite. Capt. Alexander, the beautiful
Maoriland aide, is going to make a new use of his
killing profile by joining his regiment. Capt.
Haig is deserting the Westralian suite.
Apropos , they say that a love-affair is taking
one of the aides away—l won’t say which. It is
an open secret that he won’t return to his post,
but will slip off to England afterwards, Boers
permitting, and the next thing we may hear will
be of a wedding in Court life.
One of the melancholy mothers whose sons have
gone looking for glory—most of them, by the
way, are “out for plunder,” and hope to get con-
fiscated Boer farms or good South African civil or
military billets after the war—is Mayoress Harris.
At her reception last week she looked quite
broken-hearted at the news that her second son
had left England with his regiment.
A oarefuUy unconcealed marriage which came
off some months ago has only just leaked out.
Colonel Bell, U.S. Consul, is the bridegroom. He
was always looked upon as a confirmed bachelor,
so everyone is rather surprised. The bride is a
S’rl,of twenty, niece of a member of the present
.S.W. Ministry. The wedding happened just
before the Colonel went on his trip to America,
but he took his trip alone all the same. The bride
is living somewhere down the South Coast, quietly
awaiting her bridegroom’s return.
And, apropos of nothing whatsoever, Mrs.
Laurence Cautley, formerly Mrs. Andrew,
nie Miss Minna Fischer, is in New York doing
odd journalism and secretary work for a N. Y.
society woman. Prof. Andrews, her first husband,
died in the Red Sea. Lawrence Cautley, her
second husband, who played with Cartwright in
Sydney, has just died in London. I hear that
Capt. Tnskip, who married Mrs. Andrew’s sister,
Miss Gertie Fischer, has lately succeeded in getting
a shore appointment after long trying. The
Inskips are now settled at Margate with old Carl
Fischer and one of Mrs. Andrew’s children.
Amusing to read how Sir Hubert Pan'y offered
Amy Castles a year’s education for nothing. The
story of the Amy Castles boom lias been spread all
over the London musical world, and everyone
knows over there that she is carrying thousands
of pounds round in her pockets to pay for her sing-
ing lessons. This generous offer is slightly remin-
iscent of the small boy who wants to send a penny
Xmas card to his rich uncle. Praise from Sir Hu-
bert notwithstanding, Amy has decided to get her
to Markasee, but I haven’t heard yet whether the
renowned singing-mistress, has also offered to
teach that poor little infant from Australia for
nothing.
It is cabled from England that Mr. Vincent
Dailey, a son of Sydney's well-beloved Q.C., has
died from a hunting- accident, after remaining
unconscious for 54 hours. “Charlie,” as he was
known to his Australian friends, was a wild boy
to whom fear was quite unknown. He was so
utterly reckless in the hunting field that his sad
end causes little surprise. .
Ever so much beautiful Rocking, chiefly worn
by a male, drapes “Little Christopher Columbus”
at the Lyceum. Johnny Sheridan is really a mar-
vellous institution—one can hardly say man, as he
changes his lovely frocks every half hour, and
carries the change right through the wardrobe;
lingerie, stockings, shoes, and all are included
in his transformations. He plays the wife of a
millionaire pork-butcher. He glitters with
enormous diamonds, and coifs himself with mar-
vellously accurate feminine vulgarity, just touched
with the smartness that apes gentility, and also, he
lifts his skirts as to the bad manner born.
Sheridan’s first frock is a very up-to-date
creation. A little rose-colored glace silk jacket,
braided in white silk braid, tops a black and white
striped skirt. These little coats are going to be
largely run after this season, made in black silk,
brown silk, or any coloured silk you fancy. They
have really been invented to cover the airy muslin
blouse that begetteth pneumonia and that tin-
definable thing called a chill when a cool breeze
comes up after a hot day. Sheridan revels in pink
hats and diamonds for breakfast and the most
bewitching shoes and stockings. A second wealthy
dress is a pale lemon-colored silk with a deep
fringe falling from the waist. All his frocks are
slightly trained, and underwhelmed with lace
petticoats, yet he kicks his draperies aside with
that curious, imperceptible, feminine kick that
only one man out of a million could ever imitate.
A real lady (only as opposed to Sheridan, I
mean) who knows how to dress, and how to do her
dresses justice, is Miss Maud Denny, who gives
you an American girl straight out of Munsey's, or
the Puritan Magazine. She makes a most fetch-
ing picture in soft green muslin over an emerald
lining, simply cut with heaps of lace on the bodice
and the popular waisting, a twist of ribbon on
the skirt with a rosette at the side. Her hat
was a revival—let us say of the fittest—for the
cabriolet is becoming to any face. It was a high-
crowned, poke-shaped, straw.rimmed with a big
green bow and ivy leaves, and some flowers under
the brim in front. Another frock that struck a
new note was Miss Denny’s hand-painted white
chiffon over a white satin slip, a fashion that is
chiefly beautiful because it shows so very little for
its money. Gracie Whiteford, rather rounder
than of yore, plays little Christopher charmingly.
I liked her best in her woman’s frock of pale
yellow accordeon-pleated silk, falling straight
from an Empire yoke of huge steel sequins on a
net foundation. The sleeves were nothing but a
mass of sequins, and a little sequined cap on her
hair was a highly becoming finish.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The first breath of summer breathed upon a
very mixed collection of Derby toilets at Flem-
ington, and some of the awfullest were included
in the vice-regal party. There were, for instance,
a couple of creased foulards short in the wrist
(though modern sleeves are knuckle-dusters) low
in the neck and lamentable in the bodice-
cut. Host Brassey, who is understood to
look with approval on a smart woman,
mostly flaunted his new spotted tie in soli-
tude, eyeing his guests between times rather
in sorrow than in anger. Lady Brassey carried a
soft grey gown and black hat gracefully as usual,
but the costume of the group was blonde Mrs.
Dickson’s black lace over white silk, with blue
parasol and tulle toque. Pale blue, that innocent
long-ago color, has returned to favor, which im-
plies a good time coming in for the tow-haired
sisterhood.
“Considered in the light of a bard’s offspring,
Governor Tennyson is a disappointment. _ Just a
largeish paterfamilias with sleek drab hair, short
beard, and an intermittent eyeglass which suits
him best when it is dangling against his waist-
coat. In his grey suit, grey belltopper, blue Bo-
hemian shirt and white dimity tie, the South Aus-
tralian potentate looked a successful softgoods-
man, as he stood yarning with Mrs. Brough in
the bird cage. His liege lady’s white silk frock
was attractive, but bobtailed, gaining nothing
in effect from a leghorn head-piece. The clothes
of the moment are dainty rather than snappy, and
the woman who ventures into tight sleeves,
drooping hat, and lilliput trimmings must ter-
minate the picture with an eel-skirt and lizard
train or she is lost.
“ Gov. Beauchamp, the bachelor, seemed cowed.
Women stared hungrily and argued audibly
as to the merits or otherwise of his youthful
brow; also they discussed his coat-creases and
put them down to misplaced padding.
“First time he relaxed his furtive watchfulness
was in the genial presence of Janet, Lady Clarke,
who got back from Europe two days before. The
really popular widow was overwhelmed with
greetings. White-haired identities held her
hand, patted her shoulder, . and were un-
affectedly glad to see her. With a black
embroidered net over white silk, the re-
turned wanderer wore a girlish chiffon sash ; her
lilac silk underskirt was guiltless of train —a point
to be noted, considering that she brings the latest
ideas from the haunts of older civilisations. Miss
Ruby Madden, in china-blue frock, with
red parasol, looked a shade paler for her
Sydney jaunt. It was probably only an hour’s de-
fect of the rose, though it is a tradition among
Melbourne girls, that one with a complexion to
lose never quite regains the bloom she sacrifices
in the “Harbour ” city, no matter how short the
sojourn. A trace of military fever showed itself
in the upholstering of one massive matron. Per-
haps the Scottish volunteers had supplied the in-
spiration, for the hotch-potch toilette suggested
a gathering of the clans.
Judging from the smiles on the faces of the elect,
when Lady Brassey went forth to decorate the
Derby winner all Toorak must have had its loose
change on Merriwee. The blue-ribboning of the
winner was one time performed on the lawn,
where the nervous gee-gee usually pranced about
and showed its heels to the surrounding mob.
But it is made easy now-a-days. Lady B. and a
select few met Merriwee on the course near the
winning post and the badge was slipped over his
head at the second attempt.
“ There was a good deal of promiscuous kissing
during the progress of the Vic. contingent
through Melbourne, on the day of departure.
Greedy girls dotted along the route grabbed
strange riflemen whenever opportunity offered,
and kissed them for luck. At the entrance to the
stitiori there was a brisk demand for the kisses of
a tall young hero, which led to a little mill be-
tween his acknowledged “ mash ” and a “brazen
hussy,” who wished to kiss him for his mother-
country, so to speak. The police interfered, but
not before the patriot had had most of her feathers
and flounces worried off by the young lady who
had cornered the kisses of that particular soldier
of the Queen.
“The roughest criticism of the M< lb military
show on “Contingent Day” came from Rita, of
the ’Skald, who probably has seen some smarter
soldiering in her native Maoriland. Said the dis-
respectful scribess —“ Looking down, I missed the
marching step, all feet out together as one man.
I think the officers must be very careless to take
out men with such a shuffle, and hands —oh, the
hands —held all sorts of ways. Almost any way
but the right way. I was greatly disappointed in
the soldiers and bands —as a show. As a first
start, a lot of the officers want good drilling ; that
is obvious.” And these gallant fellahs no doubt
marched under the impression that all the women
were in love with them, what time Rita sat snort-
ing at their unsoldierlike style.
“It would be interesting to calculate how much
of the present Jingoistic wave is due to the two
ditties, ‘ Soldiers of the Queen ’ and Sons of the
Sea,’ for the axiom of the nation’s laws and the
nation’s songs was never more applicable. But
these songs have accomplished some good, for since
their advent, those hackneyed and depressing
tunes, ‘ God Save the Queen ’ and ‘ Rule Britan-
nia ” are as dead as Julius Caesar.
“In ‘Our Native Home,’ at the Royal, Pa
Harry Douglas gives blind daughter Dora De
Win ton a birthday gift of jewellery—not particu-
larly suitable to a recipient debarred from gloat-
ing Over the gems’ gleam and glitter. Sweet sound
and delicious perfumes bulk largely in a blind
dreamer’s vision of paradise, and suitors for the
hand of a blind heiress should woo her with grand
pianos, pipe-organs, scent sachets, and aromatic
plants. At the yearly ‘Blind man’s tea’ in Mel-
bourne, the young ladies who decorate their guests
with button-hole posies, would be considered seri-
ously wanting in hospitality, did they cheat
‘ them that sit in darkness ’ with scentless blos-
soms, no matter how showy.
“ By the way, girls ! if ever you’re on the track
of a blind millionaire, be lively, loud, noisy, and
you’ll win. At Blind revels, a thick-ankled, wide-
waisted ‘ gas bag ’ with plenty to say and more
to laugh at, catches on twice as well with the
company as a tongue-tied blossom with her for-
tune in her face. A reigning belle among the
street blind of this city talks like a parrot and
laughs like a jackass. ‘A jolly nice girl,’ is the
unanimous verdict of sightless connoisseurs with
regard to this frisky 40-year-old.
“Dr. Bun tine, who gets advertised in connec-
tion with the Boer war, is an ex-Scotch College
boy, and a scion of an old Gippsland farming
family. Dead-and-gone Grandmother Buntine
was a hardy pioneer, still enshrined _ in
Gippsland tradition for her deeds of derring-
do in connection with giants of the forest
primeval. Her son, the late Farmer Bun-
tine, lived happily on the acres won from the
wilderness by himself and parents, till he was a
bald, bearded patriarch with a red bandana ’ker-
chief always to the fore. Then he suddenly turned
from the imaginary unworthiness of his wife and
previously-idolised lads and lasses, and proceeded
to wallow in the holiness of the Salvation Army.
Later on his will was contested, family skeletons
were dragged from their cupboard, and the Army
agreed to a compromise. Most of his sturdy,
auburn-haired sons have won for themselves pro-
fessions ; his daughter has married an editor. So
fifty years hence, may be, the ancestral legacy of
muscle and pluck will be ‘as a tale that is told.’
“ The honeymoon is going out of vogue in these
parts as surely as modified bustles are coming in.
The most typical honeymoon pair of the day went
to a fashionable hotel, where the unblushing bride
soon constituted herself head of picnic and concert
committees, and her new hubby took a tourist-
guide and sped from the madding crowd to dis-
tant parts of the locality on his bike. A fortnight
of this wild chaperoning exploitation on the
bride’s part, and lonely bike trips on her new
half’s, and then the jaded pair returned to Mel-
bourne to enter the old social arena in their brand-
new harness.
“ At a recent wedding-breakfast the bridegroom,
a widower, committed a startling harangue on the
qualities of his first wife. So charming, said the
gauche groom, was the departed No. 1, so elevating
and ennobling in her life and religion, that he had
determined to lose no time, when that angel flut-
tered to the eternal rest, to cage another. The
caged one writhing under the fearful ordeal of the
occasion, could only kick him under the table, and
endeavour to make him ring off.
“At Marshall-llall’s last Liedertafel concert,
at Mel bourne Town Hall, because there was
a huge free-list, and evening-dress was indispens-
able, the place was crammed ; principally, too,
with women who had almost as much taste for
music as for dress. Such an array of made-up
gowns, such odds and ends of chiffon and coral
and scraps of lace !
“It was a good concert—Barker was excellent,
and the fiddling considerably more than excellent in
several cases. Miss Spence certainly made one
most unhappy as she struggled and wriggled
through a song she did not understand. And the
chorus —why place tier after tie- of plain women
with wide-open mouths under u ha d light, to face
the audience ?
“ Musicians are noted for their lack of humor;
they seem proud to display their lack else
mightn't the performers be hidden at least by a
thin veiling? A number of young women singing,
ought to be pleasant—but it isn’t, it is just un-
pleasant. Then the shower of roses that descended
on Mephistopheles Ishmael from the aforesaid
plain young women, well, it made a Philistine feel
very sad. And when a meek little girl behind me
inquired, “Are all musical people ugly?” I
realised that most musical people are ugly. The
most musical, the more ugly.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
All the principal ironmongers, or, at least, those
that are “ up-to-date,” .are now carrying stock of the
“Albatross Lamp Wick.’’ If anyone tells yon they are
no better than ordinary wicks, you may be sure he does
not know what he is talking about, or is too greed}' and
doesn’t want to Jose the immense profit on the old wick.*
The Bulletin has received some very
strong statements about the conduct of certain
W.A. officials with regard to the case of one Burn-
side, an aged man, who, it is alleged, is—through
outside influence—being illegally detained in
Fremantle gaol after the expiry of his sentence for
an “attempt to shoot” which there is grave reason
for believing never took place. If there is noth-
ing in these charges, the officials concerned will
doubtless be obliged to The Bulletin for giving
them this opportunity of proving. Incidentally,
it is alleged that, when a prisoner dies in W.A.
confinement, no inquest is held upon the body.
But surely even Groperland wouldn’t stand that I
Mr. Frank Grimley writes to the Sydney
press, pointing out that the official five minutes’
limit on the use of the telephone at one time will
not cure the yabber evil, for those who idle away
so much time at the telephone will, when cut off,
after having had their first five minutes’ gossip,
calmly ring up again and have a second session,
while the businessman who is interrupted and cut
off when part way through some important affair
will suffer greater annoyance than he now com-
plains about. Mr. Grimley proceeds :
The only effective remedy is to charge for the time each
instrument is in use. “ Barnett’s patent automatic tele-
phone meter,’’ would enable this to be done with ease, ac-
curacy, and perfect fairness. This instrument consists of
clockwork, and is operated by the lever that carries the
receiver. The moment the receiver is removed from its
position, the clock-work begins to register the time, and
the moment the receiver is replaced it stops registering.
The meter would be read by an officer of the department
quarterly, half-yearly, or yearly, and if the total time
recorded did not exceed a certain maximum, a uniform
rent would suffice. If above the maximum, then the ex-
cess should be charged. 1. The charge would be in pro-
portion to the benefit received in every case. 2. It would
restrict the use of telephones to the rightful owners, who
pay for them, and those they employ. 3. It would com-
pel those who use their neighbor's telephone to get one
of their own, and so greatly increase the revenue. 4. It
would bring about the greatest possible economy of time
in occupying the lines, and stop frivolous conversation,
thus enabling a reduction in staff.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£208,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Aments Wanted. General Manager
GOOD HEALTH WITHOUT DRUGS.
4.—Mothers and Children.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa made with hot milk. Deli-
cate men and women who have weak lungs, to be
hale, robust and healthy, should use Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all men who
have to be exposed to the bleak uncertainty of our
trying climate should fortify themselves before
they face their daily toil with Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, and they can then brave the fury of the
elements with equanimity. The writer speaks
from personal experience and from observation of
beneficial effects on others. Tea opens the pores
and temporarily excites, coffee stimulates the
action of the heart, whilst Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa
gives strength, stamina, and builds up and
strengthens the lung tissues. It is indeed a
wonderful food beverage. Nothing has ever been
discovered that can approach it in giving lightness
of heart, joy of life, fleetness of foot, and that
general feeling of comfort which only comes from
a full capacity to enjoy every pleasure—moral,
intellectual and physical.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Merit, and merit alone, is what we claim for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
s«nd to any reader (a postcard will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa.*
“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese ” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
Wonderful business —beaten all records.
Great demand for the Federal Water Zetz. No
one who values good health should be without
Zetz Spa Water in their homes.*
Lorimer’s ->»
Compound Syrup of Hypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Solas Agent for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
JEST" A Revolution in Sterilisers.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QXJAID’S Patent lvupri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians ol
Tropical Australia.
E. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufactuieif
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Extremes in the tenure of N.S.W. Chief-
Justiceship : Alfred Stephen for 29 years, Julian
Salomons for 12 days.
Mr. John Osborne, late editor of the
Australian Star, has been appointed to the dual
positions of secretary of N.S.W. Public Servioe
Association, and editor of the journal which the
association intends to establish in its interests.
M. Burke, who leads the Kalgoorlie allu-
vialists, and has been negotiating on their behalf
with Bigjohn and the companies, got his mining
experience in N.S.W. He was also associated
with Sleath in one of the labor troubles whioh the
latter led.
Westralia’s first Governor—Sterling—
arranged to take the billet without cash salary.
Payment was made in land—lo,ooo acres. All
other officers of the Crown were similarly paid
from 5000 acres down. The British Crown at that
time assumed to own all the land of W.A.
The N.S.W. Governor is allowed to import
wines for the use of Govt. House free of duty; the
S. A. Governor must pay duty like any other im-
porting citizen. S.A. adopted this regulation
with the hope of coercing Governors to use S.A.
wines in Government House entertainments.
The late E. L. Zox, though nearly 34 years
in Yic. Parliament, never had a portfolio in any
Govt. He was once offered the P.M. Generalship
—in the Service Govt.—but he declined it. He
would only accept the office of Trade and Customs,
which, somehow, no Administration cared to offer
him.
Travelling once on a Maoriland coastal
steamer, Bishop Selwyn complained to the cabin-
boy that the dipper containing his shaving-water
was leaky. The Jimmy Ducks promptly went to
the chief steward and said, “The Bishop told me
to tell you that this d d affair won’t hold
water, and that you’ll (blanky well) have to give
him another 1 ”
Apropos noises in court and judicial ire
thereat. Some time ago a Supreme Court Judge,
in the old Sydney Banco Court, complained of a
shrieking noise somewhere in the neighbourhood.
Pilcher, Q.C. : “ I think, your Honor, it is my
friend Sir Julian Salomons addressing a jury in
iie next court. ’’ It was Salomons, and well the
Judge knew it.
Though the son of an Irish Q.C. the late
Judge Coffey, who succumbed to paralysis at
T aree (N.S.W.) last week, was an Australian
barrister, having been called in Yictoria, Sept.,
1879. For a time he practised at Inglewood. Mr.
Coffey, whose death is much regretted by a wide
circle of friends, was certainly one of the two best
N.S.W. minor judges.
N.S.W.’s own G. Reid has struck still
mother Yes-No. It is over the Early-Closing
B:ll this time. Judging by his speech on the
subject Reid is an enthusiastic early-closer who
believes in remaining open late, and he thinks
sweating should be put down by law, provided the
law isn’t compulsory, for then it would interfere
With the liberty of the subject.
To give the devil his due, “Tenbobaweek”
Un-mack is earning his fees as a member of Q.
Police Commission : he stoutly champions the
rank-and-file when they, in fear and trembling,
expose some of the secret ulcers of the department.
As a politician and economist, Unmack was simply
ajoke; but he is rightly placed just now, and those
in power are no doubt secretly kicking themselves
for having put him on the job.
In the circumstances £5OOO is not much
for Boer officials to offer for the body of Cecil
Rhodes, dead or alive. N.S.W. and Victoria
(combined) offered £BOOO for the Kelly gang—Ned
Kelly, Dan Kelly, Stephen Hart and Joseph
Byrne. <£looo each was offered for Morgan,
Gilbert, Hall and Dunn, and Jl5OOO for the mur-
derers of a detective. These were merely local
terrors, without organising powers, and incapable
of being anything but vulgar murderers, whereas
Rhodes aims at abolishing the Boer people as a
nation.
“ My Lord ” and “ His Lordship” are only
honorary titles given to Anglican Bishops in Aus-
tralia. But English wearers of aprons and shovel
hats are entitled to them. One day at a meet-
ing of the Victorian Church Assembly a layman
arose and told Bishop Perry he had conscientious
scruples about calling any mere mortal “my
Lord ”! “Very well, sir,” said the Bishop, blandly,
“you can address me as right reverend sir”!
And no “My Lord Bishop ” was ever heard from
that conscientious grocer’s corner while the
Assembly sat.
“It’s a great mistake to suppose,” re-
marks a Westralian Bulletin correspondent,
“ that John Forrest is, or ever has been, the real
leader of a large party in W.A. He is simply
the tool of the Weld Club and the old landed pro-
prietors of the province commonly known as
“ The First Six Families,” whose policy is dictated
to him by Harper, and of the West Australian
and Western Mail as tlieir mouthpiece. Socially
the Forrests were nobotiies in W.A. society until
John married Miss Hammersly, whose father was
one of the “First Six.”
Judge Casey, the not-very-popular poten-
tate; of Melb. District Court, was one time a
gaol-warder in ’Murka, it is said. Called to the
Yic. Bar in ’65, young Casey soon blossoim d into
Minister of Justice and Solicitor-General, after
which, as a Commissioner of Crown Lands, he
Earned a historical snub from Gov. Bowen. Casey
made one of a vice-regal picnic-party down the
bay, and his soul was shocked to observe that the
Cerberus man-o’-war forgot to fire a salute in re-
cognition of his Ex.’s approach. This was too
much for Casey’s “loyalty.” He ordered a small
boat out, boarded the Cerberus, and commanded
the officer in charge to let off the blessed salute,
whereupon the nautical person told him to stick
to his Lands Office and begone. Casey reported
the outrage to Gov. Bowen, who simply remarked
that a lost salute didn’t mattah a d—n.
In this recurrence of the day of “shirt-
sleeved Caesar,” it is interesting to recall that
when Dailey (much to his own surprise) found his
offer of N.S.W. troops for the Soudan accepted,
he caused Frank Wright, the Works Minister of
the day, to be knocked up early in the a.m. and
acquainted with the portentous news. Where-
upon Wright “arose and began organising in his
nightgown ! ”
Some years ago in a Sydney office building
there were three brass plates close together bear-
ing the names “ De Courcy Browne,” “ Villeneuve
Smith ” and “ Paget Jones.” The late De Courcy
Browne used to tell his cronies that he never saw
the imposing trinity of hyphenations without feel-
ing inclined to kick himself —adding, however,
‘ ‘ But I really never could part with the De
Courcy.”
Uiblanders, as a rule, gave Oom Paul
credit for being the kindliest item in the Govern-
ment as far as the laboring classes were concerned.
Whenever Labor sued Capital for disputed wages,
or what not, in a Transvaal court, it was about
ten to one that the Judge awarded Labor its full
claim. Kruger had issued a secret order to that
effect, it was supposed ; at least capital sup-
posed so.
Zox’s best* efforts were sly digs at his own
faith. When a violent teetotaller was evidencing
befere the Drunkards’ Board, he cried loudly that
all the vineyards should be uprooted and that the
industry should be suppressed. Zox, as chairman,
smiled. “My friend objects to wine,” he began ;
“now, I object to swine, but I do not because of
that, demand the slaughter of every pig.”
Mr. Frank Wilkinson, who goes to the
Transvaal as war artist and correspondent for
Sydney D.T., is, up to date, the only artist for the
front from Australia. He is a little curly-headed
nugget, and will make a poor mark for Boer bul-
lets. Should he be as successful in describing
battle as in satirising the military humbugs of
N.S.W., his stuff should be worth reading.
A belated Amy Castles anecdote : Travel-
-1 ing per Bendigo express, prior to the departure of
the embryo prima donna for Europe, a local poli-
tician was introduced to Amy, who was accom-
panied by her ma. The conversation turned to
newspaper criticism, and the politician remarked
that “ The Bulletin was rather severe in its
notices.” Whereupon Mrs. Castles: “Oh! we
don’t mind a bit; they treat Lord Brassey just
the same way.”
The lunatic Cresswell, alleged To be iden-
tical with the lost Roger Tiehborne, when inter-
viewed lately in Parramatta Asylum by Mr.
J. C. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., said that
when released he would go to Mel-
bourne, as he had left some things
at the Treasury Hotel in 1854, and
owed Cooper, the landlord, 14s.
THE DEAD PAST.
VERY DRUNKEN CITIZEN:
“ Wash my friend Wi-
yumsh (hic) hereshis-
morninsh?”
HEBE: “He was here about
half-an-hour ago."
V.D.C. : “ Washi wizhim?"
The Very Naicest must have been greatly
shocked to learn that ex-Spealter Terence Aubrey
Murray’s gifted son, ex-professor of Greek, and
husband of an earl’s daughter, took a hand in de-
nouncing the proposal to make an Imperial raid
upon Krugerland.
A CRUEL BLOW.
BENEVOLENT OLD PARTY: “ Why these tears, my
boy? Has ”
THE BOY: “ Bao-hoo — they've just given the old
man three months .”
B.O.P.: “ Never mind, my man, three months will
soon pass."
THE BOY: “ Yes —worse luck. We reckoned ’e ’d
get 12 months for a cert."
C.E. Bishop Green, of Grafton and Armi-
dale, who volunteered for the Transvaal as chap-
lain, is a professed Imperialist and a chronic
speculator on a corning war. His belief is that
the great fight of the near future will be Britain
v. Japan, which will open wide a door for Aus-
tralian prowess. Soon after becoming Bishop he
announced himself as for the Empire first and
Australia second. He regularly exhorts the boys
in the schools of his diocese to train for war and
always to hold before them the image of the
Empire. The prelate fully deserves tire title of
Jingo, yet, except a few years of early boyhood,
all his life has been passed in Australia —in Yic.
and N.S.W., and outside war fads he is humble,
amiable and spiritual.
Mayor McEacharn’s intention to contest
Melbourne city electorate for the Federal
House of Representatives is a misguided
one. Mayor or no mayor, knighthood
or no knighthood, the abolition of
plural voting has snatched away any
hope whatever of a Tory being re-
turned. Melbourne city electors
are now mostly care-
takers and China-
men, with a
sprinkling of the
per m anen t coffee-
palace boarders
and a few stolid
Tories who live on
the Melb. Club
premises. All the
multitudinous votes
of office - renters
have been wiped off
in one lot, and the
city remains the
most insignifi-
cant and low-
class constitu-
ency on the
electoral
map. Of
cou r s e
the city
alone will
not comprise
a Federal elec-
torate, but the
only suburbs avail-
abb, for “ cuts ” are Port
aud S. Melbourne, W.
Melb., Carlton, Fitz-
roy, and E. Melb. —
and all but the last
named are solidly de-
mocratio.
not be in-
And E. Melb. alone can-
cluded without a nullifying
slab of Fitzroy, so the insertion of the One-
Man-One-Vote provision in the Federal Con-
stitution, and the further application of it to local
Assembly elections, argue the passing of Mayor
McEacharn as a political power even before he has
begun.
Chief-Justice Darley is related to the
Burtons, one of whom, William Westbrooke Bur-
ton, sat on N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench for 12
years, beginning with 1832. Burton resigned
N.S.W. Bench and took a judgeship at Madras,
returning to Sydney and entering the Leg. Council
as President, but afterwards going to England
where he died. The Burtons, like the Darleys,
occupied, fifty years ago, conspicuous positions in
the law and politics of Ireland.
Sydney D.T. is importing another man
from Maoriland. Does the sub-tropical brain of
N.S.W. degenerate ? If. not, why is it that Tas-
manians and Maorilanders almost monopolise the
good things of journalism ? On the D.T. staff
alone Brient (editor), Hall (chief sub-editor),
Piper Peters, Pascoe, Todd, and others are Tas-
manians, whilst Taperell, Norman, Ward, and
others, are Maorilanders ! Insular men are
almost as common on other Australian papers.
Some N.S.W. biographical and historical
projects abandoned or belated: Father G. F,
Barry's “Life of Archbishop Vaughan.” This
work was almost completed ; most of the MS.
was submitted to the Vaughan family and ap-
proved. Ex-Judge M‘Farland’s “ History of
Australia.” The MS. of this would run into three
good-sized volumes. The author began the writ-
ing of it over 40 years ago. He; held official
positions in W.A., Queensland, N.S.W., and
Norfolk Island, and availed himself of materials
discovered in these places. He has offered the
work to many publishers, and has even offered it
for serial production in newspapers. Alfred
Stephen’s autobiography. Then there is Varney
Parkes’s life of his father, and B. R. Wise’s
appreciation of the politics of the same old
Nestor ; and what has happened the partly-col-
lected materials for a “ Life of Dailey '! ”
The absolutely inevitable Wragge has
already got at the Lyne Govt, for =£2oo for
his Kosciusko observatory—the little show
which has been dragging on for some years
without a penn’orth of visible result, except
the occasional loss and recovery of young
Wragge on the way up, or down, or sideways.
Wragge is certainly bidding hard for the
billet of Federal meteorologist. His predic-
tions appear, on the whole, not a bit more
reliable than those of other persons in the
same line of business, but he is the only one
of the lot who had cheek enough to label his
office “ Chief Weather Bureau,” and he is the
only one who ever noticed how much valuable
advt. could be obtained by regularly losing
his relatives in a snowstorm or a fog on the
side of a big mountain. If Todd, of S.A.,
would habitually lose and recover his two
daughters (if he has any) in the great desert
(he has more 3esert to work on than any of
his eastern rivals), where they had gone to
look at the barometer or some other harmless
instrument, he might also have a show; but
Todd doesn’t know how to advertise.
Many of the late Ephraim Zox’s “ im-
promptu” puns were carefully thought out
and stage-managed. The one that adds
greatest lustre to his fame was uttered when
he slipped and fell on the steps leading up
to Parliament House, Melb. : “ Another
heavy fall of Jew,” said he, and all the spec-
tators laughed, but most of them were fc|uite
convinced that the Hebrew humorist had
rehearsed his “joke,” and deliberately worked
it off. The fall was obviously intentional, and
the opportunity was well chosen, ditto the pun,
which is as ancient as the tribes to which
Ephraim belonged. A much better pun is re-
corded against Zox. A member was express-
ing ironical sympathy with the constituents of the
white-vested Hebrew. “ Your electors would be
very glad to have me,” said Zox. “Not at all,”
replied his opponent, “ they obey the command-
ments, and covet neither their neighbor’s Zox nor
his ass.”
John Gurney died in Ballarat Benevolent
Asylum last week, aged 93. Among his effects
was found a parchment, conferring on him the
freedom of the city of London, dated 1827 (reign
of George IV.). Gurney, a very uncommunicative
man, had been in the asylum for 12 years.
Beyond the fact that he had been a soldier at some
period of his life, nothing was known of him.
Whatever he had done to earn the freedom of
London (assuming him to be the person to whom
the document was issued) must have been before
he reached his majority.
Translation of letter received by proprie-
tors of Chinese Australian Herald (Sydney):
Dear Cousins. —It is my word to you not to send my
paper to the station but to my hut near the mail-change.
My master gets the paper and if any strange Europeans
are at the station he keeps it for days so that they may
amuse themselves with it. They pretend to read about
Melbourne Cup in it and about all the Chinese being sent
out of Queensland, and all of them, men and women,
laugh hideous!}'. All the time they are acting thus like
swine I am kept waiting for your distinguished literature
to enlighten my mind. I send you four shillings to make
China free with. Yours respectfully, Kwoor Gow Din.
There is at present in Sydney that ancient
colonist, Capt. Wm. Jackson Barry. He is now
81, and says the doctors guarantee him another 10
years or so. He came to Sydney in ’29, and, when
the racecourse was where Hyde Park is now, rode
many races, under the sobriquet of “ Spider.” He
also, as the “ Cambridgeshire Pet,” fought several
fistic battles. Once also, when he was first Mayor
of Cromwell (M.L.), finding himself in a minority
of one over a measure which he had proposed, he
locked the door, and offered to fight the whole
council one after another. That motion was
carried!
The war-correspondent is a modest animal.
Slab from Sydney D.T. :
In writing a despatch on horseback, in practically the
midst of the combatants, Bennett Burleigh has no equal
unless it be Melton Prior. The famous artist, of the
Illustrated News, can boast more narrow escapes than
an Anthony Hope hero. Whilst sketching, he too often
forms an excellent pot-shot for the enemy, and he can
show you sun-helmets through which bullets have neatly
drilled holes. “ Fortunately,” he remarks, “ they flew a
little high.”
When The Bulletin last saw Mr. Priah, it
noticed that he was egg-bald. Every hair had
presumably been cut away by bullets.
“ Looker-on ” to The Bulletin :
The difference between the methods of Reid and
Barton was clearly displayed at the recent annual
prize-giving of that mischievous source of political foul-
brood, N.S.W. Debating Societies Union. Reid was in
the chair, and discoursed for nearly an hour to the young
political aspirants on the text “Get on.” He held him-
self up as a shining light-house of encouragement, making
plain the path to the point of success. Get on, push on,
elbow your way, conquer your diffidence, believe in your-
self, he exhorted the audience, and you may become like
me. Barton followed (having arrived late he had not
heard Reid speak) with a delightful dissertation on the
evils of ill-regulated ambition : the mere desire to get on
top was, he pointed out, despicable, though personal
advancement which came as the reward for faithful
advocacy of a good cause was glorious. Barton anyhow
professes to believe in the purity of his own motives.
Reid does not; he openly cultivates the sordid, and
owns up to the fact. Since the public at heart likes to
believe in the nobility of its heroes Mr. Reid’s methods of
open confession were bound in time to depose him from
the cherished position of top dog.


INFLUENZA
Leading Physicians in Paris advise
the use of “warm alcoholio ” drinks
as a precaution against influenza.
. . Special attention is directed to . .
WOLF€’S
SCHNAPPS
a preventive and remedy that iB
unsurpassed, having tonic properties
possessed by no other spirit, that help
the sufferer to fight against the lan-
guid and “tired feeling” that in-
.... variably accompanies ....
The Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOB., and See that You GET,
Franz J osef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Morgan and Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence - street, Sydney.
WATSON S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel for Ladies and
Families is “The Australia.”
It gives every facility for a
most enjoyable stay in Sydney
at a very reasonable cost. This
hotel is absolutely fire-proof.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Jimmy,” concerning certain country
dances :
The average Saturday-night shilling dance-room in
Sydney is as good an imitation of the antechamber to per-
dition as it is possible to imagine—a veritable festival of
squalid vice. A pleasant contrast is presented by the
dances on Saturday night in the Hawkesbury bush town-
ships. Looked in at one recently. The girls, plainly
dressed and gloved, sat by themselves with demure, smile-
less faces and toes modestly pressed together. The
rough-garbed, heavy-booted swains, just in from a week’s
cross-cutting and splitting in the bush, “ solicited the
pleasure” with grandisonian bows and went through the
figures of the dance with set jaws and utterly inarticulate.
The musician (accordeon) played with tremendous energy
and evident self-approval, his soft felt hat shading one
eye and his hairy chest visible through an open collarless
shirt. The village blacksmith collected the shilling at the
door, and with profound courtesy “ made way ” for the
ladies when they desired to visit a little refreshment-shop
next door. A knot of hobbledehoys clustered round the
entrance door and talked in undertones of the proceed-
ings within. During the whole long somewhat wearying
function there was not a symptom of indecorum either in
word or deed.
. 1 , men r>
On a small island north of German Papua
the Government had established a seisimonieter
with clock attachment. The instrument was
placed in a small house erected on piles, in a cool
and shady spot, and the local Govt, agent, who
had gained much kudos in high quarters by his
constant advocacy of total abstinence in tropical
climates, was handed the key with instructions
not to let anyone go near the machine, as it would
run for a month. About three weeks later a
learned meteorologist came along per mail steamer
and lifted the record. It had marked on it 176
earthquakes, all from a N.E. direction, and all
happening between the hours of 9 p.m. and 2 a.m.
Of course the learned person kicked up a row and
finally the truth leaked out. The teetotal agent
aforesaid had hit on the little shed as a most
appropriate store-room for his little private
cellar. And as the building was a frail structure
at best, the instrument faithfully recorded every
sly visit of the abstinent and heavy gentleman
under the shadow of night.
FRUIT-GROWING FOR PROFIT.
PRESSMAN (“writing-up ” the district): “I hear
you did very well last season off’ your holding.”
SETLER : “ Yes, I did middlin’ well."
P.M.: “ Er! What fruit gave you the best
returns?”
S.: “ Fruit! Fruit be hanged ! I made my money
out of pigs.”
“Swamp Oak”: Re “ She-Oak’s ” re-
marks about country illicit distillation—what
about the big Sydney stills, which turn out in
one month more “oronk ” grog than the whole of
the country stills do in six ? I know, on good
authority, of a big firm in the centre of Sydney
which has had a private still running for years,
and which supplies unspeakable “spirit” all
over N.S. Wales. “ She-Oak” is quite correot
about the still-business on the Northern rivers.
Up that way I have myself seen a policeman and
a still-owner playing cards for drinks in a pub.,
while tied-up outside was a horse bearing two
milk-cans full of illicit spirit which said policeman
knew all about. Pays him better not to be too
active. A visitor to this same still-owner’s place
once was surprised at the antics of the pigs in the
yard, until closer investigation revealed the fact
that the porkers were simply drunk. They had
been eating the still-refuse.
* * * *
A big land and estate agent to a Bulletin
man : “ There are only two classes of men who
want to buy out selectors—those who have got
money and don’t know good land from macadam,
thosewh o know good land and haven’t got
the money. It takes the average new hand who
has selected or bought about two years to discover
Rotifer fooHofuy him oT Someday! w hem we"
are civilised, governments will take some pains to
discourage men from settling on bad land, but
now-a-days a government that would besita'te to
r °b a man and break his heart and his wife’s heart
wld cheerfully trade off a brickfield on the un-
suspecting stranger who imagines he is getting
good onion-country, and leave him grubbing hope-
lessly amongst the stones, till he is fit only to eo
under them.” y B
* • » ,
“ SnJII ” • TVT,r c • j • ,
. ',, J Gappsland. triend. IS down
tor the snow, and tells a story of the nerve of
his neighbour’s wife. He called at their hut
and found Mrs. Blank preparing for the weekly
wash. Whilst he sat on a three-lesra-ed stool and
mo oDed his brow tLLtrlif T ’1 •
!Z P 9„ W hard-working
al ? ; Jau , stacks or dirty clothes out of an old
cement-barrel. Presently she hauled something
®l se ou b something that caused the visitor to yell
And jump for high ground. “Good '’’yelled
the man, “ that was a snake ! ” “ Was* it ? ”
said the woman, looking about without interest,
“nevermind, I ’xpect he’ll come back.”
« * * ,
“ Castro ” : Heard of a cocky near Cobar
who owned a horse that took to picking up scraps
of meat and offal at every opportunity. The
drought may have forced this tendency but the
brute soon became too wicked for any cocky. One
day they saw it with mouth open and mane erect
chasing a lamb across a gully. No cocky will
stand that, and a gun ended the prad’s dingo pro-
olivities.
* * * *
Big Mick, with 14 bullocks, was bringing
a load of wattle-bark down the ridge when the
offside leader lost its footing and hung by the
neck over the edge of a precipice 80ft. deep
Mick, to save the other bullocks, promptly
grabbed the axe, severed the yoke and let the
“bull” go down; then went on sorrowing over
the loss of the “pick of the team.” Two days
later, however, “ Brindle ” turned up at the selec-
tion, minus a horn, but otherwise little the worse,
* * * *
Fatherly old German J.P., ad-
monishing accused youth at a N.S.W.
country police-court: “Teddy, mine poy,
it vas nod righd for you to yourselluf-
indo-padgombany-ged. Vat vas Zhaig-
sbere zay ? —‘Birds of a fedder togedder
vly mid demselluffs 1 ’ —don’d id ? ”
* * • •
It is the custom of steamers to steal
away from Cairns (Q.) in the mysterious
hours between midnight and dawn. About
an hour before the vessel goes the roll is
called, and if any of the crew are still
away making a night of it ashore, the
fog-horn, bells, tootlers, and everything
that can make a row, are turned on and
let loose with all their collective might.
When the (wanderer hears the pande-
monium he knows that he is urgently
wanted. As Cairns wharf is practically
in the heart of the town the whole popula-
tion is |awakened, and people lose their
sleep, and invalids are killed off before
their time that the amorous officer and
thirsty deck-hand may have an extra hour
with Flossie and beer. Some night Cairns
will arise and slay a whole shipload of
noisy sea-dogs, and then there will be a
great peace.
* * * *
“ A.A. ” : At a recent Maoriland
agricultural show a prize offered for a
dairy bull was given to a bull-stag, and
the prize for five hens (any breed) was
won by four hens and a rooster. Latter’s
tail had been pulled out and general appear-
ance altered, to make him look “henny.”
At another [show a two-year-old gelding
won the gold medal for best blood-horse ; and a
prize offered for a pair of Aylesbury ducks went
to two Pekin drakes ! ”
* * * *
The most consistent and energetic tee-
total advocate on record was a big, hairy
“Geordie ” named Spence, who dominated a Vic.
mining township. “Geordie,” strange to say,
had not got religion with it; he was a hard-
hitting, blasphemous heathen in all other respects,
but as sober as a stone fence, and so eloquent in
walloping the Fiend that the local Band of Hope
platform was always available to him, despite the
fact that bad words often flamed out in the heat
of argument. Spence did not merely curse drink
in the perfunctory manner of the average cold-tea
advocate. He went to the root of the infamy, and
conducted red-hot crusades against bacon and
junk, declaring, with spume and fury, that bacon
was responsible for the ruin of many a happy
home, and corn’-beef drove men of excellent
natural qualities to kick their wives and drive
their children to want and infamy. “ Geordie ”
endeavored to induce all the temperance and
Rechabite societies to take up the crusade against
bacon, and swear off salt-meat as a thing accurst,
and he worked himself into within two inches of
a lunatic asylum trying to persuade political per-
sons to take legislative action for the suppression
of bacon, and the imposition of a heavy excise
duty on salt-beef, and ling fish, and all salt meats
that drive men to thirst and sin. Geordie left a
few apostles when he died, but there seems to be
none capable of dealing as he did with the evil
source of the great Australian thirst.
* * * *
“ M.A.L.” : _Re deafness of white cats
(8., 2/9/’99), Darwin’s “ Origin of Species ” says :
Gats which are entirely white and have blue eyes are
generally deaf; but it has been lately stated that this is
confined to the males. Color and constitutional pecu-
liarities go together, of which many remarkable cases
could be given amongst animals and plants.
Also, in another place :
What can be more singular than the relation in cats
between complete whiteness and blue eyes with deaf-
ness.
A NEW DISEASE.
DE VERDON: “Awf Has that horse got a good pedigree, my good man?”
MURPHY: “Oi don’t know about a pedigree, sur, but Oi know he has had pretty
near every other disease I know of soor.”
The Australian Transvaalers : The Dingo-
Jingoes.
* * * *
Many of the N.S. W. Mounted Rifles are
professional kangaroo-shooters, but some evidently
aren’t.' Three squads of the corps, volunteers for
the Transvaal, who hadn’t formally qualified in
musketry, were taken to the rifle-range, and, put
before the targets, performed very badly, only
two out of 30 hitting the target every time ! The
total number of points possible was 120, and the
best score was 83. The other scores, as a non"
commissioned officer put it, were “ unfit for pub-
lication.”
" ’ ' *' •
“Snell”: The finest and most soldierly-
looking men in the Melbourne military march on
the occasion of the departure of “our troops”
were the mounted police. Compared with them
the citizen soldiers were slovenly, curved and
woefully plain. The mounted men are really the
pick of the country, for every bush-bred boy
yearns to get into the natty cords of the force hs
soon as he discovers that he has a trim leg and a
square pair of shoulders. All the available
troopers seemed gathered together to keep the
amorous females along the route from damaging
the army, and two-thirds of the people assembled
in the city streets saw nothing but policemen—the
latter were so thick.
♦ * * *
“Yerilla” : Know a W.A. man who
caught mange from a camel, and during the three
NOT THE F ASHTON.
ROAD-MAINTENANOE MAN: “ I thought you was
off to the war?”
DISAPPOINTED VOLUNTEER: “Well, seems my
shape's not the fashion just now with them
soldier people; and then they thought I wasn’t
strong enough to pull through the job—and that
after bullocking for cookies and battling from
one end of the country to t’other!”
months the camels are in “season ” a rash comes
out all over his body and certain parts of him
swell up inconveniently. He has been in Menzie’s
hospital, and was discharged as cured, but each
year the disease returns. I have never known of
an Afghan being similarly affected. Any readers
ever heard of such a thing?
* * * *
The oldest habitable house in Tasmania
is at Bridgewater, on the Derwent. It was built
in 1807.
a i arry
Stockdale
submits a
piece of ab-
original
supersti-
tion :
The Boyl-
ya-tra-duuk is
a being: be-
lieved by the
West ralian
a bo riginals
to possess the
{rift of invisi-
bility. N o
ordinary
blackfellow
c a n discern
his presence,
though an-
other B-y-g-d
may do so.
The invisible
one is credit-
ed w ith many
gruesome
deeds, being
said to steal
upon his
enemy at
night and
consume the
whole of the
flesh from off
his bones.
He can also
pierce his foe
in the form
of wooden or
quartz splin-
ters, and by
co nstantly
mov i n g
around in his muscles cause the most excruciating pain.
On such occasions another and friendly Boyl-ya-ga-duuk
has to be called in to aid by disenchantment. ’ He kneels
upon the body of the bewitched, and massages it all
over until the perspiration runs off him like rain. Then
he sucks one of the most painful muscles until the blood
comes, taking care whilst spitting out the blood to also
spit out a piece of quartz or wood ; and the patient,
believing such has been extracted from his body, usually
begins at once to recover. Though a thousand miles
apart, the natives of Encounter Bay, near Adelaide, hold
a similar belief of an “ evil being” or “ destroyer,” whom
they call “ D’larbe,” and of whom they never speak other
than by signs made with the finger. He is believed to be
of gigantic stature, and to always attack and destroy his
victims by night.
* * * »
Jones, a smart youth in a surveyor’s gang,
wagered tiis boss (who was something of a revolver-
shot) ss. that he couldn’t hit a penny at 10yds.,
face-on, in six shots, and then produced as the
mark a “ silver penny ” —about half the size of a
threepenny-piece. The boss objected, but, being
held to the bet, said, “Very well, then. If I,
standing 10yds. from your coin, manage to hit it
inside six shots, you lose?” Jones assented,
whereupon the guileless mathematician fixed his
revolver on a stump, rested the penny against the
muzzle, fastened a string 10yds. long to the
trigger, and was ready to fire, when the would-be
biter rushed in, collared his coin, and demanded
return of his stake. Refused him by vote of all
hands.
* * * *
It was noticed with approval that the new
priest counted his flock carefully
at service every Sunday, and the
attendance was increased by the
careless ones who would other-
wise have been absent. But
at last his reverence announced,
“ The collections at this church
are disgraceful, considering the
attendance. Last Sunday I
counted 150 souls here, and
there was only 12s. 6d. on the
plate—a penny a-head ! ” Re-
sult, a decrease in the attend-
ance and an increase in the
Sunday’s “ crushing” per head.
* * *
“ E.A.G. ” : Hav r e any of
your readers ever known of
parrots “crossing” in breed?
A man I know had confined in
one cage two “ bull-oak ” par-
rots (male and female, from
same nest) and a Queensland
rosella hen, which mated with
the “ bull-oak ” cock, and laid
nine eggs. Three of them were
duly hatched. It is yet too
early to positively say what the
young birds will be like, but at
present they most resemble the
“bull-oak.” None of the many
bushies and breeders I have ques-
tioned had ever heard of a similar
occurrence.
Big Scrub ballroom abbreviation :—Billy
Buttersplasher (one of the district “catches”) to
Miss Threeay of the little local school: “Y’in
this?” “No.” “Y’out of it then?” “Yes.”
“Lika darnce?” “Yes.” “Right, sling us ya
towline ! ”


Black-mailing ia more common than is
generally known. A leading Victorian politician
was once “touched” for a very large sum of
money in this way. Mr. Gladstone, in his time,
had a blackmail experience. Walking one even-
ing in a good street in London he was accosted by
a lady-like person, who somehow induced him to
accompany her into a house. Then she sprang
her soi-disant husband upon him; and the
intended victim was asked to choose between
being given into custody or “parting” hand-
somely. Gladstone took the bull by the horns
and soon had the upper hand. “My name is
Gladstone,” he said; “send for the police at
once.” The miscreants sent for the police, and
they spent that night and many other nights in
gaol.
An exhibition in Acetylene Gas lighting
took place on Saturday last, at the warehouse of
Brandt Bros., Lamp Manufacturers, 236 Pitt-
street, Sydney, when some powerful Buggy,
Coach, and Table Lamps were shown. The firm
point out that they can alter any ordinary buggy
lamps so that either candle or acetylene gas can
be burned. A large display of their Hand Ice-
Making Machines, Ice Cream Freezers, and But-
ter Coolers were also shown ; also the Jupiter and
Primus Kerosene Gas Cooking Stoves.*
Mr. C. E. Newman, thj well-known
chemist of King-str., Sydney, is putting Aymard’s
Sterilisers on the Australian market. These
sterilisers accomplish a revolution in this line of
business: they are the simplest of all, they have
no bottles to break, they do not burn the milk or
alter its flavor, or cause a scum to form on the top
of it: and no soda is required in cleaning them,
warm water does all that is needed. They range
in size from one pint to 36 gallons, and cost from
4s. 6d. upwards.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
<X~A
04*
. ... v
/U V
(J csfo 'i? ../7& _
/ £*-*%£>£
r lCj
&<‘OU&y
vr
WATCHES
FROM
Manufacturers Direct to the User.
P. & A. G-uye’s “London-made” English Levers
know no superior for strength in rough wear and
riding; for reliable, perpetual accuracy under every
change of temperature. We are their Sole Agents.
One of their Silver Hunting Levers, extra jewelled,
costs £5 ss.
FAIRFAX ifi ROBERTS,
Jewellers by Appointment to His Excellency
Earl Beauchamp, K.C.M.G., Governor of New South Wales,
23 Hunter Street (Only), Sydney.
If The Bulletin says so then it must be
right—that M'Lean Bros, and Rierg, Ltd., of
Melbourne and Sydney, are the right people for
electro-plated goods, table cutlery, pocket knives,
&c. They also have the latest, cheapest, and best
method for summer cooking—the Primus Chief
Cooking and Steaming Apparatus, 70s. and 80s.
Call and see them at work. Also the Royal Bath
Heater for Wood, price 70s. Don’t forget, for
up-to date household ironmongery none better
than M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd. Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, George-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
FULLNESS OF BODY
Is a desirable thing when applied to whisky, and
that is one of the characteristics of “ D.C.L.,” a
fine, well-matured, mellow blend of the finest
Highland Whiskies—ask for the “ D.C.L.” (black
bottle).*
COLEMANE and SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
THE ONLY PURE IN THE WORLD.
1(1
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
“Eller”: Near
my fowlhouse once,
I saw a rat, with an
egg in his clasp,
being hauled along
on his back by two
others. Watched
them thus remove a
whole clutch. Then
dug up the rats’ nest
7 feet underground
and found the 13
eggs safe and sound.
* * *
“Maorilander”:
In connection with
the “ dispersing” of
the Mt. Margaret
blacks (“Treb.” B.
9/9/’99) libels the
diggers concerned.
That particular tribe
richly deserved its
fate, and Hawks’
Nest has never since
been troubled with
blacks. The niggers
were surrounded at
night, and, had a
wounded one got
away, he would have
made eastward,
away from the
return-track of the
diggers. Also the
“ exterminators,”
10 in number, re-
turned together, and
not in parties of
two.
* -* *
“ C. Metzner”:
Re “ Kooka’s ” in-
quiry (B. 7/10/’99)
aboutsnakes spring-
ing : I was once,
with others, cross-
ing a paddock near
Camperdown (Vic.)
when a snake sud-
denly sprang at one
of the party. He
jumped back, when
the snake made
another spring;
then it desisted and
we killed it. It was
a black snake of 3ft.
6in., and the length
of each spring was
about sft. The rep-
tile seemed to rear
up almost upon its
extreme tail and
then lunge forwards.
• * *
Boss over the
board : “ Bad cut,
that, Williams.”
“Nothin’.” “Noth-
ing ! vvhat would you
call a bad cut ? ”
“Why, when you
don’t know whether
to throw out the
sheep or the piece—
Sheep-0 ! ”
White : “ Bimeby you marry white
Mary ? ” Kanaka : “ Mary ! Me like him white
Mary. Only one ting. S’pose picoanini come
up, he look yellow feller all a-same dam China-
man ! ”
• * • •
Aboriginal Biddy, of Myall Creek noto-
riety, dead at 70, was one of the 45 or 50 blacks
roped together on Henry Dangar’s Myall Creek
station over sixty years ago, and marched to a
bend in the creek to be slaughtered by a gang of
revengeful white men. Mr. Dangar and his
manager were absent from the station at the time.
Biddy, two black gins, two boys and two black-
fellows were omitted from the battue. After the
slaughter an attempt was made to burn the
remains, but about twenty heads were discovered,
and an official investigation certified that at least
28 blacks were killed. Twelve white men—
-11 convicts and one free man—were arrested, and
seven were found guilty and sentenced to death
by Justice Burton. The sentence was carried out
It is a dream, born of the mystic moonlight full of warning —
An orb of love, with you and me for heart —what will it seem at morning?
December 18, 1838. The evidence tendered on
behalf of the murderers left the real cause of the
wholesale slaughter in doubt. Mr. Dangar and
his people were on excellent terms with the tribe,
to whom they had always been kind, and affairs
on the station had been moving smoothly.
MY MULGA FRIEND.
They count him a king on the outside track,
But he doesn’t count much in a town does Jack,
With his open scorn for the listless swells
And the social lies that his heart repels ;
How the ladies smile as they watch him pass
Carelessly chewing a blade of grass,
And the bank clerks over the counter bend
With “ Where did you pick up your mulga friend?”
“ How awkward he is when he lifts his hat 1 ”
“ He can’t do this, and he won’t do that 1 ”
And what do I care what Jack can’t do
When I know that his great brave heart beats true,
When I know that his rough brown hand is mine
In joy and sorrow, in shade and shine—
What if his careless ways oYend ?
I am not ashamed of my muiga friend.
He’s a prouder man than them all, I know,
Though he seems so shy and his speech is slow ;
Though they jeer at his manner, behind his back,
There’s none of them bred with a heart like Jack ;
And as oft as I listen and hear them laugh,
These counter cads with their ill-bred chaff,
So often I think : He has faults to mend—
But I’m very proud of my mulga friend.
BACK-BLOCKER.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name ana address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
R.W.: “ When the war is over an interesting
point will arise. If Britain insists that the Transvaal is
under her suzerainty, then the British troops are only
squashing a rebellion—for which war-service medals are
not allowed. The odds are 4100 to a bootlace, how-
ever, that every British warrior serving through the pre-
sent trouble will get one of said medals, and by present-
ing them Britain will practically admit that she has
made war on a foreign race for the sake of grabbing its
country—which is precisely what she is doing whether
she admits it or not.” [But weren’t medals given for the
Indian mutiny?] Old Devon: Well, we presume
you think more of poor old Oom Paul in that he takes
standing up, instead of lying down, the kicking you are
giving him E. 0.8. : Farnell, M.P., with a view to
making N.S.W. Assembly keep reasonable hours, sub-
mitted (and carried) a resolution abolishing special night-
trams and trains ; but Premier Dibbs disregarded the
motion, and Reid followed suit. These late trams and
trains for the use of members cost N.S.W. £2500 a year.
Nessus : One of those poems would poison six shirts.
E.A.V. : Flat as a burying-ground—where every-
body’s on a dead level .. M.L. : You’ll never be a poet.
I.A.R. : Unfit for publication—also our remarks
M. or N. : Somehow you don’t arouse our indignation.
Perhaps this isn’t our indignation-day .... Euterpe : About
album-level Backwoodsman : The axe is mightier
than that pen E. W. Slayton: You miss the point.
The Australian contingents are not “ fighting for their
country.” They are fighting for the Boer’s country at
the behest of a pestilential gang of chartered syndicators
and Stock Exchange sharks —who have by well under-
stood means managed to get the Imperial authorities so
well in tow that when raider Jameson and his pals were
on a so-called trial in London, the Prince of Wales turned
up in company with Cecil Rhodes (arch-director of the
gang) to personally witness the impartiality of the pro-
ceedings W. A.G.: We put your dog-story on the floor
and barked at it T.G.F. : Small and flat, like mosquito
with cathedral fallen on him H.N.H. : Verses received
with wild Jingo shriek in it :
Hurrah for Victoria ! for Queensland 1
Hurrah for Tasmania ! New Zealand 1
Also four other “ hurrahs.” Yet you have quite forgotten
to hurrah for Shark Island and Chowder. How is this?
Prooshan : Pretty mixed. You say “not long ago,” and
then “ three months afterwards,” and then “ three simi-
lar cases since.” No use referring to such a pitiful
superstition, anyhow .... A.P.H. : Dullest of drivel
C. : Very tame and badly metred Pipe: None up to
mark... Francis E. : Too formal and conventional
J.M.C. : Needs more life and movement Frank M. :
No distinction of style or handling H.V.N. : Rather
clever, but too slight E.M.B. : Flat and prosy
R. P. O’s. : Neither up, though “Tom” has some merit.
R.K.H. : Inferior work Rally : Mildly humorous,
but crude Wanda : From the little we deciphered, not
worth the trouble Richard G. : Has decided promise,
but lacks proportion and consecutiveness Mad Tom :
Can’t rave here Lucius: Well-battered theme....
A.P.W. : Delicate of touch. Will consider Marcus:
Yes, but it would have to be much better done F.F. :
Yes, to hand Roostail : Thanks, but we couldn’t do
anything with it Bucan : How could anybody tell you
when you give no description of the creature ?.. .
D. M‘D. : Hardly worth space Shore : No
literary gift Cremona : Sloppy and scribbly M.S.
fatal to any chance you might otherwise have had
C.A. : Parkes carried an Elective Council Bill through
N. Leg. Assembly as far back as ’73. The Upper
House strangled it L.A.P. : “The introduction may
easily be cut down.” Then why don’t you cut it your-
self? H.W. (M.): Nobody who self-addressed his
return envelope So-and-so, “ Esquire,” ever wrote any-
thing worth looking at —except a cheque. To a
Cinder (W.A.): No H.C.H. : Thanks.... Wm. M. :
Thanks ... A Perthite Groper : Many thanks, but sorry
that the list of names is not written plainly enough for
print One-Time Imp.: Thanks Packer: Too
hideous Becky Sharp: To hand GWynne : Not
concentrated enough. Always boil it down T.G.F. :
Very good indeed .... Thomas S. (Mac. S.): Can’t under-
take to read such scribble M.T. : Feeble Tueitap :
No interest. . G.O.R. : Too crude at present M.W.R.:
About 51b. ice on the back of the head will cure you
F.A.E. : Pass on V.K. : “ Proxy ” not strong enough.
MRS. MALAPROP IN DISHABILLE.
“Really, John, a man at your age ought to have
sold his white oats long ago.”
A.M‘W.: Vile Firefly : Pumpkin-bug would be more
appropriate .... Pan : All feeble Bendee : Not up
W.T. : Doesn’t disclose sufficient ground for comment
F. : Re query ; Judge Windeyer frequently dined there.
J.A.S. : You think you have only to scrawl bad
rhymes for ten minutes to get a guinea! M.S. : Old
bush songs are poor indeed, as a rule ; send yours along
and we’ll see... Daisy: Slimly sentimental Zibla :
Desperately dull G.S.B. : Same Longfellow
J.M.D. : Idea not bad, but would need more vigorous
touch Snooker: Can’t “snook” ini Zasa: Only
very skilful handling would carry-off such violent im-
probability .M.E.L. : “Refuge ” clever, but too vague
and inferential Nemo: Also nil! A. Stewart:
Would only make par O.X.N. : Not ill-written but
much too long-winded for Bulletin O.Z. : Unequal;
and ends flat D.M’D. : Thanks; but too long and
ramblesome... David G. : “Their story” wasn’t worth tell-
ing ..P.T.F. : “Mission ” may go. Others will look up....
J. Hyams : The affair would be null and void. Nobody
would go in. There would be a fresh election Shili-
mana : Dunno : One of these things that are nearly good
enough. K.J.C. : One interesting... John Q. : Too
crudely put together A.G. : “ Rue ” elementally good
but wordy and loose-jointed Snowy; Huge sheaf of
dismal doggerel Camiro : “Sinner” very dull sinner!
No “raptures and roses of vice” about him! E.A.
(S.A.) : Nothing in par. to justify any such impression.
Eller: But dingoes have often been domesticated
from puppyhood. Last batch very wooden Ois : No-
thing in it but crude suggestiveness .. F.W.M. : Too
Family-Heraldy .. Proxy: Bulletin’s very tired of the
wife’s seducer who unwittingly gives himself away to the
“ injured ’’ hubby.
When the Sydney young man falls in love
he casts about for a nice place to take the goddess
in the pale moonlight. Rose Bay has a fragrant,
romantic tcne about it, and the man who has never
been there expects to find a wilderness of roses
shedding perfume over gleaming waters, while in
the background the shadowy trees promise bosky
woodland nooks in which two souls can be as one.
But when the stifling little electric-tram that
resembles Black Maria has deposited him at the
terminus he finds a desolation of sand and scrub,
while greenish, soapy waters wash along a fringe
of dead dogs, decomposing fish, assorted harbor
refuse; and there are no roses—only innumerable
stinks. Minister O’Sullivan, with an eye to
beautifying the city, and increasing the tram
revenue, and providing the tired city-dweller
with at least one place where he may get away
from the hideous advts. of Manly, and the awful
boat with the red sail and the white legend about
“ Bilious People for Bile Bounders,’’and the other
manifold gruesome sights of the disfigured harbor,
proposes to build a sea-wall that will take in the
AN AUSTRALIAN VANDAL VISITS THE
DRUIDICAL REMAINS AT STONEHENGE,
ENGLAND.
place where the dead dogs now lie and make a green
turfed park cf 18 acres. Without the wall will
be clear, deep water, and when the park, snatched
from the shallows of the harbor, is planted with
pleasant trees Rose Bay will be a place something
more like its name than it- is at present. The
O’Sullivan estimates the work will cost .£7OOO, and
be the means of assisting the unemployed who
are still far from Jolly and Fat.
“ The men of my country (Scotland) are
men of iron,” exclaimed a pawky Vic. legislator
the other night. Cynical inter jector : “Yes, Cal-
vinised iron 1 ”
“I shear the sheep,” says Mr. Wool-
grower,” and my agents shear met” and it is
principally to remove this not unnatural impres-
sion that Mr. Alex. Sinclair, of Sydney, has pub-
lished “A Clip of Wool from Shearing to Ship-
ping,” a little manual treating concisely, but com-
pletely, of warehousing, classing, cataloguing,
selling, packing, loading, and all else that con-
cerns the great Australian staple from clip to ship.
A run through the pages will much enlighten
woolgrower aforesaid as to where the expenses he
grumbles at come in.


SKETCHES AT CAULFIELD FLEMINCTON
k
ib 1 " 1 -
ftp
j/jr/^oiL^
>**„ sw P
IfUflKy'fr*' be>7<l- <^
/
?*!
ifs 4
<Z3?\
hi.
V*
J/W e v,
°kl 1.1. tX"
J


>}
If y oUt iye /
* / 'jwe \4fi:>!>er s\/s
’ y *J jU*sK >r f
r^r
hf#iry^
i%
f < %i° i #r
li
\ at
A Nil/
w
f
X}^) e t > V'ller'di S clo i « >
Vs fotyc
liO^oYn^lToy
K!
\ '
\ Old "VJ W fc
7^sL+f~ -u %*
Old Sjjovi^T — 'WIj 2 <f% j>'S Ireecjivo?
(W. Ppi S'to'C o<rd^of"
p J QoMf '* 1
B,r H *■
THE RACING WORLD OF AUSTRALIA.


HTNewman’s Novelties in High-class Jewellery
18efc. Gold., with
1 Diamond and 1 Ruby
Sapphire, Id 10s.
18ct. Gold.
1 Ruby or Sapphire and
6 Diamonds, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold.
5 fine Opals, £2 10s.
n
m
15ct. Gold. Opals and Diamonds, £4.
18ct. Gold.
3 Opals, & Diamonds, £5.
Eassa
18ct. Gold.
1 Opal, 10 Diamonds, £lO.
18ct. Gold. Opal Heart
and 14 Diamonds, &1U
283
mz
15ct. Gold. 5 Opals, £3 15a.
15ct. Gold. With beautiful Opal and fine Diamonds, £22 10s.
15ct. Gold and fine Opals, £9 9s.
Sleeve Links, set with Opals.
Got. ... £1 10 0
15ot. ... £2 0 0
15ct. Bow and Heart Brooch.
All Pearls, £2.
With Diamond Heart, £2 10s.
E
Amethyst and Pearl Pendant.
15ct., £2lss.
New Curb Chain Bangle, 15ct. Gold, set with Opals, Turquoise, or Pearls, £5.
Fine Pearl Necklet, 15ct. Gold, £l2 10s.
Handsome Opal Necklet, 15ct., £9.
Send for our Catalogue. Post Free, any Address.
Sleeve Links.
6ct., £1 ; 15ct., £1 7s 6d.
Handsome Opal and Pearl Brooch.
Xsct. Gold, £5 ss.
15ct. Pendant, set with fine
Pearls, £4 4s.
H. NEWMAN,
>75 * >77 Elizabeth Street,
tilELBOURDE.
The Cheapest House in Australia
for First-class Jewellery —
Has
Cured
Thousands
✓
jEK.Xi.t3L
Will
Cure
You
THE great HERBAL REMEDY!
« hydatid abscess on the LIVER ”
CURED BY “ VITADATIO” the great herbal remedy.
OPERATION UNSUCCESSFUL.
VITADATIO CLEANSES THE SYSTEM OF THE DISEASE.
328 Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, October 6th, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.— . . .. T , „ T ni . wnrv q Q + n pvnrPSS mv heartfelt thanks for the benefit I have received from the wonderful Herbal
Dear Sir,— ln sending you this testimonial, I fell I canno I P have had to take to my bed. The doctor who was attending me said I had
Remedy, “WEBBER’S VITADATTO. I have been taken so ill ~ j t becran to bring up a quantity of matter. The doctor took it away, and after ex-
“ENLARGEMENT OF THE LT VER ’ f“^g S r o e *THE LIVER, and an operation was necessary to savlmy life. Another doctor was called in, and I was ro
amining it, told me I had a HYDATID ALSOLbb ’ d / c * used by the operation) healed up, the old symptoms began to return, and I felt
moved to the Hospital, where the operation was performed, but, t.he spread all over the system, thus making it very difficult to cure
myself going back. The doctor told me, on account of the abscess breaking inwardly, th*^t« J pamphlete , an d after reading your own remarkable case, I was
me, and I felt there was nothing left or me ” a tro^ltria and“ thankful I did for after taking a course of the Remedy, I can truthfully say “ I
NfTeTfßlVVetVerTn MY LI g FE. » V ttdatii has 11 cured me of an eruption on the skin, which has been of “ “feful y" P
™ abo^mycl on receipt of stamped addressed envelope, and you are at liberty to use this as you may think fit.-Y„urs
I hereby certify that I have known Mr. W. J. Pascoe both before and since his illness with Hydatids, and testify to the improvement which has taken place in
his health.—H. E. MERRIMAN, Wesleyan Minister, October 11, 1899.
VY fcjlbiey ctil ITIIUIOUVI 9 ’ m-m Ch / *
Price of Vitadatio, r>s. (hi. and 3s. 6d, Indian Oil of Cream , 2s. (>d.
HEAP INSTITUTE
47 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
S A. PALMER, SOLE AGENT EOR AUSTRALASIA, INDIA, CEYLON, AND JAPAN.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer, W. WEBBER, Elizabcth-st., Launceston, Tasmania.
SYDNEY OFFICE - 184 PITT STREET (next, Wellington
AND AT 116 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ; 238 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE ; 481 HAT STEET, PERTH ; A


Washington H. Soul
and Co.,
GREAT DRUG EMPORIUM,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Largest, Most Varied Stock of Patent Medicines,
Chemists’ and Druggists’ Sundries, and Surgical Appli-
ances in the Southern Hemisphere. Nothing hut best
quality of Goods kept. Prices are the LOWEST in the
city.
WE EARNESTLY COMMEND to all who wish to
build up their system, banish sleeplessness, give tone to
the Digestive Organs, and receive energy and capacity
for persistent efforts of mind, the Health Invigorator,
Dr. Pettifer’s Compound Syrup
of Hypophosphites,
Small Bottles, Is. 9d. each, postage, Bd. ; Large Bottle,
3s. each, postage, Is. 2d.
NO OTHER SYRUP CAN BE COMPARED TO IT—
it is SUPERBLY SUPERIOR in every respect.
ENCOURAGED by this enormous success, after care-
ful consideration, and the strictest analysis by the
most competent authorities, we have been induced
to place on the market, ALSO AT A REDUCED
PRICE,
DR. SYMES’ EMULSION OP COD
LIVER OIL,
with HYPOPHOSPHITES of LIME and SODA,
a most Nourishing Preparation for chest and lung com-
plaints, Is 6d and 2s 6d per Bottle,
CURE FOR CORPULENCY.
Prepared by F. C. RUSSELL, of Woburn House,
London.
DOUBLE STRENGTH. Packed absolutely free from
observation, unlabelled, and at London Price.
21s per Bottle ; postage, Is 2d.
Spartan Tonic
will be found a Wonderful Blood Purifier and Stimulator.
Prices, 2s 6d and 4s.
SPARTAN LITTLE LIVER PILLS, to be taken with the
above, Is box.
SPARTAN BLOOD PILLS, to enrich the blood, Is box.
YAALA, for Indigestion, a marvellous cure, price 2s
bottle.
CITRATE OF MAGNESIA, Is bottle.
ITALIAN FRUIT POWDER, 2s.
LONDON HOSPITAL PILE OINTMENT, unapproach-
able, Is fid per pot.
Dr. ALLEN'S OBESITY TABLETS—an absolute Cure
for Stoutness ; 5s box, guaranteed.
Dr. BUMSTEAD’S COMPOUND EXTRACT OF SARSA-
PARILLA, for Cleansing and Purifying the Blood,
Producing Bone and Muscle, 4s bottle.
CLAYTON’S INSECT POWDER, 6d and Is Tin.
WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, a splendid preparation for pro-
moting the growth of the hair ; price per bottle, Is.
ALABASTER CREAM OF BEAUTY for removing freckles
and improving the complexion ; price per bottle, 2s.
Eczene for Eczema,
An Absolute Cure. Price, 2s 6d, postage 3d extra.
Dr. Pettifer’s Fluid Magnesia,
8d and Is 6d.
Crimpoline for the Hair, Is,
KEEPS THE HAIR IN EVERLASTING CURL.
Clayton’s Hair Dye, 2s 6d and 4s.
DR. FIELD’S BRAIN and NERVE PILLS, price 2s 6d
postage 2d.
DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER and LIQUID sweetens
the breath and whitens the teeth, Is fid.
RICHARDSON’S HAIR RESTORER, 2s.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and CUCUMBER, for freckles
etc., Is.
CLAYTON’S AMERICAN BAY RUM, Is.
THE LATEST IN PATENT NIGHT LIGHTS, 10 in a box
price Bd.
SPONGES, SPONGES, SPONGES, for everyone, all prices
best value.
We offer the best value in
Real Badger-hair Shaving Brushes, Is 6d each, usual
price 3s fid, bought under exceptionally advantageous
circumstances. Shaving Soaps and Creams, all the best
makes.
Razors. — A beautiful assortment, best hollow-ground,
while ivory handles, highest price 10s 6d ; some at 4s 6d,
5s fid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. We stock only the best.
Shavwg Stands, with adjustable Mirrors, Cups and
Brush Rack nickel-plated, exceptional quality. Shaving
Pots every* make and design, recherche patterns, in
Limoges ware, hand-painted.
Razor Strops, the best value in the city.
Military Hair Brushes, with or without Leather
Cases, Swing Mirrors, with Hair and Clothes Brush
attached.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Dressing Cases, all prices.
Xylonite Puff Boxes ; Menthol, in glass-stoppered bot-
tles ; Bath Brushes, Magnifying Mirrors, Smelling Salts
Jars.
RAINBOW SILVER-MOUNTED SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLES, the latest novelty.
Sponge Bags in all the latest patterns.
Yet another Large Shipment of Sure Catch Fly
Papers. Catch ’em alive, oh. 12 sheets for 3d.
REAL TURKEY CANARY SEED and Mixed Bird
Seeds, 61b. for Is.
Washington H. Soul &, Co.,
THE PREMIER CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
ICO AND 268 PITT-ST-, SYDNEY,
CHURCH-STREET, PARRAMATTA,
HUNTER-STREET, NEWCASTLE.
All Letters of Inquiry Must Have
Stamps for Reply Unclosed.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR.
r N 'ATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non** Catarrb C6rc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Dear Sir. —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Seud (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
“THE REAL MACKAY.”
MIGHTY
L O K
O
L
OLA
ALOK ”
(Registered.)
THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK FOR OUR FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC.
See that the word “ Alok ” appears on each bottle you touch.
All Else is Base Imitation.
From The Bulletin on imitations :
“ N.S.W. Board of Health’s analysis of a number
of locally-sold patent medicines satisfies the Board
that in most cases the ingredients are harmless —and
often simply inert. Many sell pump-water, with
a squeeze or two of cheap essence, as a highly-
exhilarating tonic, at shillings per bottle.”
The Public are easily Misled, hence this Warning.
Insist upon having the Genuine Article.
When being served in any hotel with Fisher and Co.’s Tonic, insist upon the bottle being placed
efore you and that the registered word “ Alok ” appears thereon.
Ask for it “ Bitter ” or “Extra Bitter ” —it is prepared in both forms.
When out of sorts you cannot do better than take a drink of Mighty “Alok.” It saves
Doctors’ Bills.
Constant good health is secured by drinking every morning ‘ ‘ Alok ” with soda water. It is a
refreshing and beautiful drink. The drink of the season.
NIGHTY
ALOK
•W A. R.
DR. BULL: You won’t take your Gruel Quietly? Well, THIS kind of Medioine ia my Speciality
and is Just the Thing
FOR THAT TIRED FEELING.
“ALO
IS THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK FOR OUR FAMOUS TONIC. FRESHLY
PREPARED FROM THE CELEBRATED AFRICAN KOLA NUTS (COLA ACUMINATA)
TO BE OBTAINED IN EITHER A “ BITTER ” OR “ EXTRA BITTER ” form.
Tli6 GREATEST APPETISER ADD PICK-108-lIP in
m WORLD.
U NINTOXICATING,
But Containing More Sustaining Power than Alcohol or Spirits. This is a sharp palatable drink,
cleansing the palate, doing good to the stomach, liver, and brain, so that sad and weak people are
made stroog and happy. A splendid preparation for strengthening the nerves and heart.
EVERY HOTEL, with soda water, 6d. per Glass.
ALL CHEMISTS, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. PER BOTTLE.
ASk for “ ALOK ” to Secure tl?e (SeQCiioe Article.
SOLE PROPRIETORS AND MANUFACTURERS:
FISHCR ai)d COMPANY,
Pharmacy: 337 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly opp. G.P. Office, SYDNEY.
384 FUNDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Send to Head Quarters for a Genuine Bottle,
EYE
DISEASES
CURED!
The Remedy
of the Age
For Sore Eyes,
Sandy Blight, In-
flammation, &c.
Hickson’s Celebrated Eye Water
A safe, sure, and speedy remedy for all diseases of the
eye. Highest testimonials. Price, 25., posted 2s. 6d.
If not obtainable locally send stamps or postal note to
Proprietor, K. HICKSON, Rockdale, N.S.YV.
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE 310NTII ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Goxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d ; ditto, 2
stops, Ss 9d ; ditto Fauut-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Aecordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMAKKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
foreig-jm
STAMPS
oEPDiaijaaf
QETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Biid)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s Cd; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
I
mm.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
A RRANGED in Continents —frrand value :
-t*- 50 Africa (all different), Is 3d ; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, Is 6d ; 100 Asia, 5s ;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, ss; 100
Europe, 3s. Many varieties in the larger
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d; 250,
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. Remit P. 0.0.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
All J 162 Elizabeth Street,
. AcJnana, MELBOURNE.
Win
PHONOGRAPHS
255.
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . .
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case.
Pert § Son,
118 Kin g-st., Sydney.
Manufacturers of the
famous BOOMERANG
Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
Catalogues of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Polyphone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
Arnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
"VT OTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
. Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping-cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper
By post 1,6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
SI ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
« B
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle JDD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have along thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The ■proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price!
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASURE
14/6
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.) Note the Address:
W. J. Ellis & Co., 635 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at
178 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Sydney


iftE Favorite
WHISKEY.
GEO.ROE&C??
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY.
JOHN MEAGHER&C?
82 A PITT ST,
ASK
FOR
sttn
y
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by heading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George S+.reet, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
fSgr Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bbadijby & Co., 324 George-st.
3007 Newspapers
Bmcommbnd MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Wait a Bit. Dewey treated with Scorn
the idea that there was any better House for up-
to-date Hardware Novelties and Household Iron-
mongery than McLean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., of
Melbourne or Sydney. A safe investment. Ice
Safes, Meat Safes. A few fizzing moments.
Defevres Genuine Seltzogenes, 5-pint, 18s. od.
Something for nothing—Exhibition of practical
cooking, with the Primus Chief Cooking and
Steaming Apparatus, at our respective ware-
houses. Don’t forget the Front Finn—McLean
Bros, and Rigg, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne,
and George-street, Sydney.*
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting IG-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. F ree on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A.S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W. A.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
POLITICAL
POINIS
Queensland Government is now known as
the Chillagoe— not the Mount Garnet —Ministry.
The Australian Federal leaders, it would
seem, aim at not only killing the Boer Republic,
but at strangling the nascent Australian nation.
As things are going the British forces in
South Africa will very soon be twice as numerous
as aH the male Boers of the Transvaal and the
Free State put together.
Sydney Herald and Daily Telegraph
fight for free postage on newspapers on the
ground that newspapers are public educators.
Then next day, or thereabouts, they argue against
free education in State schools.
A QUESTION OF INTEREST.
OLD MOSES: "Ah I Ikey, my poy, your old
fader’s got to tie fery soon how.”
HIS SON IKEY: “ Nonsense, father, you’ll lire
another twenty-five years yet.”
OLD MOSES: “ No, no. De Almighty vont take
me at a ’undred ven he can get me at seventy-
live.”
On both the days upon which the N.S.W.
troops embarked for the Transvaal the sky was
overcast and it rained heavily. “ Our troops go
to fight for justice and freedom.” Justice and
Freedom ! N o wonder the Heavens wept!
Vic. Government’s present idea is to close
the session at the end of Nov. and devote three
months’ recess to preparation of a bill dividing the
province into Federal Assembly electorates.
Meantime Vic. Assembly seems to be doing noth-
ing in particular in a contentious spirit.
There were actually “cheers” in N.S.W.
Assembly when Premier Lyne stated that the cost
of the Boer-hunting contingent would be paid out
of revenue and not charged to loans. In the
Great Loan Country the idea of paying anything
out of revenue is so unusual and meritorious that
it oalls for cheers.
A motion that the people of Westralia
should be allowed to record a straight “ Yes ” or
“No’’vote on the existing Commonwealth Bill,
without the proposed new Bill being mixed up in
the affair to confuse the issues, was defeated in
W.A. Assembly by 24 votes against 8. The
Forrest Govt, was against it to a man. So Big-
john’s promise as a politician, and a gentleman,
and a G. Washington, to refer the Bill openly
and honestly to the people, goes where Ananias
went.
The first act of Federated Australia is an
act of wanton bloodshed and spoliation. Federated
Australia with cant upon her lips, joins with the
greedy and strong to rob the weak who _ are
bravely defending home and country. But it is
the Imperially-decorated politiciansandpoliticians
expectant of Imperial decoration, not the Aus-
tralian people, who have brought about this thing.
The crowd will not always be mad, the day of
reckoning will come, and newer, younger, better
loaders already faintly loom on the horizon.
Maoriland general election comes off 4th
to Bth December. It is difficult to size up the
chances yet. If the country is tired of Digger
Dick it is because it wants “ new blood,” ana by
nending old worn-out party-hack Russell into
power, it will only get a very old sample indeed.
Russell will gain some votes, however, through
his promise, if he gets into power, to submit the
Foderal question to the people. He doesn’t
promise to believe in Federation, or even to do his
best to carry it if it is accepted by the people, but
the promise to take a popular vote is something.'
Seddon, who (apart from his howling Imperialism)
is wholly provincial at heart, doesn’t promise even
that much.
Instructive to note that, according to an
English Board of Trade bluebook, of 68,221 em-
ployes who have had their working-time reduced
to eight hours a day in the last five years, the
reversions to the former longer hours have affected
only 1441 persons. No public body, according to
the report, has, during this period, reverted to the
longer hours.
Query : Had G. H. Reid not committed
himself while in office to the Transvaal-contingent
iniquity—had his only official actioh with respect
to that nefarious scheme been to write the con-
temptuous minute unearthed by Wise, what would
have been his attitude with respect to the present
insane position of Lyne, See and co., and their
hysterical offer of “1.0,000 men if necessary ” to
aid in subjugating some poor farmers “ rightly
struggling to be free?” What was Parkes’ out-of-
office action with regard to the Soudan expedi-
tion ?
The Sweating party is now going strong in
the N.S.W. Tory press with remarks like this :
“ We are in favor of early-closing, but we object
to the brutal tyranny which would fine a man for
selling a few shillings’ worth of goods after hours.”
Good old hypocrisy ! If you don’t fine a man for
selling a few shillings’ worth you can’t fine him
for selling a few pounds’ worth, and if you don’t
fine him for selling an hour after the legal closing
time, you can’t fine him for selling two hours
after. If sweating and long hours are to be abol-
ished, there is just one way to doit—by abolishing
them.
The good, kind, humane Christian who
writes Auckland (M.L.) Observer says
that “ tarring and feathering would be too
good ” for the captured commander of
Kruger’s German Legion. Possibly he
wants the prisoner boiled. The same
mild civilised Indian scalper suggests
.that the captured Germans, not being
Boers, need not be treated as prisoners
of war, but may be “shot in batches.”
A humble but sincere believer on
the staff of a Melbourne paper
makes a somewhat similar sug-
gestion, and this, too, though
the Germans, while not Boers
by birth, are residents in
the Transvaal, and fighting
for their adopted land. Appar-
ently this country possesses some
fine vigorous barbarians and mur-
derers who haven’t learned the first
principles of civilisation yet. The
Boers are gentlemen of the first water by
comparison.
It is quite safe to wager that the
Bowles’ New Guinea Land Syndicate—
which was chiefly represented in Australia
by that aggressive person, Somers Vine, the
Prince of Wales’ Toby will never get
one single cent compensation from any Aus-
tralian Parliament (barring possibly the
inexpressibly crooked Q. Legislature) for the loss
it sustained in being prevented from grabbing the
choicest portions of Papua. But, considering the
powerful influences at the back of Vine and Co.,
and the present great boom in Imperial toadyism,
it will be as well for electors to closely watch their
representatives’ action in this matter.
Ex-Premier George Reid says that undev
certain circumstances he would go to the Trans-
vaal himself. If he did it would be rough
on Joubert, for he wouldn’t know whether to
aim at the “ Yes ”or the “No,” and, while
he was hesitating, G.R. would fall on him and
smother him. Are two-headed curiosities pro-
hibited under the law of nations as cruel and
barbarous means of warfare, by the way ?
Ex-Premier Reid, of N.S.W., speak-
ing against the Early Closing Bill with one
hand and supporting it in a weak sort of way
with the other eye, "says it will injure “hun-
dreds of thousands of people interested in
small shops.” Hundreds of thousands be it
observed. Say three hundred thousand. At
that rate Reid asks the public, to believe
that two men out of every nine keep small
shops and live by selling goods to the other
seven customers each.
Vosper of the Uncut Hair has one
eternal weary jibe against the Commonwealth
Bill—he tells the Sandgroper Parliament that
it is a “ hotch-potch,” because the principle of
the joint sitting is borrowed from Norway,
the Referendum from Switzerland, the equal
senatorial representation from the United-
States, and the responsible government idea
from Britain. Which is quite true, though
what is wrong about these things he of the
Greasy Mane never explains. Westralia’s
responsible government system is borrowed
from Britain ; its elective Upper House from
America, apparently—there is no such thing
in Britain ; its State Agricultural Bank is a
German or French idea; its Protective policy
is either French or Yankee; its payment
of members policy is American or cadged
from Continental Europe; and its Vosper
was borrowed out of a barber’s shop before
he had time to have his hair properly cut.
Its finance is Turkish or South American,
and its idea of having three members for each
Council electorate comes from Venezuela. Also,
some of its Parliamentary language comes from
Billingsgate. The hotch-potch is all there now.
The Vic. Brother-in-law. Jackson case
leaves the Committee of Enquiry no excuse for
making a mild report. Chief-clerk Skene of
the Lands Department has flatly contradicted
Morkham, Sec. for Lands, who, for his part, has
contradicted some statements made by Premier
Turner in Parliament. Also, the Minister of
Lands, the ally of the Secretary, has more or less
stated that Mr. Skene was a liar as regards cer-
tain evidence in which he professo’d to be making
a “clean breast ” of all he knew re the Jackson
business. ■ The Committee is bound to choose
between the rival witnesses, and one or more
persons in one position or other will have to be;
ignoininiously chucked out..
The weary debate as to whether
the Commonwealth Bill shall or shall not
be submitted to the people of Westralia
drags on at time of writing with never
a sign of ending, and big weak John
Forrest says almost with tears that
the “ persecutions ” he suffers from
Opposition-leader Leake are growing
“unbearable.” Leake wants to know
how the vote on the three-barrelled ques-
tion—the Convention Bill, the proposed
amended Bill, or no Bill at all—is to be
counted ; whether the issue with the
largest vote is to win, or whether the
old Bill must get more votes than the
proposed new Bill and the Anti-Bill put
together before it will be deemed to have
a majority. And he wants to know if
Forrest will pledge himself to accept the
verdict of the majority even if it doesn’t
decide the way he wants it to, and, if not,
what is the good of having any vote at
all. And Shuffler John says feebly that
Leake isn’t using him well.
After all the lamentations of the
Victorian Tories about how the minimum-
wage provisions of the Factories Act
would cause the aged worker, who isn’t
worth the minimum-wage, to lose his
employment, that dismal gang of ravens
can only point to one alleged instance
where this terrible thing ever came to
pass. A man who wasn’t aged, but who
was decidedly drunk, pleaded before a
Melbourne court that the reason why he
didn’t support his family, was that the
iniquitous Factory Act prevented him
getting employment. As the bench was
crammed with J.’sP.—mostly employers
—they were moved to tears at the sight of
a man who said he had been ruined by the
law, which required his boss to pay him a
decent wage and he got off lightly.
A thoughtful correspondent tells this paper
that there is still in force a Tudor statute providing
that “ to
inflame by speech, writing, or any other way, the public
mind against any war undertaken or about to be under-
taken by the sovereign is a treasonable offence. Such
traitors shall be tried as enemies of their country, and
after conviction shall be drawn up and quartered, and
then hung in chains."
If The Bulletin is hanged in chains under this
statute for disrespect to the Boer-shooting expedi-
tion it is dead sure of one thing anyhow—the price
of the chain will be charged to loan-funds.
Apropos the Hare system of voting at
Parliamentary elections, with its elaborate
provisions for recording each voter’s first and
second and third preference in the matter of can-
didates: Tasmania has experimented with this
system in Hobart and Launceston, and the
Launceston Examiner publishes an elaborate
statement of how it worked out in Launceston at
last election. There were seven candidates for
four seats. Clarke, Hartnoll, Fowler and Smith
would have been elected if only the first votes had
been counted as they are where there is no Hare
system. And after an elaborate counting and
distribution of the second and third votes the
same four got in, so it looks as if the Hare system
left things very much where they were before.
THE USUAL THING.
MRS. BOLGEB: “ What was the cause of that fear-
ful row down the lane just now?”
WOSTER: “ Warn’t much. On’y me farder got
shot in again!”
If Britain boldly .admitted the Rhodes-
Chamberlain raid on the Transvaal to be a bald
steal, a calm reach-out for the Rand loot, it might
be possible for a white man to get what comfort
he could out of the eat-or-be-eaten-if-we-don’t-
grab-it-others-will doctrine. But when one sees
this monstrous act of piracy done in the names of
Justice, Freedom, Equality, Christianity, and so
on—when one sees a set of hypocritical Australian
clerics shamelessly stand forth to bless the instru-
ments of robbery and ask God —yes, God !—to
prosper their arms, a fellow wonders why the Blas-
phemy laws were ever abrogated, and whether the
Almighty really has any thunder-and-lightning
left in His armory.
A FARSEEING ROBERT.
COPPED: “ Nark it, now , no scruffin’, I can walk.”
COPPER: “ Yis; hut bejabers, yez can roon, too.”
Imperial Federation has come about—be-
hind the backs of the Australian people. We are
delivered over, bound hand and foot, to the Im-
perial Jingo. It is announced without contradic-
tion that we, who have no say as to the initiation
of the British Empire’s wars, are now and hence-
forth to join unquestioningly in those wars,
whatever the merits thereof. Further, though we
have not (nor do we want) any representation in
the Imperial Councils, it is laid down that the
Australian who, when an unholy war of plunder
has been entered on at the behest of the London
Stook Exchange, voices his disgust, is a Traitor.
In fact Barton and Reid and Lyne and Joe Cook
and Co. are all shrieking for taxation (on account
of Britain’s wars) without representation.
It is interesting to learn that the English
syndicate which nearly managed to steal the most
valuable portion of British Papua, getting the job
sneaked through without the assent (required by
law) of N.S.W. and Victoria, is now howling to
these provinces for payment of the expenses which
it incurred in trying to defraud them. In other
words, the unsuccessful burglar sends in the bill
to the man Whose front door withstood all attacks,
for wear and tear of his crowbar. The Queens-
land Government, it is understood, actually favors
payment. Nothing is known as to Victoria’s
views. And Premier Lyne, of N.S.W., instead of
replying by sending the syndicate an account for
cable and other expenses incurred in defeat-
ing its insolent grab and swindle, merely
states that he won’t pay the bill “ without Parlia-
mentary sanction.” Didn’t he say he wouldn’t
send troops to the Transvaal without Parliamen-
tary sanction ? And didn’t his crowd then howl
that “the honor of N.S.W. had been pledged? ”
Has anybody pledged the “ honor of N.S.W.” to
Somers Vine, the hungry man-Friday of the
Prince of Wales ?
Maoriland Tory party has hung out its
hazy flag for the approaching general election. It
announces 10 chief items of policy as follows:
•Legislative Council to be reformed (presumably by
making it more Tory than it is now) ; civil serviee to be
reformed (in some direction not clearly specified); State
leaseholders to be allowed to convert their holdings into
freehold, the Tory party being bitterly opposed to State
landlordism, and having a profound belief in land sales
and the accumulation of big estates; settlement (by
some process unspecified) of the Native land question;
Federal Referendum ; penny postage ; more railways;
loan moneys to be expended by a non-political board, so
that the country can pile up debt without Parliament
being responsible ; extension of markets for M.L. produce
(which is'a very misty item) ; and reduction of interest
on money lent by the State to local bodies.
And as to whether the Tory party, if it gets into
power, will renew the temporary Old Age Pensions
law when it expires, there is a silence that can be
heard all the way across the Tasman Sea. It is
the old, old story of the Tory ass trying to wear
the lion’s skin of Liberalism, with his hoofs stick-
ing out at one end and his bray at the other, to
show that he is the same old ass all the time.
“ Secure from actual warfare, we have loved
To swell the war-whoop, passionate for war 1
Alas 1 for ages ignorant of all
Its ghastlier workings (famine or blue plague,
Battle or siege, or flight through wintry snows),
We, this whole people, have been clamorous
For war and bloodshed —animating sports—
The whioh we pay for, as a thing to talk of —
Spectators and not combatants.
. . . . . Therefore, evil days
Are coming on us, O my countrymen !
And what if all-avenging Providence,
Strong and retributive, should make us know
The meaning of our words ; force us to feel
The desolation and the agony
Of our fierce doings ! ”
COLBRIDOS.


LOWEST
PRICES
EVERY TIME
YOU THINK of PIANOS
THINK ONLY OF
PALING’S PIANOS
AND ===^^^==
CALL OR WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
EASIEST
TERMS
PIANOS
TH€ WORLD’S LEADING MAKERS STOCKED.
W. N. PALING sO L™ 338
(aEQR&E STR€€T,
sypNey
And at
Brisbane
Newcastle
national Cash Registers.
Storekeepers’ CoGpoo Register
No. 92.
USERS . .
OPINIONS .
“All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q.”
m
m
. BENEFITS
. OF USE.
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
©
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
• The Only T rue $ Effective Coupon System •
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to
2!National Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
“ As
in
a
Looking
Glass.”
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
Some tyres last only a few
months, others may hang to-
gether for six, whereas Roadster
MULTIFLEX
Duniqp Tyres
are guaranteed by us to last you
12 months, and with fair treat-
ment will give good service for
many more months.
Mind and Specify
Multiflex Dunlops when ordering
your cycle, and thus ensure ob-
taining the best.
A
"The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre C°- of Australasia [td.
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
AND AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CIIRISTOUURUO, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
LENT
All Classes of Security.
Mont do piete Jo.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
T9A CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOWXH.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITUBE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
- SIDE -
ENTRANCE.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin t- rßrid s e - Bt -> Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates. „
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
G^iarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
w. M ‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BAM, LIMITED . . . 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
~ ~ 2 Years, 5%
~ ~ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap;>ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The gank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ouarkkr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/-each. English lIAIRTAILS, from 6 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN, sYtS.
Nor South IFflles' Barters’ Nimoi/i. 0,-
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Sat., Nov. 11, 12 Noon
-Gabo, Tues., Nov. 14, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Nov. 18, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., November 28, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., November 28, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 11, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 14, 5 p.
Leura, Sat., Nov. 18,2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 11,
Leura, Sat., Nov. 18, 2 p.
3 »
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The TrCistecs, CxccCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. .. £3,150,574 15 0
Directors ;
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. YV. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nieol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager ; Edward Smith.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Li .sli op si/ ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GISOIiGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
--THE-,
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 P|TT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KB HR, Managek.
Bank of Neiv South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
AVilliam Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Maokellar, M.L.Q.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
fOLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE-
For particulars, apply It. COLLINS, Charters Tower*.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-elass passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Lalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
ENGLAND
VIA
by the
AMERICA
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Franoisco,
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
3158 Nov.
4000 Dec.
3158 Ijan.
22
20
17
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
27 Dec. 15
25 Jan. 12
22 Feb. 9
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Uniuiraith.lD'EacharnSCo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
£20,000.
CAPITAL
YX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining: Properties and
'' Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNE Y MARKET :
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
jJ3T MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY 00., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHOOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. 0. YOUNG & CO.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO!
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday, Nov. 10.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, Nov. 18.
ALBANY,
PREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday,
November 10.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
November 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Saturday,
November 11.
Best Cheapest JEtoute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
G. 8. V [JILL and CO., Ltd., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Ro.val Mai] Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker g go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co ~ Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
COMPRISING
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Keg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weher Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and OOOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA —Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
I umoQ unjj mfj aj|
The present summer promises to be a
severe one. Weak people, therefore,
should fortify themselves by taking a
course of
Minerva T 01 " 6
For promoting an appetite, strengthen-
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINERVA as “an
admirable tonic,” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australia.


earne*
fa.m:otjs r.e Tvrßnv for.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allayino' irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COU6NS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
*' Mr. Hearn e.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Ood-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You earl see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—^Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will he interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew’ to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much' interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT HS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF UEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. 1 suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly had at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without a.\ ail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone 1 see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“ I userl your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved iny son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in ease I should want it.— D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
plelelv left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
Q
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
•
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
•
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses. —C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W."
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
©
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, v\ arragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER,- Bourke, New South Wales.” @
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heyvvood, Victoria.”
0
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Walts.” ©
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but 1 can truly say that I am astotvshcd at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TItELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
0
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.”
0
“ Please send me balf-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
©
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got front you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARKILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLIY WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
\X_S3LiM causes
«TTI
‘(aaxiwrj)
OJC^-'irCX
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PEtODXJCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
'
n
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAVARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOE ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO N S W
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable."
London Medical Recop d
Food for
mm.
9
-f:
m.
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
E AGED.
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, I's, for £1 ss; The Home Physician,
£2 10s, for 20s; Universal Instructor, £1 15s, for 15s;
Webster’s Household Did ionary, 255, for 10s. I have the
Largest Stock of Second hand Hooks in New South Wales.
Write for Catalogues. 1 have also Three Choice Books,
Is (id each, or three for 4s (can only he procured by pod,).
The History of Australian Bushraniring, by White, Is lid.
All books sent post free. Telephone 3043.
Second-hand \
Book Arcade, f
K. W. Skinner
1 105 Castlereajfh-
' \ street, Sydney.
Vakiabl? Books-
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOR 6d. IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
W. H. Jcijkios,
41 Stephen Street,
. . Melbourne.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
‘2ss. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES.
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
ok HARE, CURIOUS,
LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the li.uktkated London Standaiiii.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Fitt-st, Sydney.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
The Gold Options $ Mineral Development
COMPANY. LIMITED,
Capital - - £20,000 in £1 Shares.
DIRECTORS :
The Hon. A. J. GOULD, M.L.C.; HARRIE WOOD, J.P., Esq. : JOHN J. HORROCKS, Esq.
TS established to secure DESIRABLE MINING PROPERTIES for Development and Flotation.
-L Prospectors and others having claims of undoubted value, which will bear investigation should
communicate with the Secretary, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The Company will INVESTIGATE ON BEHALF OF PURCHASERS and furnish Expert
Reports, and advise as to the management of properties; and undertake the preparation of Plans
Estimates, and Specifications for DREDGING PLANTS and other MINING MACHINERY.
SYDNEY:
Equitable Building •
WHEN you RIDE FIRST-CLASS ON the Railway
you take a first-class carriage.
When you ride first-class on a Bicycle you select
A MASSEY-HARRIS.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
■tranche*—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin. Brisbane, Adelaide,
Agencies almost livery where. Art Catalogue posted iree on application.
MELBOURNE:
245 Collins Street,
With the holiday season coining on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, etc.—at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very uioder-
at rates.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
A few facts about the Queensland, contin-
gent : Most of the men were led to enlistment on
the promise that “no fighting would be required,”
and that they were merely wanted to act as
“symbols of loyalty”; the rifles supplied to the
troops are all imperfect and not ten men know how
to use them ; some of the volunteers can’t sit their
horses, and they are all more or less undrilled and
undisciplined. The Govt, was so hard-pressed
for volunteers, to make up the proffered 250, that
every able-bodied landsman or seaman who pre-
sented himself was accepted and supplied with
horse and uniform, Individually the men look a
good-enough lot; collectively they are a mere
mounted mob.
Zetz Spa, once compared with any other
waters, easily proves its superiority. You try
Zetz, and you will have nothing else. Price of
Zetz within the reach of all.*
At one Sydney State school the Union
Jack has been proudly displayed in the school
since the beginning of the Transvaal war, and the
pupils have Gorsave drilled into them daily.
Who is jingo-ing for promotion ?
Transvaal war coincidences: The first
British despatch to the Boers was received on the
anniversary of the first seizure of South Africa by
Britain; news of the Glencoe victory reached
England on Trafalgar Day; Buller ianded in
Africa on Tuesday just in time to hear of the
Ladysmith defeat, and he some years ago landed
there just in time to hear of the Majuba Hill
disaster.
You Can't Enjoy your Pipe ivhen
your Liver is Asleep.
IF YOUR PIPE FAILS TO SOOTH, ’TIS
A SIGN THAT YOUR LIVER IS
DULL AND SUPINE.
ROUSE IT TO NORMAL ACTIVITY
WITH A FEW DOSES OF
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
The following is from Mr. F. A. Burt, an old
resident of Bourke, N.S.W. “I have much
pleasure in informing you that about 12 months
ago I suffered from a pain in my right side and
tired and languid feelings ; and after some time I
got a lump in my right side, which caused me to
seek advice from a medical book, where I found
that the liver was the cause, and knowing War-
ner’s Safe Cure to be a good and safe cure for
same, I gave it a fair trial, with great success. I
have much pleasure to say I have never felt any-
thing of it since.”*
Government Notices.
ÜBLIO SERVICE BOARD.
50, Young-street, Sydney,
23rd May, 1899.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION Of Candidates (male
and female) for ADMISSION to the CLERICAL DIVISION
of the PUBLIC SERVICE of-the COLONY will be held in
Sydney, and at various country centres, on the 18th
December next and four following days. Candidates will
be allowed to attend who are not less than 16 years of
age bn the first day of examination, or not more than 21
years of age on the 31st July. 1899. Persons already em-
ploye! in the General division of the Public Service will,
however, be admitted to the examination, provided their
age does not exceed 30 years. Application to attend the
examination must reach the undersigned not later than
the 20th November. The signatures of persons willing to
superintend the examination held in centres outside the
Sydney radius should be forwarded to the Secretary of
the Board of Examiners, 7 Richmond Terrace, Domain,
Sydney (from whom forms for the purpose may be ob-
tained), not later than 20th November, 1899.
Further particulars respecting the examination, rates
of pay, &c., may be obtained on application at the office
of the Public Service Board.
The regulations regarding the examination, and copies
of the papers set on the last occasion, can be obtained at
the Government Printing Office and the principal book-
sellers.
By order of the Board,
(9a 96) J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
K
<
K
K
%ird 'Gi(des are flight
Because they’re built right. It is as reasonable to expect your local plumber to manufacture ahi b-
grade watch, as to turn out a high-grade bicycle with a set of fifctincs which' can be purchased for a few
shillings.
Each workman in the Bed Bird factory is an expert in one part only, and his wgyk is supervise!
by a corps of 85 inspectors.
There are many reasons for Bed Bird Excellence.
Manufactured, Sold
by Che ©Odd BicycU
Factories:
Brantford, Canada.
Hgenta-everywhere.
Australasian Branches :
64 KING-ST., Sydney, Head Office. !'• '
261 Coluins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brirpane, Q.
VICTORIA-ST. . \ > II N T.O.N. N.Z.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
WRITE TOR CATALOGUE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The difference between Flemington and Rand-
wiek as horse-racing show-places explains why the Mel-
bourne Cup is so much larger an event than anything
that happens in the capital city of the larger province.
Rand wick arrangements run on English lines—the aris-
tocracy have a grand-stand to themselves apart from the
ordinary 10s. public, and then, again, there is a lower-
priced reserve where nobody can get a good view' of the
finish. Except that the 10s. standites at Randwick are
within easy distance of the’osses before they go out to
battle, the Flemington plan is every way more satisfac-
tory. The V.R.C. show bids for public support. Byron
Moore regards himself as the business manager of a cir-
cus provided by the V.R.C. committee. Members of the
club get certain unconspicuous privileges in the matter
of private luncheon-rooms, and so forth, but as
regards grand-stand accommodation they are not favored
at all. The pick of the stand— i.e., the part behind
the vice-regal _ box and immediately facing the
winning-post, is open to the general public. For
those who don’t want to be on the ground-floor with
access to the Lawn and the Bird-cage, there is the Hill,
which commands a finer view of the racing than the
‘‘toffs” get down below. As time goes on, the Hill at
Flemington offers more and more attractions to the holi-
day crowd, and many people who go there for economical
reasons have the satisfaction of thinking they would go
aloft all the same even though the Hill tickets admitted
to the Grarid-stand. Byron Moore is especially proud of
the Hill. It is a towering monument to the'success of
democratic management. It is the place where future
generations of “five-bob” race-goers will stretch them-
selves under the shady elms and heave a sigh of brotherly
sorrow for the bloated squa ft ah whose—haw !—social
position requires him to see the sport under less enjoy-
able circumstances.
* * * *
The scratching 1 of Cranberry for Derby and Cup
was a triumph for the hard-faced gentry who get up at
daybreak to see the ’osses do iheir work on the track.
Even IliekenlKUham. the trainer of Cranberry since he
left the Fielder stable, hung on to the hope that his new
charge was not seriously amiss, what time the touts
were whispering to Ikey Mo, “The colt carn’t raise
a gallop!” The early birds were right in Cran-
berry s case, as in the case of Singapore years ago.
Singapore, just like Cranberry, won A.J.C. Derby and
scored a brilliant handicap performance at Randwick,
but. when transferred to Flemington he couldn’t gallop
a bit. Whilst be figured day after day as a6to 1
favorite for Melb. Cup, the touts persistently dispraised
him. By way of settling the question as to Singapore’s
Cup chance his owner (the late James White) started
him for the Hotham Handicap on Derby Day. He ran
nowhere.
* * • •
Cranberry had been sore and shown poor form off
and on ever since reaching Flemington. His scratching
is possibly due to the severity of the preparation lie
Underwent for A.J.C. Spring fixture. His owner at that
time (Fielder) is notorious for the amount of work he
exacts, and even if his nags turn up all right before the
race they certainly need some sort of a irood spell ere
tackling another meeting. The big fellow’s Randwick
form brought an offer from England of £3OOO and a sale
was effected. He is undoubtedly a great colt and, all
being well, might possibly have won Caulfield Cup,
V.R.C. Derby, and Melb. Cup, or, at least, the latter two.
Usually buyers “down under" are lucky in the Australian
market, hut it looks as if they’ve made a mess of it this
time. Three thou, is a big sum to pay for a horse that
can’t be relied upon to stand training.
* * * *
Victorian Derby-winner, Merriwee, is by Bill
of Portland from Etra-Weenie—hence full brother to
Wigelmar (which won Vie. Debutante Stakes recently)
and half-brother to Diffidence (Sydney Cup winner).
Merriwee has little racing to his credit. At two years he
got placed once in four starts, and then was third to
stable mate Shell. As a 3-year-old he raced twice, annex-
ing three and four year old handicap (7 furlongs) at
Flemington, 7.7 up. Sept, last he was third to Veneda
in w.f.a. Memsie Stakes (1 mile) hut finished so bril-
liantly that lots of money went on him for Caulfield Cup
straightaway. Scratched for this event, punters waited
and watched and followed stable lead for Derby and Cup.
Merriwee's weight in Cup was 7.6. thus making him meet
Dewey on 21bs. worse terms than in the Derby.
» * » '*
Up to about 100 yds. from finish old sports say
that Saturday’s Vic. Derby was the best seen for years.
First favorite—Dewey—would have won but for the bad
habit of “ hanging out.” He has done this before but
never made an attempt at it in Caulfield Cup. Time
( 2min. has been beaten by Trident, Australian
Peer, Dreadnought, Carnage, The Harvester, Newhaven
and Amberite, and equalled by Cocos last year.
*•* " *
Ikey never had a better betting Derby than that
run at Flemington last Saturday. Winter favorites were
Parthian, Chesney, Scorn, and Revenue, but “ English
buyer” secured Chesney and he dropped out. Auric
cropped up next as the supposed St. Albans best. Then
Treniarden, Lancaster, and Gunga Din came along—all
heavily' supported. Randwick Spring meeting intro-
duced Cranberry, whose achievements made him look the
best of all. Money went on the new fancy in heaps—he
was considered (and everything pointed to it) an absolute
“cert.” Lameness and Dewey’s win of Caulfield Cup
ousted the big son of Cranbrook—Tiwoona. Think of it!
—ten of them red-hot pots in turn ! Last came the
eleventh and at the eleventh hour. Merriwee (winner)
was solidly backed (a day or two before the race) down
to fours on the strength of a trial at Queenscliff (1J miles
with Bst. up in 2.36). All nione.v going at the price was
snapped up. It is said that one fat ringman with an
unusually big book on the event, and laying £5OOO
against some, saved Merriwee : “No money,” replied he
when asked.
» * * *
Melbourne Stakes (Saturday), won by the sen-'
sational Mora, was looked upon as the softest of, soft
thiiigs for Australian Star, who failed to even get a
“drum” after leading into the straight. Backers fell
over each other—squeezed, crowded, and crushed—to lay
odds on, such a moral did it seem. A week or so since
the M.L. turfite, S.H. Golian, prior to leaving for Eng-
land, paid somewere near £3OOO for Australian Star, who
had previously performed brilliantly. Certain con-
tingencies were attached to the purchase. Andy Gollan
(no relation to S. H.), former owner, was to supervise the
colt s preparation for all V.K.C. engagements, paj'ingexs.
and taking- half stakes won. Saturda\'’s was the first race
since the sale.
* * * *
N.S.W. handicapper Quinton breaks a lance
with complaining nag-owners. Mentions many instances
where his estimate turned out correct in face of their
chronic growling. Case of ex-pony Fitzroy is particularly
dwelt upon. Owner had Mr. Q. “ carpeted ” before
Moorefield (Sydney) stewards for alleged unfair adjust-
ments. Six weeks later (last eight-hour day) Fitzroy,
though still on same mark, won a double at Canterbury
meeting and started first favorite for Demonstration
Handicap, carrying 10lb. more than the weight origin-
ally allotted him. Last Saturday week owner of Sun-
flower came to Mr. Q. at Moorefield and said, “ You seem
to think I’m running this horse cunning; watch him now.
I can’t back him for a stake with the weights you im-
pose.” Sunflower made hacks of the field and won almost
in a walk. Handicapper beaming; owner dumbfounded.
Result: former bound to increase the poundage. Ikeys
rub their hands gleefully and refer to the occurrence as
“ a shkinner, me boy, and ve vanted it padly too.”
• * * *
Somewhere or other it is stated that “ the race-
horse Mentor ” recently got. his leg broken whilst running
in a paddock, at Miller’s Forrest, and had to be shot.
The defunct Mentor, who “raced among the galloways”
and ivas “ nearly 20 years of age,” can’t have been the son
of Sw'iveller who, as a four-year-old, won the Melbourne
Cup for Mr. Donald Wallace in ’BB.
* • • *
Abington, who never got out of a canter and
passed the judge with his head in the air knots ahead of
everything in Kogarah Stakes, the other Saturday, will
yet help “ Sam ” Fielder to a good event or two. He is a
3-year-old bay gelding by old Cup-winner Dunlop, and,
like a lot of his breed, is junky and rather common-look-
ing, but is a great galloper and has the “ never-say-die ”
head of his old sire.
• • * •
News that Bob Bay, one-time N.S.W. Derby
winner,secured Opening, Spring and North Rockhampton
(Q.) handicaps, Oct. 20 and 21, brings to memory that
the spunky little chap hurt himself in the race tor the
N-.S.W. blue riband. Though his then owner, Dan
O’Brien, persevered for a long time, Bob couldn t live
through any preparation. He was ultimately sold to a
Q. buyer, who gave him a spell, which benefited the son
of Welcome Jack-Gage d’Amour so much that he started
in a winning vein again, and has kept that way pretty
well ever since. Writer remembers Bob running Georgio
(now in England) to a head almost, and, later, putting
the great Wallace down for A.J.C. Champagne Stakes.
Same meeting also saw him account for Valiant and
Challenger in Biennial Stakes.
* * • *
Umpire Jim Phillips seems to give the best
summing-up of the international cricket case. Phillips,
in the Australasian, credits England with the better
batting, but thinks the Australian bowling advantage
more than counterbalances that. In fielding, he sees
little to choose between, two Test teams, but in general-
ship, he reckons, the Australians can give the enemy
many points. Also, the watchful Jim explains where the
points come in. Darling and co. are an amicable council
of war, exchanging ideas at all times. They discuss the
game whilst they are together in the dressing-room of
the pavilion —or at the hotel —or anywhere. An
English cricket captain is a stiff autocrat, as a rule, and
if he seeks advice it is never from the professional
bowlers. The amateurs and the pros, don’t mix off the
field. They have separate dressing-rooms, anyway.
Sooner or later the English sporting papers wilL laugh
a good deal of this “class distinction ” out of the game,
and the pros, and amateurs will hobnob together to some
extent.
* • * •
What a splendid prospect in Australia for a
good wicketkeeper 1 Johns contemplates retiring from
the game, Kelly is not young, and in no province is there
a promising junior. S.A. will probably resurrect
M‘lvenzie, whom it dropped last year, soiely because
there is no youngster fit to take his place. An embryo
Blackham, if he exists, can look forward to several trips
to England, fame, and dollars ; but he doesn’t seem to be
even on the horizon.
* * * »
Be trouble between N.S.W. and S.A. Cricket
Associations anent division of takings at Sydney matches.
S.A. proposes that each Association should get one-third
when matches are played away from home, and two-
thirds when played at home. Victoria agreed for three
years. N.S.W. refused, but offered funds if needed.
S.A. wanted no aid, only asked for a fair deal, and
pointed out that the mother province made a clear profit
of £1359 out of Interprovincial matches as against £ll
netted by S.A. At a meeting of the S.A. Association
last week it was decided that unless N.S.W. agreed to the
terms proposed, with the addition of being allowed to
deduct 15 per cent, for the ground, no team would be
sent to Sydney this season.
♦ * * *
Darling never varied a pound in weight during
the English tour. Jones comes back scaling 14st., and
Trumper has put on weight. Worrall’s injured knee is
still bad and may trouble him permanently. When the
Oruba contingent left, Clem Hill was quite well again.
The expenses of the returning team were lower than in
’96—but Darling was chief auditor of accounts.
* * • *
Medical advice was against. Australian cham-
pion Lane competing in the 500yd<. supremacy of Eng-
land, Sept. 23, owing to a heavy cold. During the month
named Jack Hellings, erst Australian premier sprinter,
was busy. Starting from scratch in 60yds. handicap at
Bradford, he was only beaten through getting badly
away. Playing for Middlesex in water-polo against
Sussex, he materially helped his side to win by 4 goals to
1. Later he appropriated the Seal S.C.’s open 100yds.
handicap from virtual scratch in lmin. 3 3-ssec.—much
better than anything ever done by him here—and finally
got away with Linden S.C.’s Invitation Handicap from
the back mark of all in lmin. 4sec.
**j * *
Team swimming race—Australia v. England—
at fashionable Ravensboimm S.C. gala, London, Sept. 30,
was won by Australian reps. -Lane and Hellings. Hel-
lings met champion sprinter of the world and world's 100
yards record holder Derbyshire, over 88yds., and finished
li.vds. in rear. Lane, continuing race, gave this start to
English champion Jarvis in 440yds., and after a most
exciting struggle from end to end, the Australian won
through sheer grit by the bare touch.
* * * *
“Maori”: The split among M.L. swimmers,
brought about through the vanity of a certain leader
being touched, is on the verge of settlement. Southern
and Northern Associations are arranging to amalgamate.
The news is gratifying for more reasons than one, especi-
ally as a team of Fijians wMI visit Maoriland this season,
and M.L. reps, are expected at Sydney for the big carnival
extending- throughout first week in January; besides,
contests between Yankees and Haorilanders are on the
cards.
* * • •
Pug. Jack Coition, fallen from grace through
his poor showing against “ Mick” Dunn, has joined the
leather-lunged, and lays against ’em “outside" with
varying success. So far. things have not been too pro-
mising. Jack says it looks to him now as if there’s a lot
more in the game than slinging the bag over your shoul-
der and yelling out the odds. Apropos, Conlon and West
Wyalong(N.S. W.) mine manager Jack Goggin are matched
again—fight to come off inside three weeks, at Wyalong.
Sydney man won in three rounds on last occasion, and
thinks this match such a soft thing that, at time of
writing, he is doing his training and “dough” (as
Yankeefied Australian Tweedie puts it) on the flat at
Flemington.
* « * *
Victorian middle-weight premier, Tim Murphy,
and heavy-weight crack, Tut Ityan, of same province,
are billed to fight in Sydney early next month. Though
licked twice by Doherty in Westralia for the champion-
ship of the continent, Tut is far from being a back num-
ber ; but he’s a long way from what he was in those win-
or-die struggles with grizzly Joe Goddard. Methods
acquired in Amerioa are responsible. Tut now assumes
the peculiar crouching style adopted by “ Kid ” M'Coy,
and in a measure, by champion Jeffries. But where is
the successful-fighter who has cast off his own ways for
those of another and continued on lop? Kid M’Coy—
wonderfully successful (poundage and physique con-
sidered)—shapes most unorthodoxly; he stands body
bowed at stomach, right close to chest, and left drawn
back so far that the fist rests on the hips. Experts
won’t stand him at first, but the work he gets in sends
them awav marvelling.
'“** * * *
Said that whilom Australian pug. “Paddy”
Slavin now gathers in more gold in a week, per means of
a big timber business at Klondyke, than six months’
pick-and-shovel work would bring him. He visited Van-
couver recently, made things gee for a month or two, in-
vested in some property there, and went back to biz.
again without taking in England, as originally intended.
Contrast Slavin’s position with that of his great ring
rival, Jackson. Little more than seven years ago the
pair fought that never-to-be-forgotten 10 rounds which
hurled Paddv from his high pinnacle, and took so much
out of each that neither ever did any good afterwards.
To-day (if he has not died since last mail left ’Frisco),
Jackson lies in Vancouver hospital—sadly wrecked in
health, spirit, and pocket.
» » * *
? Cable tells that last Friday, in New York, the
world's championship fight between Jeffries and Sharkey
was won by former knocking latter out in the 25t.h round.
Both were heavily punished—two of Sharkey’s ribs being
broken at three-fifths of the journey. It’s any betting that
the struggle was Homeric and that they were at each other
like tigers from start to finish. Both are big, powerful, mus-
cular bruisers—fighters who want to fight every moment
of the time. Each owns marvellous hitting power
and possesses wonderful capacity for taking gruel.
Writer feels confident that details will provide more sen-
sational reading than any slugging match of modern
times. Same pair met a year or so since. The go was
limited to 20 rounds, and Jeffries won on points. Sharkey
complained afterwards that seconds counselled stand-off
tactics ; had he followed his own ideas he would have
gone in and won decisively. Jeffries replied that that
method would have brought him victory in short order.
Jeffries is pledged to give Fitzsimmons a return match
next. It is less than five months since they met before,
when former won the world’s premiership.
From a Yankee account of the first race between
the Columbia and Shamrock for the America Cup it
would seem that the Yankees were much the smarter
crew in handling their big kites, so much so that the
Shamrock’s crew were 3mins. behind the Yankees in set-
ting their spinnaker and balloon jib. Small wonder that
the Shamrock carried away her top-mast when the pyra-
mid of canvas raised its head 175 ft. The result of the
race was sent to ’Frisco Call’s office by wireless tele-
graphy, the news being flashed 3000 miles'in 2tr,ins,
* * * *
Believers in the accepted principles of scientific
rowing will receive a shock when they see this vear’s
N.S.W. representative eight. Almost without an excep-
tion there is an absence of shoulder-catch, holding of
slides, leg-drive, and steady forward swing. The crew go
well together, rowing more as if with a pair of
sculls than an oar, dash ng their blades fast through
the water. To row in that style their chance lies in their
ability to strike the water together. Failing tip-top
fettle, they cannot expect to live over the last mile with
the crews they are likely to meet.
Slippery Q. Premier Dickson promised
“One-Man-one-Vote ” in the first batch of bills
for this session. So far there is no sign of it, and
Dawson asking for it was sharply snubbed. If
Dickson is compelled to bring it along it is an open
secret that a Govt, supporter will tack on Woman
Suffrage, thereby splitting the Labor men who
are divided on the question. Should they sink
their differences and take it all, the addition will
give Nelson and Co. a first-class chance to kill it
in the Upper House.
The Queensland Young Men’s Christian
Association presented each of the departing war-
riors of the local contingent with a pocket Testa-
ment and a small book containing “a few prin-
ciples for the guidance of one’s conduct at all
times.” Piety and blood-thirstiness appear to go
hand-in-hand throughout the length and breadth
of Australia. If you come across a man denounc-
ing Australia’s participation in the Transvaal war
iniquity, you may bet your boots in most cases
he’s—well, not a prominent church-officer. If, on
the other hand, you meet a man absolutely shriek-
ing for gore, it’s 10 to 1 that he’s a local preacher,
church-elder, or something of that kind—also,
that he listens every Sunday placidly to the
gentle gospel of the meek and lowly “Prince of
Peace.”
Interesting to keep a record of the different
words applied to the same thing by the war-cable
liar. For a start: —The Boers “ retreat,” and the
British “retire”; the Boers were “routed,” but
the British were “ withdrawn ”; the Boers
“ seized ’’some gold, but the British “impounded”
cash ; the British make “ a gallant resistance,”
while the Boers are “stubborn ” ; and while Brit-
ish “capitulate,” Boers are “taken prisoners.”
Joubert, by the way, sent a message of sympathy
to the widow of Major-General Symons, killed at
Glencoe ; but it doesn’t appear that any British
commanding officer has cared a straw whether the
butchered Boer officers have left widows or not.
Which of course is proof that Boer officers are
mere brutes, and not worth considering. Also, by
the way, the howlingly-mad Australian Jingo
papers say that London Daily News “proves”
that the assertion made, by good old Tory Jimmy
Lowther that the Boer war is “a capitalistic job ”
is untrue; whereas the Australian Jingo papers
that are only mad and not howling quite so much
as the others, say that the “Daily News tries to
prove,” etc.
A Bulletin par. of some weeks back to
the effect that Yea (Vic.) is a humble, one-horse
township, with no public opinion worth mention-
ing, has moved a local inhabitant to reprove this
journal’s awful ignorance. Cries the voice from
Yea:-
We claim to have the largest butter factories in Vio.,
whose branches extend to a distance of 40 miles, whose
butter invariably tops the Home market, and whose suc-
cess is the admiration and envy of such large neighbor-
ing towns as Alexandra and Mansfield. . . . Socially we
are in the front rank, and will next month gain the
further distinction of being the first Vic. town to be
officially visited bv the Scottish Regiment, who are to
attend a large military ball here.
Sandwiched between these revelations is the more
interesting statement that Yea is irrigated by
four full-sized pubs., and graced by numerous
grocery stores, &c. If The Bulletin had known
about the projected official visit of the warriors in
bare legs, and had realised the importance of the
four pubs., &c., it would have been eager to
grease Yea with a pat of the township’s own best
butter. Its previous reference to Yea’s solitary
steed and the goat that browses ’midst desolation
is cancelled herewith. Yea has even contributed
a commanding officer of Mounted Rifles to the
Vic. Contingent, and has thus taken its place as
a factor in the Hempire’s glory. So there, now !


“We Have Made a Hit”
V
WITH
>
/JU
DERBY
TOBACCO
It is considered
the finest and
best Smoking
Tobacco ever
imported.
There is nothing like
DERBY
1
Influenza is a bad mate for a miner. A
moment's faintness or giddiness—and the coroner
is likely to be called in. T. C. Craig, a popular
Coolgardie manager, an ex-Maorilander, was a
victim of this sort lately, falling out of the bucket
in which he was being lowered.
Zealous to prove a boon which Nature gave,
Envy of all importers ;
Try it—for doctors’ bills you’ll save—
Zetz Spa, the King of Natural Waters.*
An old pressman, the kindly Mr. Edmund
Mason, died at Parramatta last week, aged 82.
In 1841 he came to N.S. W. under engagement to
the Sydney Herald, then a tri-weekly owned by
Messrs. Stephens and Stokes. In 1843 he started
a small paper, The Parramatta Chronicle.
During his residence of nearly GO years in the old
town Mr. Mason was foremost in all good works.
Speaking about the Bile Beau business,
Mr. Gilbert, the Australian manager, says:—
“Messrs. Faulding and Co., our Adelaide agents
began with 12,000 boxes, and then they purchased
30,000 boxes, 24,000 boxes, and 35,000 boxes in
consecutive orders, while another 18,000 boxes
were sent to the same firm at Perth. Messrs.
Hoffnung and Co., of Sydney and Brisbane, felt
the way with 24,000 boxes, and their next order
was 35,000, and Elliott Bros took 50,400 boxes
straight out. In New Zealand Messrs. Kemp-
tborne, Prosser, and Co opened up Bile Beans
with an order for £2,000 worth. Our largest single
orders have come from Melbourne, where Messrs.
Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co. have the agency. Their
first order was for 45,200 boxes; their next was
40,000. Then they took 1,000 gross (144.000 boxes)
worth about =£B,ooo, and now they have broken all
records, I think, so far as Australia is concerned
by ordering =£20,000 worth for the English market
and Mr F.ulford, one of the proprietors of Bile
Beans, has gone to England to work up the busi-
ness. It is computed that in Australia 80,000
people on an average take Bile Beans every day,
and that during the year ending February 28, 1899
30 million doses were taken. ”*
S.M. Herald twaddles to the effect that
“it would be unreasonable to suppose that the
handful of British troops had been able to defeat
the overwhelming force which the Boers from the
Transvaal and from the Orange Free State can
now bring into the field.” Where’s the “over-
whelming force ”to come from ? Latest estimates
make the total Boer population of the Transvaal
70,000, which would yield not more than 15,000
men of what is called the “ soldier’s age.” And
the Free Staters are about equally numerous. The
two States should be able to raise about 30,000
able-bodied, serviceable men, if they scooped in
every one. The cable-yarns about .Toubert’s
force of Transvaalers alone being 20,000 strong
(this, after alleged heavy losses, and deduct-
ing an alleged 0000 men operating at Kim-
berley and Mafeking, and the scattered forces
elsewhere and the garrisons) is blank impossibility.
On the census returns, 9000 to 10,000 should be far
nearer to the mark. And the cable says there
were 12,000 British troops at Ladysmith.
Nervous sufferers will find, it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
HAVE YOU
A BAD
with'Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? ,If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. • Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; tile disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. .1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 W 11,1,. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tum..urs, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Si ore*,
Sic. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b x. Prepared by
VI BEItT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, Ei gland.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
/.teen lal el on each box. (Regd. copyright).
BOOKLET
OF Ph3E
BOOKS,
Post Free for One Stamp
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, Gr.P.O., Sydney
► ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
! ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
£/i Sv***
CjLa C
Hi It*' '*?*
VW
9 fu^ < H- h - u 4r*
-VjloM
I^vvW^Uo
(?. „
OKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling-, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating.
;.ud its unique testimonials piove it to he
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 2 16 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdresser-, Stores. &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO,, LTD,,
1 16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
IYOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
J ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ King-street Coffee Palace/'
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
r*
FREE
PAMPHIET
FROM
H H WARNER & C 9 L T JP
MELBOURNE, AUST.
“ DOW JUDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
riIHE WAYS OF MANY WATERS
J. By E. J. Brady, Price 5/-.
e-
*
a
THE
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEy
Sole DistribGtiog Ageot
for A6Stralasia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-263 Clarence Street, Sydney .
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ot tno Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Kedieine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
iim
Sold Throughout the World.
iB,—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
THE MUTUAL STOR€, Ltd..
Providers.
Grocers , Wine and Spirit Merchants,
Provision Dealers, Drapers,
Outfitters, and General Furnishers .
jmm— BEST QUALITY ONLY.
THE fIIOTIIJD STORE, EM, FEIHDEHS ST„ MEIMM.
WAR
WAR
WAR
JUST ISSUED, a series of photographs depicting the Departure of the
New South Wales Contingent for the Transvaal. The list is as follows ;
No. I —Australian Horse.
No. 2 —Officers of the Infantry.
No. 3 —lnfantry Selected Rank and File.
No. 4 —Officers Mounted Rifles.
No. s —Men of the Mounted Rifles.
No. 6— Lancers Detachment.
No. 7 ~ Non-Commissioned OfUcers.
No. B —Medical Corps.
No. 9 —The S.S. “Kent
No. 10—The S.S. “ Aberdeen .”
No. 11 — Parade, Victoria Barracks.
No. 12—Beene in Oxford Street.
No. 13 — ~ ~ Pitt Street.
No. 14 —View from Herald Office.
No. 15 — „ ~ Circular Quay.
No. Id— Saying Good-bye.
No; 17 —Last Farewell.
No. 18 —Final Cheers.
No. 19 —Going on Board.
No. 20— Out from the Wharf.
Size of photograph, about 8 inches by 6 inches, on solid mounts 12 inches by 15 inches ; suitable for framing 1 .
Price :1 3 each, or the set (post free) for tiO -. This series, as issued, is the best of its kind that will be placed on
the market. We were in a position to obtain the services of Sydney’s leading photographer, and, in addition, secured,
at a great expense, the principal positions in order to obtain our snapshots. As only a limited supply can be
we shall be glad to receive vour orders early, so as to prevent disappointment. All’orders will be filled in rotation’
and will be executed according to priority of receipt. Awaiting your esteemed favor, We remain, yours faithfully ’
THE NEW SOUTH WALES BOOKSTALL COMPANY, george street.
elf,
w\
9=
irfs'j
mi
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s'Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
ITU El
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore tlie
. Hearing' and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after t ying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
o?ms, PEums, sippiires
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls ® Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL, VALUE GIVEN.
A. BCNJAMIH and SONS,
285 a Little Oollins St-. Melbourne-
second-hand
AND
■KTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
! SAVE 50 I’EU CENT.
I ±1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
Telephone 1023.
HllxH-GrIIAD.E BICYCLES £3 Is
"POR export we furnish new 1900 model hp'h-grade
A monca n Eicyc'es for £3 Is., and ship to any -part
of the Y\o ld, payable at your nearest Rank thirty days
after shipment. We furnish Rank reference in Sydney
and Wellington. Cut this notice out and send to us and
we will send you by first post (postpaid) our Ricyele Cata-
logue with full particulars.
SEA ItS ROEBUCK <(; CO.,
CHEAPEST SUPPLY HOUSE ON EARTH
Chicot/o, Illinois, U.S. A.
t Ij Xj u S T 3E=t A. T E D
TyiTH numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
es, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s
postage (sealed) Is. extra. Circul
lar, explaining contents of book
._ . - - - - sent on receipt of 2d. (stamps) for
postage. Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, Q.P.0., SYDNEY
I'm


“A wonderful cast-iron tunnel,” writes
Thk Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ which
has been in existence and useless over 40 yeai’s,
is to burst up m the notice of Londoners in a week
or two. It was in the ’so’s that a powerful and
aristooratio syndicate built the tunnel from Lon-
don G.P.O. to Euston station, via Holborn and
Tottenham Court Road, for the purpose of shoot-
ing' the mails to the trains in a few minutes by
means of pneumatic pressure. The air-leakage
was so great that the scheme failed, and deep below
the roadway has lain the tunnel—4ft. by 4ft. 6in.
—disused, for all these years. Threlfall, a clever
and rapidly-rising engineer, whose brother was
lately professor of physics at Sydney University,
fell into the tunnel or somehow discovered it,
traced heirs of long-dead shareholders, told them
they were tunnel-owners, got permission to live in
it or do whatever he liked, and resurrected the
concern. He will now carry the mails therein,
but by means of electricity; the three to four-
mile journey will take five minutes or less, in
place of 25min. by the speediest mail-carts. As
the Southampton mails go via Euston, it has been
a great find, and Threlfall is now widely in re-
quest by people who have lost tunnels.”
ONE DEAD BROUGHT BACK TO LIFE.”
EXCESS,VE HEAT THE cause of thirteen years of martyrdom.
“ALL DAY AND EVERY DAY, A DULL, ACHING MISERY.”
CLEMENTS TONIC Cured me and made a Man of me again;
You Can Easily Find This Witness and Prove for Yourself.
The Case ©f
MR. WILLIAM CAMPBELL.
(Reported for “ The Rochdale Advocate.”)
Between Rockdale and Hurstville, lying
to the right on hilly ground, is the pretty
suburb of Bexley. It was here our reporter
found the home of Mr. William Campbell,
a well-known identity of the district, and a
man of sterling integrity and wide experi-
ence. Mr. Campbell was at home, and
received our reporter with great civility.
“ I hear, Mr. Campbell, you have had an
almost astounding recovery from a dreadful
sickness ; would you object to giving me
the details and confirming the statements I
have heard ?”
“ With the utmost willingness,” replied
Mr. Campbell; “for I was as one dead
brought to life again, and my thankfulness
and gratitude make me speak of it continu-
ally. I am, as you may judge, naturally a
strong, robust man, with wliat I thought
an iron constitution; but the climate of
India, where I lived for some years, found
out my vulnerable point. Without doubt,
it was the excessive heat of that country
that affected my digestive system and
caused me for thirteen years to be a martyr
to chronic dysentery and diarrhoea. No-
thing I tried would cure or even give any
lasting relief. For nine years I was com-
pelled to live on bread and vegetables ; the
least morsel of meat was intolerable to my
stomach, and was immediately vomited or
purged away.”
“Such a continued strain must surely
ftnve left you very weak, Mr. Campbell ?”
‘ ‘ I can assure you I arrived at the last
stage of exhaustion—to the utmost verge of
total collapse. I had griping cramp-like
pains in the stomach, with a constant roar-
ing and rumbling—this when I exerted
jnvsclf in the Slightest, or *i,vovt> v<> walk a
little distance. _ At intervals, a pressure as
of a large, heavy substance came on my
chest, compelling me to gasp for breath and
lie down. A dull pain pressed between my
shoulders, not constant at first, but gradu-
ally increasing in duration till, during the
last days of my sickness, it never left me.
My heart palpitated loudly, so that you could
hear its movements like the ticking of an
old clock. Pains in my head made me dizzy
and affected my hearing, so that I was
deaf and could not hear the noise of
a dray passing close beside me. Then my
eyes suffered, a mist floated before them,
making me nearly blind, like a man groping
his way in a dense fog. I had only sigh
enough left to prevent my running foul of
things in my way. Sometimes my hea !
pains were so intense that the head would
swell; and my outward appearance got so
aged-looking, as the neighbours round here
will tell you, that some of them said I must
be at least eighty years old.”
The reporter here took a good look at the
broad, athletic form of Mr. Campbell as he
stood up, and it may be said with certainty
he would pass at the present time as being
under fifty.
Mr. Campbell continued :—“ I became
that weak I was not fit to walk. My limbs
got stiff and dragged after me. I had no
hope in life, no energy ; only all day, and
every day, a dull, aching misery. I thought
my only chance of peace lay in death, and
I prayed to die.”
“ But surely you did not arrive at this
fearful pass, Mr. Campbell, without seeking
advice ? ”
“You may be sure I did not —I sought for
years and years ; all the time I was getting
steadily worse. Pounds and pounds, in
money that I could ill spare, I have paid for
all the remedies I could hear of or that were
suggested to me. I had tried more drugs
thau I can count. then I went to Sydney u
consult one of the herbalists that make so
much fuss about their cures, and I bought
some pills the herbalist recommended as
certain to do me good. But, as I expected,
my old experience was repeated, and herb
pills, like homoeopathic globules, did me no
good. It happened when I was in Sydney
that a lad in the street gave me a pamphlet
about Clements Tonic, and I put it in my
pocket and took it home with me. I was in
that state I would have tried anything, for
no change in me could be for the worse ; so
I bought a bottle of Clements Tonic, and
took it with just the same hopeless fear
that I had tried scores of so-called remedies
before.”
“And what was the result?”
“ Thank Cod ! I had relief almostatonee—
: elief that I had never found in all the past
thirteen miserable years of my life. It was
after taking three doses of Clements Tonic
that I noticed the change for the better;
and step by step, as I continued taking
Clements Tonic, my serious symptoms left
me. The despondent, hopeless feeling of
the mind, the cramping pains in the
digestive organs, with thasound of rumbling
wind, the palpitations the heart, the
oppression on the chest, and all the head
pains, with the accompanying deafness and
J&fcdness, passed away ; but what surprised
me most of all, with thankful amazement,
was the cure of my chronic dysentery, for
this, as I have mentioned, had aSietesd, me
for thirteen years and defied all remedies,
that I had come to never hope to escape
from it ”
“And you are positive Clements Tonic
cured that?”
“Yes, I am positive, and more than
thankful, to say it cured me and made a man
of .me again My digestive powers are
quite restore*. Meat, that had not passed
my lips for nine years, I now eat freely ;
*ad from being an old man, helpless, blind
and deaf, doubled up with pain, and praying
for my coffin as speedily as might be, I am
now strong and hearty, willing and capable
of doing the hardest physical work. You
may judge of the truth of this when I tell
you that after taking three bottles of
Clements Tonic I signed for a trenching
contract on stiff ground, and carried it out
with perfect satisfaction.” «■
“ Have I your consent, Mr. Campbell, to
make this testimony public ? ” asked the
reporter.
‘ ‘ Of course I am willing, and most fi eely
consent. A man saved as I have been by
Clements Tonic can never forget it or the
obligation it has placed him under. Nor
can he miss an opportunity of telling its
merits wherever the occasion calls for it.
Believe me, I am always talking to my
customers of Clements Tonic and recom-
mending it, and shall continue to do so in
simple gratitude for what it has done fwar
me.”
STATUTORY. DECLARATION
I, William Campbell, of Bexley, near Sydney
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemn./
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the an
nexed document, consisting of five folios and
consecutively numbered from one to five, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of n..»
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contain*
my full permission to publish the same in any wa> .
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment, conscientious; .
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of th*
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninil,
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oath*
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of chs .Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-iudicial Oaths
and Affidavits ”
Declared at Arncliffe, this 26th day of June, on*
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine before, me.
CUT RATE
Consulting and
RUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1 ; Out Prioe, 18*. Od.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RBINYIGORATOR
is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it Strength-
-OQg every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before tbe
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day's delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much lor our Buffering people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of ail. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
visrorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladderand kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c\, if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs —You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a Now Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST TREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Cliarm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, painß in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the ourrent is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more auimal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action. —Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Eleotro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.—The Action ol the electrio
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter. —Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ 1 would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured."
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belts. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life 1
Postpone old age 1
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hughes’s Fitsepilep.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the aee.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid. Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character of
INWARD or OUTWA KD PILES readily yield ro this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 8
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address;
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Couli fcry Trial Order reapeotfully Solioited.


Hi" RaSSn)(iSSci)’S Alfalii>c Herbal Remedies-
More marvellously Successful and Hffectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A. Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
'A
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALI'E UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALKALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit- as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney. Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous- to trying them I had fried three different
doctors'without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty t.o publish this short
note ia the interest of suffering humanity.- Yours Grate-
fully, THQS. KING. Witness Frank G-kibkrt.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his inter-
colonial Branches.
ilMiiTiilii 11 in 11 ni i is i'infrtnrn i i't ig< i i n i i vtm i i
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
/ILFaline VITALITY pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia,- Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. Gd., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AXiFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is Gd.,
35., „nd 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •
Patrons of Herr Eass-
net ther has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Xlp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
- • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVICC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIIIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—•
H.R., Box 208, G.F.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS M UDlMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THUS. MLiDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898,
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies :
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
Put most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for < oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s, Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425, and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
e - 547 GEORGE ST.,
AND IMPORTANT BRUNCHSS AS FOLLOWS
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
KALGOGRLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-street (opposite P. 0.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minute.-)' walk o( Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended t.o.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. .M-CI.F.T.r.AND
(nee UuLG KK).
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Rcnotvned Corsets have been entirety] Re-
modelled, and are n<nu the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailiny fashion of lony waist.
*
m
v
m
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTADT.E & DVRAJtT.E COTtSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.lt.— Old Model Corsets always in stork.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-> Ld-> London
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
—SAUCE.
. SIEAHSjaKI
fLOrIS., FI;SH -Cll
*'CR'Avie%';ci»)
• <V. sol*
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
Lime Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL.
Master in Surgery, writes
so /ar back as 10/y, in a
treatise on Scurvy :—“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE — D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
DRAPCRS & FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Flinders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinguall Avenue, London E.O.
OQr AdVgrtiSgd
OUR SALES AVERAGE 1000 PER YEAR.
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED TO WEAR A LIFETIME, AND KEPT IN THOROUGH REPAIR
(Breakages excepted) FOR 3 YEARS.
THE GOLDSMITHS AND SILVERSMITHS’ ALLIANCE.
SKETCH SHOWING FINE FINISHED
WORKS.
SPECIAL LEVER WATCHES
EXCEPTIONAL TIMEKEEPERS,
SPECIALLY MADE TO STAND ROUGH
RIDING AND COUNTRY WEAR.
COMPENSATED BALANCE,
EXTRA JEWELLEDand
ADJUSTED.
GENT.’S SIZE.
Silver, Open Face...4os 1
Oxidised ~ „ ...25s I
Nickel „ „ ...25s'
Silver Hunters ...45s i
■ (
GENT.’B DOUBLE
CASE 14c. GOLD
KILLED CASES,
WARRANTED
TO WEAR 20
YEARS.
A REMARKABLE
VALUE WATCH.
£4 ss.
•!!:!;!:: ;! ill
*v.v.v.\v;.’/;:i
WiW
»?«
mu n>m
&!!!!!&
.V.V.VS
y>SV-Vi
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING
MONOGRAM.
12s 6d
%*?
12s 6d
12s 6d
12s 6d
'
LADIES’ SIZE.
Silver, Open Face...4os
Oxidised ~ ~ ...358
Silver Hunters ...503
GUARANTEED TO WEAR FOR A LIFETIME.
Z& s>
m
SB
6 ■
CASES LN TEN (10) DIFFERENT DESIGNS.
The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths’
! Alliance
LADIES’GOLD KEYLESS WATCHES,
RICHLY ENGRAVED CASES and
ACCURATE TIMEKEEPERS.
9c., 70s ; Ho., 90s ; 18c., 110 s.
Silver, 20s, 30s, 455.
OUR FAMOUS NICKEL
OPEN FACE LEVER
WATCHES. ACCURATE
TIMEKEEPERS.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE.
ENGLISH HALL-MARKED ALBERTS.
9c. Gold, Sinsrle ..
15c. Gold, Single
Silver, Single
9c. Gold, Double ..
15c. Gold, Double ..
Silver, Double
50s, 60s, 70s
. 955, 110 s, 130 s
. 7s 6d, 10s, 13s Cd
. 60s, 755, 90s
. 110 s, 130 s, 150 s
. 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED SLIPS
OF LATEST NOVELTIES.
ALL GOODS POST FREE.
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTK—Oar ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A.. WlLBimso^XT’S
COOLALTA VINEYARDS.
-,#** .
374 George Street, Sydney.
Offices :
Missing Friends.
JA MES COMBES, formerly of Longley, Tasmania.
To your advantage to communicate at once with
Herbert and Ada Oombeb, Longley, Tasmania.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus.'Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Return to Sydney of Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Last Nights ! .*. Last Nights!
“IMI-A. 3VCIE! ROSETTE,”
Music by Paul Lacome and Ivan Caryll.
Plan, 'Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
LAST NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES.
TO nVEA-TST.
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD as BILL BURKLEY,
the Comedy Convict,
Supported by a Powerful Company.
Prices: 35., 25., Is. Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55.
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate. 10.45.
TR€B€LLI_
World-Renowned Soprano,
Assisted by
Mr. John Prouse Mr. John Prouse
THE POPULAR BARITONE,
ipg- OPENING IN SYDNEY ON THURSDAY,
16th NOVEMBER.
JAMES PAIT, Manager.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING!
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
GRACIE WHITEFORD
GRACIE WHITEFORD
“ Little Christopher
Columbus.”
By George R. Sims and
Cecil Raleigh.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as Mrs. BLOCK.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25.. and la.
JV\a(id tyacCartby,
The World-famous Australian Violinist.
“The Greatest Musical Genius Australia
has Produced.”
Australian Commenced Sydney, wed.
TOUR ■ - ■ 18 th October.
JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
I OMAN’S
BUILDINGS
(George and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
The Jubilee Waxworks.
DIRECT FROM LONDON.
OVER
100
Lifelike Models and
Works of Art.
OVER
100
The World's Celebrities.
TRANSVAAL WAR LEADERS.
Sir Alfred Milner, President Kruger, Hon. C. Rhodes,
Hon. J. Chamberlain, Col. Baden-Powell, Dr. Jameson.
Now on View, with others too numerous to mention.
CHAMBER OF HORRORS. Prominent Criminals, eta
OPEN DAILY, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
ADMISSION, Is, ... CHILDREN, 6d.
DALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
■** Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success, Tremendous Success, scored by
MR. TOM COSTELLO,
HOWARD & ST. CLAIR.
SPEY and AUSTIN.
Alma Gray,
TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Geor»e O. Dean,
Wallace Kin", Arthur Hahn, J. Watts, Elsie Golding,
Neva Carr Glynn, Alf. Lawton, Thorne and Dell.
POPE and SAYLKS, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOCJ Til KATItR, MELBOUIINF.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Most Enthusiastic Success of
Gr e o. W. Huu ter.
Of MR. PAUL PELHAM.
Splendid Success of the Marvellous YALDARES.
VIRTO and IRENE, Howard Chambers. Fred Dunean,
Will Whitburn, Lulu Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little
Fannie Powers, Frank Rowen, Keenan Dios., Cltas.
W. Cogill, Clarence Sisters, and all our Brilliant Co.
Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday..
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH.
ANOTHER FURORE.
A Bright, Brilliant and Sensational Melodrama,
“ OUR NATIVC NOME ”
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mi sgrovb.
Sub-lessee, Mr. Robert Brough.
Every Evening! Every Evening!
Tl>€ BroCiib Conjedy Coy.
Wednesday, Nov. 8— The Adventure of Lady Ursula.
Thurs. and Friday, Nov. 9 and 10—Lord and Lady Algy.
Saturday, Nov. 11—-The Gay Lord Quex.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
ST. GEO ROE’S HALL, MELBOURNE-
To-night, and Every Evening !
Dante the Great- Dante the Great-
Assisted by
MDLLE. EDMUNDA AND COMPANY and
THE THEATOGRAPH,
trom the London Palaee, showing animated pictures of
OUR BOYS FIGHT FOR THE ASHES
in the recent test matches in England.
L. J. LOIIR, Manager.
THE MELBOURNE CUP ATTRACTION
EXTRAORDINARY.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
Novelty Shows, Circus and Menagerie,
- - - INCLUDING - - -
HAGENBECK’S ANIMAL SENSATIONS.
LOCATION: FLINDERS STREET.
Last Nights! Last Nights!
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Continued Tumultuous Success of
THE SHOW OF THE CENTURY !
NOVELTIES FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD!
' >AZZLING SENSATIONS and Entirely NEW PEOPLE.
The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act!
The Tiger Riding a Horse!
IE HIGHEST JUMPING HORSE IN THE WORLD,
“ NEWHAVEN.”
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and One Shilling.
J. MORRIS, Agent.
FRANK JONES, Pres* Rep.


ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
FULL SETS, £2 10a.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION,
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Th orough Masticating Power and beau tiful Natural Appear*
anee guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
D.S.MAI R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold engraved Bar Brooches,
English Hall Marked, Name engraved free, 6/-; usual
price, 7/6.
D. S. Mair for Solid 15 carat gold, and first-class Opal
Dress Ring, £ll7/6 ; usual price, £2 10/-.
D. S. Mair for Silver Hunting Keyless Watches, 15/- ;
guaranteed 3 years.
Note address— 6B4 George Street, Sydney.
Musical time
clock.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “ Home, Sweet
.Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisy
Bell,” "Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/-; Carriage paid in N.S.W. 1/2 extra;
any other Colon}', 2/2. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, money refunded.
6 6—A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6.
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese” Silver
Chains(either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bpllktin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box IGG, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how He was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
H )I TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tb« B. aod N-Trcatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying- to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitalil v For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recornnvnded with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of B3AGGS VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Rowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
The Australian Widows’ Fund £ife Assurance Society [td.
rrHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forma of Aesoranoe, Is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
ftSaSSSCEi in the event of tempore, Incepedtr thro«,h Uloea. to a.rn . livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors : .
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman; _
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.(X
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £218,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO - F - MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electno
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
ll’. ,T. y. Oldershaw, "Manager.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harriaon. & Attwood, Sol® Proprietors
W
$ to
4
a
'Own
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY
(
<
■ <
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and. disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
: strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
■ CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
;DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
'Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
! They impart vigor and potency to every function,
- brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and Old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 |
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments. .. .. .. .. 3 3 0 (
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 (
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c. j&L . .
All communications should be addressed to— ST i I
A. D. STEPHENSON, w *- .
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, SydKoy (
REGISTERED
S>
li iljT^
Slight Inflamed EyesSLios
Weak Eyes Dimness ET?
3!M;M7g
531 GEORGE ST
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —■k.
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Clatut.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes ot
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
631 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•XTO DJdJi'Y COMPETITION.
WINES ne Best B &“* 0nlv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor •
G ENTLE M EN .S SIMPLYaWONDEA
30 Days’ Trial
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC KILL’
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in II
stages, however can-d,
and restore the weau-r to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Elool tic
Belts give a steady, s mill-
ing current that can be i It
by the wearer thmiu-h
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a wr let
guarantee with each K eo
trie Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amo-.iit
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promis-.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer thal vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances fer Bill'll
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
scepticaL
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENTY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
INTIMATE STEANGEES.
Suppose a man to have lived fifty years without
ever having seen the reflection of his own face.
Now lead him before a mirror and let him have a
look. He will, of course, recognise the outlines
and general appearance of his body; but bis
features will be as new and strange to him as
those of a person he has never before met. Yet
he has worn that mask all his life; has touched
it with his hands times beyond counting ; has by
means of it expressed the feelings and passions
of half a century; has heard its peculiarities
remarked upon by others —yet bone of his bone
and flesh of his flesh as it is, the glass presents it
to his gaze as a novelty. Fortunately Nature has
so made us that we are commonly satisfied with
our looks, otherwise this man might curse the
hour he first beheld his own countenance.
On a page of a book which lies on my table this
bright morning is picture which—were it pub-
lished without title or description—probably the
most of us would not understand ; yet the original
is vitally important to every human being. No
mirror throws back its structure to the eye, nor
has the owner ever laid hands on it. Neverthe-
less its name is daily on our lips, and on its faith-
ful performance of duty largely depend our
efficiency and happiness.
Still, people are continually alluding to it in
words of wailing, and complaint. They find no
end of fault with it when it goes wrong, and when
it goes right seldom pay it the compliment of
doing good work. “ The way of the world, ” you
remind me ; “ alas ! the way of the world. ”
For example here is one who says that in the
early part of 1890 she began to suffer from a bad
stomach and indigestion. Now the stomach tries
to be good and not bad. It makes constant and
mighty efforts to accomplish its task and so
furnish the rest of the body with health, strength,
and beauty; but it often fails dismally, and then
its owner characterises it as a “ bad ” stomach.
Now who or what is accountable ?
Continuing, our correspondent adds : “I had no
relish for food, and after eating I had pain at the
chest and sides. Whatever kind of food I took
nothing agreed with me. I made use of various
medicines in hopes of relief, but none of them did
me any good. At last a neighbour, Mrs. Tyrell,
told me how she had benefitted—having had the
same complaint—by Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and
| recommended me to try it. Somewhat encouraged
I by what she said, I procured a bottle of this
remedy, and soon found that it relieved me as
nothing else had done. I could eat better, all
food agreed with me, and I felt better every way.
Since that time—now four years ago—l have kept
well, taking an occasional dose Of the Syrup when
I seemed to need it. My daughter suffered from
the same trouble, and Mother Seigel’s Syrup had
the like good effect in her case. You are at
liberty to make any use you like of this statement.’'
-—(Signed) Mrs. Elizabeth Naulty, Forester’s Arms
Inn, 96, Scouringburn, Dundee, July 2nd, 1897.
This lady’s stomach did not become “ bad ” of
“ malice prepense and aforethought, ” as the
lawyers say of certain criminals. The cause lay
in the conditions of her life, her habits of eating,
maybe—with, possibly, inherited weakness.
There are so many things, and combinations of
things, that tend to produce or develop dyspepsia
that it is hard to trace them in individual instances.
The symptoms (or consequences), however, are
more numerous, dangerous, and deceptive than
the uninstructed imagine. It is for this reason
that so great a multitude of alleged “ dyspepsia
remedies ” ai e prepared.
But the “bad” stomach having been slow to
abandon duty and strike work, does not respond
to any and all sorts of drugs that may be thrown
hopefully into it. The cure must be exactly
adapted to the disease, and if there is a medicine
which so perfectly meets this l’equirement as
Mother Seigel’s Syrup the world has not yet beard
of it. The tired and inflamed organ receives it
for the genuine stimulus and healer that it is—
and the “ bad ” stomach is ohanged back into a
good one.
You now guess what that picture on my table
Represents —a machine in your body you will
never see, but which in other ways you may study
and know more about.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cu r e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Sa'e Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIQH GDNS.,IONOQN,ENI.


D.Braham&Co
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeohes Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPOSTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - -
TAILORING
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS I
AT REFORM
PRICES
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and l OUNO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising: One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7l6 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of JSI Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will beoonnscted FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Fun per Cent. Discount allowed/sr Cask Purchases.
EREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may aIBO be paid.
rv-1
; -;,r;iv .’- ft
’ •. v
Ssl2s
RAHERVEY
•17 I C LARENCE ST ’
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SIIEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cknt.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin. dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
XJSE!
Spooper’s
i^oONO^
iROYALNAVY DRESSIHC
FOR
ill BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
Hi; OF ALL DESCRIPWONS
Idireciions for use
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing: Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing: for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
y SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCRASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURF AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be Riven in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou , detec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 02 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY 00.,
271 Collins-strsst. Melbourne.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
SPRING & SUMMER FASHIONS
LADIES
Beautiful spring l and summer weather has come, and
ladies want to wear something seasonable, pretty, and
comfortable. C. G. Hatte’s Home Buyers have despatched
a large and choice assortment of some of the newest and
most fashionable goods, which he is enabled to sell at
E rices which are simply bargains. You can get nothing
etter than the following, and will have to pay nearly
double the price anywhere else.
BLOUSES.
A Nice Assortment, all latest shapes, both Stripes and
Fancy Patterns, from 2s
White Muslin, elaborately trimmed with embroidery, 8/8
Fancy Muslin, in all colors, trimmed lace, 311
SKIRTS AND COSTUMES.
Ladies’ White Skirts, trimmed frill and Torchon lace, 4/6
Splendid variety of colored Zephyr Skirts, trimmed lace,
from 2s llVi>d
Ladies' Black Figured Lustre Skirts, full width, 4/11
Ditto ditto extra wide, 6/11
Ladies’ White Pique Skirts, latest shape, 4/6
Ditto superior (splendid value), 6/11
Ladies’ Norfolk Holland Costumes, from 7/11 to 18/11
„ Pique Eton Costumes, 16/6
„ Pretty Striped Cambric Costumes, for morning
wear, 4/11
„ Lace Shoulder Capes, from 611
„ Lace Threequarter Capes, silk yoke, trimmed with
jet and ribbons, 16/11
Children’s Print Costumes, light and dark colors, 8/11
Boys’ Norfolk Coats, in fawn, navy, and butcher blue,
trimmed braid, 2/11)4
And everything in the way of Parisian Millinery,
Dress Materials —all that is latest and most fashionable —
C. G. HATTIE,
NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
Y\7E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE: —
O* E P*Q P * E O* E D*S* N Y. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Wesleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 29/4/’99.
Dear Sir.—l beg to acknowledge receipt of Watch and
Chain, and am pleased to state that both are very
satisfactory. Yours truly, M. COCK.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
‘Til Try If
fke Only Certain
Moustache Pro »
dues n
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia orNew Zealand.
Pi-lee, 10s. Gd.
Sole Agents:
The Result .
Craig Sc Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
lAIHOND SON 6 BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one
Songs of every country, Including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful hook will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s? 10d. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO, Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-strect, Sydney, N.S.W Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted tor this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
]\|ANON PIANOS
]\[ANON PIANOS
]SJANON PIANOS
j\J"ANON PIANOS
]\JANON PIANOS
/35
OiV.SH or on EA.S‘7
moHOLSoisr
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
terms.
& CO
PERTH.
ASS FOB
XV
WHISKY.
COMBINES PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY.
BLACK
BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE
The London & American Supply Stores.
LONDON S»S!f l i
- - ie»'g»~iggF y
UPPL
ORES
FOB
GENTLEMEN’S
AXD
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHTNa.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
surra
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNS Se CO., Directors.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
-a
\+
V*
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 60., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. beetham a son, Cheltenham, England
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
AA
ffO
iTTEIR. POOD EXISTS.”-
-London Medical Record
SESSSiSSr
essssajgsSSt
CWS^SSSB
£, torimW*. <*>»'«“"»
NSW STYLE.
£ Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers
from birth upwaiuia<
Tib® fi3 Al!e]?!>]b«irys ?? 2
A\alted Food N°.3
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing the
addition of hot
water only.
hitherto known as "Allen & Hanburys Malted
Food ” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS,
INVALIDS) and the AGEF
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Pood Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfords
Ask for
Wbi&ky a(?d
‘Scbv/€ppc’
THE
QUEEN.
BY ROYAL
WARRANT OF ABF OINTMENT TO
SCHWEPPES
SOPAWKTER, St _ _
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS. CLUBS. AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THBOUGHOU
pOe ApCiejg
JOJ >|S\£


7*
$
in
tr»
H 4
A .SAUNDERS
PATENT ELY BACK
SPLIT SECONDS'
o
LCVKK
fs
30
M
W,
wtlHil
Split Becond Fly-back Chronograph and Minute
Bcoorder, £3los ; not split, £2 2a. Speolal value.
18& Odd Heart and Bird, with EUdur | y M f
Diamond, 86a.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Qold Brooch, 18s 0d
16c. Gold, 265; Silver, 4s <Jd.
A. Saunders.
old Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s; 16c. Gold, £2.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10* 6d; lfio. Gold, 21*.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 265.; 150. Gold
£2. Diamonds, as shown, £2 10s. and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six diderent
patterns, similar.
90. Solid Links and Opals, 30s.
16a. Gold, £2 10s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, £2. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s,
20s. Silver, 2s tid, Ss.
French Diamond, Pure Solid
Silver Hat Pin, 4s 6cL An/
Initial.
18a Solid Gold, extra
strong- and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £i.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 203.
Pearl Set, 22s 6cL 150. Gold, £2.
Gold Wish Bone Pearl Set Bee, 17* 6d
16c. Gold, 365.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s; 18a Gold, 20s ; Silver, 8a 6d.
Registered.” 9a Solid Gold, 17* 6d
16a Gold, 80s; 18a Gold, 86s.
180. Gold, 5 flrst-olam
Opals, £2 10s;
Larger, £3 10a.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies, and
4 Diamonds, £3, ±'3 10s
£4. Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, Band
Rings, pure Diamond,
£2, £2 lOs, £3,
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, pure Double-
cut Diamond, £6.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
18c. Gold, 2 Opals and
8 pure Diamonds, £4.
1%
ass
•AC/ 1
V\
W¥
SlS*s
m
WSSi
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE
Wfttch Repairs Guaranteed.
All Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., fOs.
Silver Hunting Keyless, ±2, £2 10s, £8;
Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, t 7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s (jd ; 160. Gold, 25s
A. SAUNDERS’ New Gold Forget-me-not
Heart and Chain Brooeh, Us 6d •
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d. ’
Registered
“Gold Sword"
and
Spray Brooch,
18 Pearls, Ruby,
Or Sapphire, and
Diamond, 26a;
without
Diamond)
22s 6cL
LATEST LADIES’ BAGS.
first-class Pure Diamonds, £10; Diamonds and Rabies, £7 10s.
LATEST STYLE!.
SEND
roR
Prior Lin.
Handsome Gold Necklet and Pure White Pearls, £3 6s; extra heavy. £5.
LATEST LONDON RAGE.
Solid Gold Band.
Opal, 17s 6d;
8 Opals, 22s 6d.
160. Gold, 1 Opal, 80s ;
8 Opals, 355.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
815 <S€ORfi€ STR€€T (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYPHEY.
90. 2-Bar and Bell, 12s 6d ;
Amethyst, 13s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
First-class, Hand-made, Solid Gold Wedding
Rinjr and Keeper, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s. ISc. Gold,
16s ; extra heavy, 265. 18c. Gold, 20s, 80s,
86s, £2. Send (or our Size Card.
On Our Selection.
The chief feature of the new Victorian
Factories and Shops Bill, intended, if the 48 Rich
Landlords graciously permit, to replace the ten-
tative Act which expires this year, is that it gives
power to appoint boards for the purpose of fixing
a minimum wage in all factories. This time
there ought to be a fight to a finish between
the people and the House of Sargood. The 48
Rich Landlords certainly won’t pass such a splen-
did democratic measure without kicking hard.
And the people, if they have any vestige of a good,
comprehensive kick in them, will respond cor-
dially. If the working masses won’t fight in dead
earnest, with road metal if necessary, for their
minimum wage they are tame enough to lend
another fellow their best girl for the asking.
“ Yangan ” : The craving for notoriety at
any price is not confined to civilised woman. In
the Far East it is customary, in cases of death-
sentences, to gratify any reasonable fancy of the
condemned within the last 24 hours. Tobacco,
opium, spirits and gambling paraphernalia are
the usual desiderata; but one man (in British
North Borneo) rose to the occasion, and requested
the companionship of one of the gentler sex during
his last hours. Some 50 applications for the job
were received, and the successful tenderer—who
did not belong to Tottiedom—paid for the privi-
lege ! Officially announced afterwards that this
case did not establish a precedent, and that no
such indulgence would in future be granted.
THE COW WE BOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Dad received £2OO for the wheat he saw
nothing but success and happiness ahead. His
faith in the farm and farming swelled. Dad was
not a pessimist—when he had .£2OO.
“Say what they like,” he held forth to Ander-
son and two other men across the rails one even-
ing—“ talk how they will about it, there’s money
to be made at farming. Let a man work and use
his head and know what to sow and when to sow
it, and he must do well.” (Anderson stroked his
beard in grave silence; he had had no wheat).
“ Why, once a farmer gets on at all he’s the most
independent man in the whole country.”
“Yes! once he does /” drawled one of the
men—a weird, withered fellow with a scraggy
beard and a reflective turn of mind.
“Jusso,”Dad went on, “but he must use his
head; it’s all in the head.” (He tapped his own
skull with his finger). “ Where would 1 be now
if I hadn’t used me head this last season ? ”
He paused for an answer. None came.
“I say,” he continued, “ it’s a mistake to think
nothing’s to be made at farming, and any man ”
(“Come to supper, D — ad I" —’t was Sal’s voice)
“ought t’ get on where there’s land like this.”
“ Land l ” said the man—“ where is it ? ”
“Where is it?” Dad warmed up—“where
isn’t it ? Isn’t this land ? ” (Looking all round.)
“Isn’t the whole country land from one end to
the other? and is there another oountry like it
anywhere? ”
“ There isn’t!” said the man.
“ Is there any country in th’ world ” (Dad lifted
his voice) “where a man, if he likes, can live ”
(“ Dad, tea ! ”) “ without a shilling in his pocket
and without doing a tap of work from one year’s
end to the other ? ’
Anderson didn’t quite understand, and the
weird man asked Dad if he meant “ in gaol.”
“I mean,” Dad said, “that no man should
starve in this country when there’s kangaroos and
bears and (Joe came and stood beside Dad and
asked him if he was deaf) —“ and goannas and
snakes in thousands. Look here 1 ” (still
to the weird man) ; “you say that farm-
ing”—(Mother, bare-headed, came out and
stood beside Joe, and asked Anderson if Mrs.
Anderson had got a nurse yet, and Anderson
smiled and said he believed another son had just
arrived, but he hadn’t seen it) —“that farming
don’t pay ” —(Sal came along and stood near
Mother and asked Anderson who the baby was
like)—“ don’t pay in this country ? ”
The man nodded.
“ It will pay any man who
Interruption.
Anderson’s big dog had wandered to the house,
and came back with nearly all that was for supper
in his mouth.
Sal squealed.
“ Drop it — drop it, Bob 1 ” Anderson shouted,
giving chase. Bob dropped it on the road.
“ Damn it/” said Dad, glaring at Mother,
“wot d’ y’ all want out ’ere ? . . . Y-you brute 1”
(to the dog, calmly licking his lips).
Then Anderson and the two men went away.
*** . *
But when we had paid iB6O to the storekeeper,
and £3O in interest; and paid for the seed and
the reaping and threshing of the wheat; and
bought three plough-horses, and a hack for Dave;
and a eorn-sheller, and a tank, and clothes for us
all ; and put rations in the house; and lent An-
derson -£o ; and improved the Shingle Hut; and so
on ; very littie of the .£2OO was left.
Mother spoke of getting a cow. The children,
she said, couldn’t live without milk; and when
Dad heard from Johnson and Dwyer that East-
brook dairy cattle were to be sold at auction, he
said he would go down and buy one.
* * * *
"Very early. The stars had scarcely left the sky.
There was a lot of groping and stumbling about
the room. Dad and Dave had risen and were pre-
paring to go to the sale.
I don’t remember if the sky was golden or
gorgeous at all, or if the mountain was clothed in
mist, or if any fragrance came from the wattle-
trees when they were leaving; but Johnson, with-
out hat or boots, was picking splinters off the slabs
of his hut to start his fire with, and a mile further
on Smith’s dog was barking furiously. He was a
famous barker. Smith trained him to it to keep
the wallabies off. Smith used to chain him to a
tree in the paddock and hang a piece of meat to
the branches, and leave him there all night.
Dad and Dave rode steadily along and arrived
at Eastbrook before mid-day. The old station
was on its last legs. “The flags were flying half-
mast high.” A crowd of people were there. Cart-
horses with harness on, and a lot of tired-looking
saddle-hacks, covered with dry sweat, were
fastened to cart-wheels, and to every available
post and place. Heaps of old iron, broken-down
drays and buggies and wheelbarrows, pumps and
pieces of machinery, which Dad reckoned were
worth a lot of money, were scattered about. Dad
yearned to gather them all up and cart them
home. Rows of unshaven men were seated high
on the rails of the yards. The yards were filled
with cattle—cows, heifers, bulls, and calves, all
separate —bellowing, and, in a friendly way,
raking skin and hair off each other with their
horns.
The station-manager, with a handful of papers
and a pencil behind his ear, hurried here and
there, followed by some of the crowd, who asked
him questions which he didn’t answer. Dad asked
him if this was the place where the sale was to be.
He looked all over Dad.
» • * •
A man rang a bell violently, shouting, “ This
way for the dairy-cows ! ” Dad went that way,
closely followed by Dave, who was silent and
strange. A boy put a printed catalogue into
Dad’s hand, which he was doubtful about keeping
until he saw Andy Percil with one. Most of the
men seated on the rails jumped down into an
empty yard and stood round in a ring. In one
corner the auctioneer mounted a box, and read the
conditions of sale, and talked hard about the breed
of. the cattle. Then:
“How much for the imported cow, Silky ? No.
1 on the catalogue. How much to start her,
gentlemen?”
Silky rushed into the yard with a shower of
sticks flying after her, and glared about, finally fix-
ing her gaze on Dad, who was trying to find her
number in the catalogue.
“ A pure-bred ‘ Herreford,’ four years old, by
The Duke out of Dolly, to calve on the eighth of
next month,” said the auctioneer. “How much
to start her? ” •> • • ,
All silent. Buyers looked thoughtful. The
auctioneer ran his restless eyes over them.
Dad and Dave held a whispered consultation ;
then Dad made a movement. The auctioneer
caught his eye and leant forward.
“ Five bob /’’ Dad shouted. There was a loud
laugh. The auctioneer frowned. “ We’re selling
cows, old man,” he said, “ not running a shilling-
table.”
More laughter. It reached Dave’s heart, and
he wished he hadn’t come with Dad.
Someone bid .£5, someone else six; seven—
eight—nine— went round quickly, and Silky was
sold for -610.
“ Beauty ” rushed in.
Two station-hands passed among the crowd,
each with a bucket of beer and some glasses.
Dad hesitated when they came to him, and said
he did n’t care about it. Dave the same.
Dad ran Beauty to £3 10s. (all the money he
had), and she was knocked down at £l2.
Bidding became lively. -
Dave had his eye on the men with the beer—he
was thirsty. He noticed no one paid for what
was drunk, and whispered his discovery to Dad.
When the beer came again, Dad reached out and
took a glass. Dave took one also.
“ Have another,” said the man.
Dave grinned, and took another.
Dad ran 15 cows, successively, to £3 10s.
The men with the beer took a liking to Dave.
They came frequently to him, and Dave began to
enjoy the sale.
Again Dad stopped bidding at £3 10s.
Dave began to talk. He left his place beside
Dad, and, hat in hand, staggered to the middle of
the yard. “ Wohl ” he shouted, and made an
awkward attempt to embrace a red cow which was
under the hammer.
“ Sev'n poun’—sev’n poun’ — sev’n poun',” shouted
the auctioneer, rapidly. “Any advance on sev’n
poun’ ?”
“ Twenty (hie) quid,” Dave said.
“ At sev’n poun’ she’s yoiny / ”
“ Twenty (hie) two quid,” Dave said.
“You haven’t twenty-two pence,” snorted the
auctioneer.
Then Dave caught the cow by the tail, and
she pulled him about the yard until two men took
him away.
The last cow put up was, so the auctioneer said,
station-bred and in full milk. She was a wild-
looking brute, with three enormous teats, and a
large, fleshy udder. The catalogue said her name
was Dummy.
“ How much for Dummy, the only bargain in
the mob—how much for her, gentlemen ?”
Dad rushed Dummy. “Three poun’ ten,”
he said eagerly.
The auctioneer rushed Dad. “ Yours !” he said,
bringing his hammer down with a bang. “ You
deserve her, old man ! ” And the station-manager
chuckled and took Dad’s name—and Dad’s money.
Dad was very pleased, and eager to start home.
He went and found Dave, who was asleep in a
haystack, and along with Steve Burton they
drove the cow home, and yarded her in the dark
Mother and Sal heard the noise, and came with
a light to see Dad’s purchase, but as they ap-
proached Dummy threatened to carry the
yard away on her back, and Dad ordered them
off.
Dad secured the rails by placing logs and the
harrow against them, then went inside and told
Mother what a bargain he’d made.
• * • *
In the morning Dad took a bucket and went to
milk Dummy. All of us accompanied him.
He crawled through the rails while Dummy
tore the earth with her fore-feet and threw lumps
of it over tho yard. But she wasn’t so wild as
she seemed, and when Dad went to work on her
with a big stick she walked into the bail quietly
enough. Then he sat to tuilk her, and when he
took hold of her teats she broke the leg-rope and
kicked him clean off the block, and tangled her
leg in the bucket, and made a great noise with it;
Then she bellowed and reared in the bail, and fell
down, her head screwed the wrong way, and lay
with her tongue out* moaning.
Dad rose and spat out dirt.
“ Dear me 1 ” Mother said, “ it’s a wild oow y’
bong lit.” Z
“Not at all,” Dad answered; “she’s a bit
touchy, that’s all.”
“ Site tut-tut -tutched you orright, Dad,” Joe
said from the top of the yard.
Dad looked up. “Get down outer thatl" he
yelled. “No wonder the damn cow’s frightened.”
Joe got down.
Dad brought Dummy to her senses with a
few heavy kicks on her nose, and proceeded to
milk her again. Dummy kicked and kicked.
Dad tugged and tugged at her teats, but no milk
came. Dad couldn’t understand it. “Must be
frectin’,” he said.
Joe owned a pet calf about a week old, which
lived on water and a long rope. Dad told him to
fetch it to see if it would suck. Joe fetched it,
and it sucked ravenously at Dummy’s flank,
and joyfully wagged its tail. Dummy re-
sented it. She plunged until the leg-rope, parted
again, when the calf got mixed up in her legs, and
she trampled it in the ground. Joe took it away.
Dad turned Dummy out and bailed her up the
next day—and every day for a week—with the
same result. Then he sent for Larry O’Laughlin,
who posed as a cow-doctor.
“ She never give a drop in her life,” Larry said.
“Them’s blind tits she have.”
Dad one day sold Dummy for ten shillings
and bought a goat, which Johnson shot on his
cultivation and made Dad drag away.
Q.
STEELE RUDD.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
m
PEftßsl
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
Xmas cards for posting to friends across the sea
arrived and arriving. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, Pitt-sfc.,
have a magnificent assortment of loose and packet cards
for Xmas and New Year. It is now time to see about
getting in supplies if you wish to send to your friends on
the continent. We can supply all the most modern cards
at economical prices. Loose cards from 6d. to 12s. per
dozen (envelopes included), post free. Packet cards, post
free, Bd. to 3s. per packet. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
■
I
■
■
mm
“ Jlevei njind baby! Jl will soon grow now"
‘H ARLENE’
Z HAIB.
The very Finest Dressing*
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff*
Allays all Irritation*
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for usetn
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/«, 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
S. FREEMAN * SONS LHSH
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HIAD OFFICE : WTNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Lond on, EC
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the .Financial Market of London by
fr.jv.ktk: JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland -Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
The Man who Takes the Pace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" Blessed are the pacetakers, for they shall inherit the
earib.”— T7.e Sermon on the Mount up-to-date.
Until the final bell they sound
To mark the final lap,
They watch the “ maker ” lead ’em round
And cover every gap.
He hears the cheers that recognise
His fast, unselfish race—
But he who ever gets the prize
Is he who takes the pace.
The man who strains each nerve and limb,
The man who does the graft,
Is safely, surely held by him
Who’s gently trailing aft.
Too late the speedy leaders find
What tricks decide the deal,
And learn their masters hang behind
In comfort on their wheel.
And far beyond the cycling-track
That sweeping law’s obeyed.
The seas ahead, the plains out-back,
The walks of war and trade;
Out to the "furthest staring star
That swings in utter space
The first and foremost prizes are
For him who gets the pace.
The pioneers have ever shown
Themselves his helpless tools,
He knows that work was made alone
For horses and for fools ;
So leaves the fool to fight and toil,
And when ’tis “ given best”
He makes his dash to seize the spoil
Across the other’s chest.
That he may loot and love and live
The vanguards fight and fall;
The kings of science freely give
Their youth, their life, their all.
The bones of bold explorers blaze
The paths to grass and gold ;
The dead reveal the thing that pays
For him to grab and hold.
However bright the op’ning looks,
The man is lost who grafts ;
The pacer gets his name in books,
The man behind — on drafts ;
On plain and peak, on crag and coast,
In battle, boom, or brace,
The man who pips him on the post
Is he who took the pace !
M‘G.
An English paper, commenting upon a
recent curious tabulation, by nationality, of the
“saints” of the Romish church, asks, “wherein
this galaxy are the British ? ” (and the Germans ?)
There are lots of Italian, Spanish, and French
saints, but never a Deutscher nor an Englishman.
Kisses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JttST wander back along the vistas of memory and
recall a few of them. You have forgotten a great
many, of course, but there are some that burnt
in, and live in your veins, and start throbbing in
your pulse as you remember them. Do you
recollect the evening you leaped up the stairs to
the attic where Lily lived ? You had a pound in
your pocket, and wanted someone to help you
spend it. She was sitting on the table barefoot,
mending her only pair of stockings, and they
were silk, of course —that was Lily all over, to
buy luxuries and scorn necessaries. Her own
photograph was in a silver frame, but she had no
fire, and she owned that her dinner had been a
crust and a cup of tea, but the plate and cup
from which she had eaten were Crown Derby. She
slid off the table and blushed deliciously, and then,
to hide her confusion, and to prevent you seeing
those bare feet of hers, she threw her arms round
your neck and .kissed you. You can remember
every detail of it to this day of course, the little
white feet, the soft arms, the glint of her hair,
dull-red like copper, and it had a way of coming
tumbling down over her shoulders, and her small
face seemed almost lost in the forest of it. You
can remember the little back room, with the last
rays of the sun striking on the engraving of
Andrea del Sarto’s Madonna. There were two
easy-chairs, a table, a bed, and a bear-skin on the
floor. Little else, save theatre-programmes,
dresses, hats, and gaudy French pictures.
“Jack, I love you; you always come when I
most want you.”
“ And I iove you and always want you.”
“ A dear speech. Are we going out together ? ”
“ Yes, put on your stockings and things, and
I have a hansom, and we are going for a drive
through enchanted streets to dinner —you know
where—and as many hours as we choose for our
own in an enchanted city. Sometimes, Paradise
is to be bought with a pound ”
“ I have bought it with two shillings ; do you
remember the evening we went down the har-
bor? ”
Did you remember? But there! it is all part of
the past, but part of yourself, too.
* * • •
One of your chums married, and you went to
stay with the happy pair. He was constantly
away, so you and the bride amused one another.
You had a fine voice, and one night when you
came to the end of “ I fear no foe,” her white
hands sparkling with rings made a crash among
the chords, and she rose and looked in your eyes,
and you saw what each man longs to see in
women’s eyes, yet fears terribly when it lies
across the pathway of his honor. She was very
beautiful, and her two hands were clasped over
her heaving breast, and her lips framed two
words in a whisper, “ Kiss me ! ”
You kissed her, do you remember, and, next
day, you went away with a memory of pride and
loathing, of disgust and longing, for you cared
for your chum. You had the sense to dimly
realise that it was not you she kissed, but the
time, the place, the man— any man.
* * * *
Then there was Jean, who defied you, who
spurred her horse to a gallop, and disappeared
along the bush-road with a wave of her hand, and
you caught her at length, as both horses, blown
and sweating, refused to face the steep, red hill
at other pace than a walk. The road was over-
hung with scented gums and banked with ferns
and moss. Her eyes danced with excitement, her
breath came fast, and then with a sudden turn
you lifted her from her horse to your saddle bow,
and kissed her, despite her vicious threats, her
hands that vainly endeavored to protect her face.
A barbarous courting, but delightful; surely
there was charm in those olden days when one
carried one’s fair one off at a gallop despite
resistance.
* • * •
Then there was Dearest Heart—that was one of
her names; what matter for the one the world
used. Are not her kisses part of your being, even
those light ones that fell like flowers on your
cheek or hair? And then those others, that after
all these years send a thrill along your pulse, as
with closed eyes you remember them. Where did
she live? What matter? She was Dearest Heart,
and in her you found all that you had sought.
She was the dream, the idea, the soul you had
longed for. Her eyes and her kisses made the
world some wonderful Paradise, in which you
two wandered alone hand-in-hand. You found
the meaning of life; and the songs of the birds,
the warmth of the sun creeping to the hearts of
the roses, the south wind with its scents, cried
that Dearest Heart was here, and that Love
began and ended all things.
And the kisses that came before hers were but a
leading up to perfection ; and those that came
after were borne on the wings of the desert wind
from the Dead Sea. For with her Love went
away, and some grinning, sneering Cupid wears
his bow. and sells his darts for gold. For Love
has gone away, and Dearest Heart is dead.
MASS.
Principal features of the Land Boilers
Bill, now before Victorian Parliament: Every
owner of a steam-boiler to report the fact to
inspector under heavy penalty ; inspector to keep
a register of all boilers in his district and inspect
every boiler at least once a year; register to show
age of boiler, name of maker, working pressure,
and other particulars; inspector’s latest certifi-
cate showing, among other things, what pressure
the boiler can stand, to be hung in a conspicuous
place for the information of man in charge ; in-
spector to have power to condemn boilers or order
necessary repairs, and his order to take effect in-
stantly—a condemned boiler has to be put out of
use in just as little time as it takes to blow off
steam and put out the fires.
“Lop-ear” : Gymnastic Forrest, after
consistently opposing Woman Suffrage all his life,
apostatised lately and justified it. “ I don’t like
it to be said this was wrested from the Govt, at
the point of the bayonet,” said John. As an edu-
cational contrast take his bull-headed antagonism
to the goldfields demand for fair representation.
After five long years of bayonet-prodding at his
thick hide all he disgorges is a miserly apology
for a Redistribution Bill, which same he nearly
nullifies by his Woman Suffrage somersault. He
won’t send the Convention Bill to the people
■though a 20,000 signature petition has been laid
under his hoofs to remind him of his pledged word
to the people of Australia. Fact is, the recent
jolts from his Groper rut have about jerked away
his last shred of pretence to even average political
honesty, and leave him plain John, of Bunbury—
the Jarrah Judas.
Startling to learn that the blind can now
be supplied with “electric sight.” Steins, inven-
tor of this application of electricity, is a Russian
resident of London, and though he does not claim
to confer or restore normal visuality, he has given
a strong prima facie evidence that he can supply
an effective substitute. According to the state-
ment of a London pressman : “ I was blindfolded
so effectually that when matches and candles were
lighted before me I could not see them. Then I
was connected with this apparatus. I felt a slight
electrical current passing through my body, and
the darkness passed away and was succeeded by a
light, clear and bright. I saw fingers held up
before me, and a disc that looked like a coin. And
when I was disconnected from the apparatus I
found I was standing just where I was when the
eyes were bandaged. Besides Mr. Steins there
was no one else present.”
The old convict-time ideas are still
rampant in Westralia. Bigjohn Forrest tries
hard to bring his province abreast of the new ways
by hard borrowing—-in the philosophy of primi-
tive Bigjohn a huge debt is civilisation ; but he
can’t shake off the ancient cat-and-gallows frame
of mind, and the Day We Were Lagged is only
yesterday in Groper Land, after all. For instance,
the case of John Pacey, lately tried at Fremantle,
sounds like the clanking of the rusty irons as they
used to be on this side in the days of our grand-
fathers. John is now 62 years of age. In 1864
(35 years ago) he was sent out from England, a
convict with alO years’ sentence. According to
all ordinary arithmetic, he was free in ’74, but
the System never quite lets go its hold on the man
it has captured, and John Pacey isn’t really free
yet. Some time away back in the dark ages he
got a ticket-of-leave, which implied that, wherever
he went, he had to report himself periodically to
the police. Probably he didn’t like the convict
system. Anyhow, all through the last 25 years John
Pacey, whose sentence should have expired in ’75,
has been in gaol off and on —principally for not re-
porting himself —in other words, he has been in
gaol for trying to look like an ordinary citizen and
for his aversion to advertising his far-past misfor-
tunes at the police-station wherever he went.
Last Nov. he was given a three-days’ pass to go
from Perth to Fremantle with the usual proviso
that he must report himself on arrival. Though
the poor old man’s sentence properly expired 24
years ago, the law as it is in Groper Land didn’t
feel equal to letting him out of its sight for more
than three days at a time. He didn’t report —the
ancient who embezzled some money in 1864 had
the same old invincible objection to advertising
himself as a “ lag” ; so the infuriated law hunted
for him till it found him earning an honest living at
Guildford,’ and then it ran him in. But this time
the court decided not to give him the usual two
years that his crime called for. Instead it spoke
to him rather kindly (for Groper Land) and gave
him a new pass, and told him to report himself
carefully, and even suggested that the venerable
whose original sentence expired so very long ago
might shortly “get his liberty.” Verily the Day
We Were Lagged is very recent in Groper Land.


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out Impurities from tUe Mood, brings back an
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves.
give a energy and power.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
P
r\
■
J
f
m
Mrs. It. Kennington, of Station St., Petersham, New South Wales, sends ns
the above portrait of herself, with the following letter:
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative.
“ Some time ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of rheumatism fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible pains, could not eat or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid.
“I did not obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for ‘Sarsa-
parilla.’ My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
“ I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.”
These remarkable results are not due alone to the sarsaparilla, in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. No
other sarsaparilla contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like “Ayer’s.” This is why the people call it
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“Ayer’s ” cures. Yon know this. Yon have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that. *
For removing impurities from the blood, for making thin blood become
rich and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for building up the
nervous system, there is but one medicine:
w
Sarsaparilla
That" Curts.
R9BKS9SS
it Removes Depression.
Ayer’s Pills Act on the Liver, more Bile is Secreted*
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasion* and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. 1* 8d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Oarm, Ulus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Tx>vb and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, ebe. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, 1-s 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3e 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Pate, Dreamer’s
Sure QUdde ; price Is, post Is Bd.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohrotrios. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, ami shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand eld, hut about
which they feel a d&lieacy in consulting their pkysieian. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects ooneeraing mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the notion of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy maenad life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION fiUARANTBED. Oemplete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Sbcjmis of Anornt akd Unu Mauc. 1» «d post free.
Ajm< of Bohns, by Wed Squally, 40 illua. Is Sd posted.
Lotos’s Losses Wretbr, Is post. Gikiral Lktter
Wrotor, Is 6d.
Ison Nod Ku.lt abb Hm Oan» (eoly tree history).
Is 6d posted.
Ebith O’Go&man’s CbstTßwr LiFo Uhtok.oo, Is M post
Uf-to-S>atb Como Rbsixbr (newest), Is «d post tfee.
How to Road Hraiss (Jas. Coates), is (id posted.
Ohbtasso’s Advicb m a Moot uni. is «d pasted.
Wonderful Budget Son* Book, over 860 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of Looooh Sooios, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to MbsHerisb, Is 6d posted.
Evrry Man His Own Oarpsntsr, Is «d pasted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
WILL
ANDRADE
Sc IMPORTER
CHEAP .BOOKS
ADE
PLAIN HOfIC TALK.
$x Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 300 Colored Plates and EmjravinQS, 1008 pages post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Evert Man His Own Builder, 224 illug,rations, Is 6d; tf«ni. Working for
Amateurs, brazing, soldering, gas-fitting, braSs-casting, eta, illus., Is 6d.
Electrical Apparatus for Amateurs, Telephones, Electric Light, boils., etc.
illustrated, Is <3d. How to write Signs, Tickets and Posters, 170 illustrations l’s 6d ’
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Heller the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; posU Is Bd. Speeches and Toast’s, ready made, Is 6d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself post 116. The
Ksyiv Gang (.illus.) post 1/0. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus ), 2/6 •
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d. ’
Comic Reciter, contains 160 gems ; post Is 3d. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian
Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
Ou List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail. ?
will, -Ajaaraaagr a
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREKT,* BtELBOURNE.
The Ways of Many Waters.
By :es' jt. H ' ■
A collection of Ballftds and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
PILLS
F^^.^ ious an< * orvo ' us Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Gostiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
kurbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic —a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9Jd, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. rEmD-RUDO-IE Sc GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 I Oiiiv ST It 13 13 L\ S Y I>N 13 Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by poet from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ta&- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a oountry in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
reoognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Naw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is net 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA &
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Observe the
Signature
to Blue Ink
SC/<
OSS the Outside
every B
ORIGINAL WORCESTER*
Messrs, VIRGQE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
and DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
SB3SV3JS X SH39NIS
oi*3iavnmm
r€
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
Bonnington’s
■
OSS
Instant Relief
Spebdy Cure.


TENNISjGrOODS.
Slazeneer AT London prices.
La Belle, 6/-; Renshaw, 10/6;
Rackets - Pastime, 15/-; Whitehouse, 21/-;
EGrM, 25/-; Boodie, 25-.
Slazene-er tS99 Balls Uncovered, 6/6 ;
® Covered, 13/-.
AvreS - - 1899 Balls Uncovered, 7/6 :
Covered, 14/-.
(Association Bates to Members.)
Tennis Special Quality Rubber on all our
Shoes.
Shoes Prices from 4/- to 25/-.
llubber Goods of all Descriptions.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
in. .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATICFUI*—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST— SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<She Abbot
J. & J. MAXFTKT,!), Pboprs., SHEFFIELD,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark.
CSDOOO®
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BXjOCK:, m
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
mm
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
HOPITEIIT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents: iisiennifc
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter , Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
BUTTER •• • pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price- between Pasteurised, beautifully-fiatfOred butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company. H p^Sl??s“e^|y%»ey.
$
OffiV
<s
VNI
nr
&
THE VERY FACT THAT
23,500 R OCK drills
Have been made and sold by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
500 at the Anaconda Mines, Butte, Mont. 80 at the Homestake Lead, South Dakota.
14 by Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J. . ,
is .the embodiment of all that there is good in
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
OCK
Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads.
12 Standard Types and
many Special Pat
Sole
Manufacturers and' Importers of Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers.
60 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
ENGINEERS’ and
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CEARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WOiv» n iiv'OTON.
TRADE MARK.
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
