

JHEcSWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
•a FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GXJARAKTTBED PURE COCOA A.3XTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
RTGTwATKms'&oa,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, •
—FOB— /, .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
■ SkS
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
y
SOLE AGENTS 24WH5E0
W:
m
Over 2200 IlydrO'Extraot rs Sold and at work
/ANDYCK
CIGARS
7X5
A \rCffy
/LDWtoGRAMr
&AlOK£
@1? 8
IF@K. Is
sypnly|
85 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
stea C m R drTven
HY
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract* etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPAKE PARTS STOCKED
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GUI.BN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
tiih; last op six.
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
k-iX li 'd ! - < i ),>, 'o. GEORGE HOTE Lr°pposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and,.Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guirieas per Week.
HOBART.
" — ms,— •
Hadley’s Orient (jotel.
a/l
oo
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia,
U
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian -Hospitals.
BCigb.es i Awards wherever Exhibited.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
re I SWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE E9M a m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE.
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 19.—N0. 988 !
[Saturday, January 21, 1899.
B postered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transnr'ss : on by Post as a Nswspaper.


The gookfelloai.
A Monthly Magazinelet
Por Book-buyers and Book-readers.
Price, ONE PENNY; send 6d. stamps for six
issues, post-free. . ’
Write for a specimen copy.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. LTD.
214 George-street, Sydney.
Manufactured from the finest American Tobacco by the latest
and most scientific machinery, and backed up by the painstaking
labor, energy and experience of over half-a-century—
EHJLiaHVOIO GOOD
auv
SaiiaHVOIO OHHVO
And so they ought to be!
SMOKE CAMEi
THE RED PAGE.
'Pursuing Literature' it' Australia.
Henry Lawson unburdens his soul—
In the first fifteen years of my life I saw the
last of the Roaring Days on Gulgong goldfield
N.S.W. I remember the rush as a boy might his
first and only pantomime. ‘‘ On our selection ”
I tailed cows amongst the deserted shafts in the
gullies of a dreary old field that was abandoned
ere Gulgong “broke out.” I grubbed, ring-
barked, and ploughed in the scratchy sort of way
common to many “native-born” selectors round
there; helped fight pleuro and drought; and
worked on building contracts with “Dad,-” who
was a carpenter. Saw selectors slaving their lives
away m dusty holes amongst the barren ridges :
saw one or two carried home, in the end, on a sheet
of bark; the old men worked till they died.. Saw
how the gaunt selectors’ wives lived and toiled.
Saw elder sons stoop-shouldered old men at 30.
Noted, in dusty patches in the scrubs, the pile of
chimney-stones, a blue-gum slab or two, and the
remains of the fence —the ultimate result of 10
years, Id years, and 20 years' jiard, hopeless graft
by strongmen Who died like broken-down bullocks'
further out. And all the years miles and miles of
rich black soil flats and chocolate slopes lay idle
because of. old-time grants, or because the country
carried sheep—for the sake of an extra bale of
wool and an unknown absentee. I watched old
fossickers and farmers reading “Progress and
Poverty earnestly and atg.uing oyer it Sunday
afternoons. And 1 wished that I could w»ite
The droughts of the early Eighties, coming with
the pleuro,. the rabbits, crop and vine Elis cases and
other troubles, burst a lot of us round there. Home
old selectors did pick-and-shovel work in the city
or drove drays, while their wives took in washing!
I. worked for sub-contractors in coach-factories
painting; tramped the cities in search of work •
saw the haggard little group in front of tlm board
outside the Herald office at 4 o’clock in the
morning, striking matches to run down the
Wanted coin nine ; saw the slums and the poor
—and wished .that I could write, or paint
I heard Tommy Walker, and Collins, and the
rest of em, a: id, of course, a host of Yankee free-
thought and socialistic lecturers. I wore the green
m fancy,, gathered at the rising of the moon
charged for the fair land of Poland, and dreamed
of dying on the barricades to the roar of the
Marseillaise for the Young Australian Repub-
lic. then came the unexpected and inexplicable
outburst of. popular feeling (or madness)—called
tu6n til© KepuWicaii riots—in J B7, when tlio Sydney
crowd carried a disloyal amendment on the
Queens Jubilee, and cheered, at the Town Hall
for an “Australian Republic.” And I had to
write then or burst. I’hk Bulletin saved me
from bursting.
Youth : The first four fines are the best. Try again.”
Answer s to Correspondents, Bullbtin, June 18, 18,87.
The first four lines were printed. I haven’t felt
so excited over a thing since. The fire blazed
too fiercely to last; but it burned for ten years.
“ H.L. : Will publish your “ Song of the Republic.”
I was up at daylight every publishing morning
and down to the earliest news-agent’s, but “ The
Song of the Republic ” was held over for a special
occasion—Eight Hours’ Day (Oct., 1887). Demo-
cracy and Unionism were alive those times, and
Eight Hours’ Day was called “ The Carnival of
Labour. ”
I was a coach-painter’s improver at ss. per day,
with regular work, and only needed to practise
“lining,” or tracing, to be master of the trade. I
helped write, machine, and publish a flyblister
called The Republican. I wrote some verses called
“The Song of the Outcasts,” or “The Army of
the Rear ” ; also “ Golden Gully, ” “ The Wreck of
the Derry Castle,” and one or two others (re-
jected). I took the parcel down to the old Bulle-
tin office, in Pitt-street, after dusk, intending to
slip it surreptitiously into the letter-box ; but the
charwoman, broom in hand, opened the door
suddenly, and gave me a start. I thrust the
screed into her hands and made off.
In Dec., ’B7, I was coach-painting at Windsor,
Melb., for Gs. a day, when J got my first Xmas
Bulletin. I tore it open, tremblingly ; glanced
through it, to make sure I was there; and
hid it in a hearse I was “rubbing-down”
for the boss was a fierce Wesleyan. I
rubbed hard with the pumice-stone till my heart
didn’t thump so much, and I felt cabner. I stole
glances, behind the hearse, at “Golden Gully”
and ‘ ‘ The Wreck of the Derry Castle, ” and the
kindly editorial note to the effect that I was a
mere lad (aged 19), earning a living, under diffi-
culties, at house : painting, and that my education
was, as yet unfinished (N.B. —I couldn’t spell), and
that my talent spoke for itself in the following
poem. I was in print, and in the Xmas number of
a journal I had worshipped, and devoured every
inch ofy for years. I felt strong and proud enough
to clean pigstyes, if need be, for a living for the
rest of my natural life-provided The Bulletin
went on publishing the poetry. Varnish on old
hearses is hard as Hint; but I made a good job of
that one, and a quick job—for I “rubbed down ”
on air if I didn’t walk on it. It was the shortest
eight hours’ graft I ever did.
. When house-painting on Mt. Victoria early in
’BB (Bs. a day—trade Was good then) I got my
first cheque, £1 75., from The Bulletin. It was
totally unexpected,' for, being in constant work
and getting what I thought such a grand outlet
reo(^r> t f ! 10U8 ' hfcS T? fe , elin o s > I hadn’t dreamed of
receiving payment for literary work—which might
ft™ 1 t rd faC n for th ® Present cashier of The Bul-
But before that 1 had written
and worked, and I have written and worked since
tor Australian unionism and Democracy— for no-
tning. 1 had a strong, deep-down feeling against
taking money for anything I wrote in the interest
about— CaUSe 1 believed ln > and 1 felt red-hot
I hate the wrongs I read about ! I hate the wrones I see!
The marching of that Army is as music unto me !
—“ Army of the Rear," ’B7.
X went a bit mad over—
We’ll make the tyrants feel the strength
Of those that they would throttle !
nee d not say the fault is ours
if blood should stain the wattle !
Freedom on the Wallaby," ’99.
-“ I believed what I wrote was true.
When out of graft awhile in Sydney I helped
turn the old Republican machine, and wrote
h aces m the Street, ” for which I received a
guinea. Along in these times I wrote bush
ballads for the T. and C. Journal, but only
got an occasional half-sovereign. I tried “Tom’’
Butler of. the Freeman'* Journal, of whom
1 have kindly recollections. He told me when T
first.saw him that they didn’t pay for poetry, but I
might bring something round to him; arid if it
was fairly good and suitable for his readers, he
' v T ol;ld see wiiafi he could do. I wrote a few bush
rhymes for him ; whenever I brought one round
he reminded me that they didn’t pa/ for verse—
except, perhaps, at Xmas, and by special arrange-
ment, or tor special stuff ; and whenever he wrote
me a cheque lie never failed to draw my attention to
trie tact that the Freeman's Journal didn’t nay for
poetry, Ti, T and C. proprietary treat, 1m ■
a tittle better later on—but only took Xmas
matter; and, when I got “finally” hard-up in
Sydney, contributed £1 towards my fare to Maori-
land.
But it was before that -in ’8!)-that I went to
Albany, W.A. I painted-; and wrote articles
at a penny a. line for a local paper.
Game back, and lmng out for the best part of
.*() m a third-rate hash-house in Sydney, where I
got some good “copy.” Up country again, and
started house-painting at Bs'. or 9s.' a day, with
every prospect of a good run of work ; but one day
as 1 was painting a ceiling, 1 got a telegram to
say that Brush. Boomerany offered £2 per week
mid a position on the staff.' [ was doubtful of my
abilities, and wired to an old friend in Sydney for
advice. He advised accept; so L accepted.
it was the first, the last, and only chance I got
in journalism. L wrote pars.,' sketches, and verse'
for six months for the £2; and barracked,
siwre tunes, for Democracy, in the Brisbane
M orker, for nothing. 1 got very fond of the work,
ami was with'difficulty, kept out of the office on
Sundays, publishing days, Saturday afternoons,
and other holidays, f might, have been an experi-
enced journalist to-day, with a good “screw ” and
no ambition, but the Bq&nereiuy “ghost” was
fading fast. We hashed up a couple of columns of
pars, from the country papers every week, with
the names of the papers attached -to curry favour
with the country press; and I conceived
the idea of rhyminy this “Country Crumbs”
column, and having it set as prose, and kept
two columns a week going for a couple of months!
You can rhyme anything if you stare at it long
enough between whiles of walking up and down
and scratching your head.
Perhaps the “Country Crumbs” in prosy
rhyme had the same effect on the readers as at
first on the comps. ; anyway the spectre grew less
and less discernible, and deputations of comps,
went up oftener to the sanctum to discuss the in-
advisability of their taking shares in the paper in.
Part-payment of wages. A piece J wrote, caJled
the Gambaroora Star,’’was the Boomer any' a own
epitaph.
I came south, steerage, with £2. It wasn’t the
first tune I went saloon and carno back steer-
age, so to apeak. I got as far as Bathurst
once, during an unemployed period, and came
back m charge'of the guard.
I hung out (with difficulty) in a restaurant in
(Sydney, getting an occasional guinea from The
Bulletin, and painting for nigger-driving bosses
at ss. a day. Hard times had come to Sydney,
and it took a good, all-round tradesman to be sure
of seven or even six “bob” and fairly constant
graft. When the trade failed me I used to write
a column of red-hot socialistic and libellous politi-
cal rhymes for Truth. I .still believed in revolu-
tions, and the spirit of righteousness upheld me.
Truth’s “ghost ” was eccentric, and the usual rates
for outside contributions were from ss. upwards ;
but John JN orton gave me 15s. to£l, for special stuff.
He cursed considerably; and there were times
when it wasn’t advisable to curse back ; but he
saw that I, and one or two other poor devils of
scribblers on their uppers, were paid—even before
the comps. I haven’t forgotten it.
lowards the end of ’92 I got £5 and a rail way-
tieket from The Bulletin and went to Bourkc.
Painted, picked-up in a shearing-shed, and swagged
it for six months ; then came back to Sydney “in
charge of five trucks of cattle.” Bourkc people
will understand that dodge. (Most of my hard-up
experiences are iri my published books, disguised
but not exaggerated.)
Most of the matter in “ While the Billy Boils ”
(and some of what my reviewers considered the
best) was written for Syd. Worker for 12s. 6d. a
column. During one of the frequent interregnums
I edited the Worker a while gratis, on the under-
standing that I should get the permanent editor-
ship for “the Cause” didn’t loom so big in my
eyes as it used to, and I was only then beginning
to find ofit that others had not been quite so
enthusiastic as I was. But that mysterious inner
circle, the trustees and their friends, brought an
editor from another province.
Towards the end of ’93 I landed in Wellington
with a pound in my pocket—just in time to see the
women vote for the first time. Got a little painting
to do now and then, and a guinea (5s. “ out of the
editor’s pocket,” I understood) from the N.Z.
Mail for a 1| col. rhyme called “For’ard.” And
I wrote some steerage sketches at the rate of 5s. a
ool. Did a three-months’ unemployed “ perish, ”
and then went with a mate to a sawmill in the
Hutt Valley, for a boss who had contracted to
supply the mill with logs. We two bullocked in
a rough, wet gully for a fortnight—felling trees,
making a track for the bullocks, and “jacking”
logs to it over stumps and boulders. But we
were soft and inexperienced, and at the end of the
fortnight the boss said we weren’t bushmen—
which, strange to say, hurt me more than any ad-
verse criticism on my literary work could have
done at the time. The boss had no cash ; and my
mate was only restrained from violence by the
fact that he was a big man and the boss a little
one. He gave us each an order for our wages on
the owner of the sawmill in Wellington, and, as
we, had no money for railway fares, we “tramped
it ” —twenty miles, without tucker or tobacco.
Those orders have not been cashed yet.
I house-painted a bit; then got am with a
ganging lineman on a 'telegraph line in South
Island. It was hard graft at first, througfh
rough country, in the depth of winter, and eamp-
ing-out all the time—humping poles some times
where tlie traqe-horses,couldn’t go. Thg boss was
a bit of a-driver, with a fondness for “hazing”
the gang when his liver went wrong ; but it’s
better to be driven to the lamefit of your muscles,
general health, and consequent happiness, than to
be brain-sweated in the city to the danger of your
reason through brooding over it: In four or five
months I was too healthy to read or write, or
bother about it, or anything, or to hate anybody
except the cook when “dun” didu’t eventuate at
reost> 11 able intervals. But there came ,i letter from
the Worker people to say that a Daily Worker ha i
been successfully floated, and tlicre was a place
for me on it. 1 said, “Get behind me, Litera-
ture ! ” hut she didn’t ; so I tiir -w up the hillot,
and caught a steamer that toitulied the coast to de-
liver poles. I arrived in Sydney three days after
the Daily Worker went bung.-
After a deal of slut filing humbug, I was put on the
Weekly Worker as “provincial editor,” but in a
month I received a notice, alleged too-omefrom I lie
trustees, to the effect that, on account of the
financial position of the Workers’ Union, they
were regretfully ol> iyed to dispense with my ser-
vices “ for the present, at least.No one was re
sponsible for the baity Worker, nor for the thousand
pounds sunk in it, nor the crowded staff, exorbitant
“screws” and gross mismanagement of the WerHy
Worker, nor for me- -except, perhaps, the “last
committee.”
House-painting was dead ; clerical work was
always out of the question— I couldn’t add a
column of figures without hanging on like grim
death till 1 got to the top, and two trips with
poor results utterly demoralised me. Deafness
stood in the way of a possible Government billet.
My two books published by Angus and Jtobert-
son, “ In the Days When the World was Wide ”
and “ \V bile the Hilly Boils,” are advertised as in
th.ir seventh thousand and eighth thousand re-
spectively. The further is sold to the public at8s.;
the latter has been sold in various editions at
from os. to 2s. fid. My total receipts from those
books have been something over .£200 ; and .1 have
sold the entire rights. The hooks represent the
cream of twelve years’literary work. 1 estimate
my whole literary earnings during that period at
£700.
I went to W.A. again, painted houses, and
wrote a little for the Western Mail people—who,
by the way, didn’t treat me so badly. Came
back, went to Maori land again, and taught school.
L had a wife by this time. When I came back to
Sydney last year there were three in the party.
Up to a couple of years ago The Bul-
letin paid me at the fixed rate of a guinea a
column; but advances written off and special
prices for special matter brought it nearer 30s. per
col. all through. The only thing I have to com-
plain about with regard to The Bulletin is that
the paper is unable to publish the sketches and
stories within reasonable time. Some of mine
published lately were written and paid for as far
back as ’91. While the publication of “ W.B.B.”
was being arranged for The Bulletin held some
stories and sketches which were to Complete the
“Steelman ’’and “ Mi tohell ’’series ; and, as The
B. could not rush them through, an idea of having
the matter arranged with an eye to sequence had
to be abandoned/ Which explains the apparently
hap-hazard appearance of the order of the stories
arid sketches in that volume, and will be respon-
sible for the same thing in my next prose volume—
which will contain-some introductory sketches to
others in W.B.B.
There are, perhaps, a score of Australian writers
known to The Bulletin, and. most of thorn little
more than lads, who could write better stuff .than
has been appearing in the shoal of popular English
magazines lately (no offenoe intended); but they
have no scope, and, as far as I can see, no hope of
future material encouragement from the “great”
and wealthy Australasian weeklies and dailies,
only-one or two of which (excepting'the Sunday
Times) that I know of have, up to date, offered
even the most niggardly assistance to purely Aus-
tralian writers, and this only after The Bul-
letin had introduced them and established their
Australian reputations. Many papers, notably
in Maoriland, clip .their racy Australian sketches
from The Bulletin ; and in at least one nf
offices that I know, and have a
for, it would be thought an act of charity to X
a hard-up Bulletin writer ss. per eol •wKiiT"
another it would be a mark of special £
offer him a chair I have stood (and walked up
and down and boiled over) for two hours in the
passage outside the office of a paper which had
been “clipping ” my work for years, and tins
because they knew I was hard-up and wanted
them to pay for a contribution by way of a change
Meanwhile, our best Australian artists and
writers are being driven to England and America
—where the leaders are making their mark and a
decent living; and the rest would follow in a lumn
if they got the show; y
, The work of some of those who have gone
brightened Australia for years, yet no one asked
how they lived; and no one, in all the wide 4us
tr as, stood up and asked whether a native-born
artist or writer went aboard the boat with a
decent suit to his back, or a five-pound note in his
pocket. And they talk about our “cheap,” “un-
healthy ”or “affected pessimism ” ! The fools !
A last word for myself. I don’t know about
the merit or value of my work ; all I know
is that I started a shy, ignorant lad from
the Bush, under every disadvantage arising from
poverty and lack of education, and with the extra
disadvantage of partial deafness thrown in I
started with implicit faith in human nature, and a
heart full of love for Australia, and hatred for
wrong and injustice. 1 taught mvself a trade—
the first years in Sydney I rose at five o’clock in
the morning to go to work with a rough crowd
ill the factory of a hard taskmaster ; and
learnt the little 1 did at a night-schoof; and
1 worked even then, before 1 could write
for a okuse I believed in. I sought out my
characters and studied thfeui ; I wrote of nothing
that 1 had not myself seen or exftarieneed : I
wrote and re-wrote painfully, and believed that
every line was true and for the right. 1 kept
Steady and worked hard for seven years, and that
work met with appreciation in Australia and a
warm welcome.in .London. When desperately
hard up and with a wife to provide for, X at last
was forced to apply to the Govt, for temporary
work. T was kept hanging about the office
for weeks; and when, as a last resource, 1
applied for a railway-pass for a month to
enable me to find work in the country arid
gather now. material for literary work, I did
not receive a reply. I was obliged to seek the
means of earning-bread and butter from the Govt,
of a province (.M.L.) in whose people’s interests X
had never written a line. .
My advice to any young Australian writer
whose talent® have been recognised, would be to
go steerage, stow away, swim, and seek London,
yankooland, or Tim buetoo—-rather than stay m,
Australia till his genius turned to gall, or beef.
Or, failing this and still in the interestsnf human
nature aitd literature—to study elementary ana-
tomy, especially ins applies to the cranium, and
then shoot hirnsulf carefully with tl)o aid of a
looking-glass.
HENHY LAWSON.
H.': bydnoy•slang includes heartbrcakers i tricky
little artificial curls worn on the temples by males. Also,
to Khnw Vove lndih'rg is t. 6 hold or sway the dress so as to
reveal glimpses of dainty underskirts'.
lie “tx.13.” on Mark Twain. No
one can find fuult with the riifht of a writer to term the
man who conceived Hack 'Kirin a “ pigmy,” or to say that
he is conceited. So were Gladstone, Disraeli, liradlaugh ;
and so are almost all the great inert of to-day. Hut surely
Twain has a right to express his literary likes and dislikes,
and if he cannot read Thackeray he is not the only one
who has failed, Twain, however, is not hypocritical
enough to say what he does not think, and his remarks
on the “ Vicar of Wakefield” convinced me of his sin-
cerity, even were his taste in question. He says of it in
one of his magazine articles : “ That strange menagerie
of complacent hypocrites and idiots, of typical Cheap
•John heroes and heroines who are always showing off, of
bad people who are not interesting, and'good people who
are fatiguing. There is not a sincere line in it—not a
character that invites respect.” t re-read “the Vicar”
after reading this wholesale condemnation, and can only
say; “ Them’s mv sentiments.” Voltaire has given us in
“ Candide ” a lesson on the folly of pretending to appre-
ciate authors simply because of their reputation, when
he makes l’ocnourante say of Homer—" It is a book one
must have in one's library simply as a monument of anti-
quity ; just like those rusty old coins no longer used in
commerce. . . . Fools admire everything contained in a
celebrated author. I read only for myself, and I only
care for that which suits myself,” Put Mark Twain in
the place of Voltaire, and you have his views to a T.


0
-FREEHAH
& WAIUCE
Sydney’s (eadiny Specialists
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUTVg MEN.
_ nf Dreaded Diseases which
Symptoms destr oy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number S.Sjtl'.h
assw±»i=ssc igg-s
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
rlvkSer' gtsTaJSisaaS
ofthoiuands. When they would make niwrygd
“Sto’p”“.e H(i l r' nt It l turM“wht mto darkness!
It £S™ . eloud ot gW and topjW™
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peSe of mind and blights every hope of the
future It says to the young, unmarrned man,
‘‘Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoo
Thi, U . mo,.
Miwr s z 'ZisFgS'R 2*5.. *£ '*2rs**rj£ sass^e
compassed with all the horrors imaginable « that the bones begin to decay, and
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its hist stagesu watery, your throat and tongue
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you Don’t wait until you
poison, we would implore you to take treatment withou - POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
are a complete physical wreck We have sooner treatment is commenced the
affliction. We treat and cure blood poiso ■ y > j B t a ges your system can be cleansed
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or effect a cure of blood poison-
speed ily and permanently. A ionger course tm< c (j RB ABSOLUTELY and DERMA-
ZS K. ReL“ e,' £»' be prepared add »e»t you, and you e.n be cured at borne.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
AT LAST
60 Engravings.
16 colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
N*iVo(is Debility, LoSS of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS not a chance 7 or
course of home treatment especially prepar attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is a^n
natural affliction. .In its early stages it ’ s d n0^a^ OU n t ain. At first, the only symptom, noticeable
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends a o future . Your sleep at night is not
is a feeling of unrest, attended by fortStv-you are troubled with stup.dness, bashfulness
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion tor socic y y , lurDOse in life is aimless. You find
and loss of energy. . You soon become hts run more or less to suicide The cemetery
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage - h fchose beneath the sod. \ ou grow inelan-
looks beautiful, and you think of f You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. . , { rnmnles. It is the broad and certain
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking- P better nature. Don t
„ A PREMATURE DECAY. Stop fo.r a—to, N«.ou, Debility,
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. affliction. We can cure you
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and Jearn tlie ext y i us tre to yo ur eyes, and
speedily and permanently. W.» S Don't del.y. Immediate
make of you a perfect inan-with an object in life amDinous
action is far the best.
-
II
ii
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years It "aps your life’; blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue and it becomes‘dailyThe more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
1 ake time by the forelock—nip your affliction
in its incipiency— and you will save yourself both
iLa money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men for
society marriage, and the sacred duties of life
Skin eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles and fistula. No pain N° OTttuj case. No matter what your affliction
are;r P «ed Pe “. you every advantage, ab.hty, expense, modem
•VXE&Si&ttZ* your - j-jf-
anything hack. All commnmcat.ons are eacredly
confidential.
Nine Diploma, and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALE LETTERS TO-
I
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1359.
ft
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered m London and the Co on.es as a P
and Surgeon, received his education in the Enel.sh and Scottish unmrs. and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of pRIVATE nervous & SKIN DISEASES.
DR.
GIBBONS,
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has d s covered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by h,s
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in h.s profession, various dmeases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and Buffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely Frequent headaches, g>
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ottull
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade tender
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear memory
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or » K y
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consult him, tor he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POUT FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires ad vice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
n:i*
If, in writing, you do nob feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very puresb
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of. Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor ” Box 230 G.P.O., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSUL! AllOJN ±
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young: and
Old IVlen ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain sa.ne easily
and permanently Prof.
Read's LIFE SYRUP cures the most obstinate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, &c. A Written
Guarantee given mall cases Ihe Life Syrup
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the semma vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdram of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how al.
nervous disorders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St.,MelDourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TKADE
TH ERA PI 0 N
MARK.
This successful ami highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by tticord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought m a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everythingbilherto employed.
THERAPIOIM No. 1
ilia remaika'dy short time, olten a lew days only,
removes ait discharges from the urinary org.uis,
suoerseding injections, the use of which does me-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stnctuie
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impu™ of the blood, scui vy pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury
sarsaparilla, *e„ to the destruction of sufferers
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality .liaiasting
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
earlv error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates &c. It possesses surprising power in
THERAPION'";“X!
Chemists and Merchants througnout the World.
Price in England 2/0 & 4/6. In ordering state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ THBRAI’IOK ’’ as it appears on the Government
gtamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
everv package by order of Her Majesty s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrapion— FELTON, GRIMWADE Ss Co., and ROCKE, & Co.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
\7m. LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street. Melbourne.
The Hollauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured. . .
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NOTE-
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NS W.;
or Box 775 G.P.O., Sydney.
Dr. li. Clayton’s
MARVELLOUS
VITALITY PILLS
Are tne best medicine on earth for the Permanent Cura
of Nervous Exhaustion, Debility, Despondency, Rheuma-
tism, Paralvsis, Inipotency, etc., and all diseases arising
from Overwork, Worry, Excess, Female Weakness, etc.
No matter how caused, or how long standing. These Pills
are purely a vegetable compound, made from rare and
fine drugs. Success guaranteed. Literature free on
application. Full directions around each box. In boxes
at 6s. and 10s., post free from the Dr. H. CLAYTON
MEDICINE COMPANY, Box 617 0.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
ATROPHY
IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the ve-y first hour of its use. Strength,
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
, book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address: —DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found m the
“Xiiglit aud
Tms valuable Medical Book will be seat Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
AdAre9M "ftnJSS»J. 78 Hunter-*., SYDNEY.


ATTERSALL’S
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Ilolbart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To be Drawn on the Anniversary Handicap,
Address
HOBART C. February 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me • shares in the above.
N ame,
Address
LAUNCESTON C
February 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me,
shares in the above.
Name
Address
COOTAMUNDRA C. February 8.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
Name
Address _
£ : :
BALLARAT C. March 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


I)* (aIaSS
of FaSbioo
• ijORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . • •
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
is NOW
READY.
KUo we have published, for the convenience
resident? in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Carpett and°Art Decorations
saarm- «««
Proceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and Ceneral Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney
\
N
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood Logs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24c Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Qauid graham $ go.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - AT REF ™
AT REF^^ Eg , TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Cloth’ng :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
“Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness aryl
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
(Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
j. A. Chalmers, Acent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
■ml
lEAF
6 DOW RIDGE'S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
J
Ml
c rO TO HELL"
IGOI/AND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagci),
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney..
Australian Stamps bought, price-
list# gratis.
I . --. , . | Established 1849.
7\CiStraliao M<it(ial p ro yjdent Society,
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established “
The ° ld Australasia , and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EY ERY YEAR.
Directors --The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L:A., Chairman; T Hp s - LITTLEJOror, Esq., Deputy-
“ainJn; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT Esq. WALKER JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq • R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOL, .r.A.,
An mini Income Exceeds Two Millions Stirling.
Accumulated Funds .. .. Fourteen and a-Hali Millions Sterling.
The PASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yie ng
The OAbtl BUJNU» lor lu Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
TT„ af i office : 07 Pitt-street. Svdney.
±ie ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
OS’ Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
[
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest
H. HILLIER. 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
/tARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
v AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest re atlons ip m
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
y. THE HOST delicious sauce in THE WORLD.
6,2,192 BOTTLES SOLDJN ONE
mli soTd s annua™ s BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS-
Sold In Bottles, 6d M I/-, and a/- each. _
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKH OU S»^ , LEEDS ’ ENG
Sole Agents for Ncw v htrEETS SVDNET.
TIEEOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS,
IHE
• plum ’
THE
‘ Plum’
(
1 ENTLEMEN who find their Razors nnsati sf^.p 6 red, ‘SrfoJtly* hollow froun™
y J trial. This razor is superior to any other. It if**£*”? ? trad ' eBm en ourselves, we know the
assa®SESSs&tss.“““"“
“ ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, «.«** leftfcher *
Price {IS g£J; £ fi’.”; P* rAA i'vory IvnM* tog-ww «"• •*•
Ibm.l.Kaeo ' Itci/istered and sent Post Free U an, ,art of the v*M
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial chequ .
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
TM.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
JSr Saddlery Manf
193 to 195 Clevcland-street, Bedfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit Do you want * SOT-KT,
rasa saw
best and strongest in Australia, £ll- « Bugg»es,
description of
Ve HAWIE^^^d^A^DIJERY
p-felSE^
| you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Bed fern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Note to Nell.
(Per favor of THE BULLETIN. )
I watched the full harvest-moon springing,
White-faced, o’er the rim of the .
And the soldier-birds homeward went wingin B
While all for a moment was still-
Now round my camp crickets are che p n >
And yonder, in accents more hars ,
The bull-frogs, awakened from sleeping.
Chant hoarsely their tunes in the marsh.
The pine in my camp-fire is crackling,
The summer night gathers m soon,
Though a jackass, belated, is cackling
At the placid white face of the moon ;
On the sward the soft shadows are lying
Vague and dark—as the moon-shadows do,
And gently the night-wind is Sl^'i n g ,
And its sigh sets me sighing—for you .
As the tired bird at evening flies restward
When the gay, garish daylight is done.
So the broken-up bushman hies westward
When he’s finished and paid for his fun.
Yes, it strikes one as rather a pity
So many things chanced to go wrong,
Or I might have been yet in the city.
Not hereabouts—singing this song l
Well! this jingle I send you to tell you
You still are “ the dearest and best,
And there’s one fellow will not forget you
When roving about in the West ;
But the low-burning pine-log gives warning
To end this (I write by its light),
There’s a long stage to ride m the morning
So Sweetheart, so-long—and Good-JNight!
BREAKER.
That Day at Boiling Downs.
He was driving Irish tandem, but perhaps I talk
I’d forgotten for a moment you are not all mulga-
WhaTf mean’s he had his swag up through his
having knocked his nag up ;
He had .smio in off the Cooper-anyhow, that s
what he said. , , ~ . ,
And ho looked as full of knowledge as a thirty-
As Imanswered to the question—“ How’s things
look the way you come?
“ Well, they were a trifle willing for a bit. 1 Meres
been some killing ; , .
In fact, I’m the sole survivor of the district
mine’s a rum ! ”
Then we all got interested in the chap as In-
divested , , ... , .
Himself of a fat puppy that he carried in his
But he said no more until he had put down his
swag and billy . .
And had taken off his bluchers just to empty out
Bits^of o cork were tied with laces round his hat in
manv places,
Out of which he gave the puppy some refreshment,
and began— ■ ~ .. . .
“ Sammy Suds was bound’ry-riding, quite content
and law abiding, , „
Till he bought some reading-matter one day off a
hawker man.
“ Then he started to go ratty, and began to fancy
that he , , . ,
Was an Injun on the warpath ; so he plaited a
Shaved and smear’d his face with raddle, and
knocked up a greenhide saddle,
After creeping on his belly through the grass a
mile or two. . . .
Then he decked himself in feathers, and went out
and scalped some wethers —_
Just to give himself a lesson in the sanguinary
Sammy’then dug up the hatchet, chased a snake
but couldn’t catch it,
Killed his dog, lassooed a turkey, scalped the cat
and made a start.
“ And he caused a great sensation when he landed
at the station ; , . ..
And the boss said, ‘Hello! Sammy, what the
devil’s up with you ?’ , , .
‘lam Slimy Snake the Snorter, wretched pale-
face, crave not quarter ! ’
He replied, and with a shot-gun nearly blew the
boss in two. ... .
Next, the wood-and-water joey fell a victim to
his bowie, .
And the boss’s weeping widow got a gash from
ear to ear, . ,
And you should have seen his guiver when he
scalped the bullock-driver .
And made openings for a horse-boy, servant-maid,
and overseer.
“Counting jackaroos and niggers, he had put up
double figures,
When ensued his awful combat with a party of
new-chums, , , ,
All agog to do their duty, with no thought of
home or beauty, , , ,
But he rubbed them out as rapid as a school-boy
would his sums. , ,
Out across the silent river, with some duck-shot m
Went the store-man, and a lassooed lady left in
the same boat.
Sam then solved the Chinese question—or at least
made a suggestion— ,
For he dragged one from a barrel by the tail and
out his throat.
“But, with thus the job completed, Sammy he got
overheated T fit , ..
And dropped dead of apoplex.v-I felt better
when lie did! . ... T ,,
For I’d got an awful singeing while I d watched
this mulga engine
Doing all that I’ve related—through a cracked
brick oven-lid. _
And when now I find men strangled, or I come
across the mangled ,
Corpses of a crowd of people or depopulated
Or even a blood-stained river, I can scarce repress
o shiver
For my nerves were much affected that day out on
‘ Boiling Downs.’”
JACK MATHIEU.


WASHINGTON H SOUL &C°
EADiNC Chemists
l/MS/DNEy *
S?EP\
WITH
EVERY NOVELTY
L
Brushes
[W
giP? cture *
.W— CU4W4NTEG T«t OtCE-LLE/vC£'&*;0 tCE - LLE/v C£'&*;
iliOYtßs Baking RoWfii®
PERFUMERY
The Australian fjjidoois’ fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
T IIIS , SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRAL! A
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A I aia-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors :
lion. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. IT. CAItRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.G.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed. £1,300,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE
Write for Special Prospectus.]
Annual Income exceeds £211,000
STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A-sfe for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
GOODfILL’Si
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Puddiug. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to'all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
raenditto housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveitatrial
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TfLLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
WHAT THINK YOU OF
P«B
ROOFING
[COPY.]
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD., Merchants,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs.—We have built an office of your Ruberoid, and
cooler than our old office, built of iron and wood lining-, under
Yours faithfully,
(Signed)
Albury, Dec. 10,1898.
find it is from 25 to 27 degrees
similar conditions.
HAYES BROS.,
Millers, Albury.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross& Jack, Agents,Custom-house Quay, Wellington,N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Piibrson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents ; E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
ITEM DOTS SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
EEDEIiAL PALACE HOTEL
• MELBOTJRJVTE •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
ss. to 12s. per Day ... j- Inclusive Terms ■{ . . 2os. to £3 10s. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY —at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two Dining Rooms (2S. 6D. &. IS.) and Cafe.
VISITORS
to SYDNEY
iPfUMW
HHI
1
MPIWM
tru] ;7>3 JrO?IEJFJ
’CTIOBW
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern of
Sydney’s hotels —
Tattersall’s^.
HOTEL
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
10s. per Day.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
TARIFF:
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
[ondonQental
Institute.
Dr. S. T.KVEH, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASH EH, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain; also to fill Teeth without future.
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY— 9B KING ST., SYDNEY— ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVE HT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Ig unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is Ik'd each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT A COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Mark
D-C-X/
fcot
Compakvl?
edihburgh. •“**
53
•V"‘
>U AH/
prink
Ploderately.
Take a little Whisky
“forthestomaeh’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotcli is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“ D.C.L." stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘D.C.L.’
The London & American Supply Stores
► tjm.
jdah.
& American
. . FOR . .
GENTLEMEN’S
ANll
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING ft HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BCURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
A. W. FERNE & CO., Dirootors
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
Hie Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HISTORY Of
YANKEE DOODLE.
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
It) An?*rica.
ID Australia.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head filing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight, The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to jDroduce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD TN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Y ales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY FOR HIMSELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 988.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1899.
Prick 6d.
THE NEWSPAPER JN THE FAMILY.
The disaffected carpenters and Joiners, who
claim the right from the Hulldoiw and Con-
tractors' Association of a minimum wage of
9H per day. struck jvtfrk this looming.
I,—Cissy : “ Pft, can I have the paper when
you’ve finished 1 ”
Ethel : “No ; Vos I spoke for it first! ”
Archie : “ No, no ; I’m the oldest and ort to have
it first.”
Pa (between thrills) : “Now,
if you quarrel, you shan’t, any
of you, have it. Besides, I’ve
promised it to Aunt Jane.”
i (Chorus of howls.)
During the past year the Commissioners
j.f Taxation have tested the accuracy of a
number of tax-payers’ returns by personal
inspection of their accounts, and it is pro-
posed to submit several hundred cases each
year to investigation ■and verification. It is
satisfactory to note that in nearly every in-
stance where the tax has been increased the
reason haa;been explained to the satisfaction
of the taxpayer. Already in numerous
cases persons have, for the first time, an in-
telligent idea of their operations and
financial position, and not a few have ex-
pressed the opinion that this alone goes far
!to recompense them for the trouble each
year in the preparation of the returns.
i. —Eels, it is said, not only get used to
. being skinned, but in time come rather to
! look forward to it.
I '. The Premier baa boon incited to be in Melbourne to
few flays boforo the meeting of Premiora, whioh will
l>e held to consider tbe federal resolutions passed by
tlie New South Wales ParliMnent and to decide upon
a courec of procedure to be taken with regard to tbe
same.
5 s.—The New Agent-General (after " thinking .it over")-. "Well, there’s
| nothing like easy shoes and a clear conscience for real comfort' With shoes like
; these, I think I might come in time to take an interest in such trifles as frozen
;meat, rabbit-skins, and Australian butter ' ’’
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A nstralia for the A nstralians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sendiny direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiik Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Dralts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Minch, and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid, for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— lF. M. Smith <b Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is noio
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition o_fl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special'Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1899.
“The Push.”
During the late holiday season, as is usual
at holiday seasons even a little more than at
other times, there was much moan and press
lamentation, especially in Melbourne and
Sydney, about “ the push.” The aggressive,
yelling, soft-hatted “stoush” brigade was
about equally rampant in both cities. It
wasn’t much worse than usual, for the suffi-
cient reason that, even in its Christmas and
New Fear festivities, it couldn’t be much
worse than it always is. But it is noticed
more at such times, because then the placid,
guileless person from the country comes into
town and gets his stomach bounded upon
unexpectedly by sixteen feet, and he isn’t
used to such treatment as the city man is,
and doesn’t take it so philosophically. Owing
to the lament he raises about the sixteen
feet on his stomach it- looks as if the push
was worse than usual at holiday seasons, but
in reality it keeps up much the same reign of
terror all the year round. It did one or two
casual homicides in Sydney within the last
few weeks, and booted one or two people out
of their usual semblance of humanity. And in
Melbourne it practically holds possession of
Carlton, right alongside the business centre
of the city, at all times, and it has taken to
committing occasional outrages in Bourke
and Collins streets early in the evening, if
not actually by daylight. But it has been
doing that sort of thing, more or less, for
several years now.
* * » *
Few things are more remarkable than the
patient, mild, cringing acquiescence of the
Australian citizen in this state of things.
The push is a mere handful at best,
keeps up something akin to a reign of terror
in the great cities of Melbourne and Sydney,
year in aaid year out. No one seriously
attempts to extinguish it. The law allows
the magistrate and the amateur J.P. a wide
latitude in their dealings with push outrage?
For the most brutal form of assault and in-
timidation, and conspiracy to batter unoffend-
ing citizens, they may do almost anything
from 2s. 6d. fine or Christian remonstrance
with the offender, up to his committal for
trial—in which case a judge may give him a
long term of gaol. Generally the magistrate or
J.P., with that curious sympathy for brutality
which is one of the characteristics of Anglo-
Saxon law, lets the push off with a small fine
and a Christian remonstrance. Parliament,
being built of the same material as the
sympathetic “ beak,” never attempts to apply
the obvious remedy—which is to take away
the discretion which the lower courts use so
badly, and to fix a heavy minimum penalty
for assault, particularly assault in company.
The people, being built of the same material
as Parliament, never insist on its doing any-
thing. And no Government ever attempts
seriously to take the initiative in the matter.
Premiers George Turner and George Reid
are the accomplices of the push, to all intents
and purposes. They hold the power of sup-
pression, and won’t use it, neither will they
get out of the road and make way for other
people, who might be built of better mate-
rial. And if that isn’t being an accomplice,
what is ? Though the push has been a
notorious curse in Melbourne and Sydney
for a dozen or twenty years, there is not so
much as a single law on the statute-book
specially directed at its suppression. No
cities in the world have “taken it lying
down ” more humbly than these two big
capitals. To strangers who visit this country
the humility of Australia towards its few
dozen or few hundred loud-mouthed pariahs
is a source of wonderment.
* * * *
The general attitude of this country is that
the evil must be endured because it can’t be
put down. Considering that no Legislature
has yet made any attempt to discover whether
it can be put down or not, this attitude is
curiously unenterprising. At present the
situation is that the punishment for gross
and hideous outrages, committed by gangs
which exist largely for the express purpose
of outrage, is anything from Christian re-
monstrance by the “beak” up to a pro-
longed period of hard labor. Generally the
“beak” strikes an average and makes it
40s. Sometimes, when some province has
felt worse than usual about the matter, it
has been suggested that the punishment
shall be increased so as to range from
pious reproof up to a more prolonged
period of hard labor. In that case, the
magistrate, being still the same old magis-
trate, will probably keep on making it 40s.
Occasionally, when the community has felt
very bitter indeed, it has been suggested
that the penalty shall be further enlarged so
that it will range from some very serious
remarks by the court up to three floggings,
and in that case the same old magistrate will
go on making it 40s. The idea always is,
not to make the magistracy use the powers
which it possesses and which it systematically
neglects, but to give it some extra powers
accompanied by full permission to neglect
them also.
* * * *
Some day, when The Bulletin is in a
worse temper than usual, it will draft its own
Bill for the Suppression of the Push. It
will be not so much a new idea in the
way of punishments as a scheme for mak-
ing the law authorities administer the old
ideas in a serious spirit. It will recognise
assault committed in company as a special
offence (push assaults are almost invariably
the work of two or three or more, which dis-
tinguishes them from the ordinary two-man
shindy in a public-house), and the minimum
penalty for a first offence shall be 12 months.
For a second offence the minimum shall be
two years ; for any further offences, three
years. This isn’t very different from what
the law allows now ; the real difference will
lie in the fact that the option now allowed to
a doddering magistracy, or a magistracy
which sympathises with this particular form
of crime, of not administering the law, will
be done away with. On top of this, and by
way of a novel experiment, it will be pro-
vided that when any person has been twice
convicted under this statute it will be an
offence under the vagrancy law for him to be
found in any public street between 8 p.m.
and 5 a.m. any time within three years from
the date of the aforesaid second conviction,
and if he is so found the minimum will be
three months. When he has been thrice
convicted it will be made an offence calling
for three months for him to be found in the
country at all at any hour. What other
country he will be found in is “his own
funeral.”
* * * *
Of course this scheme is not advanced as
a certain remedy for pushism. Nothing is
certain that is wholly untried. But the
reason of it is that imprisonment is practi-
cally the only thing the law has invented up
to date ; the law believes in it, at least till
it can invent something better; therefore as
the push is admittedly an evil, and requires
to be put down, this paper suggests, by way
of a wild novelty, that imprisonment should
be tried. It is tried for almost every other
offence ; why not for this also ? There
would be less of the push then, for a much
greater part of it would be away in gaol.
There would also be less of it because the
worst elements of it would be liable, if they
appeared in the highways in customary push
hours, to summary running-in. The primary
evil is the fact that the push pervades the
streets at all, and the shortest way to
deal with that is by making it illegal for
it» worst elements to pervade the streets.
It would probably require a much larger
police force to carry out such a law, but the
choice lies, in any case, between a much
larger police force or a continuance of the
existing state of terrorism. If the law was
too stringent, there is always the .rest of the
globe for the push to emigrate to. Australia
has tried for many years the experiment of
not being stringent enough, and a change in
the other direction would be refreshing.
And Australia has received, and still receives,
so many dubious foreign characters that it
could export a few on very fair terms.
* * * *
Such a measure as is here suggested would
doubtless be a serious inroad on the liberty
of the subject, as it is commonly understood
in Australia. But the liberty of the subject
may be viewed in two ways. One view is
that the larrikin, no matter how often he is
convicted, has the same right to pervade the
streets as anybody else, provided he isn’t
actively engaged in assault and smash.
Also, that he has a right to gather at
street corners, and expectorate, and say
“ blanky ” in moderation, and to do any-
thing short of actual law-breaking. That is
the liberty of the subject as it has been care-
fully preserved in Australia up to date, and
the results are loud and numerous. But the
subject that the writer is thinking about is
the other one—the one whose liberty is
never even considered under existing condi-
tions. His position is that he doesn’t want
to be compelled to listen to “ blanky ” at all
hours, or to be jostled at street corners by a
crowd whose chief mission in life is stoush,
and which is liable to break out and do more
stoush at any moment. In fact, the choice
lies between preserving the liberty of, per-
haps, 1000 persons of disagreeable habits and
offensive expectoration, or of the other
400,000 members of the population, and it
is simply proposed, as a strange and reckless
innovation, that the liberty of the larger
crowd should be considered—just a little.
The idea is offered in a tentative fashion. It
is something quite opposed to Australian
traditions, and it is a gross outrage on Aus-
tralia’s cherished hoodlum. Still it might
possibly be worth consideration.
Turner Receives Notice.
The Man who Owns Victoria has given notice
to the Turner Government that the graduated
tax on large incomes must he reduced, and that
Fat will no longer stand the treatment it has
met with during the last few years. David
Syme, of the Melbourne Age, as a man with a
large income himself, speaks feelingly in this
matter. The reason assigned why the income-
tax must be reduced is that, under the present
system, foreign capital is being driven out of
the country, and Victoria is no longer import-
ing debt with the same vigor as of old, and the
influx of embarrassments and liabilities has
seriously diminished, and, consequently, the
load of interest is not so awful as it was. And
these evils are ascribed by the great Syme organ
to the graduated income-tax, which, it is
solemnly averred, is “the highest in-
come-tax in the world.” As a matter of
fact, it is nothing of the kind, though pro-
bably that oratorical flourish wasn’t meant
to be taken seriously. In Victoria the tax com-
mences with the usual exemption of ,£2OO.
After that, if the income is derived from per-
sonal exertion, the rates are 4d. in the £ for
the first £lOOO above the exemption limit ; 6d.
in the £ for the next £1000; Bd. in the £ for
the remainder of the income. If the revenue
is derived from property the rates are doubled,
so a person with a comfortable revenue of
£2500 a year from property to keep the wolf
off the front verandah would pay £lO3 6s. Bd.
InN.S.W., where the Fat Man who lives on
his pile is more tenderly treated, he would
pay £57 10s. ; in Queensland or Westralia,
nothing; in South Australia, £115; in Tas-
mania, £125 ; in Maoriland, £B5. In Italy the
tax would be from £375 to £5OO, according to
the nature of the property, and in some Euro-
pean countries even more. The Victorian, with
an income of £2500 a year from personal exer-
tion, pays £5l 13s. 4d., whereas in Tasmania
he would pay £B3 6s. Bd. ; in N.S.W., £57
10s.; in S.A., £57 10s.; in Maoriland, £B5.
On incomes ranging from £4OOO upwards and
derived from the investment of capital the
Victorian income-tax is certainly, by reason of
the graduated principle, the heaviest in Aus-
tralasia (though not in the world, or anything
like it), but on persons whose affluence isn’t
bloated out of all bounds it is rather a moderate
impost and below the Australasian average.
Probably David Syme and about two dozen
other men at the most are so rich that they pay
a heavier tax, under the Victorian graduated
system, than they would pay in any other of
the Seven Provinces. Therefore, the wealthy
Age proprietor is an interested party, and
speaks from the bottom of his pocket as one
having authority.
* ♦ * *
But when the very wealthy gentleman tries
to persuade Victoria that it is going to ruin be-
cause he and a few more very wealthy gentlemen
are heavily taxed, the Age autocrat becomes
very unconvincing. He complains :
The most cursory inquiry into the subject will show
that this tax has been, if not the sole cause, at least the
primary reason for a large amount of capital leaving the
colony. Mr. J. C. Stewart, of Messrs. Malleson, Eng-
land, and Stewart, the well-known solicitors, who pro-
bably handle more English capital sent out here for
investment than any other firm in Australia, states, on
authority that has excellent means of gauging the situa-
tion, that the loss has not been less than £8,000,000. Mr.
W. Riggall, of the firm of Messrs. Blake and Riggall,
another firm entrusted with British investments, admits
the difficulty of proving that the income-tax has sent
capital elsewhere, but he points out what an essential
element it must be in determining investment. An Eng-
lish company, say, has £lOO,OOO invested here on mort-
gage at 4 per cent, in preference to taking 3£ per cent, at
Home. The money would produce here £4OOO a year, as
against U 3500 in England. Suddenly an income-tax up to
Is. 4d. in the ,£ is imposed in Victoria. That investment
is taxed to the extent of £2lO, and when to that must be
added the cost of exchange between here and London,
and other charges necessarily higher than those prevail-
ing in England, it will be readily understood that the
feeling of greater security in an English mortgage, the
fact that the conditions, industrial and financial, are
better understood, and that property on which the money
is lent bein<r under immediate observation, must turn the
scale in favor of keeping the money at home rather than
accept the little larger profit the colonial investment
might show. Mr. Riggall describes the property-tax as
the last straw of the boom. Capitalists had to accept
less interest than they were getting before, and this
abnormal charge of Is. 4d. in the pound—the highest
income-tax in the world —settled the point with many a
hesitating investor, and money was withdrawn whole-
sale. The same cautious authority observes that the
evil did not end with the taking away of money
already invested. Large sums were waiting to be
put into Australian securities when the country had
recovered from the depression. But the income-tax
stopped all that, and the money found its way into some
other channel. The immediate effect on Victoria is
obvious, owing to the income-tax being higher here than
in the other colonies. Now, if Messrs. Blake and Riggall
have any money sent to them for investment they advise
their clients to go to New South Wales, where the
income-tax is only 6d. On that £lOO,OOO at 4 per cent,
example we have previously quoted, the investor in New
South Wales would have to pay only £lOO income-tax,
whereas in Victoria he would be taxed to the extent of
£2lO, so that, other things being equal—and the return
for money is just as good in the mother colony as here—
there is a substantial reason for those looking for securi-
ties to go across the Murray.
Messrs. Malleson, England, and Stewart are still
more emphatic as to the evil effects of this heavy impost.
They estimate that in the last three years the amount
of capital invested through their office has dwindled by
nearly £1,000,000, surely as the result of the tax. They
have constant illustrations of it. Mortgages fall due,
and, instead of renewing, clients say that now the tax has
been put on they can do better with their money at
home. The same thing occurred at the Income Tax Office
in the first year of the operation of the Act. People who
had to pay Is. arid Is. 4d. in the £ accompanied their re-
mittances with an intimation that they would not submit
to such a thing again, and would send their capital where
it would not have to bear such a heavy burden.
* * * *
Supposing this is all true, those who lament
about absentee capital being driven out by demo-
cratic legislation, and about the evil results of
taxing the fatted absentee’s money, should go
and hide themselves in abasement behind a herb
for the rest of their days. Victoria, apparently,
owes Britain £8,000,000 less than it did, which
is a tremendous reduction of its liabilities. It
has to pay about £50,000 a year less interest,
which is a blessed thing to happen to any
country. There is £6,700,000 gold and silver
in the Victorian banks, which is only £750,000
less than they could show in 1893, when there
was no income-tax at all, and if £8,000,000 of
debt has been cleared off with a visible loss of
only £750,000 it is an arrangement which
ought to satisfy all parties. The Victorian
banks, which all went smash (the little Royal
only excepted) in ’93, when there was no
income-tax, are coming right again. The
income-tax for last year amounted to £2OOO
more than for 1897, so whether capitalists are
flying out of the country to avoid the burden
or not, the aggregate income of the people is
growing larger. The revenue began to improve
the very year when the Turner Government
started to judiciously discourage the great
absentee capitalist with an impost which ran as
high as Is. 4d. in the £, and it has been im-
proving ever since. The number of employes
in factories has increased from 39,000 in 1893,
when there was no income-tax, to over 50,000
so apparently the investment of capital in in-
dustries goes on well. And, curiously enough,
the man who wants to borrow money now on
decent “ shecurity ” can get it about 2 per cent,
cheaper since capital has fled out of the country
than he was able to do before when it hadn’t
fled. Also, it is noticeable that the Age doesn’t
attempt to show that a single bad result has
followed the alleged exit of all this alleged
money.
* * * *
Plainly, if foreign capital has bolted out of
Victoria, that province is getting on a great
deal better without it. And if the graduated
income-tax is the cause of its flight as the Age
—which ought to know something about it—
alleges, then Victoria owes a debt of gratitude
to its graduated income-tax. It was the
coming in of foreign capital which caused all
the country’s woes to begin with. The banks
got loaded up with immense masses of foreign
deposits on which they had to pay interest.
They had consequently to earn interest on them
somehow, and there not being enough safe in-
vestments to put the coin into they put a lot of
it into unsafe ones, and chanced the conse-
quences. The great downfall was only the
natural result, and Victoria sat on an ash-
heap and scraped its boil with a potsherd for
six years as the result of the arrival of foreign
absentee capital. If David Syme can substan-
tiate his statement that the deplorable sub-
stance is really leaving, the province should
raise a big brass statue to him, and another to
Turner as the man whose graduated income-
tax caused its departure. Also, Syme should
get his own income-tax remitted for life as a
sign of gratitude ; and Victoria should express
its regret that it didn’t know when the foreign
cash w'as going, so that it could be down to
light a bonfire on the shore by way of celebra-
tion. No doubt to the two firms quoted by the
Age the fact that foreign capital isn’t coming
into the country is an evil—they lose a lot of
commission. But neither they nor anyone else
ever attempts to prove that it is a disaster to
the country at large—they simply allude in an
off-hand manner to the stoppage in the impor-
tation of debts and financial embarrassments as
“this evil.” And any person who was in-
terested in the importation of germs or bubonic
plague or lunatics or diseased paupers might
allude to the stoppage of that influx as “ this
evil ” also if he wanted to.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Boot-Trunk Discrepancy.
The Yarra boot-trunk mystery is a little
darker since it has been cleared up—so far as
the clearing-up bad gone at time of writing—
than it was before. In its original uncleared
state the principal materials of it were quite
understandable. There was a dead woman in
a box, and a box in a river. The woman had
arsenic in her stomach ; therefore, presumably,
an attempt had been made at either murder or
suicide by poison. She had also been suffo-
cated, therefore, if the arsenic meant attempted
murder, the intending assassin had got tired of
waiting. As the woman didn’t look like the
sort of woman who would crawl into a box, and
cord herself on the outside, and then throw
herself into the river, she had evidently been
thrown in by someone else ; it was merely a
question of locating the woman and the mur-


wpt- And now the clearing up of the mys-
tery 'buries it in illimitable gloom It is
1 Wed. that the deceased died through being
t Piled for abortion. The treatment consisted
■ the application of a galvanic battery and the
Oondy’s fluid, and it is seriously alleged
That when the harmless Condy’s fluid was
rtlied to her she gave a wild scream and
dimpled up and died. How anyone should
pi of the application of Condy’s fluid passes
‘prehension. Then, the woman having died
f Condy’s fluid, the persons concerned crowded
her in a boot-trunk and tried to hide the crime
■ the river—goodness only knows why, for
there is no law against the use of Condy’s
fluid and besides it was applied under medical
dvice The doctor who suggested its use saw
the body after death, heard and disbelieved the
verv precipitous narrative about the fluid—and
'ent away. The arsenic in the stomach is
nuite unaccounted for ; the parties who are
responsible for the great Condy’s fluid discre-
pancy swear there was no arsenic in the house.
Anyhow, there wasn’t enough of it in the
stomach to cause death, so apparently it was
there only by way of ornament. The appear-
ance of death by suffocation was also quite un-
accounted for. According to the confession of
the various people implicated, the death took
place on 13th December, and the doctor who
took things so philosophically saw the body on
the afternoon of that date. It was found
about five days later, and the doctors who
examined it were, and still are, certain it
had been dead from 14 to 21 days, and they
all swear to death by suffocation. Also, though
the confession sets forth that the body was
thrown into the river on the 14th, a man heard
something heavy being thrown in on the 6th—
at the same place, too, where the alleged throw-
ing in took place on the 14th. Nobody seems
to have heard anything being thrown in on the
14th. The parties allegedly concerned were
Tod the young man who brought the deceased
girl ’into trouble ; Madame Radalyski, who is
said to have cured her till she died ; and the
latterVservant, described variously as Beatrice
Jamieson and Thekla Regina Dubberke. The
latter is said to have supplied the boot-trunk,
helped to crowd the body into it, and assisted
at carting it away. This calm and useful girl
alleges that her conscience troubled her so
badly afterwards that she couldn’t sleep, and
she had to confess. Yet she apparently didn’t
want very badly to confess. She was arranging
to leave for Maoriland, but before starting she
gave way to a yearning to gossip about
the affair, and threw out mysterious Dead-
wood Dick hints to an acquaintance re
her knowledge of the boot - trunk horror,
and he sooled the detectives on her and
thereby cut her retreat short. The head which
caused so much excitement at the morgue was
alleged to be, to all appearance, that of a half-
caste girl or one with at least a streak of
Asiatic blood in her, and the alleged deceased
wasn’t a half-caste ; also, there was a scar on
the head in the morgue, which isn’t mentioned
in the descriptions of Mabel Ambrose —the
alleged victim of Condy’s fluid. No doubt
Mabel Ambrose will somehow be crowded in
to fit the circumstances —apparently there is
nothing else to do but make her fit them some-
how. But it promises to be a very tight fit.
A Discreditable Situation.
David Syme’s organ, in one of its aggressively
Tory moods, states that “ it seems anything but
a creditable confession to make that the
Britishers in Maoriland require special protec-
tion against an alien race.” This is apropos
of the Maoriland Government’s resolve to shut
down on the influx of cheap Austrian peasant
immigration, and it is the same idiotic jibe
which 40 Tory organs have got off their chests
on the same subject. The burden of their wail
is : “ If Maoriland, with its boasted prosperity,
and its boasted socialistic policy, is afraid of
the foreign alien, and can’t hold its
him, the said policy is plainly a failure. It is
a very illogical groan, anyhow, but the Tory
isn’t naturally logical. It is just the country
which is most prosperous, and where wages are
highest, and the state of the masses most
satisfactory, which needs special protection
against the cheap alien. The fact that Maoriland
wants that special protection more than other
countries simply goes to prove that its socialistic
policy is a success. The circumstance that the
“ Britisher ” there needs to take special pre-
cautions against the low-priced foreigner is
eminently creditable to the “Britisher in
every way. If the Maoriland adult male worker
were a cheap and miserable slave in a hovel,
and his very highest wages were 15s. a week,
then he wouldn’t need to care about the influx
of a crowd of Austrian laborers who are accus-
tomed to live on 18s. or £l. The 20s. a week
worker couldn’t undersell and cut down the
wages of the 15s. a week man, and the latter
would have no need to worry ; he would simply
starve the Austrian out, and the influx would
stop. If the Maorilander was lower still —if he
was so utterly low and miserable that his earn-
ings were only 4s. a week, or half-a-crown
then he wouldn’t need special protection
against any race on earth. He could
underbid and starve out even the Jap.
and the Chinaman, and he could view the
influx of the Hindoo with composure, knowing
that the first set of niggers would promptly
write to the remaining niggers at home that
this was no place for any nigger to come to.
But because wages are comparatively liberal in
Maoriland, and the working-classes have a high
standard of comfort, therefore it is a place that
the cheap alien wants to come to ; and lie will
come in swarms, till excessive competition re-
duces wages and fills the labor-market with
unemployed and the country with distress—
unless he is shut out. It is just as discreditable
to the Maorilander that he requires special legis-
lation to shut out cheap foreign labor as it is to
Britain that it requires an army and navy
to shut out another kind of invasion. Other
nations want to invade Britain because, through
J. Bull’s energy, the country is worth in-
vading, so he has to go in for special protection
—which is eminently discreditable to Idtn. It
his country was as empty as Greenland no one
would want to invade it, and he could do with-
out the special protection, and that, by the
a—>„ would be eminently creditable.
And if the Maoriland worker was so low down
that no alien could undersell him in the labor-
market and live, then he wouldn’t want special
protection either—which would also be emin-
ently creditable.
+
“Our Reptile Contemporary.”
Barrier Truth (N.S.W. Labor organ) has a
grievance against this paper :
“ The Bulletin has an idea of a new kind of Upper
House,” modestly says that journal. Unfortunately for
The Bulletin’s' reputation for originality, anyone ac-
quainted with the constitution suggested by the Federal
Convention could have evolved this new idea. This won-
derful scheme is based upon the supposition that the two
Houses are to be “ equally powerful, equally democratic,
equally representative.” Tommy rot! If this threefold
equality could exist, what object could there be in having
the double representative machinery? The franchise
proposed for the Upper House is directly designed to pre-
vent this equality in fact, though it has a treacherous
semblance of it in form. This, like any other provisions
imaginable for the maintenance of a second chamber, has
only one object—that is to give representation to pro-
perty at the expense of persons. There is a lot of shoddy
democracy about The Bulletin.
This paper’s proposal was that the N.S.W.,
Upper House should be a paid body, elected
and dissolved at the same time as the Assembly,
with no property qualification for members, its
members to be chosen by absolute manhood (or
manhood and womanhood) suffrage in the same
way as the Assembly, no plural vote allowed, and
the only difference between the two Houses to
be that the Council should be created by the
whole province voting as one constituency, so
that there should be one chamber that would
be independent of the local log-rolling and
road-and-bridge interest, and which would
represent N.S.W. as a whole. And the Bar-
rier Truth (organ of a party which
supports George Reid, the man who says
he has a great respect for the present
nominee Council and is going to maintain it
with only slight alteration) actually calls this a
scheme to “ give representation to property at
the expense of persons.” Think of absolute
One-man-one-vote, with no property suffrage at
all, being a scheme “ to give representation to
property ! ” If it is, then One-man-one-vote in
the Assembly is, presumably, ditto, and the
Barrier Truth is a bloated organ of wealth
and monopoly. By the way, Barrier Truth’s
assertion that The Bulletin’s idea was bor-
rowed from the Federal Convention is a very
gorgeous perversion. The idea in question was
advocated in a leading article in the issue of
3rd August, 1895, and many times thereafter,
and it was included in a suggested Federal
Constitution published in The Bulletin on
23rd January, 1897. Possibly some members
of the Federal Convention borrowed the idea
from this paper, or possibly they got there
separately. Anyhow, this paper got there
first. There was a time when the Labor organs
"didn’t descend to mean perversions of this kind,
and very few of them do it now—but Barrier
Truth is evidently an exception.
Unclaimed Loot.
Wail of woe from the Bankers’ Magazine of
Australasia :
• Socialistic legislative experiments are being rushed
along at such a pace in New Zealand that conservative
people like bankers are simply aghast, and thoughtful
men shake their heads ominously when the subject is
referred to. In addition to State insurance, old age pen-
sions, resumption by State of freehold lands, is now added
the last piece of legislation, intituled, “ The New Zealand
Unclaimed Moneys Act, 1898,” which has passed both
Houses of Parliament. The Act provides for the handing
over to the Government by “ every company,” after the
passing of the Act, moneys unclaimed for six years.
“ Company ” is stated in the interpretation-clause of the
Act to mean every registered company, and to include
banks. Of course, the object is apparent, namely, that
the State shall in future collar unclaimed moneys left
with banks, there being a popular idea that the banks get
quite a mine of wealth from this source ; but, from an
inner view we had from one tolerably large bank, we can
say that-, whatever may have happened in the good old
times of the early fifties, there is precious little money
left unclaimed with any bank nowadays. It is not quite
clear either why the State should reap where it has not
sown, or even garnered, but, in New Zealand, the State
is going to take care of everjmne, so it is only right it
should take care of any stray money that is knocking
about.
Curious, when one comes to think of it, that it
should be such a shocking thing for the
State —the community at large—to “ reap
where it has not sown,” while the fact
that the banks have always done exactly the
same thing is quite right and commendable.
Also, that it should be such a violent rushing
along of socialistic experiments for the State to
take over unclaimed money left in banks ;
while for the banks to take the same
moneys isn’t a wild or dangerous socialistic
experiment at all. Of course, the State’s object
is apparent; it wants to “ collar unclaimed
moneys left with banks. And the banks
object is equally apparent: they also want to
collar unclaimed moneys left with banks. So
things are about even. And it is also interest-
ing to note (1) that the amount involved is so
small as not to be worth making any row about,
and (2) that the bankers and their organ are
making an awful ro.w about it. The banks
have annexed forgotten deposits for their own
use ever since banking started in Australasia
seventy years ago, and never complained once.
Why do they object to the State doing what
they do themselves ? Isn’t imitation the sin-
cerest flattery ? And wasn’t the State justified
in regarding the annexation of unclaimed de-
posits as an honest, respectable, conservative
proceeding when it saw a respectable, conser-
vative, and aggressively honest crowd like the
banking fraternity doing it ?
• O
Clontarf Bill.
“ E.” in reply :
Dear Bulletin.— Your “ utter disgust ” at my apology
for the backbonelessness of the Carlton (Melb.) magis-
trates doesn’t make me in the least ashamed of it. Your
eomments will nor, convince anyone who has had practical
experience of the management of the ‘‘dangerous
classes ” by policemen. You say : “ Carlton became the
pushiest suburb because the local Bench advertised it as
the place where harmless people could be crippled with
impunity.” And I say, in reply, that Carlton has been a
larrikin district for the past 25 years, and has been
notorious, or otherwise, for the prevalence of ruffianism,
according to whether the police held the ill-conditioned
“ roughs ” in awe, or didn’t hold them in awe. Again,
vou say “the police can’t break up pushes by them-
selves.” And I sav that pushes never come to pass m
districts where policemen are fairly numerous and in-
dividually strong— i.e., masterful as well as musculai. 1
think I am correct in stating that Carlton, in these days
of retrenchment, has been left to the control of only/oar
Dolioemen who, more often than not, are young and un-
authoHtative. The larrikin, let me tell you, is a dog, and
a cowardly dog as a rule. He snarls and snaps at young
policemen, but when the hard, seasoned veteran in blue
scowls at him and bids him begone, he slinks away, dog
that he is. In the letter which excited your disgust I
said, “ Brutality flourishes around districts where ill-con-
ditioned Jims and Bills and Pats are allowed to exchange
swears on a large scale in the public thoroughfare, until
they acquire the confidence of numbers, and don t care a
blanky for the guardians of the peace, and form them-
selves into a prudential intimidation society.’ And I say
it again. Figuratively speaking, I stand upon a chair in
the editorial sanctum to repeat the assertion of what I
know to be true. The larrikin must be overawed in his
early snarling and snapping days, or he will grow bold
enough to bite. You smile contemptuously at my old-
fashioned doctrine. Some of your poets sing the “manli-
ness” of Clontarf Bill and his kind, and that’s where my
little bit of utter Disgust comes in.—E.
The Bulletin owns up to “Clontarf Bill
with apologies. All the same, “E.F. ” care-
fully dodges the principal issue. The push
trouble is very bad in Carlton, however it
started. The four policemen at least contrive to
arrest a lot of offenders, and the local J s.P.
practically refuse to punish them. “ E.li. s,
apology for the Carlton J.P. was that he wasn t
really to blame—he daren’t do more than fine
a brutal ruffian £5 for crippling and almost
murdering a harmless stranger because he is
afraid of being himself “ dealt with ” by the
push. And The Bulletin’s answer was, and is:
The honorary J.P. need not sit on the bench un-
less he likes. He wouldn’t lose any salary by
staying away, nor would he lose his precious
office. If he, being a resident of the locality, and
afraid of the local push, dare not do his duty
he can do one of two things—he can stay away
from the court, or he can come there and crawl
and toady to the local ruffian, and become, to
all intents and purposes, his accomplice.
Well, he chooses to crawd and toady, and he
chooses to be, practically, an accomplice. He
comes to the court gratis, of his own free will,
and, sometimes, to his inconvenience and per-
sonal loss, to let off the local brigand. And
that’s why this paper doesn’t sympathise with
him.
A Draconic Code.
Q. Chief - Justice Griffith’s consolidated
criminal code draws attention to some crimes
or alleged crimes and punishments in the pie-
bald province :
Treason—Death. , ~
Defamation of foreign princes—Two years gaol I
Disturbing the Legislature—Three years’ gaol.
Member of Parliament receiving bribes—Seven years
gaol ! (In Queensland !! 1) . . . ~
Bribing M.P.—Seven years’ gaol! (In Queensland.! .)
Rioters remaining after reading of Riot Act—Gaol for
Rioters demolishing buildings, &c.—Gaol for life.
Challenging to fight a duel—Twelve months gaol!
Prize-fighting and abetting—Twelve months’ gaol.
Perjury—Fourteen years’ gaol.
Perjury to convict on capital charge—Gaol for life.
Aiding prisoners to escape —Seven years gaol.
Counterfeiting current gold or silver com—Gaol for life.
Counterfeiting foreign gold or silver com—Seven years
gaol.
Clipping coin—Gaol for life. , .
Counterfeiting current copper com—Seven years gaol.
Counterfeiting foreign copper coin—One year gaol.
Publicly attacking religious creeds—One year gaol.
Unnatural offences—Gaol for life.
Defilement of girls under 12—Gaol for life, with or
without whipping.
Incest by man —Gaol for life.
Incest by woman —Five years’ gaol.
Attempts to procure abortion—Gaol for life.
Indecent acts in public—Two years’ gaol.
Keeping brothel-Three years’ gaol.
Adulterating liquor—Two years gaol or £2OO line.
Aiding suicide—Gaol for life !
Attempting suicide—Twelve months gaol . ;
Sending unseaworthy ships to sea—Three years gaol.
Abduction—Fourteen years’ gaol.
Bie-amv —Seven years’ gaol. _ , ,
Defamation of M.P. by “ strangers ’—Two years gaol
and fine of £SOO. ,
Stealing by public servants, clerks and sen ants four-
teen years' gaol ; stealing by directors or officers of com-
panies—Seven years’ gaol (beautiful contrast.)-
Fraudulently concealing wills—Gaol for life.
Assault and robbery-Death or gaol for life, with or
without whipping. „ , ,
Receiving stolen property—Fourteen years gaol.
Forging public seals —Gaol for life.
In case of reasonable doubt, The Bulletin
solemnly affirms that this country is Australia,
and the current year progress is 1899.
The present criminal outcrop in Queensland
makes a comparison of the state of crime in the
respective provinces interesting and instructive,
if any such comparison could be arrived at. but
it can’t be done. The motley statistics of unfet.e-
rated Australia collapse on almost every point
when one attempts to draw a useful compari-
son. We can say glibly enough that so many
persons per thousand are charged in the various
provinces, so many convicted, and so on. But
let us use “ larceny ” as a touchstone. Under
Yic. law, J’s.P. may discharge larcenists
“ when, in their opinion, it is inexpedient to
inflict punishment:” In these cases, no convic-
tion is recorded. In N.S. W., even when a lar-
cenist obtains the benefit of the First Offenders
Act, his conviction goesonrecord. Take 1 drunk-
enness.” Vic. law does not permit Justices to
convictfordrunkenness unless disorderly conduct
or some similar offence has been allied with it.
N.S.W. law compels Justices, to convict for
drunkenness simply. So the records again
mislead. Still further, in Vic. the lower Courts
can imprison up to three years ; in W-. 8. W.,
only for six months, thus vitiating records both
of minor and major convictions. In Vic., only
arrests are recorded; in N.S.W., summons
cases are added to arrests. Similar disparities
exist in respect of other crimes and offences,
and the disparities spread over all the pro-
vinces. At present each province tinkers up a
set of returns irrespective of its neighbors, and
no statist, do what he will, can produce a
proper tabular comparison. Under Federation
the Australian statist will be in a position to
compel uniformity, for he will represent all the
States and not oneonly.
The Vic. Anti-Sweating League’s programme
for this year is cordially recommended to the
consideration of similar bodies in other pro-
vinces. Special attention is to be given to
domestic servants, sailors, dressmakers and
clerks. None of these at present come
under the Factories’ Act, though there is
no reason why a dressmaker should not be pro-
tected from slave-driving employers as much as
a tailoress or a white-worker. An inspection of
the League’s books gives a striking insight into
Melb. methods, and shows what whited
sepulchres are some of the big houses and ie
most respectable church-going people. I he
League cites many cases of dressmakers work-
ing 17 and 18 hours per day for 45., of clerks
forced back during the hot weather before
Christmas night, after night, three and four
hours per night, for the paltry remuneration of
Is. tea-money. (In M.L., Bank, Insurance and
Govt, clerks are considered as other manual
workers under the Factories’ Act). The League
does not expect to get 48 hours and the mini-
mum wage conceded all at once, but it recog-
nises that it is to the advantage of a country that
all its workers shall be given the opportunity to
rest and recreate at least one day and a half in
every seven, and it is determined to do its
utmost to obtain first for all workers this one
day per week. Afterwards it will reach out
for extra half-day and shorter hours, and what-
ever else it can get. And if the Trade-Unions
and other workers’ bodies choose to stand by
one another and go unitedly for these things
they can get them.
A Bulletin man again writes about the
Afghan camel drivers at Bourke, who refuse to
continue in the service of the local (Afghan)
carrying company, and are being sentenced to
seven days’ imprisonment with wearisome re-
iteration :
According to local police court reports, the last time
that a batch of the Mahomets was charged “the Bench
drew the attention of the prosecuting lawyer to the fact
that in the agreement which was tendered and signed by
this man there was no term of service mentioned.”
Thereupon a clerk in the company’s service came along
“and said that when the agreement was read to the
accused the term was mentioned.” And the Bench, con-
sisting of members of the Vast Unpaid, seems to have
accepted the clerk’s mere say-so, and to have concluded
that it wasn’t necessary to put so trivial a thing as
the term of service down in the agreement, so long as a
clerk (who was probably not understood) mentioned it at
the time, or afterwards said he mentioned it. _ Anyway,
this particular Mahomet was fined 10s., or in default
seven days’ imprisonment; and, though on the princely
allowance made to the drivers, 10s. was no doubt a mere
circumstance, he, like the rest of them, chose to ‘ take
it out.” Nobody seems to be interested in keeping these
men out of gaol'; for their own part, they seem to regard
it as a place where they will get plenty to eat and won’t
have cans of hot tea thrown at them. But when the
white population whom they are chevying out of a billet
have to keep them, these agreements (with the important
parts left out) ought to be looked into ; and it might not
be amiss either to look into the qualifications of the par-
ticular members of the Vast Unpaid available at Bourke to
handle such cases. Also, while they are looking into
things, the Law officers might do worse than inquire as
to the qualifications of the interpreters. At one far-
western court lately, when similar cases were being taken,
the only man available for the job was an Afghan in the
employ of the co.—a sort of boss over the principal wit-
ness ! Certainly, so far as could be judged (which wasn’t
very far), he did the work well. But at the Bourke hear-
ings the prisoners have ceased to take interest in the pro-
ceedings ; several of them have obviously been unable to
understand the whole business.
Dear Bulletin. —There’s an awful Caledonian
outcry if a Scotch-named person is referred to
as an Englishman, but anyone happening to be
born or reared in this country is branded “ Aus-
tralian” as a matter of course. Melb. Argus
speaks of “ a young Australian musical prodigy,
only 11 years of age,” who has made a sensation
in England with his piano-playing. Name,
Raimund Pechotsch. He may be just as much
Australian, of course, as any little Sin Fat or
Wing Lee who makes a first appearance on
earth under the Southern Cross, but his pedi-
gree is presumably quite foreign to the land of
his birth. There are no Australian pedigrees
-worth mentioning except the aboriginal ones.
The A.N.A. man, begotten, maybe, by an
Irish-American father from a Scottish mother,
who goes to London and announces himself,
with a swelling chest, as a “pure-bred” Aus-
tralian, snorts at the casual cockney supposi-
tion that he ought to be black. Isn’t it an
absurdity for a child of British parents born
out here to insist upon his Australianism whilst
asserting his racial superiority over a son of
Chow parents who was also born out here ? He
must admit that they are equals, or drop the
name Australian, for he and the Cliow-born
native would have equal claims to be incor-
porated with the Australian Race, if there
were such a Race. There isn t, unless you
count the Chinkies and Indian hawkers’ off-
spring in.—E.F.
*
The Tory Argus doesn’t mind turning demo-
cratic for a time if it can thereby give its great
friend, the foreign importer, a lift. Therefore
it is of opinion (now and then) that a legal mini-
mum wage ought to be fixed in every protected
industry. And so it certainly ought, but in
addition there ought also to be a minimum
wage fixed in every Freetrade industry. The
Argus claims that Freetrade makes the coun-
try richer and more prosperous than Pro-
tection, and if so it can afford to pay a living
wage at least as well as Protection can. Why
the Freetrader wants a minimum wage in pro-
tected industries only is perfectly simple.
He quite approves of a 10 or 15 per cent,
tariff where he can fix the minimum wage
so far above the starvation rates paid in other
countries that the importer has a big advantage
after all, for then he can point to the failure of
Protection and fill Flinders Lane with his
whoop of triumph. By all means let there be
a minimum-wage for every man employed in
every protected industry. But let there be
also a minimum for the importer’s clerks and
employes, and the lumpers who haul his bales
ashore, and the sailor-men who bring these
bales out here, and the people who repair the
ships that bring them out, and all the rest. If
Freetrade can’t afford to pay a minimum wage,
what’s the good of talking so much about the
way it enriches the country ?
The rumor that Julian Salomons will be
allowed to re-arrange theN.S.W. Agent-General’s
staff so as to make room for a man with a prac-
tical knowledge of butter and eggs (a shirt-
sleeved A.-G.), gets credence among those who
have an eye on Sydney Smith.
“ Rick ” : The struggle for a crust.
Passed Melbourne city tip between 4 and 5 this
morning. Over 200 persons, men, women, and
children engaged thereon—men raking, women
and children picking up and carrying away bags
of stuff. Handcarts, wheelbarrows, and prams
galore. Passed again at 8.30 a.m. No humans
about, cattle quietly feeding.
Phil May’s Winter Annual (W. Thacker
and Co.) while well furnished with examples of
May’s best work, is also satisfactory from a
literary point of view, and embodies anew feature
in the shape of illustrating the stories Amongst
the contributors are R. H. Sherard, Francis
Gribble, and Julian Ralph ; also, of more special
note to Australians, Louis Beoke and Alex.
Montgomery.


The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the Most
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL IjEE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
ferential policy-holders. s " In this
business in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1897, this Company has paid to its Policy-
Holders or them representatives over Ninety-fwe Million Pound. s Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
to insure in is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit, perhaps of its
stock-holders—but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOR ITS POLICY-HOLDERS 1 1 ’
h y th, e report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the year 1898 it i«
31°st 1897 held E INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business'on December
“ Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,137.66.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,112,225 7s. lOd.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
M-, P® rs ?n desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with the
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
magnitude oo^1186 Ilalne t^l ’ s Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company’s Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY .
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
iams
Tucker & C >.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
or Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Forty Thieves.”
Lyceum “The Bohemian Girl.”
Criterion “ His Natural Life.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Shilling’ Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Geisha.”
® wou “ Madanle Sans-Gene.”
Theatre Royal “ New Babylon.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Flinders st. & Spring st. Corner— Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Exhibition Building.... The Aquarium.
That hi storical boot-trunk horror, “ For
the Term of His Natural Life,” was fished out of
tli i river of obloquy and spread out on the slab for
identification at Sydney Cri. on Saturday. It is a
shuddery tiling—an old, pickled woe preserved in
gin and with salt on its raw back, and the sight
of it always makes The Bulletin look askance on
its vittles for days afterwards. Yet there lingers
around it a faint suspicion that it will ultimately
develop into a comedy, or a burlesque, or some-
thing cheerful of that sort. The funny convict
who pounds up one cubic inch of road-metal in the
course of the six tableaux, and Meekin, the giddy
sin-shifter in the tall hat and the sunset whiskers,
keep breaking in on its lugubriousness, and there
is hope that in the end they may take possession
of the drama, and crowd out Rufus Dawes and
Gabbett and Troke and Frere, and the great
flogging that is always just about to happen,
though it never really comes off in public. “ His
Natural Life ”is undoubtedly a great story, but
the swish and howl of the old Yandemonian ghosts
is an enduring sorrow all the same, and the public,
looking the vista of GO years at the state of
Rufus Dawes’ back, is sometimes inclined to wish
that that very harrowing spectacle would shift it-
self right over the horizon. All the people con-
nected with that dismal tale are dead now, and
most of them, presumably, in the place where the
long imperishable worm is always on deck ; and
why Dawes should yell his harrowing yell in the
ear of this generation
* * » *
Anyhow, Dam pier’s latest rendering of the
regrettable condition of Dawes’s back is a fine
piece of work pictorially, and rather good in other
respects. There are glimpses of bright sea and
land scenery in between the frequent flogging or
proposed flogging of somebody. Dampier’s Par-
son North is a character of which it is impossible
to grow weary; and Johnson Weir makes a
strong, manly figure as Dawes. The steady
improvement of Johnson has already been com-
mented on in this usually disrespectful paper,
and he promises to be somebody of importance
by and bye. John Forde and George Buller do
very excellent work, and Edward Duggan’s drinky
captain is a highly commendable study of wrath
and pimples. But the feminine element of the
company is distinctly weak. Miss Rose Dampier
is a very graceful statue in a nice, white frock, but
she puis no vigor into the character of Sylvia.
Her Sylvia is a gentle, sweet-voiced ghost who
stands around agreeably among the horrors of old
Vandemonia, and does practically nothing except
stand round agreeably. And Miss Katherine
Russell doesn’t look in the least like the dashing,
handsome, reckless young Sarah Rex—there is no
getting away from the fact that she looks a
motherly, middle-aged Sarah. Edmund Gabbett
Holloway he of the tremendous fog-horn voice—
is a convincing horror, but Gabbett is the most
oppressive horror of the lot, and the writer here
goes out in haste for a drink of something to keep
him up. Anyone who sees “His Natural Life”
right through needs a very considerable quantity
of drmk to keep him up.
** * #
“ Hamlet ” will be repeated at Sydney
Criterion on Friday, Dampier’s last week’s
attempt at giving a small instalment of Shake-
speare having been sufficiently appreciated to
induce him to again turn on the Bard at the
meter. Mr. Dampier’s Dane was very well appre-
ciated on the whole, and the Ophelia of Miss Rose
Dampier was the best thing that young lady has
done in Sydney up to now. There will also be a
“ Hamlet ” matinee on Saturday, and The Bul-
letin has fears that this is running the melan-
choly Dane into the ground, so to speak. It can’t
remember that Sydney ever showed signs of want-
ing a Shakespeare matinee.
** * *
The MacMahon firm pats up a fresh opera
at the Lyceum with the same frequency that it
displayed in its dramatic days—the days when it
lashed out with a fresh hair-raiser every Saturday,
and it was only an exceptional hair-raiser that
saw two consecutive Saturdays. The “ Bohemian
Girl ” filled the void last Saturday, and filled it,
on the whole, very admirably. Some fine mellow
scenery with a gleam of yellow sunlight in it has
been put up for the occasion; and Miss Lilian
Tree, Leumane, Farley, Bert Bailey and other
notable Bohemians pervade the same to good pur-
pose. Farley’s Devilshoof has been a notable suc-
cess any time these last twenty years. Nobody in
Australia ever did that garish, jovial, tawdry,
tuneful blackguard better than Farley—it is doubt-
ful if any other person ever did him nearly so
well. And his Devilshoof is as good to-day as he' was
m the early eighties. Farley has practically had
a monopoly of the character in Sydney so far hack
as the writer can remember, while about a dozen
people have taken Thaddeus in succession, and
the part of Arline has been everybody’s property.
Miss Tree sings Arline very finely, and acts her
respectably, and looks her not at all. But her
singing makes up for the other deficiencies.
Leumane is a good Thaddeus, though not the
best that Sydney has seen; Bert Bailey’s Flores-
tein is good in a reckless, burlesque sort of fashion ;
and Winn, as the Count, is at least respectable.
Taken all round, it is a better version than anyone
has a right to expect at the low Lyceum tariff.
* • * »
Judging by what symptoms there are, the
popularity of the “ Bohemian Girl ” doesn’t
appear to be waning. Anyhow, it appeals to the
world-weary fragment who writes these lines more
than any other of the operas of the pre-Gilbertian
period, and when he has occasionally foregathered
with other fragments, and collected their views on
the subject, lie has generally found the other
fragments of the same opinion. There is a
musical rhythm about the waves that beat on
the sea-coast of Bohemia, and it is a pleasant,
indefinite sort of place where everybody, except
Brunker, has been at some time in his life, with
joyful results as a rule. And the title of the
opera alone does a lot to keep it afloat, for every-
body who has been in Bohemia (except Brunker)
has discovered that there was a girl there—often
more. And the great trouble in the morning has
generally been to remember how on earth he fell
out of Bohemia again, and why on earth the man
who falls out of Bohemia always lands on his hat
in a muddy spot, or to recollect whether he
emerged without the hat and the girl threw it out
of Bohemia after him. Speaking generally, the
writer-is of opinion that the principal export of
Bohemia is squashed hats, and they are practically
all exported between 11 p.m. and 3 a.m. And
the principal imports are young men and their
cash, and liquor,. and golden hair-wash for the
female inhabitants.
** * *
There was great woe on the second night
of the “Bohemian Girl,” by the way, and the
curtain didn’t rise till somewhere near 9 o’clock.
This considerably disorganised the play. It is
understood that some essential people were on
strike, which caused the trouble. At time of
writing (Tuesday) the third night hadn’t yet
eventuated, so any possible joy and chaos attached
thereto must go unreported. At latest advices
the “Bohemian Girl” was advertised to perish
formally this week.
** * *
The pantomime at Her Majesty’s is in
good health, and the faithful mule is well, though
he hasn’t broken out in any new places since he
was last discoursed upon in these columns. The
well-being of that chirpy beast of lading is a
matter of great moment, for at least half the
panto, depends upon him.
** * *
Charles Holloway’s drama at the Royal is
in its fourth week, and it seems good for another
fortnight or so. The Jubilee Singers are also in
their fourth or fifth or sixth week, and are pros-
pering in their harmless African way about as well
as ever. This is doubtless very pleasant for C.
Holloway and the dark Jubilators, but it is
decidedly rough on the man who fills up this
column with more or less despondent ruminations
every week. What he wants is something new to
write about, and when three managements have
been running the same programme for a month,
and the others are putting up such wild novelties
as “His Natural Life,” “Hamlet,” and “Bohe-
mian Girl ” —well, where does he come in ?
** # *
Much the same crowd—mainly Ajax the
Boneless and the popular Peggy Pryde—is in pos-
session at the Tivoli. The Alhambra has changed
hands, a,nd is once more trying to make a living in
the variety business. And another new co. has
taken possession of the Royal Standard (which
has become rather unsettled since the origi-
nal threepenny show left for Maoriland), and
is playing something of a patriotic character
called “Victoria Gross.” Also, when last heard
of, the Opera House had repented in its battered
old age—had solemnly repented above the public-
house, and adjacent to the cheap fruit-shop and
the fish-emporium in dreary Lower King-street—
and someone was running an illustrated Sunday-
service there.
** * *
The rally in aid of the Distressed Actors’
Fund seems likely to lead to an Actors’ Associa-
tion, constructed on a businesslike basis. Last
week a meeting at Melb. Princess’s adopted the
proposal to form a continuous relief-fund by sub-
scription of a penny in the £ from all actors and
actresses receiving a weekly salary—the harmless,
necessary penny to be levied by the treasurer for
each management, and paid into the coffers of the
association. There was a previous proposal to
place the “ mutual-provident ” tax on a somewhat
sliding scale, but this was abandoned in favor of
the 2-5 per cent, rate, which, if eventually adopted
by all the managements in Australia, should go a
good way towards supporting one or more
“Homes” and supplying cash doles to “out”
applicants. Up to now, Melbourne has been the
headquarters of theatrical charity organisation (in
which Geo. Coppin was the first mover), nor is
there any Home elsewhere that The Bulletin
knows of. A question as to decentralisation may
crop up anon. The success of the penny in the
£ scheme—long ago advocated by this paper —
must depend considerably upon the goodwill of
visiting artists, who are not for long in this coun-
try, and can have only a charitable interest in the
welfare of any fund for benefiting impecunious
pro. residents. How does Rickards view the
matter ? Will the Chirgwins and Biondis be wil-
ling to contribute something like 10s. a week dur-
ing six or twelve months’ sojourn here, and what
about a “penny” clause in their agreements?
Given a mutual provident fund in fair working
order, the controlling power, which will presum-
ably be the Firm, should take steps to define the
meaning of the word “actor ” within the purpose of
the fund aforesaid. The purfeshun is haunted by
many able-bodied persons who are mostly out of
an engagement because —as J. C. Williamson tells
them—they can’t act, they only think they can
act. No right - thinking Fund can sympathise
with these incapables, who ought to be earning
money in some field of labor for which they are
adapted. There should surely be a clause in the
rules restricting the Fund’s assistance to actors
who have established a claim on it by frequent
engagements (and consequent penny payments) in
their younger and more prosperous days.
** * #
“ Madame Sans-Gene ” is now proceeding
steadily through a fourth week at Melbourne Bijou,
and that comedy-drama of domestic interest begins
to be talked about in many places. Also it is more
often admired than otherwise, although no two
people ever seem to agree in their summing up of
various points in the performance. Brough’s
Napoleon gets freely blamed for the actor’s man-
nerisms, whereas Mrs. Brough’s equally well-
known mannerisms are accepted as natural to the
name part by the average observer, who doesn’t
come along with any preconceived ideas on the
subject. The part is strong and popular, and Mrs.
B. plays it earnestly. The fact that she was not
born to realise the character of Sans-Gene is
seldom remarked, but everybody knows that the
stagey Napoleon of historical pictures was
quite unlike Bobert Brough. All the same,
the versatile comedian presents a natural
picture of the parvenu Emperor in the play—a
busy, irritable fellow, rather jealous of his young
wife, and much troubled by his two sisters. They
wrangle vociferously in his presence, and he bangs
them across their royal backs with the fire-irons.
Sans-Gene reminds him of the days when she gave
him “tick” for his washing-bill, whereupon he
slaps her bare shoulders amorously, and shows an
intensely human disposition to hug his loyal sub-
ject, without any thought for her being married
to one of his most devoted marshals. The tradi-
tional Nap. was a poseur in a cocked hat. The
real Nap., according to dramatist Sardou, some-
times laid his hat aside and felt like an ordinary
self-made man, who had led a victorious army up
and down Europe, creating new kings by the way.
Assuming that it was possible for this
shrewd, pushing speculator in the military line of
business to have been a Broughlike person, rather
than the prototype of Julius Knight in “ A Royal
Divorce,” anyone can feel satisfied with Brough’s
performance. It has humor befitting the un-
doubtedly ridiculous circumstances of Buonaparte’s
inner life. It presents to the audience a restless
little fat man (who has become an Emperor in a
hurry) trying to make his relatives and general
surroundings look “ respectable, ” in a monarchial
sassiety sense of the word. If a general’s wife
refuses to ape the ways of real lydies, Nap. orders
the general to divorce the old gal and marry some
hereditary royal highness or another. When his
(Nap.’s) own sisters forget the parts they are play-
ing, and' start to slang one another in good old
Corsican style, he whops them with the tongs.
The making of the Napoleon Dynasty had a farci-
cal side to it, and that is the only side where
Brough comes.
#* * #
“ The Geisha ” has reached its fifth week
at the Princess’s, and is doing bigger business
than in the first week, which means that “The
Geisha ” brought a reputation with it from London,
like Wilson Barrett and “ Sign of the Cross ” and
other fleeting booms. The outer uninitiated world
comes to sample the Firm’s show, and finds it a
gorgeous-looking thing for the money, much more
gorgeous than “La Poupee, ” and quite as good an
entertainment in other respects. Therefore the
tuneful tide of foolish ballads and monotonously
similar refrains is unlikely to ebb just yet awhile,
and the beautiful early gloaming effect in the
purple background of the first act will glorify the
name of George Gordon until further notice.
The principals of “The Geisha” co. don’t
appear any stronger as time goes on, bar
Lauri, who has improved his Chow lingo and is
very funny except when he tries to force the joke
beyond its strength. Miss Perry, perhaps, is even
sweeter than ever, but her lack of importance
can’t be‘denied. She’s a dear little Geisha, and
she rhymes nicely with Asia, and she sings daintily
without making a deep impression. It isn’t Miss
Perry’s fault that two of her songs are practically
the same song twice over, and one of the others is
the inane gold-fish narrative. She didn’t write
the lyrics, anyway. William Pauli, as the bari-
tone hero, has unhappily gained confidence of late,
and his new-born skittishness reveals a personal
belief in Pauli which is not in the least justified
by results. Miss Vane, Miss Musgrove, Sydney
Bracy, and others stand where they did, whilst
Howard Vernon is all the better for talking rather
less vociferously.
* * *- *
Fitzgerald Bros’, canvastown in Flinders-
street has taken root for an indefinite period, and
the big tent where piebald Commodore lies down
beside the motley clown, and the elephant and
lion go trike-riding together, is frequently too
small for the population. A new programme at the
Circus turns out to be different from the old pro-
gramme in many human and four-footed particu-
lars ; also, it sets up the uncanny spectacle of a
tiger-and-horse act. The tiger is a more nimble
artist than the lion, and would probably perform
the feat of picking up the gee-gee’s neck with his
teeth if the management didn’t put a cover over
the live horse-meat. On the other hand, the horse
can’t ride a tricycle, so the latest sensation doesn’t
put Lizzie’s trunk out of joint. As an example of
Herr Zapf’s animal-taming powers it is a remark-
able novelty, all the same.
** * *
“New Babylon ” is still happening in four
acts and twelve tableaux at the Royal, and up to
now there has been no mention of Last Nights for
Bland Holt’s hardy revival. The Alexandra panto,
made its final appeal to the metropolis on Satur-
day, and is said to be seeking consolation in
Geelong. At the Opera House, the magnetic per-
sonality of Cora Caselli seems to have struck the
multitude at a cold, unfeeling time. They listen
to her tuneful voice and watch the movements of
her delightful extremities without showing strong
symptoms of gratitude. Now, The Bulletin
feels truly grateful for Miss Cora.
** # *
Next Tuesday afternoon a large and vari-
ous show is to be given, at Melb. Princess’s, in
aid of the theatrical charities. All the reserved
seats will have gone off at ordinary and extra-
ordinary prices ere this, but, for the information
of any charitably-disposed persons who would like
to buy a bit of standing-room on the day of per-
formance, it may be stated that the respective
second acts of “Madame Sans-Gene, ” “ The
Geisha,” and “New Babylon” will be played
with enthusiasm on behalf of the aged and neces-
sitous mummer. Also Mahomet, who is just now
eating the corn of idleness, will make a first ap-
pearance this season, together with acrobats from
i itzgeralds’ pilous, and a number of gentlemen
well-known in theatrical circles or sassiety, or
other branches of commerce. These are to assist
m a free-and-easy item, entitled “A Smoke Night
at the Orpheus Club.”
* * * -*
Signor Ugo Biondi, to The Bulletin from
Christchurch, M.L. :
Dear Sir,— Re an article embodied in “ A Woman’s
Letter” of Dec. 20th, ’9B, re my business and Fregoli’s
being reproduced in cinematographs, I would suggest to
the writer to properly inquire before making through the
columns of your widely-read paper assertions not in con-
formity with facts. I most distinctly and emphatically
deny having copied my business from anybody, nor have
I had a teacher or master. My turn is entirely original,
consisting of sketches written by myself, and impersona-
tions of conductors, of which I am the originator. My
artistic reputation is too well-established to allow of the
question of originality being raised. I have not copied
my business from anybody, but others have copied mine.
*# * m
That angular little Irishman, “ Hoppy ”
Williams, died the other day at Ballarat, where
he had been editing the Star of late. A good
many incompetent mummers will not feel grieved
at the news, for “Hoppy” was theatrical critic
for the Age in the days when Melbourne daily
journals allowed themselves to print the truth, or
a plain suggestion of the truth, concerning stage
shows. No manager controlled the utterance of
Hoppy Williams’s opinion. He asked no favors—
not even the favor of a place to rest his game leg—
and was rather inclined to stand at the back of the
dress-circle, whilst somebody who hadn’t come to
“do ” the notice would loom large in a press seat.
Williams held his own for a long time against the
slanderous attacks of the people he was too honest
to truckle to, but at last he got taken off the job
of notice-writing, and soon afterwards he left the
Age office. The Melb. critics since then have been
mostly young and impressionable, and their notices
in some cases have been influenced for “good ” by
golden-haired actresses —members of the very
company that was appearing at the time —who
escorted the self-satisfied “critic ” to the theatre,
and helped him to occupy the seats reserved for
the paper. There are ever so many means of nob-
bling a critic, and the best means of all is the
winning smile of a “grateful” actress—grateful
just as long as she gets unlimited jam.
At Poverty Point.
Tub Bulletin hears—with “ mingled feelings of pleasure
and regret"—that Johnnie Wallace has received by cable
an offer of a good engagement from George Musgrove in
London. Johnnie Wallace has been something more to Aus-
tralia than a fine stage-manager. He is affectionately
remembered by the older generations of theatre-goers
for his share in the funniest comic-opera scenes that ever
made this country shriek— i.e., the Harwood and Wallace
scenes in “Tambour Major.’*
Bland Holt has secured the services of a new leading
man for “New Babylon." He leads on the prize cow in
the agricultural-show scene.
Juxtaposed amongst the “set-pieces” in Pain’s recent
Sydney fireworks-show were “The Right Hon. G. H.
Reid, P.C.," and “The Tumbling Monkey.” Malice
aforethought, or only “ eternal fitness of thiiigs ”?
It surely cannot be true, as reported, that veteran Fred
Maccabe, first and for a long time best of monologue
entertainers, has “ gone down,” and is finishing miserably
in Ormskirk workhouse. “ Begone, dull care ! ” Mac-
cabe earned in his time heaps of money, always seemed a
careful man, and, a few years ago, was reputedly in very
comfortable circumstances indeed.
Clara Mongredien, a sweet contralto singer formerly
well-known in Melb., was recently married to “Sol”
Solomon, one of the ablest of Dunedin (M.L.) lawyers.
The engagement, it is understood, was contracted many
years ago—when both lawyer and vocalist were still
schooling in Dunedin. The ex-Miss Mongredien, by the
way, is related to the well-known political economist of
that name, and her brunette mother's beauty is still raved
about by Melbourneites of 25 years ago.
The trike which elephant Lizzie rides in Fitzgeralds’
Circus is getting worn out. The Australian quotation
for a new trike is £5O. It seems a lot of money for such
an unpretentious vehicle, but the management can’t very
well wait for prices to come down, for meantime Lizzie
might have a smash-up, and the possibility of that
mountainous female falling whop against the side of the
cage with the lion on top of her is too awful to contem-
plate.
Time was when Maggie Moore could have been irresist-
ible as Madame Sans-GSne.
The agitated young man from the back-blocks (when
he isn’t a sailor from the briny ocean) who leaps upon
the stage and starts to bang the villain for behaving
cruelly to the betrayed girl in a drab dress, made his
app arance at Bendigo the other night. He was seem-
ingly unintoxicated and quite genuine in his indignation.
All the same, The Bulletin will be glad to hear of a
mummer villain administering “ bpans ” to the next
earnest young hero who breaks loose from the auditorium
with a cry of “ Leave the woman alone.” When a person
has deliberately paid his money to be a spectator of a
melodrama he ought to behave as such.
The bright little girl who comes along in the race-scene
in “ New Babylon,” and sells a k’rect card to Bland Holt,
is a cousin of Robert Ingersoll.
George Tallis, the busy Princess manager, Melb., has
been very ill for some weeks, the effect of a ruptugefl
blood-vessel, but is now moving round again.
(Continued on page 31).


E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust, moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
G-ilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17" and 38" by 60" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System, is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent,
Sydney Agency:
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining', Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field .
The R€AL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison Ss Attwood, Sole Proprietors
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Out of the latest issue (£15,500) of 3 per c-ent.
bonds of the Vic. State Land Bank the public took £525
and the Saving's Bank had to take up the balance. Up to
date the State Land Bank has raised £682,225, of which
the Savings Bank has had to take up £540,500. Evidently
something will have to be done to popularise these securi-
ties when the Savings Bank can hold no more of them,
anil one obvious thing is to raise the interest to 3J per
cent. It is the old old story of expecting the local in-
vestor to take a rate of interest which the English investor
(despite the fact that interest is lower in England) scorns
to look at. The cheapest loan which Victoria ever raised
in England cost £3 7s. 4d. per cent., and the best price it
could borrow at in London now is probably about £3 5s. —for
the temporary burst of cheap money which recently
enabled N.S.W., Westralia, and S.A. to raise the wind at
very reduced rates has gone by for the time being. The
cheapest Victorian loan ever raised in Melbourne was at
something under £3 percent. If the Victorian Govern-
ment wants to borrow at ss. per cent, less interest in
Melbourne than it would have to pay in London —well,
the loan doesn’t go off ; that’s all. But why the lowest
rate of interest should always be reserved for the local
investor, Heaven only knows.
* * * *
Victorian railways, for the second half of ’9B,
show a revenue of £1,459,262 —£71,605 more than for the
corresponding half of 1897.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co. shows a loss of £4516 for the year ended 30th June,
1898. This is the fourth year since the new reconstructed
Loan and Mercantile got into operation, and the results of
these four years have been as follows :
1895 (15 months) .. Loss £28,393
1896 (9 „ ) .. „ 5,670
1897 (12 „ ) .. „ 2,216
1898 (12 ~ ) .. ~ 4,516
This year, it was confidently hoped that there would be a
profit, as there was £12,542 less interest to be paid than
last year, but the continuous drop in the earnings swal-
lows'up all savings as fast as they are made. The gross
earnings for the four years have been :
1895 (12 months) .. .. £254,514
1896 (9 „ ) .. .. 195,194
1897 (12 „ ) .. .. 231,351
1898 (12 „ ) .. .. 196,611
In one way, too, the situation is even worse than it looks,
for no interest is paid on the Third Lien Debenture Stock,
of which the public holds about £375,000. If that had
been paid the loss would be over £19,000.
The N.Z. Loan and Mercantile is an interesting
study. Since 1893 it has written off as lost £330,000 re-
serve fund, £5649 profit balance, £240,000 capital,
£1,042,142 more capital, and £1,448,325 of the debenture
liabilities. This last item relieves it of an immense
burden of interest, and in addition, as already men-
tioned, it has failed to pay interest on another £375,000 of
its debentures. And on top of all this it show’s a serious
loss. It has now a paid-up capital of only £136,087, of
which £6733 is lost, making the shareholders’ funds in the
business not much over £129,000. And it owes £3,311,363
to its debenture-holders, so that it is working almost
wholly on borrowed money at 4 per cent., and it can’t
earn enough to pay the 4 per cent. There is £1,860,000 of
capital still uncalled, but it is mortgaged for the security
of the Prior Lien Debenture-holders, and can’t be called
up for the ordinary purposes of the business. The visible
way out in such a case would be to call up as much
of this money as can be got in, and pay off the Prior
Lien crowd with it so far as it w’ill go. By a very
peculiar arrangement this crowd, when it is paid off,
is to receive £lO2 10s. for every £lOO (and the other
debenture-holders are to be paid off at £lO5 for every
£100), so the operation would result in a serious
loss ; still it would reduce the tremendous burden of
interest and give the Loan and Mercantile some kind of a
show. Apparently the co. can’t even adopt the useful
expedient of buying up its depreciated securities in the
open market arid extinguishing them, whereby it might
make enough profit to keep itself square. The unlucky
reconstruction scheme provides that all the debentures
shall be redeemed at a premium. And as this premium
must be paid some day, there is an indirect liability which
doesn’t appear in the balance-sheet, and which nearly
equals the paid-up capital.
The Bank of North Queensland looks a little
better this half-year, though even in its improved state
there isn’t very much to boast of as yet. The profits for
the six months ended 31st December, 1898, were £l4BO,
which compare with some previous profits thus
December, 1894.. £1674 June, 1897. ... £2003
June, 1895.. .. 1736 December, 1897.. 1559
December, 1895.. 1182 June, 1898.. .. 587
June, 1896. . .. 1703 December, 1898.. 1480
December, 1896.. 1717
The capital has now' been written down to £lOO,OOO, and
on this reduced amount the profits are equal to £2 19s. 2d.
per cent. Six banks doing business in Australasia showed
worse results than this in their last balance-sheets, and
16 showed better results—still, it is a very distinct im-
provement. The present half-year’s profits, _ added to
previous balance, leaves £2066 to credit of profit and loss,
and the best feature of the case is that the directors pro-
pose to appropriate 2000 of this as the beginning of a new
reserve-fund. This may be taken as evidence that, in the
board’s opinion, the long process of making provision for
losses is definitely finished, and that the Bank of North
Queensland is starting again with a clean sheet. It has
not possessed any reserve since 1894, and it lias written
off, in all, £170,928 of capital and reserves in the past six
years, so the clean-up ought to prove final this time. It
would be a good thing if the management would start
the new era by a resolution to set aside a certain propor-
tion of the profits regularly to strengthen the reserve till
it reaches at least £lOO,OOO, and to invest at least half of
it separately in State securities. The profits ought to
show a steady improvement now that the old incubus has
been extinguished, and when they reach £2500 for the
half-year—enough to pay a 5 per cent, dividend—there
will be a great temptation to pay 5 per cent, dividends
and let the reserve slide. The B.N.Q. shareholders
haven’t seen a dividend for a long while.
One notably good point is that the gross earn-
ings are larger this half-year than they have been since
June 1895, and but for a small increase in working ex-
penses and deposit interest this would be the best half
since then. Deposits have increased by nearly £14,000
during the half-year, and the reserve of cash and State
notes is very substantial, being equal to about 35 per cent,
of all liabilities to the public. Everything considered, the
Bank of North Queensland seems to have a reasonably
prosperous future before it. The present management
can, at least, take credit for having met its difficulties
manfully, and written off lost capital with much vigor.
* • * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland shows a net
profit of £7579 for the half-year ended 31st Dec., ’9B. The
profits for the last five years have been :
June, 1894 .. £6360 I December, 1896 .. £6515
December, 1894 .. 6477 June, 1897 .. 7463
June, 1895 .. 5946 j December, 1897 .. 7440
December, 1895 .. 6033 I June, 1898 .. 7460
June, 1896 .. 6445 I December, 1898 .. 7579
The Royal of Queensland pays its invariable 2.1- per cent,
div. which, with div. duty, absorbs £5075. Another £2OOO
is added to reserve, making it £41,000, all separately in-
vested in State securities, and all accumulated since the
’93 reconstruction. Deposits show an increase of £42,000
during the half-year. Cash and liquid securities (State
bank-notes and Government stocks) are £299,514 —an in-
crease of £44,000 as compared with the amount six
months ago, and equal to the very liberal figure
of 33 per cent, on all liabilities to the public.
The profits are equal to £3 11s. 3d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds, which is above the
average of at least 12 of the banks doing business in Aus-
tralasia. The conspicuous good points about the Royal
Bank of Queensland are the steady increase in the profits,
the fact that the dividend is kept down to a moderate
figure, the other fact that every half-year sees a solid
addition made to the reserve-fund, and the separate in-
vestment of the reserve in State securities. In the ab-
sence of any State audit, a g’ood deal has to be taken for
granted about the value of every bank’s advances, but on
its balance-sheet the Royal looks sounder than the
average. And it has a large capital for the size of its
business, which leaves a very liberal margin of security
to depositors. In this respect the small bank generally
has an advantage over the big one.
• m * •
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building,
and Investment Co. (Sydney) reckons that it has got
through the year ended 15th Nov., ’93, with a profit of
£477—equal to 13s. sd. per cent, per annum on capital,
or 9s. per cent, per annum on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserve). The net return in ’97 was £452, so there is
at least an improvement of £25. Still, considering that
the Haymarket Co. professes to have a paid-up capital of
£71,030, reserves £34,648, and a profit balance of £5963
total shareholders’ funds, £lll,64l—the profit of £477 is
pretty miserable ; the same funds, invested in 3 per cent.
State securities, would yield £3349. Either the assets are
largely “ book values,” and want writing down by some-
thing like £BO,OOO to bring them to their real present
value, or else the co. has woefully bad luck in the way of
unoccupied land and premises which are yielding no im-
mediate return. The fact that £115,439 is set down as
“ cost of sundry estates and improvements ” seems an
argument in favor of the latter view; £115,000 worth of
“ estate” is apt to be rather unsaleable these times.
* * * *
Johannes : No man who lends money at over
(say) 35 per cent, should be allowed to hold a seat on any
allegedly respectable Stock Exchange. Every broker
claims to be a gentleman. No man can be a gentleman
who lends money at much over 25 per cent.
* * • •
The Port Jackson s.s. co. is about to build
another steamer—of the Manly type, but larger than that
smart vessel. Some shareholders growl that ship-building
inevitably means embarrassing the company —but the
men now at the head of affairs know better. The P. J.S.S.
Co.’s trade has developed into a noble thing. On one
recent day the co. bagged about £430 in 6d. fares ; and
last year, in addition to paying off £17,000 overdraft, it
kept a good sum in hand and put its steamers into better
condition than they have been in for years. What a for-
tune was missed by the myopic dodderers who, a few
years ago, held out for Is. 6d. fares and wrecked the com-
pany ! m * *
Broken Hill’s metal output for ’9B was valued
for export at £1,666,502—the lowest for some years. But
the return for the second half was far greater than for the
first— £977,647 against £688,855. Further, most of the
export is now either crude ore or concentrates ; and both
are valued net. So stuff which, if smelted on the mine,
would be declared as of the value of £2OOO is, because it
is reduced at the seaboard, declared to be of the value of,
say, £lOOO. In the same way, though the ’97 export was
set down at under £1,900,000, the Mines Inspector re-
turned the gross value at £3,620,611. Comparisons,
therefore, between recent years, when all the smelting
has been done on the coast, and former years, when most
of it was done on the mines, do not show the relative
value of the mines’ output, or anything like it.
One result of the inadequacy of the official re-
turns of B.H. production (for N.S.W. Mines Dept, takes the
Customs figures, and all others follow the Mines Dept.) is
to make foreign statistics ridiculous. Thus, because no
separation of the lead from the silver has been made in
N.S.W., the province is credited in authoritative English
and American publications with producing a comparative
trifle of lead. It probably doesn’t matter much ; but
seeing that statistics are issued, they might as well give a
reasonably correct impression.
* * * *
The Broken Hill co. which has had most and
least pleasant experience of law, is likely to have some
more experience of it, in consequence of remarks made in
the latest directors’ report.
*** ■ *
The report and financial statements of the
Sulphide Corporation, which was formed to take over the
B.H. Central mine and the Ashcroft electrolytic process,
are ancient history when they reach Australia. Those
just out cover the twelve months preceding July last.
But in that period the Ashcroft process had been
tried, found wanting, and discarded; and the value of the
mine with the product treated by the common processes
of concentration, roasting, and smelting, had been deter-
mined. Apart from the huge cost of the Ashcroft works
at Cockle Creek, Newcastle, the co. was £44,779 out of
pocket by running them ; but the profit from concen-
trating and smelting reached £45,117. Nor was the latter
for the full year ; while expenses have since been brought
down from £6 16s. per ton of concentrates to £5 14s. lid.
Also the output is now 50 per cent, greater. The co.’s
capital has been reduced from £1,100,000 to £962,500 by
the simple process of cancelling ss. upon each of the
550,000 ordinary shares, representing the sum “ which
has been lost or is unrepresented by available assets ”;
and the name has been changed from Sulphide Corpora-
tion (Ashcroft’s process) to simple Sulphide Corporation,
But even on the reduced capital there is not more than
7| per cent, per annum in sight.
* =i= « *
Struggle going on between the representatives
of the Exploration Co. and the other directors for the
control of the Sulphide Corporation, for the promotion of
which the Exploration Co. got £75,000. One side says
the Exploration floated the Corporation recklessly so as
to make this huge profit; the other side, that the respon-
sibility involved in the adoption of the Ashcroft process—
its inception, and the experiments to test it, rested with
Messrs. Gibbs and their partners, who played the leading
role in everything that was done ; whereas it was through
the Exploration Co. that the Central mine was secured at
a price much below its intrinsic value. Though seeming
to have the best of the argument, the vote was carried
against the E. Co. Meanwhile, one hears nothing of Ash-
croft, to whom, as the man who had solved the mining
problem of the age, the papers once devoted whole pages.
« * * *
White Cliffs (N.S.W.) opal output for the year
is estimated at about £llO,OOO. Which puts opal fifth
on the list of N.S.W. mineral products.
Cobar-Chesney (N.S.W.) : Lode driven right
through at the 460 ft. level, and another crosscut going
through it at the 560 ft. Average of the first, slightly
under 4 per cent., which, considering that a large higher-
grade ore body is known to be to the south, is encourag-
ing. Manager reports that the ore at the 560 is the best
yet mined, indicating that the good ore south of the shaft
in the upper workings is dipping towards it. The big
compressing-plant and Lancashire boilers are about to
leave the foundry, and, as soon as the system of reduction
has been determined, the works will go up. Time and
money should make the Chesney-Cobar a big mine ;
especially if copper stays anywhere about TOO a ton.
* * * *
The fall in Cobar Chesney shares is attributable
to a variety of circumstances, but mainly, no doubt, to
the fact that the directors refrained from keeping cer-
tain promises made by them, the non-fulfilment of which
pro nises led to calls on the contributing shares. Also,
there was in the last mining report an absence of the en-
thusiasm anil detail which might have been expected had
the lode at the 560 ft. cross-cut looked quite as well as was
hoped for.
* • * *
It is generally understood that squabbling con-
tinues in the Overflow management. Unless something
very practical is soon done, the goose of the present
Overflow scrippers will be cooked. The mine is a splendid-
looking.show so far as it has been exploited—but then the
huge area of fine surface-show has only been scratched.
The Overflow may hereafter prove another Great Gobar,
or Mt. Lyell. It is good-looking enough for almost any-
thing.
- * * • *
“ Malle- ” : lie Eisler’s Gallymont experience.
An expert visiting a western field was offered an interest
in a big gossan deposit, alleged to go 15dvvt. per ton, for
11030. He went out and was told to sample wherever he
liked— “ The whole hill was the same.” He took samples,
locked them in his bedroom, and went out with one of
the vendors to see the big mine of the locality. In his
absence, someone climbed through his window, removed
the samples, heated them on a forge, and poured purple
of cassius over them ; the heat drove off the acid, and
left the chloride of gold in the ore. The expert wired
later from Sydney : “ Will take interest. ; cheque posted.’
Subsequent trials revealed not a color to the ton. With
memories of the Last Call, Taranganba, Mount Hoaxley,
and countless other things of the sort, it is not too much
to sav that Australia is the unfortunate possessor of the
adroitest and most conscienceless mining-fakirs on the
face of the globe.
The unfortunate Gallymont affair gives yet
another illustration of the oft-exploited Bulletin theory
that Jews are especially unlucky gold-miners. So un-
lucky that they really have no business to dabble in such
matters at all. The Hebrew’s proper gold-mine is in the
pocket of the Gentile, and he should recognise the fact
and lay strictly to his book. Fools build houses for wise
men to live in. Gentiles sink shafts to get gold for the
Jews. This paper isn’t arguing from the text that Gally-
mont was managed by Eissler, who is of the Chosen, for
E.ssler is a man of almost unique experience and widely-
recognised ability, who has managed many successful
gold-mining ventures —it is only superstitious enough to
believe that had Eissler been managing for John Smith
instead of for the unhappy Marks crowd he would not
have had such awful luck.
* • • *
Waihi, near Auckland, Dec. clean-up—bullion,
value £11,886 ; total for the year, £253,304. The boss
mine of M.L., and, of course, largely owned in London.
Some of the clean-ups in connection witli M.L. mines are
of a very poor description, that of the General Explora-
tion Co. to wit, concerning the local transactions of whose
representatives such sensational statements were lately
made in court.
• * * *
The mingled snort and howl which greeted the
Lake View Consols’ Christmas div. of a beggarly ss. per
share when a lordly guinea was expected, was probably
heard by Andree at the Norih Pole. The previous
div. was in May last ; and, since then, calculations that
couldn’t possibly be wrong have been made month by
month to show that another 10s. could have been paid in
September and another 10s. in December. The 11 months’
work resulted in 92,3210 z. gold being won from 61,418
tons stone ; value, about £390,000, at least. Working ex-
penses are estimated at £125,000. The co. has, however,
erected much machinery'; and, previously, the directors
had shown a disposition to build up a substantial reserve.
How they invest this latter is a matter of great import-
ance ; their powers under the articles are .very wide,
whereupon the rumor, circulated with a sinister signifi-
cance, that they have acquired large interests quite apart
from Westralian mining—a very proper thing, too, of
course, if it is to be a reserve-fund worth having. The
curious thing is that the shareholders of not one mining
co. in a dozen insist on knowing how the reserve is in-
vested.
*** . . *
Just a score of Westralian mining companies on
the div.-list. But Westralia looms large in both output and
divs., through the bunching of all the fields. Both t’other-
siders and J. Bull get the whole province’s figures lumped,
whereas, in Queensland, the Towers, Gympie, Mt. Morgan,
Croydon, and the rest each does its little screech. Same
in Victoria with Bendigo, Ballarat, Gippsland, and the
others. And the Westralians never give you a balance-
sheet, setting out calls and draws on capital as well as
divs.
* * * *
Lady Shenton, W.A. Cost of mining, 18s. 9d.
per ton ; milling, 19s. lOd. Both high, especially the
latter. Cause, water, no doubt.
* * * *
Hannan’s Brown Hill : 3059 tons, 70520 z., and
a div. of 7s. 6d. a share declared—equal to £41,250. Aus-
tralasia has never seen a group of mines equal to those
of Hannan’s, though the Brown Hill is outside the very
rich cluster, and is surrounded by some of the poorest on
the field. Long before it became a producer shares
reached £8 ; now it is producing at the rate of 7000 oz. a
month they are under £6. Bottom of mine the trouble.
Pettigrew, who was actively connected with it before
flotation, declares that the richness of the schistose
formations on the surface was discovered on the Brown
Hill before it was known on the Great Boulder or else-
where.
* * * *
A gold discovery made 400 miles out from Cool-
o-ardie is headed by the Argus, “ Great News of a
Wonderful Show.” A prospecting expedition, equipped
by O. F. W. Palmer, and headed by his son, started for
the Peterman Ranges some months ago, and the old man
wires to a friend in Melb. : “ Great news from son.” Tune
was when Coolgardie would have started out en masse,
but now its denizens “ are awaiting results.” Palmer,
the elder, in his day a fine fellow and a good sport, was
once a Vic. western district squatter, but having been
badly hit, made for Coolgardie in the early days and
started a pub. at Bulla Bullin, the last coaching stage en
route to that desert town. He and Ernie Brodribb,
another reckless man with a big heart, backed a horse to
win them £lO,OOO one day at Flemington. Palmer (who,
by the way, bears a perfectly marvellous physical resem-
blance to Capt. Semmes, the renowned Alabama captain)
incidentally mentioned that he would ask Brodribb to be
good enough to jump on his hat if they won. The moke
got home by the barest head—a circumstance so unusual
with E.B. that in his suppressed excitement he forgot his
part of the contract. Not so Palmer, who, on the grand-
stand lawn, threw his belltopper on the grass and bawled :
“ Ernie, jump on it !” many times, and as that sport re-
fused the jump he jumped on the tile many times him-
self, and then walked off hatless but satisfied. Brodribb,
having got through £lOO,OOO or more in about Aus-
tralian record time, also went to Coolgardie. For months
Mt. Burgess was the head prospecting station, and often,
after a remarkably quiet meal of tinned meat, preserved
spuds, and a raw onion for dessert, Brodribb would re-
mark to his mate, “ How I would like to make a few
quid.” But they did not get much gold—they got Barcoo
rot instead. Writer wishes Palmer good luck in this
find. Brodribb is somewhere or other on the con-
tinent. Since he dropped his money there doesn’t appear
to be quite the same interest taken in his whereabouts.
* » * F
The reduction-plants of the Mt. Monger and
Haycraft co’s., Kalgoorlie, sold by auction to the Lake
View Consols. Great things were said of the Haycraft
process when it was going up—not a word now it is com-
ing down. *
A start has been made with the Konemann pro-
cess on the Great Boulder tailings. One or two break-
downs occurred, but these were soon remedied, and the
plant is said to be running smoothly. A wash-up is pro-
mised some time in Feb. It will be watched and no mis-
take. Well-informed people predict a lower extraction at
a higher cost than the common or garden cyanide-process,
and a warm time for all responsible for its introduction ;
while manager Hamilton nails his flag' to the Konemann
mast, predicting complete success and great economy.
So no less a personage than D. L. Doolette
thinks it " about time that the old idea re the Boulder
being- a swindle from the jump was finally scotched ”
adding, as proof, that 16oz. was dollied in a fortnight
from the cap of thd lode, and that he had seen as good
stone in the lode at the surface as he had seen in it since.
Not so fast, Mr. Doolette. The Boulder has not been
“regarded as a swindle from the jump.’’ The general
idea is that it was a “ wild-cat” when floated in London,
and for a considerable time afterwards, and the finding of
unexpected lodes and gold has gone far to “ scotch ” that
idea, but not to kill it. If the lodes were known of and
their richness proved, how was it that shares were sold in
London, as well as on the field, at less than 25., which, on
the present number in the co., would be equal to about
21d. ? Dollied 16oz. in two weeks —why, the Londonderry
owners dollied upwards of 5000 oz. in a few days. That
mine was not a swindle, hut who is prepared to say it was
not a “ cat” to float for, say, £700,000 in London before
the slightest attempt was made to prove whether this
phenomenal pocket was like every other yet found in the
world—short-lived ? A few men connected with the deal
—mining amateurs such as Lord Fingall, for instance —
no doubt thought that there were tons of gold there, and
that it would go down, but the general scheme was to
take the public down ! No, Mr. Doolette, the Boulder,
the writer affirms, was as wild a feline as hundreds of
others in Westralia, and though the sin of its flotation
has been long redeemed by its gold—“nothing succeeds
like success ” —the fact can never be forgotten by those in
the know.
A Rockhampton syndicate is reported (by its
members) to have a big thing in copper at Moonmera, on
the Mt. Morgan line. London capital has been secured,
and the syndicates smile discreetly when questioned as
to the future.
* * * »
Spurred by local cyanide successes, Charters
Towers syndicates have been scouring the country after
tailings’ areas. A strong contingent swarmed round Mt.
Morgan and pegged rights all along the Dee, but has re-
tired defeated by the mundic tailings.
At Opalton (Q.) two miners named bhillington
and Greenwood, who had just succeeded to a claim pre-
viously worked by two Germans who had done well, are
said to have found one of the biggest blocks of opal ever
discovered —lift, long and in places as thick as a man’s
thigh. When broken four men carried it to the main field.
The value of the piece is estimated at between £7OOO and
£lO,OOO. Mr. Clancy, a southern opal buyer, states that
so great is the quantity of opal on the field that he will be
unable to purchase it all. Clancy on the opal overflow.
William TJsher, of Mt. Usher fame, is said to
hold another trump in the shape of a find near Rock-
hampton. Secrecy is to be preserved till London has
been consulted, for which purpose Usher goes ’Ome
shortly. The curse of Australian mining is this yearning
to go ’Ome and consult the bulls and bears in London,
who only mine in each other’s pockets and in the pockets
of the public.
r * * * *
Things must be looking up. Another Chillagoe
prospectus has come out in Melb., where the only Dowell
has arrived direct from the field, a big part of which he
pegged out, as is usual with Dowell wherever he goes.
As Dowell is about, Vic. may consider herself lucky in
being already pegged out.
Mt. Morgan for ’9B produced 165,5140 z., value
£663,000. If the outside fields be reckoned in, the total
output was 170,0000 z. Croydon declined to 55,0000 z.
Clermont output was about 30,0000 z., while the Etheridge
went down to 21,4760 z.
* * » *
Mt. Morgan storekeepers complain that, while
the railway has brought freights down to shillings where
pounds were paid before, it has also quite wiped out the
wood-carters and thus killed a big- produce trade. Bub
Mt. Morgan is, probably, the worst place on earth for
horses, especially wood-carters’ horses, and if the railway
has alleviated the sufferings of these poor brutes it has
already justified its existence.


d
ORIENT
s CLOTNINc:
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J4-Piate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Harrington 4 Co* tfd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 King-street, Sydney,
Stock the greatest variety of all kinds of PHOTO-
GRAPHIC MATERIALS, suitable for every descrip-
tion of work.
K3T CAMERAS and all other appliances.
&3T CHEMICALS for both Studio and Process
Work.
Studio Fittings, Flashlight Apparatus and Acetylene Gas Generators.
Our Illustrated Catalogue gives full information. Mailed free on application.
Queensland Branch —
-64 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne Agents —
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
The Australian Star in a late issue :
. . . the N.S.W. Legislature introduced the doctrine of
equal rights by an Act which allowed a wife whose
husband was domiciled in this province at the time the
suit was instituted to petition for divorce on the single
ground of his adultery.
The Star’s reading of the Act is supported neither
by the Act itself nor the decisions thereon.
As a matter of fact the N.S.W. divorce law winks
THE WORKINGS OF THE SPIRIT.
MISSIONARY : “ Now, my dear brother, as a test of the sincerity of your
repentance—can you lay your hand upon your heart and say
truly that you love your enemies? ”
PENITENT : “ Yes, sah, if properly cooked .”
at polygamy but frowns at polyandry; the
husband is allowed more latitude than the wife
(no doubt on the ground that whereas a man can’t
deceive a woman as to whether a child is hers or
not, it is easy for the woman to deceive her hus-
band as to who is her child’s father). In N.S.W.
a wife cannot get a divorce on the single ground of
her husband’s adultery (she must prove domicile
as well)—or desertion, or habitual cruelty, or
drunkenness, or some other of the matrimonial
offences enumerated in the statute. If, therefore,
a husband not having the animus revertendi, move
his domicile outside the jurisdiction, and there
commit adultery, the wife cannot obtain a divorce
unless she prove his domicile in N.S.W. at the in-
stitution of the suit. In a case where the husband
is petitioner the law does not recognise a corres-
ponding privilege on the part of the wife and will
grant him a divorce on the ground of adultery
alone. Temperance for men, total abstinence for
women, and no such thing as “ equal rights.”
* * * *
The tale of'» Westralian legal row :
For months there has been trouble at Perth over the
publication of a daily writ-list. The matter was men-
tioned in Chambers to the Chief-Justice, who told coun-
sel to mention it in Full Court. Mentioned accordingly,
a mere acting-justice, the sportive James, being with the
permanent, knighted Chief, the saintly Onslow. The
Chief gave a direction. Party appealed, and the Crown
Law Office relied upon the direction of the Full Court!
But, when the appeal came on, Judge Hensman and
acting-J. James were sitting. “Direction of the Full
Court ” was mentioned. “ ’Souse me,” said ’sonah James.
And then he explained that, though he had been on the
bench, sitting as a Full Court, with ’sonah the Chief-Jus-
tice, ’sonah the Chief-Justice hadn’t even turned to him.
Then, as the mere acting-J. was proceeding further, the
Crown Law Office promptly took its foot off the scandal’s
tail, and begged to amend the statement on which the
affidavit was made by substituting “ direction of Chief-
Justice.” Which was done, amidst Judge Hensman’s
punctuating remarks of “ Strauge, strange ! ” Then Pro-
priety breathed a long sigh of relief—and business pro-
ceeded. The Law is not only an ass, but a most expen-
sive and pompous ass into the bargain. The question in
Perth was whether the publication of a daily-writ list was
permissible. The C. J., relying on English practice (he is
knighted) said No ; and that was accepted by the Law
Office as a direction, and acted on. The publisher ap-
pealed. Judges sat and were divided ; the argument
must be repeated before a Full Bench. And so, the C.J.
(whose direction had been adopted) was called in next
day, and the Court went through the solemn farce of
listening to the arguments over again. Of course, the
O. J. sided with the Law Office. The dissentient, Hens-
man, had Judge Holroyd with him. But, then, Holroyd
is a Victorian.
• * m *
Scientist O’Connor, who took to England
the Queensland ceratodus, has, by way of com-
pensation, rewarded Bananaland for its gift by
bringing back the edible frog—with intent to
pursue the culture of aforesaid amiable batrachian.
According to O’Connor, West End clubs and high-
class restaurants in London use great quantities
of these frogs, so that Bull is no longer able to
hurl the reproach of “Frog-eater” without in-
curring Crapaud’s “ Tu quoque.”
* • * *
It is expected that the notorious Harrold
Bros.’insolvency case (S.A.), over which Premier
Kingston has, in his Q.C. capacity, been worrying
himself for the last two years, will be ended this
month. In his final address on behalf of the
insolvent Arthur Harrold (ex-president of the
National Defence League), Kingston wept copi-
ously, although there is no jury to melt into pity
on behalf of his client..
♦ * * *
Three codfish averaging 201 b. weight were
caught in the Yarra, at Melbourne, last week.
Which promises a gruesome new item for the bill-
of-fare at local restaurants. Yarra cod ! Ugh !
A toothache-dis-
tracted male lately
called on a Sydney
suburban dentist,
only to find him out.
The practitioner’s
wife cheerfully offer-
ed to extract the
offending molar.
Rather dubious, the
patient assented, and
the lady not only
successfully pulled
the tooth, but con-
demned its neighbor,
and insisted on yank-
ing that out also.
* *
Two Sydney den-
tists lately rejoiced
for weeks in a re-
splendent profession-
al doorplate before
they discovered that
it described them,
with more-or-less ap-
jiro priateness, as
“Messers So-and-so.”
* *
Orthodox old
lady speaking of cre-
mation to Sydney
pen - woman, latter
asks, “ Why do you
consider cremation
wrong ? ” “ Oh, well
—you see, the Lord
said ‘To dust thou
shalt return.’” “But
cremation makes dust
of us quicker than
burial.” “Dust!—no! That’s ashes/ And if
the .Lord had meant ashes, He’d have said ashes!”
* » * *
One Australian Governor and his crowd
have earned such a reputation for sickening
liberality, and so on, that no one would agree to
accommodate them on their more or less recent
visit to a certain country town ; and they would
probably have camped out (“such a delightfully
new experience, and so cheap, don’t ye know”)
had a tourist - agency not guaranteed ex-
penses. Country people now treat that Govt.
House party in same way as other travelling
troupes, and demand payment in advance.
AFTER THE INTRODUCTION.
MISS BLOOGUM : " Excuse me laughing, Mr.
M'Haggis, but you are the first soldier I have
seen in a skirt, te he.”
A breach of promise
case, tried in Sydney, the
other week, contained
a word or two of
warning for little
girls who incline
their hearts to pur-
feshunal gents.
The faithless swain
had seemingly been
an ordinary commer-
cial sort of young man
in the early days of
courtship, and it was not
until he took to mumming
that his ardor cooled.
“ Plaintiff asked defen-
dant if he loved any-
-
thing better than her,
and he said he did
not, but he loved
himself, and was
now a full-blown
actor.” If girls
could only be persuad-
ed to cut this out and
paste it inside the
crown of their huge
theatre hats! Every
actor loves himself
from the bottom
of his soul. The
best of them
will merely ad-
mit that they
are devoted to
their Art, but
the mummer’s
Art, when you
come to think
about the matter,
is made up of per-
sonal characteristics—his voice, face, manner-
isms and hardened self-assurance. If he didn’t
worship himself, how could he possibly strike
heroic attitudes under the limelight without
laughing ?
* ♦ 4> *
A Sydney magistrate’s vitriolic comments
on the prurient curiosity that attracts presumably
decent women to listen to the details of indecent-
assault cases recalls the story of a Judge who,
during a spicy hearing, smiled” blandly round his
courtful of scented, feather-nodding femininity,
and remarked : “ I must ask all respectable women
to leave the court.” There was no response, and
for a full minute there was dead silence. “Or-
derly ! ” thundered his Honor, “ turn out the rest.”
* * * •
Not a bad advt. in the Missing Friends
column in a daily paper: “Don’t be a missing
friend; use somebody’s anti-typhoid filter.”
• * * *
“Jep”:iie the laxity of the Gattonians
in assisting the police over the recent horror,
Gatton lay awake o’ nights wondering whether its
son or cousin or brother was implicated in the
crime, and got up in the morning convinced that
its particular son or cousin or brother was bad
enough for anything. Hence the remissness and
apathy.
* » * *
When the girl Dubberke, or Jamieson, of
Yarra boot-trunk horror, states that in turning
Queen’s evidence she is in no way actuated by a
desire to get the (,£550) Govt, reward, she ex-
presses, sincerely or not, a largely-entertained
feeling that a participator in a crime who after-
wards informs should not be allowed to earn
money by his information. The old Roman law
never treated an approver as an ordinary witness.
It distinctly laid down that no criminal was to be
put to death on the evidence of a self-confessed
fellow-criminal, and reduced to a maxim the
opinion that no person should stand to benefit both
by the perpetration of a crime in company and
later on by informing against his associates for a
sum of money.
*, * * *
Grim unintentional humor of recent S.M.
Herald. Half-column “Gatton tragedy,” and
half-column “ Another Queensland tragedy,” fol-
lowed by another half-column gush over New
Guinea missions. What about Gatton as a field
for the Lord’s laborers 1
* * * *
Queensland’s Gatton promises to become
as notorious in Australian history as another Gat-
ton was in English. Before the Reform Act
pocket-boroughs were common. The Lord of the
Manor nominated the Parliamentary candidate,
and in he went, the few voters taking it for
granted that the Lord was right. Gatton was
a mere geographical term. It didn’t own a
voter of any kind, yet the peer who carried the
term in his pocket sent up a M.P. for Gatton at
every general election until the Reform Bill
knocked him out.
* 4« 4« *
Sydney made a weak effort to get up a
local horror last week, the Gatton murder and the
Yarra boot-box having put the other provinces
distinctly ahead. Its trouble concerned a nice
girl who went out to answer an advt. —short
hours, good wages, not much to do, and other
attractions which looked too good to be real—and
didn’t return. Inquiry proved the address to be
bogus, and the inference was that girls were
abducted as they turned the corner of the street
and led away to be dissected, and that their hair
was afterwards sold. But the alleged missing
girl turned up before the dreadful item had time
to take root, and the whole thing fizzled out
quietly.
THE TROUBLES OF
THE LADY CYCLIST.
L.C.: “Is there a place near here where we could
put up for the night?”
BULLOOKY : “ Well, there's only Mrs. Murphy's,
along the track about a mile. She's a bit on
the booze just now, but she might let ye bunk
with her.”
“Feeding the Flames,” or S.M. Herald
on the Gatton tragedy :
There has been a report that Burgess stated to the
police . . . Inspector Urquhart states that the report is
foundationless. Some information has been obtained
from Brisbane which possibly may prove very important.
. . . Mr. Lewis made a discovery which possibly may
prove very material jn unravelling the mystery, but the
nature of which in the interests of justice, it is not
desirable to indicate. . . . The. police are working
earnestly, they have already brought a certain person near
the scene of the murder. So much is definite, the
difficulty now being to make the connection clearer.
This will perhaps take a considerable time. . . .
The police have evidence of a most specific nature when
once it can be associated with the individual. More than
WHICH EXPLAINED IT.
HE : “Horrible-looking fellow that; woman’s hus-
band, yet they never separate.”
SHE : “Oh, that’s not her husband — she’s a klepto-
maniac, and that’s her attendant.”
that they will not divulge, being: extremely reticent re-
garding the details. . . . Very little news from the sub-
districts. Inspector Urquhart states that good work is
being done there. ... A report was circulated that Bur-
gess went towards Laidley—but the police have been un-
able, so far, to verify the report. ... In reference to the
object found, the object may or may not have an import-
ant bearing on the case. . . . Inspector W. states that
the work is progressing favorably, but the matter is beset
with difficulties, things looking clear one day, and are
obscure the next. But there is every reason to hope. . .
The police are making anxious search for a man. . . No
trace of him has been found.
All this information for a penny, and the public
really thinks it is getting something for its money.
* * * *
Harry Stockdale once more on the Gafcton
affair :
Two of my surmises have now been proved correct—
firstly, that Murphy was shot ; secondly, that the mur-
derers left the paddock by the slip-rails. I am, therefore,
emboldened to offer these few further suggestions :
The man or men seen near the slip-rails must have been


R
AVE YOU
F^RCiOTTEH
?*'i
llllili
HI
HEALTH and HAPPINESS
ARE IN
SYDNEY LAGER BIER
It’s a Delicious, Refreshing Brew that gives you strength.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.,
Moore Park, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“APENTA,”
The Best Natural Aperient Water
For continuous use by the constipated, the gouty,
and the obese.
Sole Exporters: The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.
At N.S. Wales executions, when all is
ready Nosey Bob calls out to his assistant, “ Let
go!” (Nautical.) In hanging seven alleged mur-
derers at Candia recently the bugle-call sounded,
“Lights out! " and then the trap fell. (Military.)
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
__ i j 178 William-st., Melbournb
ny. Markwaltt, 11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 durrie-st., Adelaide; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
SoftCao^aSSbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO- per !4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and- Bush wear: State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PUCK IiIIOTIPKItS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agent* for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
aware of the intended ball, and that the Murphys were
fikel vto attend it. They inspected the passers-by to be
fhn Murphys had gone and so as to know them on
fheir return trip: Or possibly they intended to dispose
nf them as they P went had not Mrs. Carroll driven up so
plnse behind. Mrs. Carroll states she saw a man, when
nlar the rails, run after the Murphys and peer into their
" bu t that hearing her trap coming he turned off
fmo the bush. Had they cut the party off going
tn the ball they would have had possession ot the
his the whole night without anyone troubling as to their
nnt being at the ball; and, consequently, there would
hnve been more time to effect their evil purpose and
escape Looked at every way, the deed seems to have
IKEY’S LITTLEWAY.
(From Phil May's
Annual.)
“ What 'ave you got in
dem boddles, Ikey?”
“Dem ain’t boddles, dem’s
fire-extinguishers.”
“Gam, you’re not afraid
of a bit of a fire.”
“ No, but I gets 10 per cent, off the insurance for
having dem about.”
“What’s in ’em?”
“I don’t know what was in ’em, but there’s kero-
sene in ’em now !”
been the work of some who bore malice to the family,
knew that they would probably attend the ball, and
made deliberate arrangements accordingly.
Again, the heads of the victims are reported to have
been smashed with a “ billet of wood.” If this means a
bludgeon, recently cut for the purpose, the manner of
cutting might be a clue, as most men cut wood in
a style as distinctly their own as they write or talk. No
description seems to have been given of this “ billet"
that played so prominent a part in the murders. And
here are' two other circumstances tending to strengthen
the opinion that the deed was the work of those who, if
not actually resident, knew the place well.
Ist. Despite the number of police and others now in this
locality, the residents are so terrified that they leave their
homes as night comes on for those of their neighbors;
this points to a suspicion—perhaps even to a knowledge—
that the murderers are still at hand and likely to attack
others to whom they may owe a grudge. The other
point is that the bereaved mother, over the bodies of her
murdered and outraged children, should have prayed for
the souls of the guilty ones. Either Mrs. Murphy is an
absolute earthly saint, or she had in her mind, as the
criminals, certain persons known to her. The natural
first, feeling in the circumstances —especially with the
emotional Irish blood—would be an intense desire for re-
venge upon the culprits.
Finally, the absence of any attempt to conceal the
bodies was probably due either to the danger of acquiring
tell-tale stains, to lack of time, or to a feeling of vindic-
tive contempt.
• * * *
The sudden and unexpected solution of the
hoot-box mystery anguished many a Melbourne
literary bosom. The prayer 3 of the scribes were
for a month’s postponement; but the secret is out,
and a dozen half-completed shockers go into the
dust-bin. The litterateurs were writing against
time to provide a story of the mystery in book-
form while the sensation lasted, but now the real
denouement has chanced along the servant-girl and
the young shopman would not give sixpence for a
cartload of fictional elucidations.
• * * *
Clairvoyants, palmists, and their kin are
allowed to flourish brazenly in Sydney because of
the assistance many of the crowd give the detec-
tives in the search for malefactors. Malefactors’
women-folk are nearly all superstitious, and can
be drawn easily by a skilful futurity-monger.
Then the “ d.” gets “ the office,” and a “ clever ”
capture ensues.
• * * •
Nothing has ever been published in a
“ family paper ” to equal the hideous process-
blocks of the head of Mabel Ambrose, the victim
of the boot-box tragedy, printed by Melb. Punch.
The head was evidently photo’d after being lifted
out of the spirits in which it was preserved and
stood on a board.
• * • •
It is a remarkable circumstance how,
through all the rush of distracted parents to
report that Sairey Ann was missing, and to see if
she was the lady in the Yarra boot-box, the real
parent stayed at home and placidly scrubbed her
floor, and whitened her front step, and fired the cat
out at night, and suspected nothing. The boot-
box tragedy was roaring past her door for nearly
a month and it never attracted her attention.
Her daughter had stepped out about a month
previously “ to look for a place ” and didn’t come
back ; but this attracted no particular attention.
The police even lighted on the old lady’s weather-
board cottage and wanted to drag her out to look
at the body, the local bobby having a suspicion,
but she was almost the only woman in Melbourne
who took no interest in the body whatsoever. Her
daughter had such a habit of stepping out forhalf-
an-hour or a few weeks that it might have rained
boot-trunk mysteries without arousing any great
suspicion in the old lady’s mind.
* * * *
‘ ‘ There was again a large attendance at
the Morgue yesterday, numbering over 1500
people. The total number of callers since the dis-
covery of the woman’s body on 17th December
has been over 8000. Public interest in the crime
which has become known as the Boot-Trunk
Tragedy remains unabated.” — Melb. paper.
Young man Tod, the hero of Melb.’s Boot
Trunk Tragedy, can advance one good plea in
palliation of his giddiness, anyhow. He was a
house-agent. It is hard for a house-agent to be
strictly virtuous. The temptations are so numer-
ous, and so pretty in many cases, and the oppor-
tunities that offer themselves to a mid-day caller
in Tod’s line of business are exceptionally diversi-
fied. There’s the lady who pays her rent with an
engaging smile ; and the lady who is fascinatingly
backward in paying it; and the lady who can’t
pay it at all, but would like to be put into another
house where the agent will not press her—
in a financial sense. Sometimes the agent
steps naturally into the position of friend
and benefactor; more often he is cajoled into
it; not infrequently he finds himself meeting
circumstances half-way —so to speak. The
“ gay ’’-housekeeper comes to him and he goes to
the “gay ’’-house. This is not a danger that crops
up at long intervals, as with the fire-insurance in-
spector. Rent-collection is a weekly occurrence.
To the ladies who “call about a house” at the
office there is no end. In an ordinary way of
business, Tod first called at the three-roomed
cottage of the woman whose young daughter sub-
sequently provided material for the Boot-Trunk
Tragedy. It was as a house-agent, also, that he
became friendly with the other parties in the case.
The Bulletin now exhorts young men in general
to join it in a prayer for deliverance from house-
agency.
* * * *
Emily May, charged at Flemington (Melb.)
Court with the theft of a fowl, begged for leni-
ent treatment, on the ground that she had stolen
the bird for her wedding-breakfast, due next day.
And then the bride-elect, being fined 405., begged
for three months to pay the money in. The world
will laugh—but how tragical is poverty !
VISITING-DAY ON A GUNBOAT.
(From Phil May's Annual.)
’ARRY: "Is the capting in?"
JACK : “ Yes, he’s aboard. What do you want
him for? ”
’ARRY : “ Oh, never you mind ; just tell ’m as one
o’ the howners wants to see him. ”
A well-known Melb. divorce lawyer sum-
marises the Full Court decision in Simons v.
Simons, wherein it was held that desertion
could take place although the parties con-
tinued to live in
the same house:
“A husband
MISS MUSGROVE AND THE
CHOW (IN “THE GEISHA”).
is entitled to his
wife’s society not
kitchen society, nor
parlor society, but
bedroom society.”
* *
Melb. ’ERAIiD re-
cently published tvvo-
and-a-half cols, of
coroner’s inquest on
thebodyof aboarded-
out baby who, said
the jury, “ had
died from ex-
haustion, but
there was not
sufficient evid-
ence to show whether the exhaustion was caused
by improper or insufficient food.” After wading
through two yards of slushy details in this case,
the reader can discover no reason for the “full
report,” except that the exhausted infant was
born of a Barmaid. A Barmaid’s Baby is a pub-
lic character.
THE JEWEL OF ASIA.—(FROM “ THE
GEISHA.”)
It did not occur in one of the Solomon
Islands, but took place in Chalmers Church,
Sydney. A thousand unemployed had met there
to hear Rev. G. D. Buchanan deliver to them a
message. The D.T. report says: “ Then, in a
few simple words, Mr. Buchanan explained to his
unfortunate hearers the meaning of the Lord’s
Prayer.”
That ancient Melbourne land-mark—the
gum-tree which over-looked the Elizabeth-street
side of Sti Francis’ Church enclosure and which
was cut down a couple of years ago—is now being
made into an altar-cbair for said church. The
operator says the heart of the tree is as hard as
stone, but there’s nothing wonderful in that. It
was Melbourne’s chief place of assignation right
up from the time that Little Lonsdale-street got a
reputation until its removal from the hardly less
smellful thoroughfare. What “facers ” that chair
could give to some of the worshippers could it
only speak!
Sydney Transit Com-
missioners seem to be
slumbering rather less
profoundly than
usual. The mur-
derouß ’bus*
overloading
is receiving
something
like system-
atic cheek,
and, more
wonderful
still, it has been
decided to pro-
ceed against dri-
vers of dilapidated
cabs. Attention might
at the same time be given to the extraordinary
fact that in a large number of cabs the windows
won’t open—whioh means Sheol for the occupant
on a Sydney summer day. In such a climate
every cab should be instantly openable at back,
front and sides.
• * • *
‘ ‘ Morgue parties ” are the latest Melb
fashion. “Wading bees” and water picnics
have been tacitly abandoned in favor of the
attractions of the Severed Head at the morgue.
Since the beginning of the year every day has seen
increased “business Saturday week culminating
in a record of 1025—exclusive of children, though
nearly every housefather dragged into the ghastly
place a row of gaping youngsters who played
“ tig” round the marble slabs while their parents
picnicked on the morgue lawn.
* * * *
“ J. J. Mac” :—•
Another version of that Manly (Boxing Day) incident.
It seems that the young woman who tried to rush to
Neptune’s arms was about 24, not 14 ; and that the elderly
man who first jumped to her assistance was no swimmer.
Both would have been drowned had not a young man
immediately followed the ancient and kept them both
afloat, until eventually the three were hauled on to the
steamer. I believe this is the true story—so what has
“Face” —who talks so big about the absence of chivalry
in Australian men —to say to the elderly man’s action ?
And what was “Face” doing that he didn’t dive in
himself?
* * * *
“ C.S.” turns things upside-down-—which
is often a very excellent thing to do, though he is
apparently wrong this time :
Apropos the three Gatton victims, strange that no
one has suggested that a jealous woman or two
may have been implicated in this hideous affair. Two
females might easily have asked for a lift in the
trap, no suspicions would have been aroused —then a
bullet and two heavj* blows on the girls’ heads. Struggle
with girls—do not forget the scratched faces and limbs ;
and then the mutilation. As for the “ outraging ” : con-
sidering the seemingly perfunctory way in which the
doctors diagnosed Murphy’s injuries and overlooked the
bullet ; and seeing how the bodies of the girls were
hacked, the question of “ outrage ” in the sexual sense is
—well, questionable. As no male ravishers and mur-
derers have been found up to date of writing, perhaps
the detectives might do worse than hunt for clues of
“ lady ” furies.
» * * *
“ Constance Clyde” re a Royal hausfrau :
Once more a daily paper informs us that the Crown
Princess of Something or Other has baked delicious.cakes
for her Royal grandpapa, who has been graciously
pleased to approve of her efforts in that direction.
Strange how feminine virtue seems bound up in the
A LESSON IN KISSING.—(FROM “ THE
GEISHA,” AT ME LB. PRINCESS’S.)
work-box and the baking-board quite irrespective of their
utility under the circumstances. Same in literary life.
No penman is expected to apologise for his brains by
patching his own trousers, but unless a literary woman
consents to waste half her time in doing what any com-
mon garden woman could do, and do better and with
more pleasure, she isn’t “ womanly.” As a matter of
fact, the penlady who knows even the meaning of needle
and thread deserves to be hounded out of decent society.
The woman who wraps her talent in a napkin won’t
escape hell-fire because she has embroidered said napkin
with the latest stitch in moutmelluc work.
A BALLAD OF MELBOURNE MORGUE.
Do come an’ see the ’Ead
Of the donah who is dead ;
It lies upon a marble slab
In a buildin’, you’re aware,
By the Yarra over there —
Suppose we take a four-wheel cab ;
For the cab can carry eight,
And will land us at the gate
Of the villa where the gal’s on view ;
Though we can’t say who she is
From the photos, of her phiz.,
Thank Gawd 1 she wasn’t me or you I
Come along and ’ave a treat —
Bet your life she’s clean an’ sweet,
They say they’ve ’ad ’er soaked in gin
For a pretty longish while,
Which explains ’er ’appy smile —
Hurry up / or else we shan’t git in.
It’s the rummest bloomin’ go
In a free-an’-easy show
As yer ever ’eard abowt, or read—
Don’t purtend ’t’ud make yer sick :
Now, then, Lisa, dear, look quick—
Cabby, drive us to the same old ’Ead.
In Chalmers Church but lately
They sat, with stomachs void,
And pipes and pockets empty,
The Heathen Unemployed.
The prayer unto the Father,
That recondite strange prayer,
The Reverend Buchanan
Explained it fully there.
They felt, those hapless Heathen,
Their hearts within them stirred,
To hear his explanation
Of each exotic word.
Alas, alas, the pity 1
Alas, and woe is me,
That in this Christian city
So many pagans be !
Yet, from the Church of Chalmers,
They went forth overjoyed
To know God was their Father,
Those Heathen Unemployed.


Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
AT
REDUCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks,
Dent's ” Austrain Latrb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
„ T , en^, B *-h e ' eette Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
Dent s” Chevrette Washing Suede, in white, 1/11
„ ” ” special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
lownes beiA Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2/11
e Merlier Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broiuered backs, 3,11
Superior,Ch evrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
Dent’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
ong Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt and special attention.
w. T. WATERS & CO.
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS ha ™ wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 2s. ; postage 2d. extra. W.
H. 1 ahng and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.
The Manhattan Luncheon and Tea Rooms.
The coolest, largest and best-lighted room in
Sydney. A speciality is the dinner of three
courses, Is. 6d.— from 6 to 7.30 p.m.
“In memoriam,” Sydney Daily Tele
graph, 14/l/'99:
-In sad and loving remembrance
of Anne Matilda, who died January 14th, 1895 at Frank-
fort House, Oxford, daughter of' Major Revill, Round
Oak, Windsor, sister of Colonel Revill, also sister of the
wife of Don Pascual de Gayanzos, President of the
University of Madrid, widow of the late Colonel Rev-
mond Honey de Montmorency, mother of the late Major
de Montmorency, served in India and China, present at
burning of the Emperor of China’s Summer Palace at
lekin (who married a sister of Lady Norman, her
daughter Anna married General Sir James Abbott, R.A.
K.C.8.), and aunt of Hamilton-Low, aged 81 years
Dieu, ayde au premier Chretien.
Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
» , r Sydney, January 16, 1899.
My Dear Myee—
Just now Society imagines it is having a splendid
time m the country. The summer game of the
season is chasing grasshoppers. This was insti-
tuted at their Sutton Forest retreat by the Vice-
regal maidens, whose love of outdoor sport has
always been marked. Moreover, Bishop “Bob ”
Smith has just been visiting at Hillcrest, and
something moderate in the way of revelry was
probably necessary. Then, too, every one has his
• own idea of what is jolly. A small boy away in
the country for his Xmas holidays, an only son
wrote home lately to his mother, “Dear Mother’
I am having a splendid time up here, we sight
about three snakes a day in our garden. ” How
jolly for the nervous mother of an only hopeful!
N.SAV. lancers start for Fngland in
March—our Guards, don’t you know. In the in-
terests of pure Australian swaggah, let us hope
they are all sound fruit, with no taint of, say
socks or vulgar trade among them. Years ago
there was a good-looking fellow who wasn’t
allowed to go and like a soldier fall because the
othahs objected to falling’ with a man who sold
neckties, bai jove. But isn’t sixty an awkwardly
big number to get together if the sell-’em restriction
is to be severely enforced all through the regi-
ment ?
Sydney loses a veteran by the death of Colonel
Rowe. The deceased gentleman was one of Aus-
tralia’s best-known architects, and as he designed
Sydney Y.M C. A. Hall, the Synagogue, ° the
beautiful Walker Hospital, Newington College
and many other fine buildings, he is a man of
many monuments. His military position was
evidently dear to him, for one of' his last wishes
was for a military funeral. This wish was carried
out last Sunday, when the biggest funeral since
the late Gov. Duffs thronged the streets for over
a mile on the way to Waverley Cemetery.
This week, and for several weeks to come what
is left of Sydney world is spending its time at
bargain-sales, buying up everything it doesn’t
want. For the sake of those who find themselves
stranded on acres of small draperies I am going to
give you three ideas for converting remnants into
useful investments. The first is a smart walking
dress, made of a shortish length of dark-blue or
green linen. The skirt is to be cut in two deep
flounces, each falling flat over the other, ed<>-ed
with tiny black satin ribbon worked in a scroll
pattern. The bodice is wrought in black glace
silk, tucked all over, the sleeves tucked and very
tight-fitting, and is brought into harmony with
the skirt by a little pretence at a bolero in
green or blue linen creeping out from
under the arms, and caught lightly across
the chest with one jewelled button. The black
satin scroll pattern also runs round the edges of
the bolero, and the waist-belt must be of black
velvet, fastening with a turquoise clasp. The
Princess of Roumania lately sported a gown like
this, and was voted particularly smart, even by
Mrs. Aria, who is becoming more and more auto-
cratic since she started the World of Dress
magazine.
My second suggestion will suit anyone who
combines some black lace with the desire to be
particularly toney. It imitates the gown in which
the Princess of Wales fancies herself most; a
simple little black lace frock with a four-flounced
bkirt. Ihe bodice is trimmed with rather narrower
flounces falling down from a transparent lace or
jewelled yoke. The inevitable black velvet neck-
band, of course, finishes off everything, as H.R.H.
is never seen without it.
The third remnant might be some white-spotted
not and a length of white glace silk. This will
turn into the prettiest theatre blouse imaginable
if the net is made up over the silk, and the sleeves
are allowed to be full bishops ending in tiny cuffs.
Everyone is rushing into full sleeves now for lace
or net bodices. And everyone is trying to give up
tying her veil under the chin and accustoming her-
self to letting it rest on the under-lip without
biting it. For the rest, fashions are halting, and
the only really loud announcement is that the
streets are still to be cleaned with skirts.
K. S. Ranjitsinhji certainly has an understudy in
Australia, and that personage is undoubtedly
Clem. Hill. The attitude and gestures of Hill
when in the field recall vividly those of the Indian,
while his sensational, but uneven, performances at
the wicket carry the resemblance still further, to
say nothing of the increased excitement in the
ladies’ reserve when he emerges from the pavilion.
The German National Fete came off at Cabarita,
last Saturday, quite successfully. All the
manns” and “hoffs” of the Sydney-German
circle steamed up the river to music, and the
festival was strewn with speeches, and sports, and
much national German song, and many tender
allusions to the Vaterland. The fete was by way
of commemorating the foundation of the German
Empire, and was particularly well patronised by
homesick Germans from various steamers just now
in port.
‘ ‘ Hamlet, ” warranted by Baconspeare’s admiring
friends to resist the ravages of the worst actor
that ever lived, was played by Alfred Dampier
for one night last week, and went so well that a
repetition is to occur at the same place next
t riday. Everybody knows Dampier’s Hamlet—a
gentleman in black, just a little inclined to be
underdone, but beautifully- different from this
city s last attack of melancholy Dane. This play
used to give Wilson Barrett his biggest chance to
ue a nuisance, you remember. First, there was
the sudden strut backward that led you to believe
he was going, then the highly dramatic pause fol-
lowed a long time after by a renewal of the strut.
By then he would be at the curtain, and had every
opportunity to part the hangings and walk through
out of sight. But just there began the play of
\V llson Barrett (no connection with Shakespeare),
-ineie was the slap at his chest; the windy gurgle •
a sham step backward that brought his counten-
ance into a brighter light; a series of dry laughs ;
a long, agonised glance all about nothing, and
finally, one great, spread-out pose with the eyes to
trie pea-nut heaven, and the passing of Barrett was
accomplished after long grief and pain. To go out
°f oi 6 l -00111 like a crab in a fit is a common disease
hakespenan actors, from which, I hasten to
add, JJampier does not suffer.
Who says the gods don’t like Shakespeare ? The
upper circle of the Criterion on Friday overhung
everywhere with vociferously applauding gods. Of
course there are gods and gods, but the two sec-
tions were represented here—the genuine article in
gaudy costume of no collar and a fringe,
and the spurious imitation that goes up there to
improve its mind on classic English at the lowest
possible rate. A large d.c. also gathered together
intelligently, and gazed between intellectual graft
at a pretty young actress eating chocolate out of
the same, bag as her well-known theatrical manager.
Ihe circle evidently felt the desecration of bring-
mggew-gaws i nto the presence of the immortal
Jiill there seems to be some strange sentiment
abroad that you dress for Shakespeare as vou
would for one of the Y.M.C.A. festivals, and
everyone was clothed solemnly up to their ears
and down to their knuckles.
Miss Rose Dampier’s Ophelia turned out to be
a nineteenth-century maid in a not-too-lovely gown
ot old-gold shot with maroon, and lifted to reveal
a maroon petticoat. Her hair was dressed large
and wide, and reminded me of the Coogee trams
in an entirely irrelevant way. A few sartorial
blemishes marked her impersonation—otherwise a
painstaking piece of work—such as the florist-like
arrangement of various bouquets that draped her
corsage in the mad scene, and the unmoved car-
mine in her cheeks, and extreme dryness of her
robes when her corpse is carried in dead from
drowning.
Speaking of florists, the great Edict of Maitland,
foi bidding Roman Catholics to deck funerals as
tor weddings, will lighten death to the poor, who
are nearly all related. These masses of flowers
cast over tombstones have been responsible for
° ne of _ the ghastliest snobbisms of the cen-
tury. lo report, in a social kind of way, that
Eady de Jones sent a silver service, and Mrs.
Snooks a pair of hand-made pillow-shams, for
Miss Low’s wedding, strikes some people— Mrs.
bnooks among ’em—as bad form. But to publish
long lists of senders of wreaths and crosses to a
corpse, arranging the names of senders on the
whos who?” system, is quitb the crack diaboli-
cal outrage of the age.
To be in some theatres when the play refuses to
start is livelier than to have some plays begin and
go on as usual. The second night of “The Bo-
hemian Girl ” brought a fair house to the Lyceum,
but at eight o’clock the curtain remained niotion-
-11 orc k f, stra had not appeared, and no squeak
of fiddle gave hope that things were proceeding
behind the scenes. The house took things calmly,
and waited—for good behaviour you can’t improve
on an English-Operatic audience. It has neither
the cheek of the comic ojiera, the passion of the
legitimate tragedy, the frenzy of the melodrama,
nor the loud, complacent purr of the pojiular con-
cert running in its blood ; in fact, it wears the
.cowed, crushed aspect of a little boy eating bread-
and-butter in sight of plum-cake. After a long
time, some decorous stamping and yelling began,
''ken at last it looked as if the Bohemian
Girl had quite decided not to show herself, the
house began to wake up to the situation and
wonder if it would get its money back. The
stamping began in earnest then, but the appear-
ance of All press, looking worried and worn, fol-
lowed by his little band, finally brought things to
quiet again. This brief opera season hasn’t been
too lucky, although everyone has worked hard,
and some excellent work has been achieved, if in
patches.
Miss Tree sings spiritedly all through the
Bohemian Girl, ” and looks her very best as
Arline in a spangled rose-tinted silk, covered with
little black velvet stars, with sjiangles running
round them. Her figure assumes a slimness, if it
has it not, in this simple but fetching frock. The
dull blue plumes in her hair contrast pleasingly.
Little baby Scott, who plays Arline in the pro-
logue, is the nicest little stage-child I have seen
for a long time. Leumane strikes his best note in
a hussar’s jacket, worn with a pair of Knightish
legs; and I arley makes up the most magnificent
pair of eyes imaginable for Devilshoof. The
choristers remained in the sulks all the evening,
and lent a lop-sided look to the poor little per-
formance that none of the principals could
straighten.
From Nicholson and Co. conies a batch of new
music, thickest of which is the Firm’s Musical
Magazine. Every class of inspiration and other-
wise is stowed away here, from Schubert’s “Wan-
derer ” and other classic gems down to (or, in
accordance with the renaissance of musical taste,
up to) “ Where is the harm if she met him ? ” It
seems that realism is getting into music allright,
for one song here is all about the Divorce Court
and how the Judge said, “I will part you for your
hearts are strangers now, the boy can with his
mother always stay, and if the girl is willing she
can with her father go.” Next century, at this
rate we will find ourselves singing Williams on
Real Property. From the same firm I receive two
senn-sacred songs carefully composed for Sunday
afternoons—“ The Lord is Love,” by Theo. Bon-
heur, and “From Cross to Crown,” by Godfrey
Marks. “The Governor’s March,” by Giebel,
comes out at an appropriate time, and has the re-
commendation of not being dedicated to anybody.
The fashion is to dedicate to a big-wig in such big
letters that the public mixes up the wig with the
composer and feels aristocratic when it plays that
particular composition. lam inclined to think
that Mrs. Brody’s Langley Waltz would never
have been written only for a certain other popular
waltz. “ Les Zouaves,” by Charles Clay, is a gay,
giddy little march that doesn’t pretend to be
. classical, and isn’t. An elegant Mazurka de Salon
by 1 rederic Gamier has more frills, sounds hard,
and is useful for a slow pupil who has to make a
splash.
From Glen and Co. comes the Federal Music
Book, furnished with an excellent set of dance
music. This firm also sends “Love’s Song,” sung
most effectively by Phil Newbury. The difficulty
is to remember that you are only singing Love’s
Song by Pietro Gileuth, arid none of the others
that suggest themselves. Another pretty song
from the same publishers is Leon Caron’s “Love
is Gold,"’ which Miss Cesca Vollugi is still rather
nervously interpreting at the Firm’s Pantomime.
Apropos of music, a young imported musician
has lately been mysteriously announcing in the
papers that he will receive no more communica-
tions by telephone. He has had to do this to
secure himself from pretty girls who have fallen
under the spell of his long hair, and have been
ringing him up at all hours of the day to have “ a
little talk.”
From Paling and Co. comes the affable “ Dante
March,” by George Jones, conductor of Dante’s
orchestra. “The Voyage,” by Nicholas Gehde,
is a windy, billowy song, full of foes and glory and
fusto, that has been well interpreted at the
aedertafel concerts by Herr Staedtgen. Two
more local compositions come from Paling’s. “The
Spoor of the Lion,” by Ernest Trumann, described
by the author as a spectacular, international song,
and YViegand’s dainty little ‘‘Orange Flower
Serenade,” dedicated mysteriously to the Countess
of Jersey, who is not going to take another hus-
band as far as anybody knows.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
One sympathises with Australia’s most
economical Governor. Spending money is palp-
able torture to him, but in his peculiar position he
must snnle on, even though his heart grows heavy
and his pocket light. Still, ‘ there’s ways of
doing things, ’ as Tyson said to his lady-friend in
explanation of his camel-like preparations for
droughty journeys. When first His Ex. dropped
in to say his Sunday prayers at a little church in
an obscure corner of his province, wardens were
disappointed to find the offertory unenriched by
banknote or gold coin. Now they’ve got to know
that the sky won’t fall if the plate passes the
worshipper-in-chief without annexing a three-
penny bit to bless itself with. All the fault of a
careless valet, it seems, who frequently forgets to
put Ins master’s purse in the pocket of the latter’s
Sunday-go-to-meeting coat.
i Worshippers in an Australian country church
lost all joy in their devotions t’other Sunday,
owing the blunder of their deaf-and-dumb
verger. The province’s Governor, arriving unex-
pectedly m time for service, asked the afflicted
official referred to to show him a seat. The mute,
hearing nothing, of course, mentally patted the
stiangeron the head as a decent old party, and,
as such, condescendingly assigned him a sitting.
.Before long, the lawful owner of the pew swept
up the aisle, so the verger, knowing her of old as a
firm upholder of vested rights, skipped ahead,
rapped his prayerful Ex. violently on the shoulder,
and waved him imperiously out of his corner,
100 late, the horrified pew-proprietress recognised
the distinguished trespasser, and wildly signalled
the unconscious evictor. lie was busy hustling
the intruder into less luxurious quarters, nor
would the turned-out tenant, in response to the
apologist s pleading gestures, resume his patronage
of her premises.
American and 1 reneh preference for scantily-
populated nurseries is apparently shared by Aus-
tralian ‘Naicest,’ though the church here, as
elsewhere, the blessedness of ‘quiver-
fulness bv precept and practice, especially
practice. While the Anglican shepherd-in-chief
boasts neither chiek nor child, one of his arch-
deacons rejoices in a family of thirteen. The
eldest of this patriarch’s seven girls is already a
parsoness. Her curate brother is engaged to one
of the eight daughters of an eloquent suburban
vicar, while a younger one, not in orders yet, has
plighted his troth to the descendant of a hardy
pioneer dame, who in her day was more expert
with bullock-teams and crosscut-saw than any
mere man in her district.
, ‘‘?y, the way, young Le Souef, son of the director
of Melbourne Zoo, is to wed the only unmarried
daughter of Moravian Missionary Hagenauer,
now Inspector-General of Vic. Aborigines. The
/ b w d A gl ’°r om ' elect ’ tf >e curator of Perth
(W.A.) Zoo, has just escorted safely to Australia,
ti om foreign parts, a squad of mongooses and
“Mention of churchy love affairs recalls the
recent Summer School’ at Mornington (Vic.)
Ihe week before Xmas in residence thereabout
were 160 summer scholars— i.e. delegates from
respective ‘Christian Unions’ of Melb., Sydney,
and Adelaide Varsities, and fromsecondaryschools
of same provinces. Not half a bad picnic for holi-
day-makers, willing to spend mornings and even-
ings.at Lible-class and ‘ Christian conference ’ re-
serving ‘ afternoons only’ for ‘God’s glorious
oxygen Each member put his guinea into the
pool which boarded and lodged the school for
a week in Mormngton’s various caravanserais •
boats bikes, buggies, sea-baths, tennis, and simi-
lar afternoon frisks were ‘ extras ’ arranged for
as economically as possible by ‘recreation com-
mittee.
All sorts and sects of parsons led the summer
sheep by still waters. Archdeacon Langley Prof.
Harper, and the Wesleyan master of ‘Queen’s."’
1 hen there were girl-graduates, minor clergy, soft-
goods Beath, his daughters, and the prettiest
one s fiance—a budding medical missionary. The
proposer and promoter of the gathering was on
hand, of course. Such an eloquent American
bachelor, ex-student of Yale ’Varsity (U.S.). In
America, it seems, these ■ ‘Chautauqua’ meets
atlect camp life as a protest against sinful luxury.
But it s different over thar, for the sexes never
chautauque ’ simultaneously. With no men to be
impressed or disgusted, she tent-dwellers resign
themselves whole-heartedly enough to the un-
beautuul squalor and hugger-muggery of wigwam
“The doctor of the mail-steamer was an affec-
tionate young thing, loving and loved by all. An
innocent little dear, ‘justfrae her mammy,’ har-
rowed hubby cruelly by persistent hysterical
symptoms and incurable mal-de-mer. Perhaps if
Medicus had been older and tougher . . . how-
ever, whenever the bridegroom was about, wifie
couldn t swallow a morsel. In vain he begged his
Precious ’to nibble just one ‘bikky. Even for
his sake she couldn’t. But no sooner did he slink
below to satisfy his own brutal appetite than the
sufferer disposed of turkey, plum-pudding, stout
anything and everything prescribed by motherly
sympathisers, not to speak of ices and sich. Later-
on, as her matrimonial slave carried her back to
her cabin she would smile bravely through her
tears and tell him she’d had ‘ such a nice dinner ’
‘Well done! And what did its Poppet fancy”
A lemon water-ice ! ’ Poor wretch, you shouid
have seen his face fall! Maybe, like others of his
sex, the seeming dupe ‘ twigged more than he let
on.’ When some brute of a chum said eom-
miseratmgly: ‘Poor old Chappie, you are working
hard this trip, the Creature responded jovially •
b You bet 1 Never mind, I’ll sleep it out going
A blessing left unplucked on the tree of life till
her bloom was faded and her age jibbed at her
everlasting efforts to turn it back to the twenties
was pushed into a nasty corner lately, but hopped
out without a scratch. The health officer called
at her lodging-house early one morning to seek
particulars of her reported diphtheritic sore-
throat, and sent up the landlady to her bedroom
to ask, among other questions-what was her age’
With much rambling, and—well, the sort of
nervousness peculiar to landladies, which isn’t the
common kind of nervousness at all—she arrived at
the embarrassing statement, “And he wants to
know how old you are, Miss Jones ? ” The answer
may be a joy for ever to some other persecuted
being: Please tell him I don’t know. Mother
never told us our age.” Far-thinking mother
wasn t she ? ’
“ ® ald in a well-informed quarter that the
warship Crescent, now on her way out, is in all
probability, to be stationed in Hobson’s Bav
Melbourne people have long thought they had a
grievance, as their province pays its share towards
the squadron and only sees the ships at Cup-time
. 6 Crescent-a sister to the Royal Arthur—mav
give some of the girls a bit of gold lace to look at
and some more a few Jack Tars to play with. It
is also rumored that Gov. Brassey’s influence with
the Admiralty secured the sending out of another
cruiser.
w un draped Trilbies were carefully
excluded from the public gaze at last year’s exhi-
bition of the Vio. art students, this year they are
audaciously placed where everybody can see them
and are one and all depicted with a photographic
realism which is lewd in art. One of the funniest
tilings is to stand m the exhibition and watch the
faces of the naughty men from the street and the
horrified mother of the family as they note the
details—the very full.details of the unclothed
damsel on the wall.
“Housemaids and pages are quite ‘out a
present in Melbourne doctors' households. Every
self-respecting doctor keeps a professional nurse to
answer the doorbell, interview the patients, and
help m their surgical treatment if required. The
idea has not caught on yet to any extent in Syd-
ney, but there is a deal to be said in favor of the
system.
Knighthoods, like kisses, evidently go by
favor. Melbourne’s Mayor in Diamond-Jubiloe
year is plain ‘Mister’ to this day. Not that
Mayoralty, with its pomps and perks, isn’t good
payment even for the most patriotic of councillors.
Jiut if one Chief Magistrate souvenirs his brief
authority by a name-handle, why not all? A
giatoful Sovereign, ’tis said, would have been
delighted to honor her trusty servant aforesaid
had his pelf qualifications been more dazzling.
However, as the father of one of the prettiest
girls in Melbourne and of six athletic, expensively-
educated sons, all coming to the front in their
respective professions and businesses, the passed-
over patriarch in question can show good cause for
the comparative thinness of his gilt.
“Those grass-tree grubs, referred to by Bulle-
tin gourmands, were favorite delicacies in old-time
Westralia. Black and white children let them
walk into their mouths. Bush cooks roasted them
on the ashes, but they came to the tables of
Governor Kennedy and the ‘ six families ’ fried
m butter till brown, crisp and nutty,
“ That favorite ballad-singer, bentupon European
training, had a steep hill to climb before attaining
her present popularity. As an employ 4 in a
hnders-street drapery firm (carried on elsewhere
since the big fire), she began to be talked of as the
possessor of a voice. Her teacher took her to
Govt.-House to show her paces so far back as
.Lady Loch s time. Somehow, for long enough she
carried by storm neither audiences nor critics
perhaps because, having married a fellow-em-
ploye, her art played second fiddle to household
cares and interests. Then her husband’s health
toiled’ till he could no longer work at his trade.
Ihe wife became family bread-winner, and for
years past has been a prosperous teacher and the
best-liked and most generally-accepted vocalist in
Victoria. Miss Maggie Sterling (in private life
Mrs. Riddell) is Gov. Brassey’s favorite among
local singers. As soon as her turn comes he
throws off his habitual concert stupor, and beams
and smiles most genially on the handsome, tuneful
performer.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
ri
«S*»s
$5
CIGARETTES.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. 2.—The Postman.
A rural postman writes : “ I desire to add this
unsolicited testimony to the sterling qualities of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. lam a rural postman and
exposed to all kinds of weather. I have used Dr.
Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa daily this last eleven months,
and I believe that I can do my work with less
fatigue since I have used it. I can honestly
recommend to my fellow postmen Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa for its sustaining qualities.”
Of late years many new manufactures, rejoicing
in a multiplicity of names, have been brought
before the public notice, but there are none which
have bounded into favor so readily as has Dr.
'Dibbles’ Vi-Cocoa. Throughout the country its
sales have increased with great rapidity, and an
article which only a few years back was unheard
of has now become one of the most popular
beverages of the people.
Merit, and merit alone, is what is claimed for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the Proprietors are
prepared to send to any reader who names The
Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty sample tin
of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-paid.
There is no magic in all this. It is a plain, honest,
straightforward offer. It is done to introduce the
merits of Vi-Cocoa into every home. Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, as a concentrated form of nourishment
and vitality, is invaluable ; nay, more than this,
for to all who wish to face the strife and battle of
life with greater endurance and more sustained
exertion, is is absolutely indispensable.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.*
Still the benefactions of S.A.’s gilded
cattle-man, J. H. Angas, continue. Hie latest
gift is to the Adult Deaf and Dumb Mission —the
free use of his Parafield farm, a few miles out of
Adelaide, on the understanding that he will hand
it over as a gift if the management satisfies him.
The idea is to form a Home of Industry for aged,
blind, and infirm deaf mutes.
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
Freeman and Sons have received an excel-
lent testimonial from the teacher of scientific
cookery to the Australian Gas Light Co., for their
self-raising flour and Bathos’ Baking Powder. See
advt.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buver of all other Australian gems.*
An up-to-date Melbourne chemist has
started the Yankee plan of a side bar for the sale
of “soft” drinks. The other day a Bulletin
man counted 48 persons ranged up. at one time at
the “ soft ’’-bar in Washington Soul’s big Sydney
drug-store. A representative assortment of citi-
zens, too —including a doctor and a couple of bar-
risters. The rapidly-increasing vogue of these
harmless beverages certainly doesn’t square with
the reckless charges of collective drunkenness re-
cently made against the Australian native. The
time is near at hand when some of the big hotels
will have “ soft ’’-drink counters.*
Xb.e Famous French
Chocolate
CHfICBHT-IHEIHER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
349 Oeorge-st., Sydney
PERSONAL ITEMS.
An Australian Governor’s daughter has
just turned Roman Catholic. Cherchez Vhomme.
Lord Augustus Loftus is the oldest retired
Australian Governor, having been bom in 1817.
Bowen comes next, bom in 1821.
It is said to have been a toss-up between
Salomons and Pilcher, Q.C.’s, as to which would
take the N.S.W. Agent-Generalship.
Parry Okeden, the police dictator in the
Queensland murder boom, is a Snowy River
native, of squatter stock. He is now in his 68th
year.
Rumoi has it that W. J. Lyne, M.L.A.,
was approached with a mark of Royal favor on
Jan. 1, but preferred to wait till he becomes head
of a victorious political party. If this is true, the
long Tasmanian does not always blunder.
BURGESS , arrested for something or other by the
Queensland police.
“ Molb.” : After all, what it humbug exor-
cise is ! Our Press father, David Blair, is 79, and
yet he never moved out of a library, unless driven
with a pitchfork.
An elderly undergrad, attends Sydney
University. He is probably within easy reach,
one way or the other, of 50, and is vamping up
knowledge in “ Arts.”
At Geeveston, on the Huon River (Tas.),
there is a big colony of Geeveses, all cold-water
drinkers. There are 19 “Mrs. Geeveses ” and 190
Geeveses of both sexes, all told.
W. F. Digby, who died recently in Eng-
land, was, 30 years ago, head of the largest stock
and station firm in Queensland. He was brother
of Kenelm Digby, Permanent Under-Secretary of
the Home Office.
B. E. Minns, The Bulletin artist, had,
at latest, shifted from Chelsea to Iver, Bucking-
hamshire, where he has taken a house for five
years. It is- quite untrue, as printed elsewhere,
that he thinks of returning to Australia at present.
Gov. Buxton always repudiated the
brewers when he was busy governing Adelaide,
but it is significant that the first address of wel-
come received by him on reaching England was
from the employes of Truman, Hanbury and
Buxton.
Colonel Ranji now, by the grace of the
Panjandrum of Patiala, of whose body-guard he
has been made an officer. The uniform appears
to consist mostly of precious stones and feathers.
If o.nly th i dear ColOnel-Prince would wear them
to Australia !
Judge Bundey (S.A.) is so ill that his early
retirement from the Bench is prophesied. The
choice of a successor would rest between Insolvency
Commissioner Russell and John Downer, Q.C.
Symon, Q.C., leader of the Bar, who refused the
position when Bundey was appointed, has too
large a practice to take the post.
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” threatens to give
Melb. Society a bump this month. At the A.N.A.
fete and bazaar in Melb. Exhibition he will appear
outside a whaler’s tent, cooking and selling
damper, tea, &c., and discoursing in wild and
woolly Bohemian lingo on things in general.
A movement was set on foot in Sydney
last week to recognise by a leather medal the un-
usual modesty of Colonel Williams, M.P. The
colonel is a member of the British Commons, yet
he passed through Sydney and resided for weeks
on the Blue Mountains without once succumbing
to the interviewer. His invariable reply was :
“ You know your own affairs best. How can you
expect me, a stranger, to pass opinions on your
laws and customs ? ” He left for England a few
days ago, and is probably the first Englishman of
military or political note who didn’t set about,
putting Australia right half-an-hour after landing.
Many hundred signatures have been ap-
pended to a petition for the release of Willoughby
Andrew, sentenced to death in 1890 for the shoot-
ing of draper Bartlett, in King-street, Sydney—a
sentence afterwards commuted to life-imprison-
ment, on the ground of insanity. But it is alto-
gether unlikely that Andrew will be set free.
Julian Salomons’ promise to abstain from
brief-work while Agent-General kills the chance
of accomplishing at an early date a desire he in
years past often expressed—to argue a case before
the Privy Council. Pilcher is the only N.S.W.
barrister who has done so. Griffith (Q.), Wrixon
(Vic.), and Way (S.A.) have also “ been there.”
Travice Tod, of the Boot-Trunk Tragedy,
is a very blue-blooded person, according to Melb.
’Erald. In a respectful undertone, the ’Erald
informed the public that some of the “best”
families in South Australia are connected with
Tod, and then went on to mention that “his
uncle, a police-constable, received a medal for
heroism.”
“H.” : Hamilton’s “Life of O’Connell,”
published in 1888, states that the Liberator had a
natural son, after marriage. An Australian
legend has it that that natural son attained high
distinction in the law-courts. Certainly he was a
man intellectually worthy of such a father; also
he closely resembled O’Connell in physical ap-
pearance.
Spanish Bishop Salvado, of New Norcia,
W. A., is said to be the wealthiest man in the pro-
vince. Related that an old and respected Perth
firm was recently tottering, and asked the Bishop
for assistance. “Certainly,” was the answer,
“ will £50,000 help you ? The oredit of the pro-
vince must be maintained.” Only .£30,000 was
asked for and obtained.
The Bookfellow says that “ Will Ogilvie
was last heard from at Parkes, N.S.W., breaking
horses in a tangle of hair, greenhide, and dust. It
is years since he was in Sydney. On his first and
last visit B. R. Wise, with whom ho was staying
for a few days, beat him signally at chess ; nnd a
friend jocularly says that he is resolved never to
return until he is confident he can beat B. R.
Wise.”
The two Dromios—Andrew Paterson and
Arthur ditto—whose books S.M. Herald con-
fused, have already been sorted out in London.
The other Dromio writes Loud. Academy on Deo.
10 saying he is not the author of “ The Man from
Snowy River.” He doesn’t know how his pub-
lishers blundered ; but anyway he apologises to
“The Banjo,”and the incident presumably ends
in mutual advt.
Two Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) natives—Mrs.
Ann Search and Thomas Johns—have just cele-
brated their alleged hundredth birthdays. Also,
Bathurst (N.S.W.) is just now boasting that
about a third of its deaths occur amongst people
over 78 years of age. At Bathurst and the
Hawkcsbury people don’t die —why? Simply
because they don’t “live.” That’s all. Being
dead can’t make much difference to a Bathurst
man.
Nowadays it is easy to
work through insolvency;
in times past that juris-
diction was a hard road to
travel. But even then
cheek did wonders. Writer
remembers seeing Fro s t
(Chartist rioter) drive tip
in his dogcart to the old
Hobart Insolvency Court.
Went in, and was examined
by Commissioner Browne,
the politest old gentleman
who ever wore shoe-buckles.
The case was fishy. “I
commit bankrupt to gaol
for six months,” said
Browne. “Eh ? ” exclaimed
Frost. “ Six months in
£aol, sir.” “ Good morn-
ing,” said Frost, and out he
walked. “ Stop him 1 ”
screamed the Commissioner.
But nobody did. Frost
drove home. On the way
met an acquaintance. “ Any
news, Frost?” “Yes,”
said the bankrupt. “ I’ve
been sent to gaol for six
months.” And that was
all that came of the busi-
ness. There was some flaw
in the statute which made
it impossible to arrest Frost
—only every previous insol-
vent had gone to gaol when
ordered like the mild spring
lamb, so the leak wasn’t
noticed.
‘ ‘ Pump Court ”; Th ere
have been 16 Supreme Court
Judges in Victoria. Ap-
pointed : W. A’Beekett,
Barry, and E. Williams, in
’52 ; R. Moles worth, ’56 ;
Stawell, ’57 ; Fellows, ’72 ;
Stephen, ’74; Higinbotham,
’80; H. Williams and Holroyd, ’81; Webb, Ker-
ferd, and T. A’Beekett, ’B6 ; Hodges, ’9O ; Hood,
’9l; Madden, ’94.
The late Duke of Northumber-
land (he is in the peerage as a
Percy, but his proper family-name
is Smithson —“Duke Smithson of
Northumberland ” remarked the
Anti-Jacobin) was the man who
sold his town-house, in Trafalgar-
square, to the London Met. Board
of Works for a million pounds sterl-
ing. The big stone lion that stood
over Northumberland House gateway
was shifted to the top of Duke Smith-
son’s place on the Thames bank, near
Brentford. He was famous for nothing
save that lion. Twenty years ago he
achieved a billet in Disraeli Beaconsfield’s
Cabinet, but everybody seemed to know
that the appointment was merely an item
in “ Dizzy’s ” cynical scheme of self-
gratification. The onetime - despised
Hebrew had made up his mind to drive
a political team of tame dukes and mar-
quises, and this particular duke was
included among them for the sake of
his high-sounding title.
The late Vie. Judge Redmond
Barry was a Brummell without the
cosmetics, and frequently vented his
wrath on a law-clerk who, in chambers,
would persist in appearing before him un-
clean and untidy. Said Barry to him one
morning : “ Mr. , in the adjoining apart-
ment you will find water, soap, and towel.
Retire and make use of them and when you return
I may hear you.”
Archbishop O’Reilly, of Adelaide, who,
giving testimony before a commission there the
other day, denied that there was any moral harm
in attending horse-races or laying a bet, was
wholly educated in Ireland. At his election to
Adelaide Arohbishoprio ho had two competitors in
the persons of Dr. Higgins, Coadjutor Bishop of
Sydney and Dr. O’Brien, President of St. John’s
College, Sydney; but the votes ran 8,6, and 8.
Dr. O’Reilly is 53 years of age.
Sydney D.T.’h London correspondent is
generally interesting, but not always accurate.
Referring to n Bulletin man’s protest ugainst a
hasty judgment by Lond. Outlook, he quotes the
Outlook’s comment on Lula Fisher’s verses, and
fathers it on W. E. Henley. But Henley didn’t
write the comment ;he has more sense. The
Outlook's editor is Percy Hard. And all these
Lond. weeklies, dependent on publishers’ advts.,
have to be mighty careful how they trounce pub-
lishers’ investments.
Cabled that Hori Groy’s porsonalty in
England amounted to a beggarly J 2900 odd. If
this represents the old man’s entire estate lie must
have gone through a pretty penny during the last
ten years of his life, as the sale of bis island home
at Kawau realised between -820,000 and J! 30, 000,
and he had an Imperial pension of about illlOO
per annum. The savings of his long official life
are chiefly represented by the magnificent libraries
which he, during his lifetime, gifted to Capetown
and Auckland. Those collections, it is estimated,
cost him at least i 860,000.
M. A. NOBLE, whose 101 against S. Australia enabled N.S.W.
to win.
Another old Western pioneer has de-
parted—William Ravenscroft Smith, builder, who
died at Bathurst last week, aged 90 years, leaving
a host of descendants. He arrived in N.S.W. in
1830, and went westward the following year.
N.S.W. Agents-General to date : W. 0.
Mayne, Charles Cowper, William Forster, Saul
Samuel, and Julian Salomons. Daniel Cooper
has been stopgap on two occasions; and Alex.
Stuart accepted appointment, but died before
taking office. Julian Salomons, a Hebrew, suc-
ceeds Hebrew Saul Samuel.
A recently “fired” Sydney fire-official,
noted for pluck, irascibility, and “ language,”
once, at a wharf fire, attempted to “ boot ” one
of his men (an ex-sailor) for not shifting himself
about quicker. The sailorman’s fist went home
hard, and the portly body was temporarily bereft
of oxygen. The subordinate was ordered to report
himself to the “ super. ” next morning. Accord-
ingly, when the time caine—“ Yer told me to
report meself ter yer this mornin’, sir.” “Ah!
did I, Smith ? Haw, go over to Blank’s hotel and
tell him to give you a drink at my expense.” To
forgive is divine, especially when you’re in the
wrong.
Harry Congreve Evans, who died in Ade-
laide last week, was editor and part-proprietor of
Quiz. When chief of the Advertiser staff (which
he joined when but 16 years old), he was considered
about the fastest stenographer in Australia, and
he has performed the feat of taking a Treasurer’s
budget and writing it up unaided afterwards. He
was a clever journalist, and did much for the re-
form-party through his little paper, but his real
bent was dramatic work. His death came as the
result of unremitting toil, for he took no rest, and
slaved on his paper as he had done on Hansard.
The Quiz published the day before he died was
almost entirely the work of his own pen.
A QUIET DAY'S FISHING IN THE
BEAUTIFUL YARRA.
The Presbyterian church at Windsor,
which George Bowman, ex-M.L.A. built and
“ perpetually ” endowed, has been pastor’d this
last 42 years by Rev. James Cameron, his own
son-in-law. It almost looks as if old George, who
arrived an infant in Windsor with his parents in
1798, and grew up a close-fisted man and indiffer-
ent politician, foresaw that his benevolence would
stay in the family.
A death really worth cabling down-under
was that of F. G. Wolseley, one-time squatter,
father of machine-shearing in Australia, and
brother of the British Cominander-in-Chief. Mr.
Wolseley, who died of internal cancer after terri-
ble suffering, pursued his object with the most
indomitable perseverance, and his well-deserved
success only came after innumerable failures and
the expenditure of a huge sum of money.
Ex-District Court Judge Dowling, now
living in retirement at Woollahra, is probably
the oldest living Australian P.M., having pre-
sided at Sydney City Court in the fifties. Mr.
Dowling, who is a son of the late N.S.W. Chief
Justioe Dowling, was oalled to the Bar in 1843,
and with the exception of Alex. Gordon (now in
England) and Archibald Miohie, of Melbourne, is
the oldest member of the Australian Bar.
Nosey Bob, the N.S. Wales hangman,
composed a speech 24 years ago when he entered
the Sheriff’s service, and has fired it off at
each subject sinoe without variation of cadence.
Walking in to pinion the victim he stands an
instant erect, and looking straight into the un-
fortunate’s eyes drawls, “My poor man (or
woman) no one regrets this more than I do.”
Then he proceeds with his job “in a workmanlike
manner.”
“ Attorney ” to The Bulletin :
When Premier Reid at length loses his political posi-
tion, he cannot resume practice at. the Bar. It would be
interesting to know whether, when he took a Privy Coun-
eillorship at Jubilee-time, he overlooked the praotical
result of his acceptance. Mr. Reid, before he became
Premier, was accustomed to receiving a modest pittance
from his Bar - practice, chiefly as a libel-and-slander
counsel, but he could not eow resume practice, for the
Bur is legally and by precedent closed to him as a P.O.
(Mem.: His disability ceases with the death of the reign-
ing sovereign ; should the Queen die, all existing P. 0.-
ships are cancelled.) As a Privy Councillor, he is a mem-
ber of the highest and final court of appeal from colonial
decisions. When the legal maxim is that “no man can
be a judge in his Own cause” (and a client’s case is the
case of his counsel), how then can Mr. Reid plead a cause
which may ultimately go for its final adjudication to the
Privy Council, of which he is a member? Dailey saw
this, and, on accepting a P.C.-ship, retired from the Bar.
Stephen, long before obtaining a seat in the court of
appeal, had retired from N.S.W. Benoh.
Probably Reid and Turner and Kingston, who
are all in the same boat, will simply disregard the
mouldy precedent. They don’t really sit on the
Privy Council, and are members of that Court in
name only. Turner and Kingston, anyhow, con-
tinue to practise.


ThreeGoodThings
MADE IN ENGLAND
■
Sauce
Pickles
” Vi
NEGAR
*r> 68
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effkctivb.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Eltfin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriginalities.
JANE’S PROPER PLACE .
ROSE: “You proposed to, eh? Well, what did he do when he proposed, Jane?”
JANE : “ Oh, nothing much!"
ROSE: “I suppose he went on his knees —as they all do.”
JANE : “How foolish of you! I was in his arms as well as on his knees.”
There was to be an inquest in the morning,
and the body lay in the bar parlor, so the talk in
the bar was restrained and painfully lugubrious.
The old man with a ragged swag said the sight of
a corpse always upset him ever since a certain
affair, and, yielding to pressure, explained that he
was padding it on the western plains, making for
Hamilton, one day, when he came across a man
lying beside the fence. Closer inspection con-
vinced him the man was dead. “ I jist took a
casual look over him,” said the veteran, “ but he
didn’t seem to have nothin’ of value, so 1 left him
as he was an’come on an’ told the police. Next day
the traps brought the body in, an’ I’m _ bio wed if
they hadn’t found thirty quid in his hip pocket.
“Since then,” continued the aged swaggie, turn-
ing sadly to his beer, “the sight of a corpse has
always made me miserable.”
Various and astonishing are the methods
for turning the inexpensive kanaka, that abounds
on the Queensland coast, into a follower of the
Lord. From one of the great Northern sugar
centres (Ingham) comes the yarn of a missionary-
attempting to demonstrate to his dusky audience
the equality of all men before God. Quoth the
preacher: “Me white man; you blackfellow.
Me alleesame batoe cane ; you alleesame rappoe
cane. Bymeby big fellow God he come along, cut
’im cane, cane he die. Bymeby God he crush ’im
batoe cane, crush im rappoe cane, make him
alleesame first-class white sugar I ” A Queens-
land version, as it were, of “ The Christian,” by
’All Cane.
* * * *
Related that the festive heir of a back-
blocks squatter, during a lurid “ tear ” in Sydney,
severely injured his leg and sent for a prominent
medico, who presently brought along his amputat-
ing instruments. The young bushman viewed the
cutlery with dismay. “ What are the knives for,
boss?’’ he asked. “It’ll have to come off,” re-
plied the doctor briefly ; “ nothing else for it.”
“ Oh, no, dash it all, don’t go and spoil a cove for
riding,” protested the lively young man from out-
back ; “just you ring-hark it.” But the doctor
said ring-barking wouldn’t suit the case, so the
youth discharged him and sent for another saw-
bones “ with some colonial experience.”
* * * *
“ Phil ” : Never, when on foot, go near a
single bullock, unless he is a worker. He has
probably pleuro and will rush you. Dill, of
Tugambie, was nearly killed thereby. I was sent
to rouse a white bullock, as a joke, being told it
was “ Smiler,” one of the workers (Colombo
Plains). He charged me, and I threw my billy
and straw-hat at him. The latter stopped him
till I got to a boree sapling. The yahoos were
laughing on the other side of the fence, whilst I
was yelling, “Fetch a horse, you dogs!”
Bullock died next day. Kangaroos in a dry
season can be run down on foot. A Frenchman
at Narrow Plains killed dozens that way in ’77.
But the old man is dangerous even then. The
carpenter (Bramhall), at Womalong, got his biceps
cut to the bone by a ’roo who was quietly pro-
specting for water at the door of the men’s hut.
* • * •
A cockie’s wife in N. Tas. recently found
the freshly-cast skin of a tiger-snake beneath her
husband’s pillow when about to make the bed in
the morning. The snake was afterwards found in
a cupboard. It is refreshing to be able to tell a
snake-lie which is absolutely true.
They were twins—Victorian natives
—and so like that even old acquaintances
couldn’t always tell t’other from which,
and they were shearing at a Vic. western
district station. The shed-boss was an
old Scotchman who didn’t know good
shearing from bad, though he thought
himself a prime judge. It was a
“square” board, 10 pens on each side.
Tom Ashley was in No. least, and Harry
in 16 west. Both doing about same
tally and pinking them, but old Mac.
got,' it into his head that Harry was
roughing them, while he declared that
“ Tom ” was the finest shearer of the
lot. Used to chip Harry about three
times a day, and told him that “only for
the sake o’his brither, he would gie him
the sack.” “ Tell you what,” said
Tom to Harry one night, “ we’ll ring
the changes on old Mac. In the morning
we’ll change clothes and I’ll shear in
number 16 and you in my pen. It was
agreed on, and the other hands promised
to keep it dark. After first count-out
next day Mac. came up to Tom (in
Harry’s pen). “ Look here, Ashley,
ye’re getting rougher every day. Why
canna ye shear like yere brither ? ” “ I’m
shearing them as well as he is.” “ Oh,
ye are, are ye ? Come ower an’ I’ll
show ye the deeference.” This was too
much for Tom, who burst out laughing,
whereupon Mac. sacked him on the spot.
But when Tom went to the head boss
for his cheque he explained the little
ruse, and Mac. got the sack himself. —
Fred. W. H.
* * * *
In a Q. agricultural district are
two brothers, who own adjoining farms.
Each was married, and had a family,
when the extraordinary arrangement was
come to of swapping wives. Now each
has another family by the other’s wife,
all registered as if no deal in wives had
taken place. Now, what complications
of relationship are here ?
* * * *
“ H.M.T.” : The “dulgite” is
the most industrious burrower in W.A.,
not excepting the gold digger, and in
sandy soil, that is pretty nearly every-
where, he can travel underneath as fast
as a flock of sheep on the war-path
through a poison-patch. He is about
nine inches long, with coarse greyish
hair, sharp snout, and claws like an Act
of Parliament.
• * » •
“ 6 Y.H.” : The struggle for a
crust. I know an oldish widower with
three sons, 9 to 16 years, who goes out
to work with son No. 1, leaving the two
other mites at home to mind the
“ s’lection ” and tucker themselves.
Old man comes home every month or
so just to see that they aren’t dead.”
“Tassy”: The most pathetic case of
lunacy I ever saw was that of a harmless tramp
who had the free run of the asylum enclosure, and
■ 'ckoned he was sundowning amongst the big
IN THE SAME BOAT.
MR. BROWN-SMITH: “ Is Ah Sing at Mudgee any relation of yours?”
“Ah no! Ah Sing welly common name! Alice same as Smith,
Blown, you know, ”
stations. He carried a yard of old blanket stuffed
with gum-leaves, a billy, and a branch to keep off
the flies that weren’t there. About twenty times
a day he halted in his weary march, took a glance
at the situation, unshipped hisbluey and prepared
to camp. A bundle of twigs served him for a fire,
across which he fixed a small stick on two little
forks (carried for the purpose) and then sat con-
tentedly down to think while the billy boiled.
MATRIMONIAL SIDELIGHT ,
ONLOOKER: “ What’s the row about? ”
TOM : “ Jim Juggins ’ere says the missus ’ enpecks
me.”
JIM: “So she does. I seen her bash yer over the
’ead with a poker often.”
TOM : “Gam, yer fool, that ain’t ’enpeckin'— that’s
’er playfulness; it’s easily seen you ain't been
married.”
His billy never boiled, but that made no difference
to him. With a little hooked stick he removed
tbe empty billy, having previously sprinkled some
dust into it, and set it back to cool. After a
joyous swig he unrolled his swag, and, filling an
old clay with scraps of bark, wrapped his blanket
around him and puffed himself to sleep. He was
the most perfectly happy swaggie I ever saw. He
never spoke, but the serene smile on his ancient
face was a tale of contentment. I reckoned that
he built 7300 camps a year, and, as he had been 12
years on the same journey he had boiled that old,
tealess billy 87,600 times, which is about the record.
And he may be going still.
* * * *
“Steele Rudd”: Be the “recent dis-
covery” that the jew-lizard runs on its hind feet.
Certainly it can get about on its hind feet, but
you’ve got to hit the dog with it first, or toss it
over the top of a tree to wake it ; and then nine
times out of ten it won’t. And when it
does mount its hind feet it doesn’t run,
or walk either. It dances. Liz. lays from 12 to
30 eggs, mostly deposited in a bank —but has any-
one ever seen more than two of its young at a
time ? [Whatever may be the case with the jew-
lizard, instantaneous photography has demon-
strated the fact’that some lizards do run at times
on the hind-legs only.— Ed. B.]
“W.H.R.” : “ J.H.8.”
(8., 29/10/’9B) says pigs are
strychnine - proof. Utterly
wrong, lgr. strychnine will
kill any sty-fed pig. Pigs
running in the bush, if fat,
can eat up to 3 or 4gr. with-
out apparent injury, but, if
lean, much less is fatal. Pigs
at large eat many stryehni-
ferous roots, and are thus
rendered partly immune, but
why it takes a larger quan-
tity of strychnine to kill a
fat pig than a lean one, can’t
Say ’ ,
“ D.S.” : So hot was it
at the Barrier lately that we
spread out steak on the gal-
vanised-iron roof of the hut
and let it fry there by the
sun’s rays, catching the
gravy as it ran down the
ruts of the roof. Then came
a heavy hailstorm, which
perforated the roof and
turned it from a frying-pan
into a gridiron.
* *
Toni, an aboriginal,
lately speared Charles Beat-
tie, 90 miles west of Alice
Springs. On arrest Tom
tried to kill Constable Cowle,
but was shot by a native
trooper. He lived but an
hour afterwards, and died
repentant, saying, “Me
blully rogue ! Me spear poor
old Beattie.” Tom had been
a missionary pupil, and his
end justified the fact.
From N.S.W. ‘Govt.-
tender advt. :
Bridge over Die Happy
Creek, road Myers’ Crossing
to Never Never.
* * *
“ W.H.F.” re aboriginal duels :
“Harry S. ockdale’s ’’ criticism of De Rougemont’s
description of a gins’ duel may be right, so far as it goes,
but I don’t think he conclusively proves that “ elastic
narrator,” wrong, because different customs prevail
amongst different tribes, even though occupying neigh-
boring territory. I have myself seen the padenielon
stick (a small nulla or club) from 18in. to 2ft. long used in
a stand-up fight between two gins, but the custom in the
.Wide Bay and Burnett is to fight with yam-sticks, 4 or
A SNAKE YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ You talk of snakes,” said Jack the Rat,
“ But, blow me, one hot summer,
I seen a thing that knocked me flat —
Fourteen foot lontr, or more than that.
It was a reg’lar hummer !
Lay right along a sort of bog,
Just like a log 1
“The ugly thing was lyin’ there
And not a sign o’ movin’,
Give any man a nasty scare ;
Seen nothin’ like it anywhere
Since I first started drovin’.
And yet it didn't scare my dog.
Looked like a log !
“ I had to cross that bog, yer see,
And bluey I was humpin’;
But wonderin’ what that thing could be
A-lyin’ there in front o’ me
I didn’t feel like jumpin’.
Yet, though I shivered like a frog,
It seemed a log !
“ I takes a leap and lands right on
The back of that there whopper 1”
He stopped. We waited. Then Big Mao
Remarked : “ Well, then, what happened, Jack?”
“Not much,” said Jack, and drained his grog.
“ It was a log ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


KEEP AWAY FROM HOTELS
WHERE THEY DO NOT SELL
WOLFE’S THE ONLY REAL SCHNAPPS.
Hotel Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
“ The Australia ” is not a
cheap Hotel. But it does
this. It treats you better
for the charges it makes
than you can obtain else-
where for 50% more money.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ON TOP!
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
GEO. ADAMS,
Sole Agent.
~, lon „- sharpened at one end and made generally of
firtilow The stick is grasped by both hands near
.ii-re—hands about a foot apart. The combatants then
?„ iet it about with the object of tearing each other’s flesh,
‘ilthough they display wonderful dexterity in parry-
■■ I have seen some frightful wounds inflicted. Once
VS a lubra’s left breast almost torn off, but she fought
5111 „ntil loss of blood compelled her to yield. The male
invariably fight with heavy nulla-nullas (knob end
ften set with horse-shoe nails) and use the hielaman or
shield for protection.
Jo is not every boy who takes the lessons
MABEL AMBROSE, victim of the Boot Trunk
Tragedy,
Photo., Yeoman, Prahran, Melbourne.
of his boyhood to heart as literally as did one
gyl eS) a jockey at Warrnambool. Said Syles had
learned at school that in saving a drowning person
it is essential that the bloke should first be ren-
dered incapable of struggling. Qucth Syles at the
inquest :
When he came up again I tried to kick him behind the
ear to stun him, but failed to do so. I then struck him
three times on the temple with my closed fist, after
which he sank, and did not rise again. I did this because
I was taught at a school in Williamstown that a drowning
person should be stunned to prevent him struggling and
taking hold of anyone trying to save him.
And yet Max O’Rell accuses the Australian youth
of being lacking in resource !
“The comps, of the season ” —Linotypes.
“ He was a grocer, and his wife was of the
same religion.”— French.
Two-and-a-half cen-
turies is the trifle to-
talled by the ages of the
venerable trio repre-
sented in the herewith
presented picture of the
recently-deceased Capt.
Gother Mann, with his
wife and her only sur-
viving bridesmaid, pho-
tographed on the 60th
anniversary of the mar-
riage. Mrs. Mann, now
79, is the daughter of the
F. A. Healy whose name
is familiar to readers of
“PriceWarung’s” “Tales
of the System,” and the
bridesmaid, a hale old
lady of 80, is the widow
of the late Ed ward Finch.
Concerning Capt. Mann
himself it only remains
to be added to what has
been already said, that
during his 63 years in
Australia he played the
part of a sort of complai-
sant Pooh Bah, being
always at the service of
the Government when
any extraordinary vacan-
cy had to be filled
gratis.
“0.J.”: Was one
day, long ago, talking
to a water-policeman in
front of the dead-house
on Circular Quay, Syd-
ney. A woman came out
of the building—a good-
looking young woman,
with the remains of a
“black-eye” on her face.
“Well,’’ said the w.p.
“’Taint well,” snarled
the woman; “It isn’t
Jim.” “You ought to
be glad,” remonstrated
the officer. “ Glad ! ”
she cried, bitterly. “If
that there stiff ’un had
been Jim, I’d ha’ pawned
my last rag for joy.
That’s what’s the matter
with me! ” Tragedy in a nutshell.
“ Ignotus ” : As to whether galvanised-
iron poisons water. I got a, new galvanised tub,
and left about 2in. water in it for a week, the re-
sult was a copious sediment of white powder that
turned yellow when heated, and resumed its origi-
nal color when it cooled. It would be interesting
to know the exact chemical reaction, bo far as 1
know, the only, factors were (1) iron coated with
zinc, (2) clean rainwater, (3) the atmosphere, with
its usual percentage of carbonic acid.
.£550 Reward.
“ Cockney ” to The Bulletin :
The story of the Melb. Boot-Trunk Tragedy is valuable
to the public both as a further revelation of pompous
police dullness and another reminder of the means by
which newspaper readers are bluffed into giving credit
for astuteness to certain detectives. The acquaintance,
amounting in some cases to friendship, of newspapei
reporters with the Grim. Inves. Dept, is a P o 'nt to con-
sider in this particular case where a reward of ±-550 was
offered for the discovery of the persons criminally con-
cerned.
Five hundred and fifty pounds are to be paid
away by the Victorian Govt., as per promise to
the community in general, and the public at-
large is interested in seeing that none of the
cash falls into the wrong hands. Every man,
woman or child is a potential discoverer of a
golden nugget in the form of an Orful Mystery,
and we all have an interest in securing fair play
whenever there may be a nugget to pick up. it
certain detectives, owing to the la w f ul advan-
tages which their position gives them, hate
learned to regard themselves as a Chosen People
in the distribution of these Government boun-
ties, and if newspaper-reporters are determined
to encourage their error, it is timei one
periodical to protest. The writer doth hereby
protest that an official enrichment of any police-
man on account of the Boot-Trunk Tragedy will
be a scandalous job.
The story brings to light some almost astound-
ing illustrations of police success in thei art of
how not to do it. To begin with, two detectives
were put upon the track of the girl who helped
to drop the corpse into the Yana. They went
to the P corpse’s late residence, they interviewed
the corpse’s friend and undertaker, Regina
Dubberkk, and when she gave them a wrong
name they knew she was lying b e e au S eLheyhad
been provided with a photograph of her, under
her proper name. But they did-nothing. Three
other detectives were put upon the track of a,
young man who had given Rf.gina the boot-
trunk aforesaid. They interviewed hum He
told them that the boot-trunk, with his name
written on it, was similar to the one he had
given to Regina D., but that the head at the
morgue wasn’t her head. Th n the three dete-
tives made their precious report to Superintend-
ent Brown, and whilst they were making it one
of the detectives, who had interview ed the gir ,
chipped in with the information that they rmi
found her alive and well. Here were five de-
tectives, together with Sup. Brown, discussing
the subject of the girl who was the actual pos-
sessor of the boot-trunk, as well as the sweet-
heart of a young man whose name wasi inscribed
thereon—and not one of the crowd struck the
idea of her having been connected with tne
tragedy in anv other capacity than that of tne
corpsef She wasn’t dead, and so they did
nothing. The house where Regina with
Madame Radalyski was again visited by dete , ctl , ®
-strange to say! Different ’tecs this time, and two
of ’em. They called there in the course of enf l” lr y a
stolen cinematograph, says an Argus reporter. ‘
tive Bear found that the man he sought was not tnere,
but, from certain observations, he remarked to
detective Murray, as they left, ‘ I’ll wager that house s
‘ crook.' ” The sapience of Bear is merely a casual item in
the story, but the fact that the Argus man dragged it in
by the heels is worth mentioning. Madame Radalyski,
nominally a masseuse and a palmist, has been reoe g
“ gentlemen friends” of late. The character of the
was so palpable that even a detective noticed it. iod,
the ally of Madame and Miss Regina in the B.T.T. amused
himself by reporting to the police a burglary at his office.
Seemingly there had not been a burglary. Tod acted out
of joyful devilment, perhaps. Or, maybe, he thought
might as well attract police attention to himself, so as to
disarm suspicion. Let Tod pass.
Given an intelligent detective system at head-quarteis
Constable Organ might have settled the Boot Trunk
mystery some weeks ago. The house of Ma < >
The l ate Captain MANN, Mrs. MANN, and her one surviving
bridesmaid . United ages, two-and-a-half-centuries.
Photo. , The Crown Studios.
Radalyski, where she and Regina Dubberke and Tod
arranged the funeral of the corpse, and where two detec-
tives interviewed Dubberke (and felt sure she knew
nothing about her own boot-trunk, for the reason that
she wasn’t the body contained there), is situated at South
Yarra. From information received (from private citizens),
Superintendent Brown and the ’tecs had good reason to
look for a solution of the mystery in South Yarra. And
yet for weeks the local constables were kept in ignorance
of the clue which their superior officers had abandoned.
Constable Organ, of South Yarra, knew the dead girl in
her live days ; he was aware of her having disappeared
from home in a pregnant condition; and when, on 9th
FROM START TO FINISH.—A STORY WITH A MORAL.
Madame Radalyski, Tod, and the girl then held a conference, and the man proposed that they should
crush the body into a box and throw it into the Yarra. This was agreed to. Dubberke’s boot-trunk was
seized upon, two addresses were scratched off the lid and side, and, overlooking the words “T. R. Akins,"
which she had herself written, the girl assisted to strip the body and put it in the box. After it was doubled
up sufficiently to make it fit, it was tied with a clothes-line and left in the bed-room. Tod remained in the
house all that day and the same night, and the following afternoon he went to a livery-stable in Commercial-
road and hired a buggy. This he drove up to the door of Madame Radalyski's house after nightfall on the
evening of 14th ult., and the box once placed in the vehicle Tod and Dubberke drove off with it. The girl had
previously lived in Williains-road, and knew the whole locality, and Tod accordingly directed the horse down
the side of Como Estate until they reached the quarries. There a piece of stone was picked up, fastened to
the wire clothes-line, which they had in readiness, and with one holding each handle they carried it with
difficulty down the steep slope to the banks of the river. Reconnoitring carefully, Tod found a pair of lovers
sitting on the bank not far away, and, fearing that their movements would be detected, he and the girl
dragged the box to a clump of bushes and hid it there. They then returned to the buggy and drove back
rapidly to the stable from which the buggy came, arriving there about 10 o’clock.
January, he was despatched with all the other plain
ordinary policemen to view the head at the morgue, he
thought it looked very like the head of the erring spinster
in question. He called upon her mother at once, from
her learned that her daughter was supposed to be at
Madame’s, and straightway Constable Organ— in igno-
rance of the house having been visited weeks before
—went to Madame’s and saw the same Regina
whom the ’tecs had seen, and who told him a vain
which would in due course have been reported to the
superintendent. Meanwhile the girl Dubberke called
upon a respectable married man (named “Mum . ) in
Collins-street and told him things sufficient to put him in
communication with the police, and someone came and
took down Dubberke’s confession in a book. The de-
tectives, from first to last, failed to discover anybody or
anything connected with the Boot-Trunk Tragedy. They
were put upon the right scent, and they could smell
nothing. Not one penny of the £550 reward is due to
them for their want of sagacity. Organ might have
solved the mystery on his “ own ’’ if one of the principals
hadn’t anticipated him. Also it is evident that if
the original boot-trunk clue had been communicated to
the South Yarra constables they would probably have
made more vigorous enquiries re missing females in that
neighborhood. One of them lives only two doors away
from Madame’s house, where the girl met her death.
A few newspaper-attempts to make out a case for the
’tecs, as regards the £550 reward, are certainly worth
quoting’. The actual informant, Dubberke, professed her-
self unwilling to “ touch a penny," but—said the Argus
—“ others who have assisted the detectives in bringing the
mystery to an end are not so scrupulous.” The Age said :
“The man to whom Dubberke unburdened herself is un-
doubtedly entitled to the £5O offered for information that
would lead to the identification of the deceased, y
not to the whole amount (why any question about it.)
the informing accomplice having agreed to forfeit her
claim. In the distribution of the £5OO it is thought likely
that the Government will take into consideration the
work done by Detectives A. B. C. D. E. F. G., and, per-
haps others.” This present scribe, remembering this
same Government’s objection to dealing liberally with
poor old Graham Berry, hopes it isn't likely that 4.550 of
public money will be divided among a crowd of utterly
undeserving objects. The detectives had their chance
and let it slip. Public opinion is emphatically unfavor-
able to the suggestion that men who were put in the way
to do a certain thing should receive a bonus for failing to
do it If the man and woman actually entitled to the
whole of this money are not advancing their claim, all
well and good. Victoria has no money to throw away.
Let it stop in the Treasury and count as a small set-off
against the railways deficit.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Queensland : You cannot offend The Bulletin
by excluding it from a public reading-room. Its conductors
have no wish to see it read on the cheap Mathinna: Draw-
ing too tremendous, anyhow' J.P. : You calmly ask us
to give you an artistic start by letting you commit a hrst-
class libel with a 99th-elass picture.... Carbine (Brisbane):
A clear libel on “ this scoundrel of a doctor.” “You give
your word that the facts are true ” —if they are facts then
they must be true —but you very carefully avoid giving
your name. A thousand to one there’s not a vestige of
foundation for your assertion. ...EE.D. : Noted. . ..
Jack S. : Better for a paper to give itself no marmalade.
j.j. : Really, you write as if Bulletin readers had
never before heard of Vogel in all their lives Rick.
Too vast a contract Jael: Leading symptoms of your
complaint are thirst, parched mouth, drought, desire for
something to drink, aridity, dry tongue and beer-craving.
Entre Nous : Joke fit for private circulation only,
or might be published in a lonely place late at night....
A. Englander : Ditto .. A.J.G. : Wild, weird cry to your
best girl declined. You can address your best girl in the
advertising columns at usual rates, alongside the notice
about the easy-fitting slipstone Pale Bean that insures
against embezzlement Lassalleite : Intentions good,
verse mediocre Carbon: Plain hard-working poem.
Suggestive of one humping poesy on the wharf AJrab-
hole Jimmy : One or two may do Fancy Free : Does a
British Indian official habitually address a native poten-
tate as “Sultan?” A.A.G.: Thanks for good wishes.....
LED: Sorry suggestions comprise nothing available
Bur'nard Grae : Prose all very heavy Anthrax :He was
an unspeakable scoundrel, but his brother, who is well-
known has a clean record, and would be much pained by
the exposure. So R.1.P., which, being interpreted,
means—may he roast in peace ! Tassy :To print that
“it was asserted ’’ would lie just as bad as saying it was
true II J.M. : Not bad. May use Tin Lip : Tried
your “Talking Dog” on the office tyke. The rest was
silence. “Swaggie’s Rise” may condense and use .....
Talger : Cockie-perjury to hand J. Jepson : Ten words
would have told the whole—and then it wouldn t have
been worth telling ...W.J.B. : The doctor got drunk and
the patient recovered. Not necessarily cause and effect.
Camiro: Hardly swallowable. What about the
brands? Verse very unskilful J.J.U. : Don’t send us
private ads. “ Personal ” paragraphs must refer to some-
body whose doings are of public interest .. .Y.K.:
“ Plunge,” pretty fair work, but off our beat Dargo :
“Mr and Mrs. K.” generally unsatisfactory 5.A.1.D.:
Verse rather pretty, but quite undistinguished
J.M.H. : Not convincing' enough D.M’D. : Very milct
humor Marie B. (Bathurst): Curious coincidence
merely Tarquin : Too blushful Imray: Might do
Alex. M. : “Gate” may do, but not “Extremes.”
George Thomas : Never heard of such an occurrence ...
Tonkins : Received .... Charles Moss : Really looks too
extravagant a story even for W.A. Anyhow, it’s purely
ex-parte, and cannot possibly be printed on your mere
say-so Yardman : You make a “short story ”of what
is merely material for a paragraph. You have no graces
of style to warrant this T.K. : Sleeping in pure, dry
country air would, no doubt, benefit his lung-trouble
Meora : “ Pass an Act to stop that tote.” When the
palm-oil stops that tote-shop stops. —and that’s exactly the
whole situation E.S.A. : Don’t want any blanky.
Your matter is all blanky A.W. : Don’t care for
“ Mesalliance.” C.B.A. : Bulletin simply abhors “dia-
lect” yarns and verse; also, it loathes parodies. One
parody in 48,000 is passable —not more Eko : Hiecup-
cure story too much like many cold-cure yarns Talger :
Yes, your place was infested with cockatoos, so you bird-
limed a giant tree. But they gave one deafening shriek
and flew away with the tree. Heard that 25 years
ago—and it was probably 400 years old then
Nosnibora: The story you send along as true has
been true in hundreds of other cases. It is quite an aged
story. When a married man is threatened with exposure
by a base and venomous Flossie he makes the best of a
bad job by giving it all away to his wife if his wife is
sterling metal, and the lawful little woman enjoys the
satisfaction of sneering at Flossie’s discomfiture when
that rampageous, yellow-haired humbug fires off her
stale “ revelation,” Any intelligent wife will forgive an
erring husband who puts her in the way to triumph over
the other cat. She can excuse the past if she sees no
danger in the future. A jealous woman reasons more
logically than a jealous man Louis M. : “Compari-
son,” idea not new, and verse very ricketty. “ Fairly
good ” did not mean acceptance. Other probable
E.S. : Neither merit nor demerit..-....W.M.F. : Sonnet too
unequal. Other item, brainy but dry Montey:
Dream-surprise-device hackneyed F.E.M., : No
“ scathing” called for, though cannot say there ! s much
promise Dab. : Rather late in the day for unexcit-
ing gibes at Melbourne’s Metropolitan Board of Works
New Chum : Particulars of “ Sturt’s Rite ” unprintable.
Vide Dr. Roth’s Ethnology of Central Queensland
Ragnar Redbeard : You have no right to such a pen-
name, unless you are the original American owner
thereof —which, judging from your MS., you assuredly
aren’t Ox.vmel: No glaring faults and no pro-
nounced merits .... J.P. : Returned......C.P. (Q.) : Con-
trary to general opinion, we’re not infallible; and it’s
almost worth erring to be corrected by you .... Zampa :
Refreshingly naive B.M. : Thanks; we can copy that
out of the office encyclopaedia F.K. (Narrabri): Base
imitations of the man you scorned J.W. (Brisb.) : Too
theological R.C. : Verse too rough and crude ; com-
ment good in spots only Carini: All weak: Match-
head : Won't strike on this box Dido: Not quite up.
Backblocks : Perhaps “Hatter.” W. G. Selby
wants address and probable route of Probasco’s circus......
M.L. : Can you invent an automatic blind that will shift
up and down as the sun goes in and out? It would pay
you far better than poetry, and save us many curses
W.P.P. : And why shouldn’t real religion laugh its full ?
It’s the mostly hypocritical pietist that has such a grue-
some lack of humor Tang Anyut: Please call.


THE “OUTRAGE WAVE.”
In view of the alarming yarns by imaginative ladies now being daily reported in the papers, THE BULLETIN snggests a design for a patent hysterical femake safety huggy, warranted man-proof.


A'vfor
<S
Oon' Kelb 4ed4e4-
L vL/!Lk, «w o^
%S«4f
46
/fjesvi
(2-)
£6 l>el ow/C
jars®?’® 6 '-'
I IHo attendance at the-Morgue yesterday I
I was' almost as great as on ' Monday,; wiflen 1
11,300 people passed through the room 1 in I
I which lay the. hea.d. 4 of .the victim on a I
—
C°yt
S /oar
i/ower j$
io -tbKe
“* ro S ee^- eai:
TothtHtAPl
/\wp gV-K.
i
Velbfn rl)^°4
V NfL '<
KE- C o'- j^,-|'| o k s
i
S Uejo
*“S .
V%^'y.3
He>A
°v_
ow looK
1 "j.
tm
ff
nonce
« \ V
<Sl>oy/ ta ,
fsf i.,4).
ohVrf^^
M of
loafer li J5 , s wr^iM
Je IS Kjww 7/ V «>f7 1 s S e V
As : - S°“JS
' fjete coaltl be »/ Ui^S
Vie!"
•£Vn 'rfy&fag 1 : v e
_ ■ rtetj
Ije '/•'s''^"°f
JI -'HefcA.
(5)
'ycny Ve<*eiVe4 ~ipfc j^tllef^" 7
\ oar' <V%T 4eci4e4"^'fo
/ itbVy ; Ks'Tl See*? 1?e
T^epV 'lo I?' r 7S c tf' iyt® fjoatHrlo? iCJry^*!^
SOME ASPECTS OF THE BOOT-TRUNK TRAGEDY.


R. 6ENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
Medicine Sent Free
TO MEN UNTIL CUBED of all NERVE TROUBLES,
WEAKNESS, ATROPHY, DEBILITY, VARICO-
CELE, etc., etc., no matter how SEVERE the case may
be. THOUSANDS cured annually. Remedy sent by
mail in plain package. WHEN CURED we charge you
not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. Write
to-day. Address—
HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
P.O., Box 347, SYDNEY.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
D.S .MAI R
Sp
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2 6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26; Staffs, i/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address;6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the beat
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, Bs.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2> Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
e
ontinental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
fm
TE
poi
EY
Intending Travellers by Sea or Land
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 George-street, SYDNEY.
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
S3T The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for our
Goods areLONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE.
BRUSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to lit under berth.
Size 30 33 36
£6 6s £6 15s £7 7s
BRUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 IS 20 22 24
Lined jean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
„ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH’S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 55s
DRUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT CASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size 20in. x I6in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d each. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
BRUSH’S “ SPECIAL ” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag .contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap-
sible, a splendid bag for hard usage and rough
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Prices from
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH’S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
We send, Free, of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value of
55s up. Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be
added to country cheques for exchange,
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
JOHN BRUSH, SON and 00.,
MANUFACTURERS and
IMPORTERS . . .
403-405 George-street, SYDNEY.
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : ‘ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns?"
Second Bear : “ No ! Kodaks ! ”
Australian Depots
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER AROUSE
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
QOKS YOU WANT!
Telephone 2216.
Pf WILL
Ml ANDRADE
7 r lu! PUBLISHER
IMPORTER
CHEAP
BOOKS
WILL ANDRADE [H
Wife’s Guide and Friend;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the right to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugh, prose-
cuted work, Is ; post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Natube and Mar-
riaoe Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Moll Flanders, Balzac’s Droll Stories
all cheap ed. How to Excel in Business.
, Zola’s Novels,
Post free, Is 6d.
Maupassant’s Spiced Tales, ninth series, Is.; post Is 3d-
Crisp Tales from the Frf,nch, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post. Robbery Under Arms, new complete
edition, is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is ; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), col'ored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or. How to Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, is 6d. Friquette, French, 1/3.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
* Tommy Atkin’s Mary, by Paul de Kock; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d, post free. The
Same for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
Dr. Beaney’s Private Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
postfree, Is 2d. Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle ; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron of Navarre, and
Works of Rabelais, all in cheap ed., illus., unexpurgated.
wifery, illustrated; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Our List of SPECIAL LOOKS post free anywhere.
WILL ANDRADE,
opposite Waxworks. 201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A. Saunders.
3 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 20s
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
£3 5s ; 5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
18c. Solid Gold, 17 Diamonds, £lO.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
15c. Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2 15s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
■IIP
A. Saunders.
2-Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ Long- Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Kubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send for
illustrations.
18c. Solid Gold, extra Strong
and Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s., £3, £4.
for
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Out
Diamond, £5 ss; Larger,
£6 6s, £7lOB, £Blos, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255;
180., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
9c. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Ohased, 12s 6d;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
15c. Solid Gold, Hand-made Brooch,
60 Diamonds and 8 Sapphires, £l5 15s.
58 Diamonds, 1.20.
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
CTO
OCQ
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ „ 455.
0
535**
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s ; 15c., i 2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s;
15c. Gold, 15s; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 78 6d, 10s each ; 15c Gold
16s ; extra heavy, 26s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extr
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card
V6o. Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 27 Diamonds
Extra Strong, £22 10s.
20s.
eft-
• e%
0
20s
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper ; strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. 2,3, 4,5, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £39.
Extra Strong, 15c. Gold, Hand-made, 2 Heart Bracelet,
40 Diamonds, £22 10s.
25 Diamonds and 15 Rubies, £l6 16s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Solid Gold Hand-made Brooch,
21 Diamonds, £lO.
Very Pretty.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free. c ,
(nearly opp. Railway Station) SID Ixeorg6-S 11661, Sydney.


BROOKS’S NEW SCHOOL PUBLICATIONS.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO TEACHERS AND SCHOLARS.
ANNUAL PRIZE COMPETITIONS!
Valuable prizes.
READING BOOK PRIZES
HISTORY PRIZES
SPELLING BOOK PRIZES
GEOGRAPHY PRIZES
Note.-The only condition for these competitions is that pupils must use Brooks’s Headers, Spellers, Histories and
Geographies .
WM. BROOKS and CO.
EDUCATIONAL
PUBLISHERS,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
Vi m
m
m
Vr,
p
Ms
4
so
£
O
$A
o
1
m
$
o
&
$
m
m
0M
y
A.
*
a*
£
©
*
©
th
£
m
©3
§S*A> T:
Kgrl
K£
60^
*2
o
The Price of this Medicine is Large size, ss. 6d.; Small size, 3s. 6d.
Ask your'Grocer or Chemist. If not obtainable locally, send to Head Office —
s. A. PALMER, 45 ana 47 Bourhe-street, MELBOURKTB, VIC.
From the MAYOR and JUSTICES OF THE PEAC R, and the Rev. Mr. JONES, of INVERCARGILL, where Mr. Palmer lived tor about twenty-five
years. Read what they say :
THIS IS TO CERTIFY that we, the undersigned, have known the bearer, Mr. S. A. Palmer, as a resident of Invercargill, New
Zealand, for a great many years. We .know he has been a great sufferer during the past fourteen years, and he never was expected to
recover, but as the result of taking a course of VITADATIO he has quite recovered his long-lost health, and now appears to us to be quite
a new man. We have pleasure in recommending him to the public, wherever his lot may be cast, as an honorable man, and worthy of the
confidence of all with whom he may come in contact.
JOHN SINCLAIR, Mayor, Invercargill.
JNO. W. MITCHELL, Merchant, J.P., Invercargill.
PETER WRIGHT JONES, Primitive Methodist Minister, Invercargill.
G. FROG GATT, J.P., Invercargill.


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
is boundless as the sea;
"But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BII.LY TEA ;
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
JAMES INGKLIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE;
Agents for “ White Heather ” Whisky,
Oranuma and Fodah Porridge Meals,
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
N.S.W. Member of Parliament
VOTES FOR WARNER’S “ SAFE ” CURE.
n T i . ‘‘Bondi, July 11, 1898.
I have used Warner s Safe Cure for the benefit
of my liver, and have found it a true and faithful
medicine, and shall be happy to recommend it to
suffering similarly. THOMAS M.
DAVIS, M.P., Pyrmont.
TheN.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bmr. 1 his bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
ohow gave tt first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is ho fun
m summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should eom-
mumcate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
mincer.
* JP-JS-S Senior, who has been chemist
to the N S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. Ihe new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
iche may be. This cure, the result of years of
expenence, can behadin 4 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W, only. To all the other colo-
mes 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 24GGeorge-st., Sydney.*
Important Announcement, to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furmture & Jiine Avt A'iictioti&cvsy
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, m the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff. 3
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
. Brisbane Courier vainly tries to galvanise
interest in Premier Dickson’s tour. Byrnes, the
orator, had Florrie Schmidt to fill in the gaps, ft
would take Patti and a circus combined to en-
liven the speeches of the dismal Queen-street
rent-collector.
Last session of N.S.W. Parliament com-
menced 16th August. Towards the end of Sept,
two small Bills were sent by the Assembly to the
Council ; three were sent up in Oct. ; none in
Nov., and 23 in Dec. So when the Council left
eight of them unfinished at the end of the session,
and all the labor spent on them was wasted, it had
some kind of excuse for its conduct.
A big case looms before S.A. law-courts.
S.A. Govt, has been negotiating with Glenelg
Bail way Co. for over a year for the purchase of
its line, the only one privately owned in tlie pro-
vince. . The co. refused the Govt, offer of £120,000,
and demanded .£160,000, and has declined all
proposals of arbitration. Moreover, it denies that
“ e Govt. has power of compulsory purchase.
Adelaide lawyers already scent the good thing.
Lawyer- Marshall Lyle, in a letter to the
Age, recounts 26 push-outrages perpetrated in
Melbourne and suburbs inside six days. Top
sentence, three months. Bottom sentence, a warn-
ing from the Bench not to do it again. In most
cases no arrest made. Push now lurking for
Marshall Lyle with a large brick, through that
well-advertised gentleman’s habit of putting his
full name in large letters at the bottom of his fre-
quent outpourings in the press.
The appointment to N.S.W. Leg. Council
of ex-Treas. J. F. Burns is taken by all sides as a
near certainty. And yet “ Cocky ”is just the
man whose use for the purposes Reid harangues
about will be of least value. That he is a Free-
trader sums up all his political virtues. And he
never was even a Freetrader-only a Revenue-
Rarriffist of the old school. - One of the oldest
sitters in the Assembly, his record of general use-
fulness is beggarly and of democratic usefulness
nil.
The serpent of old Nile was guileless
compared with the Boodle wraith when cornered.
Distance : Q. Opposition stonewalled the noxious
Elections Tribunal Act for 40 hours, the other
week, and let go when Premier Dickson promised to
move an amendment that the Bill should not take
effect till Ist May (after coming general election)
Dickson duly moved the amendment, but five of
his colleagues were missing on division, and the
Govt, followers voted solidly against Dickson and
the Labor men. Result—Bill passed, amendment
lost, and Dickson oilily explained that the five
Ministers were ‘Testing.’-’ This moral little Bill
allows a Pol. Mag. to reject or attest claims, and
then to sit on the bench (where he can> be cross-
examined) and review his own work.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott regrets that
Maoriland shows no sign of taking a hand in the
new Federal Conference, even if that province
doesn’t federate immediately. It will have to
come in some day, the Speaker reckons, and then it
will have to accept a constitution that it had no
voice in framing. There is another cause for
regret. The last Draft Constitution was built up
by a conference in which the democratic element
slightly preponderated, W.A. and Tasmania being
almost wholly Tory, while there was a slight
leaven of Toryism about the delegations of the
other three provinces. If Queensland comes in
the next set of Constitution-makers will consist of
three Tories, two Democrats and a Wobbler, so
the balance will incline towards Toryism. ’ A
Maoriland representative might have turned the
scale in the progressive interest, but in his
absence the prospects are not bright.
Sample from Sydney Telegraph leading
article on Federation (13th January):—
Had Mr. Kingston given any consideration to these
facts he would never have dreamt of inducing the Parlia-
ment of N.S. Wales to accept a Bill which has already
been rejected by the people, and which, at the present
time, has not one openly avowed champion in the colony.
Even the lelegraph, which has put up a record
for persistent, brazen lying on the Federation
subject, should be a little ashamed of that Ana-
nias. But ft doesn’t seem to be. The official
records of N.S.W. tell that the people of that pro-
vince accepted the late Federal Constitution by a
majority of' over 5000, though the! treacherous
fang in office annulled their decision. Still if the
'elegraph’s boss perjurer tells his lie often enough
probably the N.S.W. public will begin, some day
or other, to have a vague idea that there was
really a majority against the Bill on June 3.
At a meeting of the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce committee:
Report from the shipping sectional committee was re-
ceived and adopted, satisfaction being expressed at the
labors of the section having received the approbation of
the Government in connection with suggestions made on
the Bills lately introduced into Parliament dealing with
the Marine Board. % . -
It is quite possible that the “labors'’’and ‘‘sug-
gestions ” in question had much to do with* the
poor quality of the late Bill to amend N.SvW.
Marine Board. ItAvould be worth the while of
the affiliated marine labor-unions to appoint a sec-
tional committee to labor and suggest a few im-
I provements in aforesaid Bill when it is next before
Parliament. Anyhow, the unions should have the
aid of the alleged labor-members in finding out
really what were the suggestions of the marine-
employers’-union coterie.
If Premier Reid succeeds in drawing
Queensland into the Federal Conference the finan-
cial difficulty will be worse than it was before.
Last time there were five provinces to build a
U1 !!, 0 ™ 1 tariff for, and the biggest trouble was
with lasmama, which wanted a tariff that would
produce £2 3s. lid. per head, per annum to keep
its finances square. The N.S.W. Govt, bucked
oti_ tine ground that it wasn’t taking any £2 3s.
lid. t a r>ff, and couldn’t devise any other way out
ot the difficulty. If Queensland comes in it means
a^I ent of * P rov . ince that wants a tariff of £2
14s. 7d. per inhabitant per annum to keep it
square, so the difficulty is so much worse. More-
over, Tasmania wants a high tariff mainly because
it is making stupendous efforts to pay off its
deficit; if it was content to spread the payment of
its shortage over a generation, as N.S.W. is doing
it could do with almost as low a tariff as N.S.W.
has. But Queenstand actually needs the money.
The spectacle of the Norddeutscher Lloyd’s
Shipping Co. and a pair of Sydney lawyers trying
to compel Maoriland to submit to an invasion of
cheap Austnan laborers is amusing. They may
bluff the boneless Governments of N.S.W. and
Leperland, but they will find that the men who
reti the earthq 1 1 ake islands are made of sterner
stuff. Ihe community which, almost in one act
wiped out the power of the wool-kings, and
created a social system which enforces an 8-hour
day makes employers pay overtime for extra
work, cares for women and children in factories,
ffattens out the registry-office-keepers who swindle
servant-girls, gives almost everybody a half-holi-
day per week and sees that they get it, that issues
liie-policies with State guarantee at lower rates
than private offices issue theirs without any
guarantee save their own, and provides old-age
pensions is not going to be bullied by any pair of
'Sydney legal gentlemen and a foreign shipping
co even if its chief shareholder is the great war-
god Kaiser Bill. The N.D.L. had better paste
the fact in its hat. Bun Tuck Seddon has
®P2. ket ?; [Since this par. was written the
difficulty has been settled on Premier Sed-
don s own terms. When the batch of nearly
penniless aliens, who caused all the recent anguish
first turned up on the coast, the shipping co. was
informed that it could land them only on condition
that !t guaranteed their maintenance for three
months. The co. refused with loud contumely,
but after much delay and expense in cablegrams,
and after feeding and lodging the Austrians for
some time, and humping them to and fro on the
race of the earth, it has at last accepted Seddon’s
terms. So the international complication is off.]
SOME NSW. NOTABLES.—HOW THEY SPENT THEIR HOLIDAYS.
Apropos of the loud congratulation about
the diminution of crime in Australia, as evidenced
by the decrease of prisoners in gaol, the decrease
means one of three things. Either crime is
diminishing, or a very large proportion of crimi-
nals are not captured, or a lot of those captured
got off with very inadequate sentences. For
instance, if 10 larrikins maim a man for life and
are sent to prison for a long term, that increases
the prison population. And, if they are fined 405.,
that doesn’t increase the prison population. And’
if they are not captured at all, then they don’t
appear in the crime statistics, and crime is sup-
posed to diminish.
STILL WAITING
MELB. GUP
RESULTS.—
(SWINDLERS,
SUICIDES, &c.)
It seems almost certain
now t ha t Queensland will be
represented at the new Federal Con-
ference of Premiers, which will make things even
a little more mixed than they otherwise would be.
1 remier Dickson will be present to represent his
province—without any authority from Parliament
or people. And Premier Reid will be there
appointed by himself, to state that the people of
N.S.W. rejected the last Bill—which everybodv
knows to be false—and to ask, in the name of the
popular minority, for two sets of amendments
which, m some important respects, directly con-
tradict each other. Also, Reid will be there cosay
that he wants a new financial scheme, but doesn’t
know what kind of new scheme he wants—only he
must have it. What a burlesque it all is !
Melb. : The biggest humbug going is com-
pulsory education. Truant officers seem to be abo-
lished. All the children coming out of school are
nice and clean, spick and span. None without
boots—not one anywhere. But such abound in
the streets—they aren’t wanted in the schools.
Plain old Brunker, who bullocked away to
the extent of 144 attendances at N.S.W. Assembly
divisions, had the best record for last session.
Brunker is never of the slightest use when
he is there, but he is there with the
stolid persistency of a cow in a big
paddock. Anderson and Hawthorne tied
for second place with 138 votes each.
The worst record was that of an unknown
alleged person named Edwin Richards,
from Mudgee, who voted at 15 divisions.
In the Leg. Council two members had
leave of absence, but among those sup-
posed to be present the worst records were
those of Mort, Stephen, Suttor, Thornton,
Walker, and James Blanksby. None of them
voted even once during the session. Hoskins and
Hing ran them very close with two votes a-piece.
Owing to S.A. Leg. Council adjourning
Without passmg the Appropriation Bill, Treas.
Holder declines to pay public accounts, and as a
result merchants are cursing the Tory majority.
Many of them are on the Tory side politically,
P. jVi s unexpected development seems to make a
big difference.
Dear Bulletin.— On the great bath ques-
ion. I took a bath every morning at hotel here
for one week. Charge, 215., at the rate of 3s. per
aiem.— W.A.L. Constantinople, 29/11/’9B.
When recently interrogated as to the rela-
tive merits of chess and draughts, an Australian
chess-champion felt it necessary to explain that
be latter game, with its familiar openings
and conventional developments, was only intended
for fools and very small children. “ But there are
“i' 110 ? B ,™ uombmations in chess,” he enthused;
the full possibilities of the game can never be
ascertained There’s ” “Well, see here
scotch ? ° ne auditor— “ did y 0 iver play hop-
Aguinaldo—-cognomen of the Filipino
leader—-is Spanish for “ New Year’s gift.” Just
before the commencement of ’99, Aguinaldo gave
himself up to the Y ankees near Manila, explain-
PaP he feared treachery. A few davs later,
the New Year's gift ” dodged back to the insur-
gents camp, probably with complete information
and mental plans of the American position, and
immediately began to issue threats and manifestos
against his quondam protectors. Aguinaldo must
be a very smart, as well as very bold, man.
.** -Lbbdon will hardly be big enough to
u°lu all the Australian writers who talk of going
fc •P e, j says the Bookfellow. “Lawson, who
wished to travel last year, says April. E. J.
Brady says June. Victor Daley says 1900 and
1 aris Exhibition. Dorrington ditto. And there
aie others less known. But we have our own way
of translating Cicero’s famous sentence. Abiit—
he fondly dreamed of Europe. Excessit— he told
his friends, and collected envious congratulations.
Evasit— he got married and couldn’t go. Erupit—
he went, and was mighty glad to get back again.”
“A genius of extraordinary personal ap-
pearance, labelled Horace L. Short,’’ writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ has invented
a wonderful voice-magnifier. It is to bear for
miles, by sheer volume, strongly and intelligibly,
the ordinary voice tones. The message to be
sent is spoken into a phonograph ha ving special
cylinders. The magnifier is attached, and the
words roll out in a deafening roar. The whole
secret lies in a new discovery in acoustics, and,
alter personal experiences of the machine, I think
its possibilities are illimitable. One fixed in the
.rarliament House would carry the speakers’ voices
over the city of Sydney or Melbourne, and wipe
out payment of members in one night. The ordi-
nary phonographic record of a brass-band becomes
a hying, screaming, thumping Coldstream with
the listeners in the drums. Short was in Australia
about six years ago ; has a Goliath-like head that
requires a size 10 hat ; and no one who had once
seen him would ever forget him.”


PALINC’S
PIANOS
OROANS
and
Musical
Instruments
of all kinds
ARE
UNEQUALLED
on all points.
STEIN WAT
BEINSMEAD
FEURICH
LIPP
High Grade
PIANOS
Lotvest Prices
ITEBEL
YICTOB
BELLING
ECKE
Excellent
PIANOS
Though Cheaper.
Estey Organs iron £7
W. H- Paling & Co. Ltd.
340 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE,
BRISBANE, *o.
Catalogues Post Free
' . * 4 ‘ !
Easy Time Payments
“ VICTOR
PIANOS
Conquer all
at the Price
In Two Models.
No. 1 £46 10s
No. 2 £49
CARLTON
DRAWING an OVERDRAFT
ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
m
&
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c., &eUse
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLERS’ BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
A INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood, and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CATJTIOISr.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
yOU are SCirc to get tbs Best Piapo
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
DONISCN FanjoCiS Piaoos orjly to be bad
* At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
n€CNST€IN SGpcrb PiapoS oply
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
MI6NON Piaijos, World Repowpcd, oply
■ At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
IJAMOM PiapoS WopderfGlly Cb*ap oply
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
IJO Other NoGSe* are ip witb
11 NICHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
an article may sell it for a short
period, but if it be without merit, then all
the advertising possible will not make a bad
article good. The best and most lasting
advertisement is MERIT ! and the public are
quick to recognise it. It is on this particu-
lar point that
DDIIERTISinC
I
have scored so phenomenally during the past
ten years, every tyre being manufactured to
give the maximum of speed and durability,
and the minimum of trouble and expense,
every Dunlop rider being a satisfied one, and
therefore the best advertisement that any
firm can desire.
FIRST IN 1888 k FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
and', at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
D. 5.111. Wont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pa wnbro hhi<j Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER. MOUTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
headoff/cc
Intersection Hunter,Blicm AND
Castlereagh
• SYDjy £Y «
Established -1379.
Offi CE in Austral* •
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed £2oo.ooo 9erhn4.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE ■
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £7OO 000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E TalkiQg MacbiiK P€pot.
Edison Phonographs from i'7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
UI HELL’S Fluid Disinfectant clears out Bu^s,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jbc Trustees, Cx€cCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ...£6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,082,511
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairmah; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. , Kmp. Diabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. iSi Pitt St., SYDNEY.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/lB each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
• u/mu UIIU A/Alljo,
20'n. long, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, s>/6 i
We are the cheapestin Au»-
' “ V..v vinupcouill ,
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H- Wigzeii,
f llO William Strbet,
corner of Palmer-street.
T SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price Llsfc.'
Prompt attention'gjven to Country Orders
ELECTRINE-
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning- grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASII. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West Sl South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Jan, 21,12 Noon.
-Barrabool, Wed., January 25, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 28,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
•Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 2:
Konoowarra, Tues., Jan. 24,
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 28, 2
1, 2 p.m.
5 p.m.
p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 21,
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 28, 2 p.
S to
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
IjINGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Spe;M Tsp jp * jjpuu
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Rates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to—
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
I\T ationa l_ trustees,
■Li EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address—Uiemseil.
Code—Moueing & Nea („ etc.
Telephone No. «95.
Box No. 287, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
TRADE
MARK
BRAND
GIRL
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra, Friday, January 20.
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturday, January 28.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wollowra, Fridaj-,
January 20.
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturday,
January 28.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Saturday,
January 21.
Best & Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G- S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
F*. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching’ at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
’Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
llHliuraith, |q‘[;acharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
FORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
.The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN. SUEZ
?ORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,’
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
....... ws, neourn tickets t<
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over th<
Co s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in th<
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
ull Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Phiip & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
U - S ' N - Co - Ltd " Collins Street
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH-D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Government Notices.
A
Publio Service Board,
60 Young-street, Sydney,
17th December, 1898.
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of CANDIDATES for
JUNIOR CLERKSHIPS in the PUBLIC SERVICE
. the COLONY will be held in Sydney, and at various
cm ntrv centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to
onit the convenience of candidates, on the 20th MARCH
next and four following days. The estimated number of
anointments to be made is 50. Candidates must be not
less than 16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day
nf examination, of good character, and in sound health.
Persons already employed in the General Division of the
Public Service will be admitted to the examination, pro-
vided their age does not exceed thirty years. The sub-
ieots in which Candidates will be examined are : -Hand-
wri tin"- English (Dictation, Composition, Prtas writing,
Parsin'" Analysis, and derivation of words), Arithmetic
ffull course), Geometry (Euclid, first Book), Geography
foutlines of physical and political geography, and the
p-eoirraphy of the Australasian Colonies in moderate
detail), English History from the Middle of the Eighteenth
Century to the present time, especially with reference to
the Colonies and Dependencies. Candidates will also be
allowed to take any two, but not more than two, of the
following subjects Mathematics, English, a prescribed
Author, viz.: Shakespeare’s “Richard lll.,’’Latin, French,
German, Elementary Chemistry, and Elementary Geology.
Applications to attend the examination must be made
on a form for the purpose, which can be obtained at
the office of the Board, and must reach the under-
signed not later than the Ist March. Candidates
will be required to pay an examination-fee of 10s.,
which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions or
the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded, to the
Secretary to the Board with the form of application. . A
list of registered candidates with centres of examination
will be published in the Government Gazette, after the
time for the receipt of applications has expired, and can-
didates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined. Candidates may be examined at
any centre (outside the Sydney radius) where persons
approved by the Board of Examiners are willing to super
intend the examination, and a form containing the signa
tures of such persons should be forwarded to the Secretar;
of the Board of Examiners not later than Ist March, 1899
Forms for the purpose may be obtained from the Secre
tary of the Board of Examiners, 7, Richmond-terrace
Domain, Sydney. The requisite stationery will be sup
plied by the Public Service Board. The Regulations and
copies of the papers set at the last examination can be
obtained at the Government Printing Office and the prin-
cipal booksellers.
By order of the Board.
9a 60 J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
Land and Income Tax Office, Custom House,
Sydney, 20th December, 1898.
LAND AND INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT
OF 1895.
NOTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of the
above Act, that Returns of Income received during
the year 1898 for the purposes of the assessment of income
Tax for the year 1899 are required to be furnished to the
Commissioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before
the 4 th day of February, 1899, and all persons who are in
receipt of income, and all persons liable under the provi-
sions of the Act in any representative capacity to furnish
returns for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby informed
that the prescribed Forms of Returns are now available,
and may be obtained (except those for Companies) on ap-
plication at any Post Office, Police Office, Custom House,
Railway Station, and the office of any Clerk of Petty Ses-
sions in New South Wales, Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-
street, Sydney, or at the Taxation Office, Custom House,
Sydney. Forms for Companies can be obtained at the
Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the
Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney. All persons car-
rying on any business, trade or profession on their own
account are required to furnish Income Returns irrespec-
tive of the amount of their income ; but no return of in-
come is required from any person in receipt of salary or
wages only if the gross annual amount of such salary or
wages does not exceed £2OO. All employers of labour,
whether they themselves are liable to make Income Tax
Returns or not, are required to furnish to the Commis-
sioners of Taxation the name, occupation, and address of
all employees whose salaries or wages for the year 1898
aggregated £l6O and upwards. Public attention is called
to the fact that a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds
is imposed on any person neglecting to furnish the Return
require;! of him within the time abovementioned, and
that persons failing to furnish such Return are not re-
lieved from liability to the penalty by reason only that
they may not have received a notice to furnish the Re-
turn, or that the prescribed Form may not have been de-
livered to them. The attention of owners of taxable lands
subject to mortgage is invited to the necessity for furnish-
ing the requisite particulars in order that they may de-
rive the benefit of the deduction to which they are en-
titled in respect of the interest on the mortgage of their
lands, including improvements thereon. Without these
particulars the Commissioners will be unable to make the
statutory deduction from the tax on the unimproved
values. Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained
on application at any of the abovementioned offices, and
should be furnished on or before the 4 th day of February,
1899, before mention ed 1
N. LOCKYER,
R. N. JOHNSON,
L. S. SPILLER,
Commissioners
of
Taxation.
N.B.—tarticular attention a o lied to the observations
and directions with the Forn Return.
2c 8
USE
Spooler's
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
DF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECUONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Slack Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing tor HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne..
Hotels.
U3F” Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortli Queensland..
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
A Wonderful Discovery!
SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMATION of
EYES and EYELIDS, Stings of Insects, WEAK EYES
and Dimness of Sight from Overwork, etc., cured by
Rose’s Celebrated Eye [otion -
The ONLY remedy for all EYE COMPLAINTS. It also
strengthens and preserves the sight, and may be used on
BIRDS, POULTRY, CATTLE, etc., with the same mar-
vellous results.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PEOPEIET OE :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
Sydney Woo! & Produce Market
(Season. 1898-8).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow- - - - Friday
I Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Go., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
Dr. TARRANT,
E.R.0.5.E., L.K.C.P.E., L.E.0.5.1., L.M.fi.C.P.E.,
11
Is a leg-ally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulas formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by Are as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
HXT o Man or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin traced !)heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Syro.ptom.3,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels • Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely 3XTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving bona fide s, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your, malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr’. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who’vviil give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney or, if preferred,' H.T. Box 1204, Cr.F.O., Sydney.
Please mention Thh -Bulletin when writing. ■ ......
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of tLo WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3/-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84'-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35'-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, hr Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens t°
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. ’ Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed,
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
!M ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
.. Self-Measurement System ..
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the *
Human Foot
Post Free.
BEWARE of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS.
7
a
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep Bp, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS,
Sydney.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING-
-1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
| T*E T*M* F* R E*E*Y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with ;the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir. —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address —THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A Solid Silver* Watch
Absolutely GIVEN AWAY. Can You Read This?
| W*A * S | T* E | T* M * *""]
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter Hatches (Ladies’ or
Gentlemen’s) to every reader who sends us the correct
reading of the above rebus. Conditions that your
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely with
the object of introducing our catalogue and advertising
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stamped-addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Address:
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch & Jewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
. Cramps\
i Colic,
V Colds,
Croup, \
Coughs, 1
Tooth - '
ache,
\
Cuts,
Burns, \
\ Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"Pain-Kittev
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. 8. WALES, SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and Bow to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney. *
Sydney newspaper item (10th Jan.) :
Camden.— A serious charge was made against a member
of a travelling' theatrical co. on Saturday, at the police
court. The hearing occupied all the day. The Bench
dismissed the case on the ground that the girl’s evidence
was most conflicting, and could not be relied upon. Ac-
cused was discharged.
And, as is always the case in Australia, the girl
isn’t prosecuted. It is a recognised thing in this
country that any girl can lay a false charge of
criminal assault against a man with absolute im-
punity—that the perjury law is entirely abrogated
in favor of the girl-romancer who tries to get a
man hanged, or gaoled for a long term, on false
evidence. And then the administrators of the
law lament about the frequency of this kind of
perjury in Australia. Doesn’t it strike them that
any crime which always goes unpunished is apt to
be frequent?
The English syndicate which has bought
the 40-acre Woollahra House property (lately the
residence of Mr. W. Cooper) is cutting it up into
blocks for sale as building allotments : for these
sites there will undoubtedly be much competition,
and knowing people reckon that the syndicate
will come out with a profit of certainly i£30,000,
and very likely .£4o,ooo—which might just as
easily have been secured by Mr. Cooper aforesaid,,
had he been a “ sport.” The splendid house itself
(to which several acres of ground will remain
attached) will probably be run as a residential
hotel, and with its unique location, right on the
water, a few minutes from town, with the electric
tram at its back-door and a steamer-wharf at the
front, it should never have a room to spare.
Sydneyites will be edified to learn from
current Cassell’s Queen’s Empire that their water-
supply travels some 600 miles to reach them.
Lila Spring artesian bore, in the Warrego district
of Queensland, is credited as the source.
Some playful but harmless members of a
notorious Bendigo “ push,” about which various
unpleasant things had been said in a local paper,
called round one night at the house of a reporter
suspected of daring to write these things ; and,
having battered his premises, it proceeded to
gouge his eye out with a stone. The (unpaid)
bench (which sells groceries when not expounding
the law) fined the “ push ”-ite who used the stone
£7 or 14 days, with a fortnight to pay up in.
The next case was that of an infamous malefactor
named Smith who had got a handful of goods by
false representations. And the sacred rights of
property demanded a month’s gaol “without the
option.” So Smith got it.
During the month of last Sept, the New-
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
supplied the German warship Falke with 6000
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use on the
voyage to Samoa and Apia. During the vessel’s
stay in our harbor 600. gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute to the
excellence of the local lager comes from the Ger-
man warship Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart
bottles of Sydney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk Lager daily.
Both ships’ crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney Lager. As the firemen,
officers and crews come from the country that has
always been famous for lager production, it is
clear that the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
deserves all that has been said by every con-
noisseur in favor of its lager.*
Thekla Dubberke, the girl who gave the
Melbourne boot-trunk tragedy away, is a neatly-
built and pretty, but demure-looking, damsel of
20, who only wants her dark fringe hidden by a
white band to look like an ideal nun. Thekla it
was who, according to her own showing, jammed
the body of the dead girl into her boot-trunk and
cut off her hair to hinder identification. She also
alleges that afterwards she and Tod, the pious
young man who bossed the affair (he “ took a
great interest in religious matters from an early
age, and was till lately secretary of a church
good-fellowship society ”), carried the trunk con-
taining the body from a buggy over a three-rail
fence and down a steep slope to the river-bank.
Apparently the fair Thekla had no qualms of
conscience at the time, but after a lapse of
a month, during which the police acquired
a nasty habit of calling to interview her, she
became so unnerved that she had to rush off and
tell the whole game to a close friend, who happens
to be a married man. The said friend, who went
promptly to the d.’s, is now the most agitated
man in Melb., wondering whether he’ll chance the
row with his wife and go for a reward, or hold his
tongue and miss the cash. Thekla appeared
before the City Court the most calm and self-
possessed person in the room. As “ Mick ” Ward,
the detective in command, stated the evidence for
a remand she kept her big eyes fixed on him,
stood well in the sunlight where everybody could
see her, and arranged her face so that the two
dimples in her cheeks might be properly manifest.
When asked if she had any objection, Thekla
threw up her head to the bald-headed Jaypees on
the bench and made her pretty little mouth into
an O. Each toothless beak took Thekla’s glanced
admiration for his very own, and the strange part
of it is that they didn’t acquit her on the spot.
Detective Dungey, who took Thekla in tow, is a
tall, thin, dark, ascetic-looking individual with a
face consisting principally of moustaches. He
it is who is awaiting trial himself on a charge'of
conspiracy—the notorious Dora Bromley case,
where an abortion subject was readied up in order
that the vigilant officer might come out of a cup-
board and catch the operator in the act.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c., See., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
y
i
*
*
*
*
k
\t- \£- \£- \£- fc£-
*£- fef- i»£-
As tb? Face is at)
Ifydcx of Character,
so the beautiful and high-class finish on the surface of the “RED BIRD
SPECIAL ” is proof of the high character of material and workmanship con-
tained therein.
Makers of cheap Bicycles call their products “ Plain Good,” and call atten-
tion to their internal points of merit, which are all out of sight beneath cheap
black paint.
“RED BIRDS ” are good all the way through, but their points of superiority
are not all in the inside.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
The Goold Bieyle Co. Limited,
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES'
64 KING STREET SYDNEY (Head Office):
245 COLLINS STREET ... MELBOURNE;
BUNDLE STREET ADELAIDE;
VICTORIA STREET ... WELLINGTON, N.Z.; and
EDWARD STREET BRISBANE, Q’land.
Agents in Town and Country.
USE THIS
Sunlight In Irour Homes.
New Sunlight ”
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s, 6d,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Clem. Hill is easily Australia’s champion
batsman this year. Clem, has made 502 runs in S.A.’s
four shield games; average, 62. The next nearest aggre-
gate batsman to Clem, is Worrall, with 264 runs in three
matches. Hill’s record, since he first played for 8.A., is
unparalleled in cricket annals, and it is marvellous to
think that he is about to go to England a second time
although not yet 22 years old. i i
* * * •
Averages of Australia’s chosen nine for Eng-
land in Sheffield Shield matches to date • C. Hill, 502
ririM'; average, 62'75; J. Worrall, 264 runs, 52‘8 : J. J.
K< jv, 170 runs, 42-5; M. A. Noble, 196 runs, 39’2 ;J.
Darling, 204 runs, 34 ; E. Jones, 200 runs, 28’57 ; Gregory,
163 runs, 2716; H. Trumble, 108 runs, 27 ; C. M‘Leod, 27
runs, 9. Bowling averages : M‘Leod, 15 wickets ; aver-
age, 10’73 ; Trumble, 33 wickets ; average, 11.03 ; Jones,
28 wickets; average, 28.67 ; Noble, 11 wickets; average,
33 63. Moral —the selectors must choose two more strong
bowlers.
• » * •
Strange that C. M‘Leod, one of the Australian
Eleven certainties, picked for his batting, has only made
27 runs in 3 innings this season, although Laver, who has
made 237 runs for three times out and has top average in
shield matches, is not even considered. Another man
who should have an excellent chance is Stuckey, who has
made 230 runs for 5 innings, and is a splendid field.
• * * •
The papers of each province all loyally barrack
for their division’s candidates for the Australian Eleven.
S.M. Herald s way is to include the fixture v. Tasmania
as a first-class interprovincial match in computing the
averages. Though this places Kenny Burn at the top of
the list, still their mammoth score naturally inflates the
N.S.W. figures -Iredale’s and Trumper's more especially.
Herald’s figures give Iredale’s average 54, Trumper’s 66 ;
without Tasmanian match, they are 31 and 17. Kelly is
top of the N.S.W. averages with 42.
» * * *
For the next two months Australia must make
up its mind to get nauseated with the self-congratula-
tions of certain oracles who talk about cricket in the
“ great” journals. Every daily or bulky newspaper will
publish persistent articles by its Cricket Authority—its
“ Short Point,” “ Cover Leg,” or what not —re the selec-
tion of the Australian Eleven, and each of these awful
persons, looking down upon the public from the lofty
height of his “ expert ” eminence, will announce at fre-
quent intervals that the team is being Selected in accord-
ance with his advice of such-and-such a date. .
* • * *
Melb. Punch makes cricketer Noble a dentist,
just to ring in the joke that the Britishers will have to
look after their stumps. Noble was a clerk in one of the
banks, a position which he resigned the other day.
• * • •
Victor Trumper, on Saturday, playing for Pad-
dington against Redfern, ran up 103 in dashing style.
His failure in the Interprovincials may, perhaps, have
been owing to his over-anxiety to make a score with the
English trip in view.
• * * •
A general complaint amongst cricketers has
been that Howell did not get a fair show for the bowling
average in the recent match, N.S.W. v. S.A., as he was
taken off after getting the big guns’ wickets, and other
bowlers allowed to mow down the ruck and run up an
average. The following line of argument, however—
writes a Bulletin correspondent—puts Howell’s perform-
ance in its proper light:—
Howell bowled
Ist Innings 66 balls, got Darling 34 'j Batting aver-
Hill 62.75 I ages in this
>• season’s In-
-96.75 I terprovineial
2nd Do. 120 „ J matches.
Total, 186 balls.
Howell’s 2 wickets average 48.375 per wicket.
M'Kibbin bowled
Ist innings, 102 balls, got Giffen 14'25\
Lyons 15‘25
F. Jarvis 14'87
Reedman 30‘42 Batting ave-
Green 3‘75 rages i n
2nd innings, 268 balls „ Hack 1775 this sea-
F. Jarvis 14'87 f son’s Inter-
Peters 15 provincial
Green 3 75 matches.
A. H. Jarvis 5‘33
Total, 370 balls 135-24,
M‘Kibbin’s 10 wickets average 13‘5 per wicket.
Query : —lf Howell gets two wickets worth 48 375 runs
each, with 186 balls, how many wickets worth 13‘5
runs each should M‘Kibbin get with 370 balls?
186 balls : 370 balls :: 2 wickets
13-5 runs 48-375 runs
2511 17898 750 x 2 = 35797-5
2511 ) 35797-5 ( Ans. 14 26 wickets.
Thus Howell’s two wickets are worth 14J of M'Kibbin’s,
and as M‘K. only got 10, Howell’s performance is best by
41 wickets.
• • • *
Dear Bulletin.— Re Howell’s treatment in the
late interprovincial all fair judges will agree, but the
same people, while admitting Howell’s undeniable claims,
also think it would be a big mistake to leave out the
Bathurst bowler. M‘Kibbin and Howell are the two best
Australian bowlers (this in face of Trumble’s recent suc-
cesses). However, it not only seems that influence will
shut out the unassuming N.S. Welshman, but that the
same thing will be the means of finding a place for the
no-longer-brilliant Giffen.—E. M. D.
* • • *
The Sydney Cricket Ground new ladies’ tickets,
as punched, look like small targets after pea-rifle prac-
tice. It is stated that at one of the last test-matches a
very prominent member was bowled out taking in 13
ladies on his two tickets. Being a bigwig, the matter
was hushed up. The new style of ticket prevents double-
banking.
* * • *
The increasing number of serious accidents in
flat races on our racecourses calls for enquiry as to the
cause. Scarcely a Saturday but some poor devil is carted
off to hospital, but as it is the “ Sport of Kings”—and
toughs—the death of a jockey, more or less, is of small
moment. At the inquest on Geo. Durston, killed off
Bona-Fide, at Newcastle, a witness said he heard another
jockey caution Durston not to ride Bona-Fide, as the
horse was sure to fall. However, the usual verdict of
“accidentally killed” was recorded. Tuite, the other
jockey whose mount fell in the same race, still hovers
between life and death.
* • • •
- Canterbury course, Sydney, duly brought off its
little smash-up on Saturday, when Jasper and Retford
Queen fell in the Park Stakes. Crockett and Kuhn were
the jockeys, the latter being so much hurt as to necessi-
tate his removal to hospital.
• « • •
“ ‘ Mr. Jersey ’ has just made a big move with
her racing stud,” writes The Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent, “ and this presages so much that your chances
of seeing her mumming and posing are now at any price.
In a few diffuse words : Lily, after a very unprofitable
season, has taken Aurum, Merman; Maium i and a long
string of this-siders’from Fred Webb’s train, and trans-
ferred them to that of Robinson, another ex-jockey. The
grounds for the change may be conjectured with many
conjunctions and interjections, but, thank the gods, there
is a libel-law that saves ink. Nevertheless, it is known
that, through the autumn, all the big attempted coups
went wrong, and Merman in particular, after his Cesare-
witch third, wilted so witheringly that, in the Cheveley
Cup, he seemed 'to say, ‘ Let ’em all come,’ and was
beaten by average hurdle-racers. Now the Jersey has
thrown in her lot with the heaviest gambling stable in
England. Every patron is a red hpt, shirt-and-spx-betting
goer. In five years of existence they have scooped the
boodle with shovels in the big handicaps. Their com-
missioner alone lias garnered in’ over’£l00,«00 as his little
bit. So the Lily means siroccos in ’99, and Aurum will
be given the best of opportunities.”
* * ' • * •-'
“Fossicker”: At Reef-ton (M.L.) races a horse
was driven around the course and made to win by seven
men, each with a horsewhip, and another two with kero-
sene-tins ; four horses ran in the event, and the losing
owners objected not. Thie : Woods-Williamson dramatic
co. and an Australian. drummer, who had backed the
second horse, waxed strong at the officials, and this
notice was the outcome—“No horsewhipping or other
unfair means of forcing a horse to win will be hereafter
allowed on this course.” ' At the meeting each start was
an hour late, and the last "race was run at 6.45 on both
days, each start being delayed until enough money was
put on the tote.
* * - * •
“F.C.”: Instead of employing undersized,
incompetent boys to-ride powerful and often unmanage-
able horses, why don’t racing owners train a few aborigin-
als, who could nearly always scale the weight? At Yarra
Glen (Vic.) Boxing Day meeting, out of five flat races, a
black rode four winners and only lost the odd race by a
short head.
» * .. , * •
At the recent big M.L. trots horses well-known
this side carried off their full share of prize-money.
Fritz took £lOO prize for his record mile of 2,13. -Sun-
shine won a 3-mile handicap of 130 sovs., and Kola, the
Childe Harold mare, won a 2-miles handicap of 120 sovs.
* * • •
The future of the Australian thorougbred looks
more glboiny every day. 'Mr 1 . S. Gbllan’s Tirant d’Eau,'
winner of the last N.Z. Cup, has now been bought by an
English buyer. If everything above mediocrity, male
and female, is to go to England, the race is doomed when
our present crack sires and. dams die out. It would be
hard to say how our stock has deteriorated already by
the expatriation of the mighty trio—Sir Modred, Trenton
and Carbine.
* * * *
At a recent Towers meeting a field of four went
out for the hurdles. The first and second favorites fell,
and were taken off to the stables, when it was found that
only one of the remaining horses was making for home.
The other refused to take the jump. Thereupon the
fallen two re-girthed, got out again, raced round the
track, and seeured. second and third places respectively.
Time not officially taken. Distance, two miles —about
half-an-hour.
* * . * *
The following, apparently written by a horse-
owner, is the cheekiest thing The Bulletin has met with
this year:—“l noticed in The Bulletin of last week
several paragraphs re Tattersajl’s consultations. I offer
a suggestion which, if taken up, would, I atn sure, prove
beneficial to both owners of horses and patrons of these
consultations. I hold that if Ist, 2nd, and 3rd prizes
were paid, less a standard sum fixed by ‘ Tattersall ’ for
owners of Ist, 2nd, and 3rd horses, it would save a great
deal of trouble to drawers of horses in wiring to owners
re the usual ‘ bit to nothing,’ which is now essential if
drawers do not want their horse to be scratched, besides
ensuring a straight run for their money, as all horses
would be getting the same amount of sweep-money laid
on them. Also, that the sweep be drawn on the day of
the race, which would prevent an owner of two horses in
the race from trying to get an extra piece of the sweep
about one on the plea that he would try with the other.
I think it is only fair that an owner should get a certain
amount of the sweep if his horse runs into a place, as he
has to bear all the training expenses, &c., but I do not
think that one horse should get more than another. This
suggestion, if carried out, would be the means of pro-
ducing much larger fields, for the stakes would then be
very valuable and all horses would be ridden out, as the
3rd*money would also be well worth having.”—J.C.W.
Query : If the horse-owner, because he chooses
to bear the expense of training, should get a bit of the
money of the man who gambles per medium of “ Tatter-
sall,” why shouldn’t he also get a percentage of the
money of the man who bets per medium of the book-
maker? Why shouldn’t every bet be paid less 10 per
shent for the horse-owner because he has to “ bear the
expense of training”? Rats! He chooses to go to the
expense of training because he expects to make a profit
out of it. If he doesn’t like it, let him give up training.
“ Tattersall’s ” sweeps could go on just as well if all horse-
owners gave up training, and racing died away, and the
horse became as extinct as the pterodactyl. Then they
would flourish simply as money lotteries ; in fact, they
are largely that now. The grasping horse-owner isn’t of
the least importance in the matter ; he isn’t even the fly
on the wheel, though he poses as the whole vehicle. And,
by the way, why should all this commiseration be spent
on the man whose horse has got a place ? His training
expenses are mostly paid by the stake. If any horse-
owner deserves anything because he has to pay training
expenses it is the man whose moke came in last and
didn’t get any stake.
* * • •
When Paddy Piggott, winning jockey of two
Melb. Cups, landed in Perth, “ broke,” one of the first
men he met was “Scotch Harry,” the stable-boy who
nursed Haricot the year he won the big event with
Piggott up. “ Glad to meet you,” said Harry, as he
extended his hand ;“how’s the funds?” “Broke,” was
the answer. “ Come and stay wi’ me,” said the ex-
stable-boy ; “ I’m cleaning boots for a living, and doing
well, but I can’t forget that £5OO you gave me. after
Haricot’s win.” Piggott is now driving a Perth ’bus.
* * * •
The trail of the horse : A Tas. pressman wrote—
“ He must have one at least of the attributes of the Deity,
omnipresence.” The comp, set it—“ One of the attributes
of the Derby.” But it was Cup week.
*•. . * *
“ Bargo ”: A small bookie recently informed
me he had been over fielding at V.A.T.C. campaign.
“ Registered?” “ No—know a man who is though ; and
as he’s doing a stretch for flattening his wife, I used his
name for the meeting.”
** . *
There are five Australian horses nominated for
the English Epsom Cup, special w:f.a.—Ne\vhaven, Mer-
man, Aurum, Tornado and Survivor. Should Aurum
strike form he should be heard of. Last year Newhaven
ran second to Bay Ronal d.
* » . i* *
“ Jimmy ” Anderson, crack Brisbane footballer,
recently presented by the Q. players with a gold watch
and £l6O, has been a votary of Rugby football since ’72,
when he was a podgy-faced little kickist in Auckland
(M.L.) College team. It is not given to many men to re-
tain the physical qualities necessary to be a front-rank
exponent of Rugby football for 27 years, “Jimmy’s”
father, Capt. Anderson, of Auckland, is one of the most
active and best-set-up men of his age in Maoriland.
• * * *
English trout are. prospering in the Monaro
(N.S.W.) waters. Mr. Jeffries, manager of Delegate station,
caught two magnificent specimens at Bibbenluke last
week—one 41b. and the other 51b. As trout are becoming
numerous in the Bibbenluke and Bombala streams, fish-
ing will soon be a favorite pastime in the neighborhood.
* * # *
The Melb. crowd would be delighted to see
Walne win the A.N.A. Wheel Race. He is the only cham-
pion left for them to swear by; and they do swear by him
in language of lurid admiration every time he gets home
an inch or two in front of his less consistent rivals. Con-
sidering that a fair amount of hero-worship is of vital
importance to bike-racing, it would surely be adyisable
for the L.V. W. to give bigger prizes in their high-sounding
classic events. An International Mile Scratch, which
Walne won at the League’s meeting last Saturday, was
worth only £lO to the boss representative of “form."
Why not run the sport on Turf 1 lines, and give the Car-
bines of the track an occasional plum?
* * * •
On Saturday the Australian won Sydney Flying
Squadron’s 18-footer championship, followed home by the
two Newcastle boats, Federal and Ariel. Geo. Holmes
started the Donnelly, but she again ran nowhere, and it
really looks as if Joe Donnelly has at last managed to
build a failure.
* * * •
An exciting mill took place on Saturday night
at the Golden Gate Club, Sydney, when Dawson and
Dunn fought the final of the middleweight novice tourna-
ment. The “ novice,” as a rule, doesn’t know enough of
the game to rig-up a “crook”; so the pair fought like
tigers till the fifth round, when Dawson sent his friend to
sleep.
* * * *
“Kid” M‘Coy, as might have been supposed,
was beaten by the hurricane-fighter, Sharkey—about the
worst kind of man the clever stripling could have bumped
up against. Sharkey has now done all that even the
exacting Fitzsimmons could with reason demand, and it
is hard to see how even Fitz can blulf him off a meeting
any longer. Sharkey is upsetting the idea that the
modern glove-fighter must of necessity be a lengthy man,
as he stands but sft. B]4in. He is a second edition of
our “ Ironbark ” Jem Burge as regards taking punish-
ment, is rising 28 years of age, and shows improvement
each time he does battle—as against Fitzsimmons’s in-
creasing years and lengthy absence from the ring. All
things considered, another meeting between Fitz and
Sharkey promises none too rosily for the Australian.
« * » *
Apropos the death of “Yellow Jimmy,” re-
corded in The Bulletin, retired champion Larry Foley
tells an amusing story. He, Jack Thompson, and Jem
Mace were visiting Newcastle on business bent, and
Jimmy paid them a social call. Before* leaving and
after having got outside sundry rums, he brandished his
unwashed left in front of England's last champion with :
“ Look here—l never yet met the man who could keep
that out of his face.” Larry’s blood was boiling, but old
Jem smiled. Larry wanted to have it out there and then
for love, but Mace restrained him, explaining afterwards
that if he (Jem) had tackled Jimmy, the half-caste might
have fluked him, “ and then where would all my great-
ness be ? ” queried the old-timer. “ Leave this nigger to;
me,” said he. Mace arranged that the Yellow-one would
have a go with Jack Thompson at the show that night.
Meanwhile Jimmy “loaded up” round town, and, of
course, proved a soft thing for the burlj and clever Jack.
Mace next.set-to with Thompson, and got all over the
big fellow, as per arrangement previously made. Then
wily old Jem posed as the man who beat the man who
made a monkey of the local Champion. “See how I
worked it, young ’un,” said Mace to Foley afterwards.
“ Take my word for it,” says Larry, “ what Jem lacked in
youth he made up in cunning.”
* * * .*
The once idol, Jonnel Sullivan, is hustling for a
living in the States with a series of pictures illustrating
incidents in his career. Jonnel now weighs 21st. of brawn
— and beer.


A young woman in a Northern town ap-
plied to have a young man bound over to keep the
peace. He was always worrying her and avowing
his love. Called so often at the house that she
lost her situation. Finally told her, “You have
only a short time to live, and not long to repent.”
But she was a practical girl ; hauled him up before
the Bench ; had him “bound over,” and then went
sweethearting with a big policeman.
Prevention of Seasickness.— The extra-
ordinary nature of the new remedy is the subject
of a letter from Mr. G. Cunningham, of Auckland,
N.Z. He writes : “ I was very pleased with the
bottie of ‘ Seajoi ’ purchased from you in August
last. I have clone a lot of travelling, but this trip
was the first I have enjoyed. On all former occa-
sions I was a martyr to seasickness.” “Seajoi”
is sol'd by Albert Sharp, 257 George-st., Sydney.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. a bottle, postage sd. and Bd.
extra. *
At Quirindi (N.S.W.), the other day,
according to a statement published in the Sydney
papers, the railway officials put a lunatic into a
carriage occupied only by two ladies and two little
children, and cheerfully informed them that he
was “harmless mad.” They escaped into another
compartment, and at Muswellbrook he followed
them there. Then they appealed to have him
shifted, and were advised to call somebody’s
attention to the matter at the next station. They
were assaulted by the mild lunatic before they
reached the next station, and then the strong artn
of the law intervened and scruffed him off to
gaol on a serious charge. That, at least,
was the story told at Singleton police-court.
Now there is a regulation against lunatics riding
by train, and the ease of the railway officials who
are charged with having knowingly put a madman
into a carriage—especially along with women and
children —and the other officials who are charged
with having left him there after their attention
was called to him, wants a whole ocean of
explanation.
WHAT WE SAY THEY’LL DO
THEY DO DO ...
In the final of the £4OO Austral
Wheel Race, the greatest of all Cycling
events, for which 187 of the world's finest riders
accepted, the 16 winners of heats started on
Saturday last. Of these 16, 7 were mounted on
English-made machines, 5 on Colonial-made
machines, 2 on American machines, and 2 on the
Easy-Running Canadian Massey-Harris. In
the 11 heats, bi-
every kind made
country in the
The result of this
perfection in
ness of propul-
the 2 Mas-
13icy c 1 e s
Ist and 2nd.
Meeting-, Massey
won, not only the
Wheel Race, but
oftheClassic
cycles of almost
in almost every
world were used.
I exacting test of
'quality and easi-
sion resulted in
sey-Harris
finishing
At the Austral
• Harris riders
Great Austral
3 out Of 5
Austral
International Scratch Races,
including the Austral Derby, in all of
which they secured world’s records,
and earned £472 lOs. prize money,
more by £lO3 10s. than half of all offered.
We have all along claimed for Massey-Harris
Bicycles that “ They Run Easy and Keep Run-
ning Easy.” What we say they’ll do they do do.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Here j. Q-day !
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
TT7’E are one of the Pioneers in the. Bicycle trade.
' v We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estah. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
itST Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
PILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank firimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CKESI E.VT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Kllis' King-street toiler Talatt," situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General EostOllice.
Proprietor - - - GEO. IWs ELLIS.
w
Genuine Greener G u riflel
Can now be obtained through all respectable Australian
dealers, and bear the W. W. GREENER name and marks
—proofs positive of Quality and Workmanship. Prices
from 10 to 80 guineas. Special attention to individual
requirements. Address your enquiries to—
W. W. GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney; or to
C. W. BUCKLAND, Vic. Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elstem-
wick, Melbourne.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factor} - Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BICYCLES
. . FOR , .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
garden City’
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “ DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
{Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
THE WHISKY OE THE WISE
Is the title bestowed on “D.C.L.” Scotch (black
bottle) by many hotelkeepers. They remark that
the more brainy customers, veterans who think
twice before ordering, say—“ Mine is D.C.L.”
Mr. W. M. Rothery, of Cliefdon, near
Carcoar (N.S.W.), who died last week, aged 90
years, was a son-in-law of the old-time Major
Lockyer, and had resided at the homestead named
since Jan., 1831. He was the first N.S.W. squat-
ter to send wool direct to England, and had dealt
with the one firm of London woolbrokers for 6 r
years. Mr. Rothery was the oldest member c
the Sydney Australian Club.
£fAin Wi4ea4e4.
sfleu) WkcoCery
“'£igmoUiene.”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir, —For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne ” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “Ligmolliene,” >
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers. .
I naturally took same “ Cum Grano Salts," and was in-
clined not to use it ; eventually I tried your ointment >
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured ;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligomolliene ’’ all the success it richly deserves,!
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAYS:—
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Oapitas,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. 1 will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7s. 6d. Each.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, Sydney.
THE ’99
7"
The opening of the New Season has brought with it some important changes in last year's models, and especially so in the
11 Austral Swiftf a light machine which may be called a Road Racer, or Light Roadster, according to fancy. The history of
the “Austral Swift ”is shortly this -
Since the commencement of what we may call the “Swift Boom,” the Australian public have consistently shown some unwillingness to accept the
recognised English models without some modification, and the modifications called for have almost invariably tended in one direction. A careful study of
the question led us to the conclusion that it would be more satisfactory to instruct the makers in Coventry what alterations were necessary to meet Australian
views, and to ship direct the perfected machine which we called the “Austral Swift.”
Before going into detail, it quay be as .well to say that the chief feature aimed at in the Austral Swift ”is STYLE. ' This we insisted upon, as we have
found it waste of time to lay any model before the Australian public that did not at first glance claim to be STYLISH. The fact that the “Austral Swift ”
is the most stylish machine ever seen in Australia proves to us that the Swift Coventry Company have carried out the instructions we gave them both in
letter and spirit, and the first consignment we are now unpacking satisfies us that the whole of the order is to be up to sample. Among the leading
features of the new machine we may mention the following
A SHORT HEAD, assuring rigidity and strength.
LARGE HUBS for smoother running.
PERFECT SIMPLICITY in pedal attachments, the pedal pins being screwed into the cranks with left and right threads.
BIG GEAR WHEELS for easier propulsion.
BROOK’S SADDLES as per general desire.
PERFECT FINISH in every part of the machine.
v UV • , ,
Another feature—and an important one, too—is the price, and here again we have endeavored to meet the wishes of our Patrons. The Cash Price of
the “ AUS I RAL SWIFT ”is £2O. Terms : £2l for six months’, and £22 for twelve months’, extension.
SOLE AGENTS for “SWIFT” CYCLES fitted with DUNLOP TYRES:
Austral Cycle Agency Limited,
■>' ■ ’ | i $ ' " ff . : ■... ■
391 Georg*e Street, Sydney;
•»\ 'if . . .
And at Melbojqrne, Adelaide , Brisbane, Perth, &c, &c.
The
FINNEGAN'S AUSTRAL.
’Twas an elegant day that we had, anyway,
When we met on the M.C.C. ground,
Long beers mixed with lime, at a tanner a time,
Which we drank as the riders went round.
There’s the first heat of this, and the second of that,
And the gals giving plenty of chin,
But the Austral, they say, is the race of the day,
So we wanted a tip who would win.
I goes up to Bob Lee, and he says then, says he,
“ It’s a dead bird you’re wanting, my man.
Well, Jackson is mine, but when formed into line
Keep your eye on that chap Finnegan.
“ For if Jackson don’t win, and I’ll think that a sin,
From the time (hat the pistol says go.
Finn's riding a bike which I ne’er saw the like,
And it won't give the others a show.
“ Mid's mounted on one, and the son of a gun
Will sail like the devil, so mind.
The front markers will go as they’re told, do ye know,
And the signals will come from behind.”
So we left our friend Bob and we got on the job,
With some money to back ’em to win ;
And when got on the mark, says I, “ Here’s a lark 1”
For bould Finnegan wore a wide grin.
Then the barrackers yell !• oh, for Parsons and Kellow,
Bobby Walne and for Jackson as well,
But I saw at a glattfce they hadn’t a chance
With the clang goes the bell.
You all know how 'twas done, how the two Masseys won,
Beat all-comei s from London and Paris.
Then came cheers long and loud from the throats of the
crowd
For the two Models Five Massey Harris.*
E.F.B.


!'.<:
sr
*■?£,
What does
it do?
It causes the oil glands
in the skin to become more
active, making the hair
soft and glossy, precisely
as nature intended.
It cleanses the scalp
from dandruff and thus re-
moves one of the great
causes of baldness.
It makes a better cir-
culation in the scalp and
stops the hair from coming out.
It prevents and
if cures baldness.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will surely make hair
grow on bald heads, provided only there is
any life remaining in the hair bulbs.
It restores color to gray or white hair. It
does not do this in a moment, as will a hair
dye; but in a short time the gray color of
age gradually disappears and the darker color
of youth takes its place.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayes & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
“ Ocean Spray,”
Coogee.
Messrs. FREEMAN A SONS.
Gentlemen.
I have used your Flour, Self-
raising Flour, and Bathd's Baking Powder
for six months at my weekly lectures in con-
nection with the Australian Gas Light Co. ,
and am very pleased with all three. I con-
sider the Baking Powder better than any I
have previously used, and both the Flour
and Self-raising Flour cannot be better. I
shall have much pleasure in recommending
them all three at my weekly lectures, subur-
ban ones, private classes, and among my
own personal friends.
Trusting that you may meet with the
reward your excellent articles deserve,
I am, gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. MARGARET COOK.
Teacher Scientific Cookery,
Lecturess to Aus. Gas Light Co.
December 22, ’9B.
NEW YEAR’S GIFT.
The British (Hatch Co.
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
UARANTEES to present a Watch FREE of CHARGE
to any Person who correctly answers the following
Puzzle:—
B*Y O*R W**C**S.~~
Send with written answer Stamped ADDRESSED
Envelope for reply. Our only condition is that you
purchase one of our Solid Silver l'Ct
Chainsto wearwith your Watch. Jl X 11/C A 4/ Oi
Address— THE MANAGER,
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydney.
Thousands of Testimonials.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S CrpbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
Tales of the convict system.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
“ N.”: I have been burning to ring in this
roast chestnut. It turned up again to-day,
Dec. 31, in Melb. Advocate, slightly varied from
the old way, when the Protestant Bhi said to the
Catholic Gurrul, “ The bothom of Purgatory has
fallen out, and all the Catholics has tumbled
into Hell.” “ Agorra, the Prodestants will be
smothered! ”
Are there no French officers in that
nation’s army? One sees the names Henry
(English), Esterhazy (Austrian), Zurlinden (Ger-
man), Dreyfus (Yiddish), Panizzardi (Italian)
but where is Monsieur ?
The Union Co’s s.s. Mararoa now holds
the record for the fastest run between Sydney and
Hobart—4l hours—and is expected to still further
“cut” the time. Apropos, that fine figure of a
man, the popular “Long Bill” Featherstone, who
so long commanded the Mararoa’s predecessor, the
s.s. Oonah, is now in business for himself, having
by the favor of Tattersall Adams become owner
and master of the collier Governor Blackall, trad-
ing out of Bulli. Thousands of his old passengers
will wish him all good-luck.
“Cockaigne”-: Ikey Solomon was the
most renowned London fence. In Fraser’s
Magazine, 1841, is what purports to be a correct
record of his doings and how he became a Vande-
monian. He lived in hanging days. The authori-
ties craved to scrag him. Having got him for a
big thing, they raised such an accumulation of
charges that his friends thought it was all up.
An endeavor to escape was resolved upon, for
saving this original of Fagin. It necessitated a
bogus application for bail. The prisoner was
taken from Newgate to Westminster in a cab —the
driver bribed by Mrs. Solomon, who accom-
panied her husband on the trip, with two officers.
In an ante-room the officers were treated with
drugged brandy before leaving the court on re-
turn, the application having been contemptuously
refused. One officer succumbed in the cab, but
the other was only partially affected. Mrs. S.
was seized with a fit, and clasped him so tightly he
couldn’t move. The cab went to Solomon’s door,
where a mass of Jews crowded up. Sol bolted
out. He ran through his own house and other
premises. Ultimately he got away to America.
Mrs. Solomon, on a charge of receiving, said to
be trumped up, was transported to Van Diemen’s
Land. Solomon followed her there, was caught,
sent to London, tried, and also transported to
V.D.L.
WHY PAY FOR
A WATCH?
CAN YOU READ THIS?
A | S*L*D | S*LV*R | W*T*H | I | G**N
*F | I 1 QU*SS 1 R*G*T 1 & | B*Y | A | OH**N
In order to introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-fanned, d£2 lOs. Solid Silver Keyless
Hunter Watches,
LADIES’ or GENTLEMEN’S, to every reader who sends
the Correct Reading 1 of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS. —That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to.
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER SINGLE OR
DOUBLE CHAINS. Send Stamped Addressed Envelope
for reply. Money returned if not satisfied.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH COMPANY, Ltd.
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNS.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
I
*
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer $ Restorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1 /-, 3/6 and (triple 2/6size)4/6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
555 GRAPHOPHONE.
50/;,
e&jf
kE
ft
QR£
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPMES, from
60s. up.
THE “ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives for Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Graphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
the world —“ The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d. Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6rl. Post Free, securely packed.
When ordering:, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes : “ I was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Ciiapbl Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining: Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
HOOK OF NATURE
“ —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR, HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated v : th more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ;by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
lleptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, ilb.s., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. THE
Art op Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Ch.eap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
by ROYA.L WARRA.KTT OF A.FFOIKTTMBKTT TO “ THE QUEEJXT.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky and
‘Scbwcppc
SCHWEPPES
SO PA WATER, Sc-
( »dd»M(ps,
pi se ApOejg
JOj >| s\l
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra), near
SYDKTEY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
' I
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


H‘ rr RaSSn)(iSSo)’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever*
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A, Few of Xlaem.
—
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. 1 may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, 1 consider you are deserving of
success which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fuHy, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir _i think,it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, w’rites,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
arid that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I coine across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, - It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of vour Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It. is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow’ work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my W'ork-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they w ere claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, w’hom they newer failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi*
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen mann*
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colohies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—" Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. —“ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen lias now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington. —“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com*
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in*
dueed to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, •as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal UJorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •
Patrons of Herr Ras-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassimissen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to' any chemist or
P ate nt M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
£.50 REWARD
, will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, liecomtnended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR } ” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSmilSSen,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus “H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
APVICC FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long slanding.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially'effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat*reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Fle3h-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrosation— Is Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. * Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking' Herr Rassmussen’s AX.I3XT3E3 T7TTALITY PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Biightenmg the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness ail round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS
WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Office
547 Georgre Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:


This is the time of year when the far-see-
" lan ,' n his winter stock of Five Crowns
old Scotch whisky. In fact, the really far-seeing
man's laying in his stock of Five Crowns whisky
all the time, and he always gets this brand for
reasons too obvious to require mentioning. Five
Crowns whisky varies in price—if the man you
buy it off doesn’t happen to be looking when the
purchase is effected you may get it for nothing, or
the price may be six months ; or you may buy it
respectably for a very few shillings a bottle ;"but
either way it is always worth the price, and a
good deal over. It is one of the verv few old
institutions which have improved with age; it is
strong and rich and mellow, and the light of by-
gone centuries is reflected in the bottom of the
bottle. Also, the agents are Harrison and Att-
wood, of George-street, Sydney. Writer once
dreamt that he had discovered a horrid crime per-
petrated by Harrison, or else Attwood, when he
was young, and that he got all his Five Crowns
whisky gratis as the price of his silence -but it
was only a dream.
"TVJEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SDYNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
, A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders
in the above Company will be held on TUES-
DAY, 31st inst., upon the Company’s premises,
as above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
BUSINESS :
To Receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-
sheet, and to transact any other business that
may be brought before the meeting, in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th January, 1899.
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited.
74 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st instant inclu-
sive. By order.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Dated 16th January, 1899.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission— ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
rjIHE GAIETY THEATRE, ZEEHAN.
U P to 1000. Beautiful building; large stage, 38 x
48; electric lighting; usual stock scenery ; all modern
accessories. Equals any provincial theatre in Australasia.
* ra Pidly rising district, with an amusement-loving
public. Terms from proprietor, EDWARD MULCJAHY,
Hobart; or S. F. Hickom, Zeehan, agent.
T 1
'HE GRAND HOTEL, ZEEHAN.
t>tt flne „ new brick building is NOW OPEN for
BUSINESS. Splendidly furnished, and up-to-date in
everything, it offers visitors all the comforts of a first-
class metropolitan hotel, at reasonable rates. Address
letters and wires to Manager, Grand Hotel, Zeehan.
(SECOND-HAND
AND
■KTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY PROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Eveiy requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
HOW to PRESERVE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
RBPUTATIoV emedy With 300 ¥BARS
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cores all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
BP“ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
TT OLLOW AY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
JLJL There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, fagr’ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Amusements.
T3RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING I
Will he Repeated
£he §eisha: <A §tory of a gea (House.
Book by Owen Hall.
Lyrics by Henry Greenbank. Music by Sydney Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt
4th WEEK 4th
AND CONTINUED TREMENDOUS ACCLAIM
at that Remarkable Compendium of
Sensation, Life, Fun, Frolic, and Human Interest,
IKTew Babylon.
Full and Augmented Strength of BLAND HOLT’S
. Grand Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
TJIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Mr. Hamilton.
WEEK 4th
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
OF
1 Representative
4th
AND CONTINUED SUUOESS
mbpbme sans sene.
(by special arrangement with Sir Henry Irving and
Mons. Sardou).
A C °“®i d -l ln -, a £ roI ° sue and 3 Acts, by Victorien Sardou
PRTf’pf AQ e TTO°T l ™ a T U ’ ada P ted b - v J - Comyns Carr.
PKIOES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
H E
H E
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
BOOM.
BOOM.
. •Fitzgerald’s. .
New Conjbipgd SIjOWS,
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location),
-TWO BIG 1
SENSATIONS /
The Tiger and Horse.
The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act.
Amuse ments.
t IAJES m Y S TH EATRE, SYDNEY.
r>., ~e Les sees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Matinees every Saturday and Wednesday at 2.
„.... TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Spec-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. jar PRICES-5s- 35., 25., and Is.
R Lf E , [IT ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell.
ALFRED
C
TO-NIGHT (SATURDAY)
and FIVE MORE NIGHTS.
97^°!F\7 T |, Se ? son Positively Closes next FRIDAY,
27th, as Mi. Dampier and his Company sail in the P. and
O. S.S. Himalaya on Saturday, 28th, for Adelaide.
■J»ll EATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
GREATEST OF ALL TRIUMPHS,
When London Sleeps.
A BOOM. A SENSATION
THE SUCCESS OF ALL SUCCESSES.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES— 3s., 25., Is.
T I /,°r L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY
bole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss PEGGY PKYDE.
Mr. FRED. r*or*LA.R
MONS. AJAX, THE FLEXIBLE MARVEL.
Sisters Phillips ...and... Bros- Lorenzi-
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE and SAYLFS
Mr - WALLACE KING, FLORRIE RANGER, DELROY
and LYNNE, CHAS. COGILL, NITA CLARKE and
our Grand Double Co. Matinees every Saturday.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
nZ „ . Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Cora Caselli- Lieut- Frank Travis-
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
Mr. H. WHEATLEY. CONLEY & CAREW
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s
pi it Published
in a few days the
book of which this
diagram forms the
title page, in which
will be shown and
described the site
pre-eminently suited
above all others for
the Federal Capital,
and the most central
and fairest for the
colonies as a whole.
Not in Melbourne.
Not in Sydney.
Not in Adelaide.
:
m
p
%
1
1
m
m
i
P
no''
r
mi
m
ht
on
tes
Hal
ft<V e
111
I at ion
tdria
000
\eV
Uh
'4fe/6 ,V/e fo
wirne
:"os
Melbourne to
Launceston-
about 270 miles
Lru
I as
t:


Christmas and New Year’s Presents.
fcfa
A. H. MlWillS & 00.
410, 418, 4510
Geoiffe-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- ~
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is (lie Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 XOs.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. 1 make
WINDMILLS a Special Line ; not a Side Show.
.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated bv many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
i auu uam free-
i
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out. delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you-
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
P rice 3s. 6d..
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
nil other Booksellers.
*
K
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life,
Ad ven.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
Boolts Books
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Chambers’ Encyclopaedia, last edition,
10 vols., 1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 o
PicturesqueAtlasof Australasia, 3 vols 16 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator, 6 vols 40 0 100
The Home Physician ..2 5 0 017 6
Large Family Bibles, colored plates .. 4 0 0 1 5 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 255.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
The Soiled Dove : Miss Skittle 3, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free Is 6d ; The Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard, Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
BOOKS
E. W. SKINNER,
Telephone, 3043.
New and Second-hand Book
Arcade, 105 Castlereag'h-st.,
Sydney.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If naturelius not gifted you with words mid manners that
Win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopedia w J 1 supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for'hash fulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, {Sydney, N.b.W. Mention this
paper when writing.
Read Phil May’s Winter Number, 1898.
A Marvellous Shilling's-worth.
Important Neiv Features. —7o full-page and small
illustrations, b3 r Phil May and other artists. 15 stories
hy the best leading authors of the day. Illustrated
Supplement, containing portraits of the contributors,
etc., etc. The cheapest and best number yet published.
Order at once of your bookseller or newsagent.
W. Thacker & Co., Publishers, London.
“C.G.T.”: Surely this is rare enough to be
worth recording. In Orange lately, one morning
noticed an elderly tom-cat coming across the
paddock with a 3-weeks-old kitten in his mouth.
Investigated, and found that Thomas had stolen
kitten at a farm, half-a mile away, during its
mother’s absence. The way he looked after that
kitten was a caution ; keeping it in tucker and not
allowing it to stray a yard from the house before
he would scruff it and take it back to his box
again. The kitten seemed quite contented with
the arrangement too.
An English scandal-item from The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent :
A repetition of the famous Osborne jewel-robbery has
reached the surface of publicity though 15 months since
the deed was done. Osborne case was about eight years
ago. Party at a country house. Lady’s jewels disap-
peared. No trace. Later, it was said, the hostess accused
Mrs. Osborne, wife of military captain.' Action for slan-
der, and, result, exposure of plaintiff, who got six months
for the theft in a criminal prosecution. As all the parties
were very “ swagger,” public excitement was great. In
to-day’s incident, £6OO worth of jewellery was lost by an
old lady at, a country house near Coventry, residence
of a local potentate and J.P. A certain lady saw
two men escaping. No trace of tracks in garden,
nor were they ever heard of again. The 55-year-old loser,
taken suddenly ill from shock, speeds home, never re-
covers and dies in October last. Husband takes up de-
layed enquiries. The evidence looks remarkably strong.
One of the servants, resenting suspicion thrown on her-
self, searches box of lady who had professed to see the
burglars, and finds part of the missing jewellery. Owner
of the box, however, asserts that the articles were
“ planted ” therein, and, altogether, it’s a very pretty
scandal.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
A German hotel-keeper in an Out Back
town wailed thusly by word of mouth to a Bul-
letin correspondent:
Tt vas von of them dashed zhentlemen vith the bag—
von bagman. I saw him kiss mine frau. (Some of pub-
lican's language is here omitted as too shocking for
publication.) I say nottings to ze bag-hog, only I put in
his heel “To kissing my vife, von bound.” He pay ze
bound quite right and he laugh. (Some solid cursing left
out.) He drive past this vay again and he bring me a
message that mine brother vant to see me at vonce. Mine
brother he geep der bublic-house twenty miles back. He
offer to drive me there if I sdart at vonce as he got no
time to sdop. We sdart so much at vonce that I haf no
dime to put on mine boots and go in slippers. (Ten yards
of deep objurgation left out). Ten miles out he ask me
to get down and open ze gate and den he vallop ze horse
like some hells und drive away. I valk home ten mile in
mine slippers over hot rocks when ze little white thing
that stands straight oop in ze glass that hang on ze wall
is at 108. Next time he come I scharge zat bag-hog
another bound.”
TROPICAL HELMiIT, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Smith i Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. .Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmaliers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEU,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumania,
Od ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, Cd ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s Gd ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d ; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
POSITIVELY CURES
llheinilat isni, Liim huijo,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds , Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send ns a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 6s.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales
HARMLESS
TO ALL
S.DOMESTIC /.
I^ANIMALsZd
/ L>ESTROYS\
ALL Hjj
Noxicus
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
/
ANIMALS/^
''DESTROY^'
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
v TO ALU
/
afc\AN IM AIS/54
/ I>ESTROYSn
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHcIST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed, at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. lIEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ 1 got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and n : ght s veats left
me, my appetite returned, and I w'as able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly gr iteful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit. I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I Ii ive not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quih.i cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distincthealingpower.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
-when not obtainable locally.
- ON€ HON€ST MAN.
ThEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
SYDNEY’S MODERN PHARMACY.
MAIL
ORDER
Respectfully
Solicited.
Shota that
Iteach the Spot
Clarke’s Blood
Mixture, 28;
Eno’s Fruit
Salts, 21; Fel-
lows’ Syrup, 4/- ; Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, 1/11; Pain Killer(Perry Davis’),
1 St. Jacobs Oil, 1/il ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. Everything in pro-
portion.
Dr Clarkson’s
lie- Inviff orator
We still offer
£lOO Reward
for any case
we cannot
cure. This Remedy stops all Ailments
in 24 hours; restores Vigor, cures
DEBILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER,
and all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed to any part of
the Colonies, 7/6 bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed to Cure.
Caution to ‘Women!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY'S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box ; extra strong, 10s. ; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE HOUSE.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on-application.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED and
onlv SAFE. SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inehriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form'. Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatesso quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO A GENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 lIUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will he pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
OUR SPECIAL BELT FOR LADIESis
REALLY a MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man—Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
iric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before’ pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), fiivniK illustrations 01 different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address i *
GERMAN ELE:TRIC APPL t ANCE AGENCY,
. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor
GENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
D? ROBERTS’
yoq
f/O// D/iEA,SEf
AND WOU/VDS
OP £. VER Y
DESCR/PT/orf
d?roberts
Alt
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES!
AND ALL D/SOEDERS OF THE
STOMA CM & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/STS ///r X 2/^EACH
BE/\CH & BARNICQTT L°. BRiPPORJ.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss— Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY I
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIIVIAULT’S
IHDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Gough?, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
i'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of- Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10$. Oil.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 George- st„ Sydney
CEB
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Married Ladies.
dSFSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 10S ]io/jcs, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Missing Friends.
OLDS WORTH & CO., 101 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
Unuarai.i.kled Success.
HOLDS W ORTH
HOLDSWORTH
HOLDS WORTH
HOLDSWORTH
The “Sherlock Holmes
of real life.


STEWART DAWSON * CO.
Popular---
MO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS! Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
■
No. 176 a.
18ct. Gold Band Ring.
21s to £2.
No. 180.
Gent’s 18ct. Gold Ring,
3 fine Diamonds, £2l.
No. 171.
18ct. Gold and fine Opal
Ring, t‘2 10s.
18ct. Gold and fine
Diamond Ring-, £25.
No. 46. 18et. Gold Ring,
6 Diamonds and 6 Rubies,
±l3 10s.
No. 172. Gent’s 18ct. Gold
and fine Diamond Ring,
£lO.
No. 168 a.
18ct. Gold and Diamond
Ring-, £3.
?rVV
No. 107. 9ct. Gold, Pearl and Ruby Brooch, 17s 6d.
No. 102 a.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Brooch, 14s 6d.
No. 110.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, 13s 6d.
No. 113.
9ct. Gold Brooch, Diamond centre,
17s 6d.
No. 196 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ;.15ct., £llss.
Silver, 4s 6d.
*
■1
H !■
No. 194 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 392. Set Studs.
9ct. Gold, 14s; 15ct., £1 ss.
Silver, 4s.
No. 193 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £1 ss.
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 198 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 15s 6d ; loot., £l los.
Silver, 4s.
. No. 121 a.
15ct. Gold Bar and Anchor Brooch,
£1 10s.
No. 117.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby Brooch.
£1 7s 6d.
No. 129 a. lfct. Gold and finest Opal Brooch, £2 10s.
No. 104 a.
Oct. Gold Trace and Shoe Brooch,
11s 6d.
No. 149 a.
15ct. Gold Band Bracelet, set fine Diamond, £5.
No. 134 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Opal Half-Hoop Bracelet, £lO.
No. 141 a.
9ct. Gold, Pearl and Ruby Buckle Bracelet, £2 10s.
No. 122 a.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Sexagon Amethyst,
' £2 7s 6d.
No. 115 a.
9ct. Gold Brooch, with Amethyst
Centre and Heart, £1 ss.
No. 1111. 9ct. Gold Safety Pin Brooch,
with 15ct. Heart, set with Pearls,
' £1 Is.
No. 116 A.
Set. Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
18s 6d.
No. 124 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
£1 7s fid.
No. 261. Medal.
9ct. Gold ..£llO
15ct. Gold .. 117 6
Silver .. .. 0 3 6
No. 231.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
3 Diamonds, £4 10s. •
No. 263. Cross.
Oct. Gold .. 8s 6d
15ct. „ .. 17s 6d
No. 230.
Oct. Gold Compass,
15ct. ~ „
Silver, 6s 6d.
11 6s
12 10s
m
No. 262. Cross.
9ct. Gold .. £llO
15c t. „ .. £1 15 0
No. 231 a.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
3 Diamonds, 4 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 265. Medal.
9ct. Gold, £1 10a ; 15ct., £2 16s.
Silver, ss.
No. 128 a.
15ct. Gold Diamond alid Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. 268 a.
Set of Silver Manicure Instruments in cose, 17s 6<l.
No. 573.
Fine Diamond New Moon Brooch, £3O.
Others in stock, £6 10s,
i 8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
wm
No. 336. Twelve Silver-plated Tea Spoons and
Tongs in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 1174.
15ct. Gold “ Merry Thought” Brooch,
set Pearls, Sapphire, Ruby and Diamond,
£3 7s 6d.
No. 295. Silver-plated Napkin Rings.
2in case, 8s 6d ; 4,16 s 6d ; 6, il ss.
No. 126 a. 15ct. Gold and Diamond
Set'Swallow Brooch, £4.
I
No. 319. Silver Button Hooks and Sho:
Lift in case, 16s 6d.
wumwiwnmwwumniiiHinmHnflini
. ttNMSfIMf? t&-Ki
\-UHOOH
No. 302 a. Two Solid Silver-mounted
Brushes in case, £3 3s.
No. 30(U. Combination Case, containing
best Silver-plated Butter Knife, Jam
Spoon, Pickle Fork, Sugar Tongs, and
Sugar Spoon, Si ss.
No. 1171. Case, containing Solid
Silver Shell Butter Dish, with Solid
Silver Knife, £1 ss.
No. 330. Case, containing Solid Silver Sugar
Sifter, Jam Spoon, and Butter Knife, £1 ss.
ate
No. 304. Two Solid Silver Hair Brushes
and Silver-mounted Comb, in case, £4.
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
■forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.. 412
George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


West Australian
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MICE SIMMONS.
■+
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest CCit Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING- GOODS! S LANDED. T
BATS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,5/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s 6d
~ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) ... 16s 6d
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s 6d
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshavv’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAILS.-Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod ... ... ... 7s, 7s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod .. 9s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
~ Full Size ... ... 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS. —Youths’ ss, 6s 6d
„ Men’s ... ... 6s, 7s9d, 9s 6d
~ Men’s Skeleton, bes.t gold cape 10s 6d
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 5s Od
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best ... ... 6s 9d
„ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
~ Nichoil’s ditto (Automatic) 16s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ...6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle... 16s Od
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair. .. 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s Od
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
„ Coihpo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse .. 2s Od
~ ~ Match, SJ/(oz., Is ; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Slumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
rtA5 MO SUPE-RIOR
BISHOP’S CITRATE
of MAGNESIA
WAY MoT USE" IT ?
lEWSE than the NEW YEAR.
Thousands of Latest Novelties .
OUR LATEST “REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
RECS
14s. 6d.
Solid Gold,
With Util or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 6d.
REGS
vVithoufc Pendant,
13a. 6d.
Solid
Cbld.
-IEW bird
iIE-ART AND
BELL
BROOCH.
.Remarkable
Value,
168 each.
REGS
14s. 6d.
o
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK
Very Pretty and
Useful,
2s. 6d. eaoh.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT,
6s. each.
With Pin and
Chain, Bs. 6d.
Gold Xmas Bell BROOCH, 10s 6d.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER PATTERNS.
PLEASE
SEND FOR
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES.
New Gold Bird BROOCH, Bs. 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s. 6d.
9c., 11s 6d and 12s 6d ;
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
100 DESIGNS.
Our New Gold Bamboo BANGLES, 22s 6d;
Broader, 32s 6d; Children’s Size, 14s.
Also, '
AN IMMENSE VARIETY OF OTHER PATTERNS.
Richly Engraved and Solid
Plain Flat.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15c., 35s
40s, 455. Silver, 4s, ss.
18c. BAND RING.
1 fine Diamond, 40s, 60s,
100 s; Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s; Opal or Pearl,
255, 40s ; 9c. Opal, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s ;
smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6 ;
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires. Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
POST FREE
18c. ENGAGEMENT.
3 fine Diamonds, £5 ;
2 fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal
or Pearl,
£3 158.
Plain BAND RING,
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d ;.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
With Any Name or Motto,
Is extra.
NOXJE—Our ONLY Australian Address—QQ KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A little show which lately quitted Sydney for Maoriland
left one pleasing memory behind it. It was playing a
wailsome drama : scene laid in Sydney ; and the hero’s
wife and children were starving in an absolutely empty
room on a cold night. The galvanised iron wind blew
with a shrill note outside the house and shrieked through
the broken window. Then the hero rose up, and declared
that they should not per-r-risfi thus, and rushed forth.
He came back in two minutes with a liv-e sheep which he
had stolen as it grazed on the grassy wilds of Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, and cast it into the room saying, triumph-
antly : “They are saved ! -Here is food.” The im-
poverished family hadn’t even a knife to kill the animal
with, or a lire to cook it, or a dish of any kind, so pre-
sumably they killed it by skull-fracture against the wall
and core it up raw. But the curtain fell just then.
A trance artist put a man asleep once at an unknown
date and in a place which the present writer can’t remem-
ber. The man was to remain asleep nine days or a month,
or something like that, and did it to the satisfaction of
the general public. But the following performance was
incidental to his long doze : The police-sergeant on the
beat pushed the stage-door open one night to come in for
his usual drink and smoke and yarn, and, behold, the
sleeper was out of his case sitting smoking, and the
attendant who was retained to fan the flies off him during
the night-watch had gone for beer. The attendant swore
the sergeant to eternal secresy over the beer. He swore,
and waited to see the waker sleep again in anticipation
of a visit from one of the Vigilance Committee. The
beer renewed nightly kept the sergeant’s mouth shut till
the show left. Then for beer he opened it again and told
this yarn. And if any one wants the yarn retracted it
can be done for more beer.
There used to be on the M.L. West Coast a Milesian
publican, whose house was much frequented by travelling
showmen. “So yez are back agin,” he would say to
them. “ Well, I think yez ’ull do well this time —av yez
git good houses.”
“ H.” : A book's a book. I take up the queerest volume
ever issued from the Australian Press, “ Tragedies and
Comedies,” by Richard Capper. I saw his son the other
day, .pensioned civil servant, late respected caretaker of
Melbourne District Court. Capper, the elder, was stage
carpenter at Drury-lane in the days of Lord Byron and
Edmund Kean, both of whom he knew. He caine to
Melbourne when it was only a few years old, and became
actor and mechanist at the Queen’s under Coppin.
Then he retired to a sequestered farm, out Plenty
River way, about 20 miles from Melbourne. Here he
diligently wrote plays, to the number of about 29.‘ Most
were in five acts. A few condescended to three. The
volume published contains half-a-dozen, rigorously Shake-
spearian, in five acts, digging up extraordinary themes
from the histories of Egypt, Babylon, Nineveh, and such
places. For instance, there is “The Mummy-makers of
Egypt,” a comedy wherein Mr. and Mrs. Sanchoniatho
are most humorous. Dick lived to about ninety. When
long past eighty he acted a bit of “Shylock” in character
at Melbourne Royal for a benefit, also Dr. Flail in the
“Irish Tutor.’’
Harry Cardello, the spry “black” boy rider of Fitz-
geralds’ Circus, has been with the show since he was a
nipper. Years ago his father wrote from some outland-
ish spot in North Queensland to contradict a Bulletin
statement that the boy was a pure-bred aboriginal. Then
the boy looked almost as black as King Billy, but now he
is merely brown and curly, and a good-looking Harry at
that.
Walter Baker, Bland Holt’s spotless and indomitable
hero, although Australian bred, is a devout observer of
musty stage traditions, and his most marked mannerism
is his habit of religiously lifting his hat before kissing
the heroine, and before uttering the usual platitude that
always evokes the thunder of the gods. In the former
case the reverent lifting of the glossy topper has all the
suggestiveness of a fat saint saying grace before buns at
a methody tea-feast. Why ?—-oh ! why ?
An admirable old actor in Edwin Kelly died at Ade-
laide Hospital, on New Year’s Day, from the effects of
the hot weather. During his Australian career Kelly
played a wide range of parts, making his biggest success
as Gaspard the Miser, in “ Cloches de Corneville." This
was at Melbourne Opera House more than a dozen years
ago. A polished, gentlemanly “ heavy father,” he was
equally effective in his quiet, humorous way as a light
comedian until his limbs and memory grew infirm.
Kelly’s last notable performance was his Duke of Argyle
in a revival of “ Jessie Deans ” at Melbourne Royal. The
scene between Eloise Juno and the old man couldn’t have
been better acted on either side. Something of Kelly’s
incisive method has been acquired by his son, Edwin
Lester, who comes out strong on the rare occasions when
he gets a congenial character.
Sweethearts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s gettin’ bits o’ posies
An’ feelin’ real good,
An’ thinkin’ how she loves you,
An’ wond’rin’ why she should.
An’ stoppin’ sorter sudden,
Because you’re full o’ thought,
An’ full o’ rec’less feelin’s—
That makes life feel too short.
It’s feelin’s if she’d loved you
Afore the world was made,
An’ that she’s goin’ to love you
When all our debts is paid—
As if there’s nothin’ mattered,
As if all life was good,
As if the Lord was lookin’
And sorter understood.
It’s feeling true an’ frien’ly
To every thing that’s weak,
An’ doin’ little actions
That someway seem to speak—
Such things as wimmen reckons
Is nat’ral to occur
When he’s in love with Someone,
An’ that Someone is her.
Paraguay.
M. J. C.
Dolly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When an English King knighted the Sir Loin of
British Beef he was probably ignorant of the
august precedent of a Roman ruler, who intended
to raise a British oyster to consular rank, but, on
reflection, decided that the honor was an inade-
quate one. To enjoy a plate of oysters is a proof
of culture; to enjoy a barrel, a proof of complete
culture.
With the advent of the manufactured article,
an awful thing of slimy loathsomeness, surely
good taste would pass away, and there be left no
desire for the training of the palate for the mer-
maid embrace of this delicate softness in armor.
So I mused as, one by one, the Sydney Rocks
were shrined in an appreciative grave.
“ Good Lord ! Dolly ! ”
The words shaped themselves in the throat,
clattered up against the roof of the mouth, and
almost found utterance. But the sight of what
came after drove them back to the limbo of things
unubtered. It was certainly Dolly; Dolly looking
if anything more rounded and voluptuous than an
odd dozen or so months before. But he that fol-
lowed was as surely her husband, a husband still
under the glamor of a honeymoon preserved by
passion or art beyond its decent and proper limit
of 30 days. And—Great Heavens! would the
procession never end ?—there came filing in the
shop a third, a handmaiden of Venus Matrix,
bearing in her arms the baby of Dolly and the
obvious pride of Dolly’s husband. Confounded, I
watched the entrance of the nurse-girl, half ex-
pecting, half fearing the doorway to be darkened
by yet another.
“Will the line stretch out to the crack of
doom ? ”
A dreadful vision of a matronly Dolly, followed
by scores of maids, each burdened by an infant
that wagged a tiny finger of reproach, oppressed
me a moment. Then I saw that the procession
had ended. There was but one baby and one hus-
band. Still, the idea of Dolly with a husband and
a baby—and only 18 months since. It was sur-
prising, even alarming.
The husband seemed swelling with fatuous
pride, resembling fantastically the Sydney Rock
on my plate, which puffingly pushed out its ample
cream-colored waist from a flat shell, as though
the kindness of the Oyster Fates were favoring its
destiny. He was fair and beefy—would have
served as a model for Moore’s Dick Lennox—and
the proprietary air with which he viewed his wife
and his baby was as obvious as his necktie. It, a
royal-purple shot with brilliant green, wailed
frightfully or shrieked exultantly as it caught the
light obliquely or directly. She came to me with
outstretched hand and a smile, which showed'two
rows of fine, even teeth, specked in three places
with gold. (The history of those specks I could
have told with absolute devotion to detail. I can-
not recall whether I still possess the invoice.)
There was not a suggestion of diffidence in her
face. Her eyes did not plead : they boldly com-
manded.
“This, Dick (of course, his name was Dick.
Men who look like that always are Dick !), is Mr.
Brice, an old friend of mine. Mr. Brice, my hus-
band, Mr. Moxman.”
I felt confused, ashamed, afraid to take the
hand of the honest fellow in front of me. But
Dolly was imperturbable. I had to accept the
proffered hand and submit mine to its warm
grasp ; to refuse would have seemed strange, even
suspicious, to Mr. Moxman. Though, on reflection,
I could no more think of suspicion as possible in
his mind than a pearl under the vest of the fine
oyster, the last of its dozen, which still pushed out
its stomach as a suggestion to mine, losing, I
thought, a little of the first sleek look of content
as I continued to delay the devouring of it.
They stayed half-an-hour or so. Moxman told
me, admiringly, how. his wife doated on oysters—
“ not a common taste in women. ’’ It seemed to
him distinctly genteel. I was tempted to tell him
in return how the oyster was the touchstone of
character, by which the shop-girl and the theatre-
girl are judged ; a taste for the bivalve was signifi-
cant of much. But ivhy should I play the Serpent
in a Fool’s Paradise ? The baby, of course, had
to be admired, and its striking resemblance to
Dadda noted. When the maid brought the little
germ of a sinner up for admiration, Moxman sug-
gested that perhaps “the girl” would like some
prawns. Mrs. Moxman frowned the,idea down.
At last they went, he gloating over his -wife with
greedy eyes, the nurse-maid following with the
defiant humility of an Australian servant. '
Now at Deluigi’s you get the finest oysters in
all the city of Sydney ; the only Tasmanian trum-
peter that can make an Englishman forget the
turbot ; and schnapper of sentimental plumpness.
But I was forced to resolve upon an abandonment
of this home of salt delights. I could not risk
meeting Dolly again. To sacrifice Deluigi’s was
to lose something of life. But, after all, one must,
sooner or later, pay for one’s pleasures. After
eighteen months the price of that rosy fortnight
at Lake Macquarie had to be paid.
Saddened by the thought of this sacrifice on the
altar of a dead pleasure, I thought bitterly of
Dolly, her husband, and the baby, going home. I
could see her as she swam proudly by his side, and
hear her as she asked him if he had noticed how
confused and red I had been. “ Poor Mr. Brice.
He was an old admirer of mine. For twelve
months he teased me something dreadful to marry
him. He is not a bad-looking fellow, though, of
course, nothing like you, Dick.” (This with an
admiring look aloft.) “He has, too, no end of
money, hut, you know, Dick,” (with a squeeze of
the arm to which she is holding), “I always had
an ideal, and until I met you ” ——
When they reached home, I could imagine the
hot and flustered nursemaid asking to be allowed
to go out that night, and being refused by the in-
dignant little matron, who tells her how wrong it
is .for young women to go out unaccompanied, and
hints darkly as to what might happen to girls
guilty of such wrong.
A woman is never ashamed, but when neces-
sary she can appear to be.
RENAR.
ON THE POINT.
Hallo, here’s Chester. Watch him strut past me ;
Me that gave him his start in the biz !
Now while he heads the bill luck has outcast me.
■ I’m wantinghalf-a-pint ; he can call fizz 1
He was so stage-struck I gave him utilities.
How did he study his first half-a-side !
Now the Firm stars his barnstorming abilities—
Thanks to a woman and thanks to his hide.
I took him, an awkward burlesque of humanity,
Taught him to walk and talk, put in his brains;
Thinks they’re his own. Poor fool! in his vanity
How can he help it when his are the gains ?
He plays his love-scenes in a tailor-built attitude,
The girl in his arms while the gods have his eyes ;
And his tones are a parson’s propounding a platitude,
Contradicting their passion and damning them—lies.
Yet how they stand him and swallow it greedily,
Thinking it’s acting they’re crowding to see ;
Wouldn’t their fathers have cat-called him speedily,
Him—when they’d Sullivan, Creswick or—me 1
He copies my readings —the mere intonations—
My original points and the cut of my vest.
Mine are the talents that win his orations;
It’s me they’re applauding wherever he’s best I
What, Chester, my boy, well met; I was praising
Your reading of Melnotte to Rantaway here !
By Gad I enjoyed it ; you’ve come on amazing. ...
Don’t care if I do, though it’s early for beer.
So you’re fixed for two years at an in-and-out salary.
Cut away Londonwards, that’s my advice ;
They’re yours by the wool here, stalls, circle and gallery ;
Get the hall-mark and you’ll double your price.
Oh, I’m in suburbs ; you know the tread-mill it is;
_ You might see J.C. for me—oh, I ain’t proud,
I’ll take what is offering—small stuff—utilities—
Carry a banner—come on in the crowd 1
THE STROLLER.


Out of 100 13-15 year old boys, intended
forEuglish public schools the examining physician
found 34 below average height, 53 below average
weight, (53 below average chest-girth, 63 more or
less deformed, 14 with varicocele, and 24 with
albuminuria. The sinking generation !
Mayor M ‘Enchant was interviewed in
Colombo, and in the course of his valuable obser-
vations he condemned the sanitation of tliecapital
of Ceylon. “ Its nightsoil system,” he said, “ was
an abomination.” And this, mind you. from the
mayor of Smellbourne !
Item from a 'Ome paper: “Charles So-
and-So, said to be the son of a Q.C., who was
charged last week at West London with stealing
an umbrella, was discharged on Saturday, his
father undertaking to send him to Melbourne
immediately.” Charles will be the son of a Lord
Chancellor, probably, by the time he confers his
patronage on a Smellbourne hash-house.
“ Constance Clyde ” : Re alleged connec-
tion between genius and disease. Present scribe
thinks writing a remarkably healthy employment;
never takes an anti-bilious pill under any circum-
stances ; writes a love-poem instead—finds it does
just as well ; entertains a vague impression that
every branch of literature will some day be found
good for some special ailment, and that literature
was created to that end ; doesn’t find holidays
brain-destroying ; notices the more she writes the
more she wants to climb a mountain, the more she
climbs mountains the more she wants to write.
Grants that if she got ill, might possibly write
better, but doubts it. Was seasick once, and
didn’t find it so.
The Funafuti expedition from Sydney,
sent to test the truth of Darwin’s theory that
coral islets are formed by coral insects—which
cannot live far below the water-surface —upbuild-
ing to keep pace with the subsidence of a slowly-
sinking sea-bed, has done valuable work without
settling the question, though further information
may he expected when a microscopic examination
of the borings has been made. The truth at pre-
sent appears to lie midway between Darwin’s idea
and that of his chief opponent—Dr. Murray, of
the “Challenger” expedition—who thinks that
coral reefs are built on natural elevations in the
sea-bottom, and may be accounted for without
postulating subsidence. That is, as Dr. Mis-
sionary Brown points out in Sydney Telegraph,
there has probably been upheaval as well as sub-
sidence, and in some cases a stationary bottom.
Special value in Tennis Shirts. We will
post to the remotest corner of this great colony one
of our Special Value Tennis Shirts (just the thing
for cool, comfortable wear) upon receipt of N.S.W.
stamps, postal note or P. 0.0. for 3s. 6d. (three
shillings and sixpence). Good unshrinkable
washing materials, plain whites or colored, stripes
and checks. Collars and pockets attached.
Address orders HORDERN’S, Pitt Street,
Sydney.#
YMKME!
All Ultimo is talking about the Marvellous Recovery of Mr. William Handley.
Indigestion for Seven Years! Exhaustion! Pain in the Chest! Tender Skin and
Chest Bone!
All Gone Now!
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Cured Mr. Handley after
Hospitals and Three Doctors had Failed !!!
I'fm
(:
SC
Mr. Handley.
MR- WILLIAM HANDLEY, who resides at the lear of 94 H arris-street, Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S. W., suffered tortures from indigestion
for nearly 7 years. He has very kindly given a press reporter the particulars of his cure by Dr. Williams ’ Dink Pills.
“ I first noticed the pains about 7 years ago,” said Mr. Handley. “lam a green-grocer, and am out in all weathers, and used to
have very little time for my meals. The complaint came on gradually, and at first I didn’t let it worry me ; but I was very soon awakened.
I got worse and worse, in spite of various remedies which I tried. After eating I would feel a most terrible pain in the lower part
of my chest, as if some hundredweight of lead were there, and, though often hungry, I would refrain from eating, because I knew the result. I
became very thin, and felt as though life were hardly worth living. Meat, of course, I had almost to refrain from eating. Any excitement
brought on the pain, and I was at last unable to climb a hill, so great was my exhaustion and want of breath. Even a piece of bread would
disagree with me. I consulted three doctors, who told me I was suffering from indigestion and dyspepsia. I then tried the hospitals and
was six weeks in one institution, being laid up on that occasion for three months altogether. This bad attack occurred about two years a-o
but I’ve had several since. I had the most unpleasant taste in my mouth on rising, just as if I had been sucking some copper article. My
skin and my chest-bone became so tender that I could hardly bear the touch of my clothes. HYell, my wife, who has been ill for years is takin"
a course of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and she had even then derived the greatest benefit from them.” Here Mrs Handley nodded’ a smilirm
assent. “My wife thought the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills might do me good, so I gave them a trial. The first few doses drove away the pains
in my head, and I also found, to my surprise and pleasure, that my indigestion was slowly disappearing. That was about six months ago :
and I have never gone back since. As time went on, my taste for food returned, and now I can eat with comfort. I can honestly say my
indigestion is entirely a thing of the past, and its disappearance is entirely owing to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. That terrible weight
on my chest and the unpleasant taste left me, and also the retching that accompanied my complaint. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
undoubtedly the remedy of the age for dyspepsia, indigestion and like complaints.”
The real Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure anmmia, general debility, all headaches, diarrhoea, biliousness, liver and kidney troubles, indigestion, sleeplessness
vomiting, all ladies’ ailments, neuralgia, nervous prostration, fevers, gravel, St. Vitus’ dance, paralysis, locomotor ataxia, etc. All chemists and storekeepers sell them or
you can send direct to the Dr. Williams Medicine Co., Sydney, enclosing the price, 2s. 9d. per box, or 15s. 3d. for six boxes (post free), in postal note or stamps
D? WILLIAMS *
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE,
tOPLE
2 u
m
DVWILLIAMS
INK
ILLS
FOR
Si\
ALE,
WILLIAMS
INK
ILLS
&
LC
DVWILUAMS’
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE,
fcOPLE.
"Which His Weakness is
Women”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first I met Dolores,
I swore—a ’prentice kid—
’Er Spanish eyes was glories j
Gord ’elp me ! So I did,
But that was Valparaiso,
Before I got to know—
Yes, that was Valparaiso,
An’ very long ago.
Which ’is weakness is women;
Oh, let us confess,
It might 'ave been greater,
’Twould 'ardly be less.
Two sins what ’e’ll boast of
In ’Ell, we opine,
Two sins what 'e’ll roast of —■
That’s women—an’ wine !
She sipped aguardiente,
An’ she was hot as flame ;
I loved ’er good an’ plenty—
She swore she did the same;
She vowed in West-Coast lingo,
“ For dios ! luf I you."
An’ left me for a gringo
With pesos for to blue.
Since which I’ve crossed the waters,
To spend my cash an’ leave
A courtin’ of the daughters
Of good ole Mother Eve ;
Since which I’ve fooled with women,
With women white an’ brown,
With Dagoes an’ she-devils
From ’Amburg to Cape-Town.
I might have saved my money—
Gord knows ’ow ’ard ’twas won—
But this is certain, sonny,
A chap will ’ave 'is fun ;
There’s not a rover rovin’
There’s not a sailorman,
Who doesn’t fall to lovin’
As frequent as ’e can.
If I could ’arp like David,
As always ’arped in tune,
My chanty it would echo
From Rio to Rangoon,
An’ places intervenin’
Some answer it might find,
For every port I’ve been in
I’ve left my love be’ind.
Which ’is weakness is women —
Oh, let us confess
It might ’ave been greater,
’Twould 'ardly be less;
For out of each ’undred
There's ninety an’ nine
Is damned an’ condemned for
Said women — an’ wine!
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
A Sin that Saved.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The revelation came suddenly, without warning;
the man, strong as he was, trembled to falling.
The Antinio Family gave the last turn in the
show; and in the little tent were taking off the
outer dress from the acrobat eostu ae they wore
beneath. “Antinio” was professional; in private
life the elder man was Jacobs, the girl his wife,
and the partner Gosper.
This Gosper had a dubious record : Jacobs had
taken him from the gaol-door that had opened to
him a world without a welcome. Jacobs meant to
make a man of him: taught him his profession,
and, with the simplicity of strong men, never
doubted. The elder acrobat had concentrated all
the energy of his life in his muscles—perhaps that
explained his mental sluggishness and ineptitude.
So far, his character had slumbered in his machine-
like body, dwarfed to its first childishness. A
minute passed, and he had left his comrades to go
to the balloon, but, missing the trapeze-strap,
turned back. His hand was on the tent-fly, his
head bent to push through the hanging canvas,
when the sound of words spoken in his wife’s
voice struck him like a bolt.
“ Kiss me, darling ; the old Bear’s gone ! ”
As one overcome with much wine Jacobs reeled
backwards; then, witli unsteady steps, stumbled
across the show-ground. Life is measured by inci-
dent. That walk, but a few hundred paces,
seemed miles and miles to the man, so fast did his
mind travel; he saw his past as in some unrolled
picture; his toil and struggle; how he had pitied
this abandoned girl and made an honest wife of
her; how, later, he had pitied the man and given
him a chance, and this was his reward. His
dumb animal affeotion for the woman was out-
raged, and all his preconceived ideas of cause and
effect overthrown. “To sow kindness and reap—
and reap—” instinctively his hand went to his
brow to brush away what his eyes pictured. As
he neared the balloon his gait steadied, his step
acquiring a new alertness as his eyes sparkled with
fresh-kindled light. He pushed through the
crowd, vaulted the enclosure, and saw to the fas-
tenings and guide-ropes with more than usual
care. All was ready when his companions ap-
peared.
* * * •
They stood in the car, bowing to the multitude
underneath ; a shout from a thousand throats fol-
lowed the ascending balloon. To the aeronauts,
the earth sank beneath them, the noises grew
suddenly fainter—the ‘ ping, ’ ‘ ping ’of a shooting-
fallery, and the yelping cry of a dog became the
ominant sounds. Quickly they descended from
the car.
According to the programme the elder Antinio
was to hold a trapeze suspended from his mouth
while hanging head-down wards by his feet from
the balloon, his partners performing the usual
feats upon the bar underneath. In reality the
weight of the trapeze was borne by a concealed
strap ; the whole performance, to those accustomed
to aeronautics, was far more dangerous in appear-
ance than in reality.
A fresh shout from below, rising soft as an echo,
as the three midgets were seen to hang suspended.
It was to be a brief performance, swiftly executed.
• * • *
With a laugh on her lips the woman climbed the
body of her companion, and paused for a moment
to sit with him on the bar: again she was mount-
ing to the car when her husband spoke : ‘ 1 Wait,
Lena ! I want to talk to you. ”
It was on her tongue to respond sharply. But,
seeing his face, the words choked back, and with
sudden fear she gripped tightly at the rope.
Jacobs was smiling a blighting, bitter smile, and
his companions perceived with terror that the
trapeze, no longer held by the strap, was sustained
by his hands alone.
“The old Bear holds you now, Lena. Kiss
your darling.”
The man and woman crouched away from each
other on the bar as though the words seared, she
moaning dismally without a tear or a word.
4 Gosper tried to put courage in his white face:
“Don’t be hard on me, Jacobs; it was all her
doing. I’d never have thought of such a thing,
so help me God !
“You beast! ” hissed the woman, interrupting.
“My doing, you cur! How dare you!” Then,
turning to her husband, coaxingly: “I always
loved you, Pete: you know I do. I was mad,
that thing tempted me, fooled me; but, truly, I
loathe him now. See how I loathe him, ” and the
woman motioned to spit with her dry mouth on
the man by her side. ‘ ‘ Spare me ; you will spare
me, won’t you, Pete ? ”
Jacobs, his face suffused with purple blood, his
eyes staring, smiled down below, a smile palpable,
withering, triumphant.
The balloon had entered a cloud, and hung in
the mist hidden from earth and sky; only the
round red sun looked up at them with lurid gleam.
Quite plainly they could hear a child’s voice call-
ing coup ! coup! coup! to lingering cows, the
tinkle of a school-bell and the shriek of an engine-
whistle as a train crossed aviaduct. And then in
that solitude, as the two sat there shivering for
the meroy that did not come, a strange sight came
to sicken their souls. In the mist, close to them,
a second balloon took gradual shape, growing into
substance as they gazed, with a car like theirs and
three shades swinging below it like themselves.
As they moved, so these creatures moved, yet
with something added that was diabolic and
frightful. The lovers, that had been, saw it not
as a mirage, but as a wraith of their dead selves
doomed to float thus to eternity, ever to fall and
never falling.
“Oh, let me up; let me up!” the woman
moaned,, while Gosper drew himself together with
evident intention of making a spring at his partner
above.
“No, you don’t,” said Jacobs, shaking the
trapeze menacingly. “ Kiss, my darlings—and be
quick ! ”
They approached each other like contaminated
things, the lips meeting without sound.
“ Closer, closer; put your loving arms about
each other! ”
Each passed a nerveless aim to the other’s body,
their dry lips meeting again in mockery.
“ Now, kiss and be damned ! ”
Like a dropped stone the trapeze parted from
the giant’s hands ; a wail as of the wind, and the
balloon, relieved of weight, shot high into space.
* • • *
At the inquest the jury saw fit to add as rider
to its verdict:—“ The authorities should take
measures to prohibit such dangerous performances
in future.”
Jacobs is how the owner of a mammoth circus ;
he is counted the smartest, shrewdest, most suc-
cessful man on the road ; hard as nails, yet jolly
as a sandboy. The stolid acrobat, Antinio, is
dead.
HENRY FLETCHER.


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out impurities from the blood, brings back an
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves,
gives energy and povrer.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
y/ffA
y/m
f/i
i
c\
st
%
m
Mrs. L. Kennington, of Station St., Petersham, New South Wales, sends us
the above portrait of herself, with the following letter : |
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative.
“Sometime ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of rheumatism fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible paius, could not cut or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid.
“ i did not obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for ‘Sarsa-
parilla.’ My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
“ I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.”
These remarkable results are not due alone to the sarsaparilla in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. No
other sarsaparilla contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like“ Ayer’s.” This is why the people cull it
“Tfcs World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“ Ayer’s ” cures. You know this. You have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that, _ *
For removing impurities from the blood, for making thin blood become
rich and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for building up the
nervous system, there is but one medicine:
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
It Removes Depression.
Ayer’s Pills Act on the Liver, more Bile is Secreted.
The Message of the Spear.
Awav bank in the year 54 li.o. —1948 years ago—
a little detatelnuent of Roman soldiers was
besoiged by. a host of Gauls at Cbaleroi, in the
north of what is now called France. Believing
that no help could possibly reach them, the
Romans expected to light until they were all
striken down. One day a short spear came
whizzing over the ramparts and stuck in one of
the wooden towers. Nobody paid any attention
to it at first. They just went on slaughtering
Gauls and getting slaughtered themselves. At
length an officer saw something fluttering from
that spear. It proved to be a note from Julius
Cißsar—written in Greek. He said he was on his
way with an army to relieve the garrison. That
note had been there unheeded for several days.
In due time Caesar came and made short work of
the Gauls.
That people should suffer and struggle hope-
lessly when help is near at hand is sad to think of,
but they must knovj of the coming help before they
can draw courage from it. Take the torments and
dangers of disease for example. We fight them
with all the weapons we have. Sometimes we hit
on the right thing, and more often we don’t, even
when it is as close as the spear in the tower was to
the exhausted parrison.
If Mr. Robert Lavis, postmaster at-High Ham,
Langport, Somerset, could have found a remedy
for indigestion, dyspepsia and liver complaint, he
certainly would not have suffered from it, as he
did, for twepty years. Why, that is more than
half an average lifetime. A single day of illness
is always long enough, goodness knows. But
fancy such an experience stretching itself into
weeks, months, and years ! Common enough ?
Yes, dreadfully common. So is poverty ; but
does that fact reconcile anybody to either ? Mr.
Lavis is not a man to sit tamely down and brood
oyer a misfortune. Besides being postmaster he
is a grocer, with work enough to keep him busy.
Under what difficulties this work was done he
tells us in a letter dated Nov. 8, 1893.
“ I had a bad taste in the mouth,” he says,
“ particularly in the morning, and my mouth was
dry, and I spat up thick, tenacious phlegm. After
eating even the simplest food I had great pain in
the chest and around the heart. I suffered greatly
from sick headache and giddiness, and if I exer-
cised much I got out of breath.”
[This was asthma, caused by the stupefying
action of foul blood upon the nerves that move the
lungs; the impurities in the blood having com©
from the festering mass of undigested food in the
stomach. The heart trouble, the sick headache,
and the giddiness were symptoms of the same
thing.]
“As time went on,” continues Mr. Lavis, “I
became very low, weak, and mentally discouraged
and depressed.”
[A doctor, writing about this case for a learned
medical journal, would use many tough Latin
words, but he would not make the facts as plain
as Mr. Lavis himself has made them. Naturally
a man who can eat but little—which little mostly
rots in his stomach—will lose flesh and strength
and come to be of small use to himself or to any-
one else We can all see that even by candle-
light.]
n l* tried many medicines,” he says finally,
“ but they did me no real good. At last I heard
of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and used it. I
am happy to tell you that it soon relieved and
cured me. Whenever I feel a sign of my old
ment I resort to the Syrup at once, and the disease
gets no further hold upon me. Publish my state-
ment if you like, and believe me yours, &e.,
(Signed) Robert La vis.”
The Roman soldiers left Caesar’s message unre-
garded for days. It was written on parchment and
fluttered from a spear, as I have said. But, see!
We live in the age of print. Are you ill and in
pain as Mr. Lavis was? Every newspaper, every
magazine, almost every publication your eye falls
on, contains accounts of what Mother Seigel’s
Syrup has done, and daily does, fox- those who
suffer. Read the messages. This is one; and,
having read it, you know where to look for help.
m
&
v
I
A TESTIMONIAL.
Db. Findksikkle.— Dear Sir,—l feel it my
duty to inform a suffering public that my wife
was in good fair health when she took a bottle of
your remedy and immediately declared in a loud
tone of voice that she felt like a new woman.
GAS COOKERS.
The “fureka” Gas gooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The . I astraliitn.fiaslif/lit Company hy payment
of Tit Cash and 10». Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
{JO“ live jwj* Gent, discount allovced for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BE|»’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, CoS'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensutions, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL .GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Eyery sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ Vtf JRTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as direct ed, will quickly restore females to complete healt h. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon tho Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring tho long-lost Complexion ; bringing back tho keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. 'These
are “facts" admitted by thousands, in all classes of society.'ami one of the best guarantees to tho
Nervous and Debilitated is that BcerhanCi Piflts have the Largest Sa'e of any Patent AJetliemt hi
he vujvtd. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, i)kl, Is lUI, and itt* Oil each.
<c
Jupiter” Kerosene gas Stoves.
NO NOISE
Latest Improvements:
IN BURNING.
Burns Kerosene without a wick, convert-
— ing into pan Without None or Fume*.
I RICE 12/6; post 1/5 extra. This Burner, fitted to our Ovens, will
Roast, Bake, and Boil for a family of 8 at a cost of 1/3 per week.
NOISELESS Burners fitted to any Stoves.
Primus Stove*, 9/6 each; Price of Ovens, from li/6 each.
BRANDT BROS.
LAMP and STOVE WAREHOUSE,
236 Fitt-st. (Opposite Sohool of Arts). SYDNEY
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
P Cures While Sleeping.
HHI IRISH
TESTIMOKriiS.L.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
miss
Bennington
■ ■■■» fr..v ' ■
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
V/W v/.-vjixx, Wirv/Vl . Ilf* M 11.
CHEST, DIEMCUITY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BQNNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Fills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY FILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


f CO , _ w <
uj CO f- -j
a
5 S ur
< s *2
JE- tU H
3= JP 1 *
f—
osar
Established
ie4fl
HIGH-CLASS
arresting
ay-making
MACHINES
MASSEY-HARRIS COL LIMITED
Bead Office and Factoriee - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian IWdq’n’rs.ins.iroWillinm-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address I
3S Broodway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhi re.
Illustrated Oatalogus l ie a. on app.ication.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AMD . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne ;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
r t-class Accommodation. Tariff, 8/- day.
What is Health?
JfrheUmatlam, Sciatica.,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely, cured by Mr. C. F.
KJI, 145 Victoria Paradk,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
5
AT THE
BKOW-liOOMS,
<She JJbbot
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,**
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortljiQgtoi) PtinjpiQg EogiQe Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SimpßOll J3rOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTH IN GTC-N
TRADE MARK/
Sydney, N'.S. XV.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Westeiii Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND:
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOETHINCrTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
CO YEARS DYEING
O FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- SX.IDTSIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOHli STJjLUIOT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Ilall).
Country Orders by post iroinall the colonies promptly
attended to.
LAST OF
“OLEftC”
by Christopher
8,. Botanist to
Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
ECZEMA
Jars (conccntd.), 1/8, post 4/10
Self Applied.
STDjntT— M, H. Hobwit*, 84 Pitt Ht.
Aubl/udr-Hai ms* Kkmp, « Randle St.
Mblboobnk—Fbkb. J E. Phillips, *l7 Collins St,
A Golden Shanty.
Is per Post, Ib. 34
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
4?
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SOPILYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITV DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROY AX
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either ml
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
o
at
15 KING STREET is ON
AGENTS JiVEHYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THI
THEY WILL
‘HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HAI
ICEIVE PROMPT A r J
THE BEST in the WORLD.
street, H. PATESON, Manager.
S’XTDIN'E'X'-
manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
. . . Sole Agents for . . .
The ‘New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Llhcient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Xngersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have mel
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho’s
Bakin 9 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co ~
Melbourne, Gunm&kers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth’
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D. B. Breech-loading Gun*, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ..
£8 reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price <lO 10s, reduced £‘3 17s 6d each,
complete; ' 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can tie supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any nize shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, TIIOMAS & CO.
V
A
B.S.A.
the LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, 137 Elizabeth street
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10, - dor.,), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
fg/H dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets. 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
8 3 irross. SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house In Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date £7, 'B, £9, £lO, £l2,'guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
lit AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J. A. Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
FAY’S HAND-FEED PLANER.
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
Sec., See., See.
