

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout,
» FRY’S MALTED COCOA
B7g7WATKINTS~ fiC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOR —
Mining' and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S
ili ill
mmmm
i'.i I 1 ‘c i i
%■ uj
'■ *>' Jr
‘ _ :
vandyck
CIGARS
v-7w. A
’n.D'kFXACRAtfT
3MO/C£
'mmm
©I? 8
?®a Is
I^aIkIIMJS^M.EUIir^C^yDNLY
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 ntt ** SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilniinster for the l&sfe
Twenty (20) Tears.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING! GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
if?
m
Ti
S*Wy
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI’OLR’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Bay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOB A.RT.
tffcX
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
CO
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING*
The Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICF& SON, LTD.,
IX7 York S treet,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland f* Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most TK£holesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang* Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Eldiswan - Lamp.
BliHMiHiillfUi!
'"1.11.11!! 11l
m
1 m
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIEE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Lta.
Australasian Branch
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
syd:
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-sL, Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 20—No. 1012. J
[Saturday, July 8,189 D.
Registered at th© Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure.
S 5
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor—G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT-S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
UNDER THE
GUMTREE
A Cursory Commen-
tary.
JUSTIN McCarthy’s “Re-
miniscences ” belong to
an amiable elderly per-
son who‘isn’t game to
let himself go. If he told all
he knew there would be wigs
on the green isle and the other
one ; so he remains Parnell’s
“ nice old gentleman for a
small tea-party,” and de tea-
party fabula narratur. All that
the plum - picking people can
gather are remarks like that
which Lord Brougham made
to McCarthy after his Parlia-
mentary entry in 1862 —
I say, you made a devilish clever
speech ; I didn’t agree with all of
it—in fact, some of it was non.
sense—but it was a damned clever
speech. Who the devil are you ?
Omit the Parliamentary adjectives; and admire
the wit and wisdom of this —
I say, you made a clever speech. I didn’t agree with all
of it—in fact, some of it was nonsense—but it was a clever
speech. Who are you ?
Even the adjectives are tame in Australia One
blast from that old Q. pioneer’s throat would have
sent Brougham shivering into the refreshment-
room. When there was trouble in that Q. finan-
cial company, and the London board sent two
enquiring members to Brisbane in all the pride of
British Respectability, light trousers, and tall hats,
their interview with the local Board was thus re-
ported by the man in the next street —
“ Good morning, Sir ’’
“ What the do ■you want ? ”
“ We are members of your London board, Sir ; and
we have come to ask you some questions relative to that
transaction of ”
“Go to , you and your questions! What the
do you take me for ? ”
“ But, Sir ! ”
“ your , you son of a !
What the do you mean by coming here and
cross-questioning me like a barrister? Get to
out qf this, you , you cook’s galley
scrapings, you consumptive waster ! ”
“We are at a loss, Sir ”
“Do you know a team of bullocks from a poley cow,
you ? ”
“ We must admit, Sir ”
“Then clear, you
They cleared ; and the old man wiped the froth
from his lips and called for something to take the
taste out of his mouth. O tempora !
Not ten strong men those great round oaths could raise,
Such men as live in these degenerate days.-'
For the glory hath departed from Israel, and the
D from Dibbs.
A. H. Fullwood’s new picture of Lake Waka-
tipu, M.L., is intended for show at Sydney Art
Society’s August exhibition. Only some sheep
are permitted to feed in the foreground among the
brown tussocks ; the rest is landscape—lake and
shore and hill, with a cloud-hung peak that rises
from the lake : beyond and above are other circl-
ing peaks and the glacier of mighty Mount Earn-
slaw. The time is autumn ; and the touch is
true.
Brunton Stephens has just passed his 64th birth-
day, and is reported evergreen and gay. His
poetical works have recently been taken over by
Angus and Robertson, who contemplate a re-issue
in a new form. Despite a cheap edition, J.B.S.
has had little sale for years—partly, it would
seem, because his publishers were less active than
they might have been. This is mentioned because
it is so uncommon a merit with publishers.
Twenty publishers advertise us to the water, for
one who will pay for our drinks.
Mr SELF.
Drawn by Gelett Burgess.
8° Sarcey is dead : good old Sarcey ! He was
(it ts the inevitable comparison) France’s Clement-
ocott of dramatic criticism; but far better,
because far wider. He stood, indeed, on no higher
plane; but he saw all round on his plane, and
even all round himself—which is a literary figure
not to be taken physically, for Sarcev’s rotundity
was so tremendous that he could not scan his toes
without tottering, much less his sacrum. The
new critic of the Temps will fill only one seat: they
always reserved two for Sarcey, the fattest Jove
who ever thundered over dramatic Olympus. No
style; and the appreciation of the mutton-
head in the street. But he held the
experience of generations ; he was so de-
voted to the stage, so sincere and sure in his
knowledge ; and what he did not know he whistled
the footlights. He loved melodrama ; he
hated Ibsen; and these are evil days for
I ranee.
I had not noticed Mr. A. P. Martin’s second
assault on local bards (in Literature, April 29)
when writing last week ; or in the heat of derision
I might have been tempted’ to print another of
Mr. Martins “poems” — and the disease is not
desperate enough for that. This week I make
Mr. Martin welcome to his opinions ; but I do
wish he would mind his facts. He writes that—
the canons of English literary taste and criticism reject
the more elaborate and pretentious poems of Mr. Victor
Daley and Mr. Will H. Ogilvie.
As no copies of Ogilvie’s book have yet been sent
for English review, I am at a loss to know when
and where “the. canons of English literary
taste and criticism ” were applied unless
they are. all included in Mr. Martin’s own
proper person. Yet even this hypothesis is
improbable, for what some people call “ internal
evidence ” shows that Mr. Martin has not seen
Ugilvies book. More, a business letter from a
friend of Mr. Martin’s has been handed to me,
dated fade of Wight, April,’’and asking that
the following books be sent to the writer—
The Hidden Tide, by R. Quinn ; The Ways of Many
Waters, E. J. Brady; On Our Selection, Steele Rudd;
The Bulletin Story Book; and Fair Girls and Gray
Horses , by W. Ogilvie .
And the letter proceeds in these words—
I should have ordered these before, as I wanted them
to lend to Patchett to complete his articles on Bulletin
writers.
Evidently, then, Mr. Martin had not Ogilvie’s
book when that letter was written ; and as no
copies are on sale in England the conclusion is
that when Mr. Martin wrote his article for
Literature of April 29, and condemned Ogilvie’.s
verses by saying that “as a rule they lack all
originality ; they are neither truly Australian in
character nor do they stand comparison with the
finished work of many a so-called ‘ minor poet ’ in
England ”■—and so on—he was writing with as
much bias as you please, but without any evidence
worth mentioning. We understand Mr. Martin
out here; but 1 am sorry to see a paper like
Literature in this galley.
Alfred Bryan, Eng. black-and-white artist—best
known, perhaps, by his sketches of actors for the
Sporting and Dramatic N^ws—- died the other day
at only 47. His versatility was prodigious; and
Max Beerbohm, who is a Person of Taste, eon-
fessed that his whole performance interests me
more than Mr. Phil May’s, more than that of any
po]udar black-and-white artist.”
His quaint drawings are the best of Gelett
Burgess, the bright young American who admired
and parodied Stevenson. His nonsense verses
would be worth little without picture-enforce-
ment ; and his humourous prose disengages
readers’ hollow groans. Even the notoriety of
Ihe Purple Cow”—-which was lucus a. non — is
passing. I gather two Burgess-buds while I may.
Some correspondents—
“ A. J.G.” weeps rhythmically but unpoetically.
“ Ignotus ” remarks —
In the St. James’s Bit I get, April 7,1899, page 32, I read :
“ A record and review of the life and works of Dante,
Gabriel, and Rosetti is being prepared by Mr. H. C. Maril-
lier.”
That will be a work of very great interest.
Talbot Smith casts an interesting sidelight on
the lively publisher—
I notice you remark Kipling’s power of sarcasm as
illustrated by some sentences of his about Guy Boothb.v.
Those sentences were written quite seriously. I know
this, because they were writtgn to me. But here is the
paragraph as written: “ Boothby has come to great
honours now, and is also a husband and a father.
His name is large upon hoardings, his books sell
like hot cakes; and—he keeps a level head through
it all. I’ve met him several times in England
where he has been living not far from m.v
people; and he gave me an exhibition of colonial
driving (two hired horses, and one that wasn’t amiable)
through the streets of Salisbury that added to my already
large respect for him.” This was written just two years
ago. Boothby being an Adelaide man, anything that
concerns him is interesting here ; and—the passage being
pleasantly complimentary, I gave it to a journalist friend.
Then the Critic copied it, and eventually it got to
England, for its next appearance was in the London
Academy in an advertisement of Boothb.y’s (then) latest
novel. The point of the joke (?) is that in the advt.
Boothby’s publishers leave out all the words from “ been
living” to “streets of Salisbury” in the above passage,
and so make it appear that he has earned Kipling’s in-
creased respect not as Jehu but as scribe ! But that is
not the fault of Boothby, who was always a really good
fellow.
W.M.F. : The prize quatrain was less Australian
than poetical; but, you (don’t) see, there were
several things to consider.
J.M.M. : Thank you. That mosaic verse
beginning
Why all this toil for triumphs of an hour— Young
Life’s a short summer ; man is but a flower— Dr. Johnson
has been going round for 20 years since I pasted it
in a juvenile scrap-book; but evidently it never
once met the other gentleman.
“ Quiz ”:
Have read Mr. Arthur Patchett Martin’s verses with in.
terest, but no amazement (I knew him in Melbourne).
There, of a similar composition, I weakly asked one of his
friends: “If he won’t mend it, why does n’t he patchett?”
The friend nodded wisely : “ He can’t.”
“ Artist ” writes :
Why is it that Melb. Avgas has always preferred mar-
doching native talent to encouraging it ? Even over-
praise is better than a continual cold sneer. I remember
that long after we had all read Kipling’s “ Soldiers Three’
in the Indian paper covers, the English reprint came to
the Argus and was even then too new to praise. “Too
barrack-roomy,” the Argus said. The Argus is never
quite satisfied with a hook till “it might very well pass
for forty-three, in the dusk, with the light behind it.”
The new English 3d. magazines are enjoying an
unreasonable struggle for existence ; and on every
staff there is a wild-eyed member who searches for
New Ideas to increase the circulation—or main-
tain it. Some six months ago one pair of wild
eyes must have flashed “Eureka !” —for a little
later a circular went forth to prominent authors,
explaining that the public wanted comparative
statistics showing the relation of authors’ heads to
feet—and Would the prominent author kindly
“ press his foot well into the basin of gelatinous
matter sent, having first thoroughly wanned the
gelatine, and return the basin to this office?”
The New Idea, however, did not make converts,
and was finally abandoned when a basin was re-
turned with this note: "Mr. ’s compliments'.
He sends back the basin of gelatinous matter.
Will the editor kindly press his head well into it?’>
But it is not every magazine which wishes to
increase circulation. There comes a point when
the expense of handling vast numbers is not met
by new subscription revenue. Tit-Bits has reached
it_; and the American Ladies' Home Journal,
with 850,000 regular buyers. The ideal is to in-
crease circulation to the limit of advertisers, not to
the limit of subscribers.
J. L. Aston’s recent book on 1 Japanese Litera-
ture ” introduced to English readers the fine flower
of Japanese poetry—the “ haikai.” A haikai is a
verse consisting of three unrhymed lines of five,
seven, and five syllables—seventeen syllables in
all. Its style is “light and fresh, a swift, fugitive
impression more often than not ending with a
surprise.” The Academy. asked its readers to send
haikais, and received these examples—
The west wind whispered,
And touched the eyelids of Spring:
Her eyes, Primroses.
Her eyes are the dos e’s,
Her black locks are the raven’s,
But her heart is mine.
A light, rustling stir
In the full-foliaged tree—
Aha, the squirrel ! .
The Bookfellow desires some haikais, which must
have an Australasian reference, and . 10s. fid. will
be paid for the best received before .Inly 21).
The Book Lover , “a Literary Review,” is born
in Melbourne—monthly, Id. The second (June)
number was not unpromising ; but seemed too-
monotonously devoted to the ends - -and fag-ends—
of fiction.
THE BOOK FELLOW.
Maoriland’s “Literature.”
SOME Maoriland writers reply to F. Rollitt’s
complaint that the M.L. Government and
public give little or no encouragement and
assistance to struggling local genius—
I want to know if an epidemic of sheer funk is
spreading amongst our young writers. And just
when things literary are looking a little brighter
at this end of the world ! Thanks to those who
have gone before, the way to publicity and Lon-
don is almost payed for the young writer who has
anything really worth'marketing. The difficulty
is in manufacturing marketable goods, not in sel-
ling them. Rollitt should pray to Tangaroa, Tane,
and Tu, and the rest of the gods of Maoriland, to
send us men—and women —that can write. We’ve
got the market, and that market is daily growing
larger and more profitable. Tu is a god of strength
—he ate all his brothers —I will go and make a
karakia to Tu, and ask him to put bowels into F.
Rollitt and the newly-enrolled members of the
Maoi’iland Literary Association. Tu knows the
value of backbone 1 will ask him to remember
the backbone, too. I will say the proper karakia
to Rongo and Haumia (who preside over vege-
tables) to give the struggling litterateurs plenty of
fern-root and kumaras. I will say a karakia to
Tangaroa (the god of all fish) to send them schnap-
per and rock-cod ; and to Tane (god of all
feathered fowl) to give them quail and pigeons. I
have n’t a doubt they will get all these —but to
what god shall I pray to give them inspiration ?
Tangaroa, Tu, and Tane, and the rest, never knew
anything of books': in fact, all the gods of Maori-
land are quite illiterate. Perhaps that accounts
for the scarcity of literary genius in these isles ?
A.A.G.
Thank Heaven, the M.L. Government, while
aiding schools of Music and Art, has stopped
short of helping schools, of Literature. Men can
practise Drawing, and, to a less degree Music,
without annoying the public much. But if they
are to be taught by Government to practise Litera-
ture, may the gods help us! We have some
750,000 souls here —more than Liverpool or Man-
chester, about as many as Glasgow. Yet E. Rollitt
is disappointed because we have no great litera-
ture of our own. Has Liverpool ? or Man-
chester? or Glasgow? All things considered,
our literary men have done very well. As for
Maori legends, the only men we want to write
them are those who write , them because they
love them. They can’t be written to order. Till
someone comes along Who treats them for his own
pleasure, they had best be left unwritten. Mean-
while, the whole world stands ready for our books
—if we can write them. The world will take
them, if it wants them, without the help of the
Govt, grader whom Rollitt seems to hanker after.
And, after all, it isn’t strange that we should n’t
be specially interested in our own literature. For
reading is a reflective pleasure, and whilst we are
still doing, we have n’t much time for reflecting on
our deeds.
PUKAKI.
F. Rollitt, who complains of the lack of Govt,
support to “Literature” in Maoriland, should
read what Buckle, in his “History of Civilisa-
tion,” says of the protective spirit and its literary
influence: “Three times in the history of the
world has this experiment been tried—in the ages
of Augustus, of Leo Tenth and of Louis Four-
teenth. In each of these ages there was much
apparent splendour, immediately succeeded by
sudden ruin.” The great men of letters associated
with Louis’ reign wrote their best either before
he was born or very early in his reign— e.p., Cor-
neille, La Rochefoucauld, La Bruyere, Pascal, and
others. During the last twenty-five years of the
reign, when the magnificent system of patronage
might have been expected to bear fruit—it did n’t.
Maoriland, which F. Rollitt censures for its
indifference to “Literature,” really “patronises”
writers more than Australia does. For the last
half-dozen years or so a system of Christ-
Drawn by Gelett Burgess.
mas story competition has been favored by
editors from Auckland to the Bluff. In these
competitions names of competitors are unknown
to the judges, who are “qualified literary men
residing in the district; ” and the ostensible object
is to cultivate literature and to laurel the unap-
preciated genius. (Incidentally, the newspapers
are provided with “copy” at a cheap rate or no
rate at all.) Seven-eighths of the prize-winners
are generally women (first prize frequently falls to
a man); and the “ stories ” are worse than in the
days when editor, pressman, and paste - pot
arranged the business without the aid of the
“ literary gentleman residing in the district.” The
reason is obvious. This so-called encouragement;
to literature warms into active life a number of
unhappy beings .who otherwise would never have
thought of writing. I surmise that the “ qualified
literary gentleman,” who has to run through a
hundred stories in a month, loses his reason
before he has gone half-way, and decides which is
best by counting the number of ink-spots on the
first page. I admit that I myself have won “a
prize ”in a M.L. story-competition. In extenua-
tion, I plead that it was a youthful offence, and I
am honestly trying to live it down.
C.C.
And Mr. Rollitt rejoins—
I stick to my main arguments —that nothing is
done to encourage literature or literary workers in
this country ; that literature should receive at
least as much encouragement as painting or music ;
and that literary workers could be benefited
greatly by schooling, advice, criticism, encourage-
ment. Ido not wish anyone to spoon-feed Maori-
land writers, but I would like to see them licked
into shape by a more economical and rapid process
than by finding by experience what editors think
is good. I maintain that unless a young writer
gets local publication, he cannot get proper
criticism. As to London being the true test
of a writer’s quality, I simply do not believe it.
Look at the rubbish that is printed there in the
name of “colonial literature”! Think of Lon-
don accepting “ The Shadow of Richard Hern-
brook ”as a romance of Maoriland, or “A Bride
from the Bush ” as a type of Australian woman-
hood—and others, and others. The fact of the
matter is, the London editor or publisher is not so
good a judge of an Australasian story as the cul-
tivated Australasian reader, else we should never
have so many travesties on our national life and
character. You say, “When an Australian miner
can walk from 'Townsville' to Coolgardie for gold
an Australian writer can easily work to Europe
for gold and fame. ” He can work to Europe, of
course ; but even if he is really good there is no
surety that he will get either gold or fame. I
walked from Deniliquin via Wilcannia to Mil-
parinka and Mt. Brown for gold, and did n’t get
any ; and some very good men have tried to work
the London literary market and have failed —men
who had “ the Root of the Matter ” in them, too.
The Maoriland Literary Association is already
bringing good results; and the men and women
who are working for this association already see
numerous ways of benefiting our writers without
spoon-feeding them. In the article criticised so
severely I state that the Literary Association re-
ceived less support than' a new football club would
expect. I wrote in Samoa, when the association
was a very feeble thing. During the last few
months it has gone ahead, and has now 150 mem-
bers. In one part of my article I say—“ A writer
does not spring into being ready-made. He wants
schooling and advice and criticism.” If they got
these things would it be spoon-feeding them ?- and
can they get these things in Maoriland at present ?
During the last few years I have read hundreds of
original stories by young Maoriland writers, and I
consider that many of these stories would be mar-
ketable if the authors had a few technical hints.
I disagree altogether when it is said of the young
writer that “no teaching, no coddling can help
him ; he must teach himself and fight with his own
hand.” You might just as well tell the young
musician not to accept the ad vice of a master, or
the young painter not to attend schools of art.
The writer can be greatly helped ; and teaching
can give him mastery over the technique of his
art which he might never acquire if left to him-
self ; but besides the teaching the writer can be
much benefited by assistance in getting markets
for his wares, or in getting a good price for them.
London publishers naturally try to get MS. as
cheaply as possible ; and many of them try to get
authors’ work for nothing.
F.R


KedloaU
kfkin beaded.
s9leu) WideoCery
”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never falls to OUUIS
ECZEMA in all Its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Ohronlo Disposes
of the Skin, allay* Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness,
SURPRISING CURE 3 AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY t—
** Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Not. SO, 1807. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l hare used your ointment Llgmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer*
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own had oase of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it Yours truly. QEO D
WOOLLEY, M. D, “ ‘ '
What the Hon. W. 11. EMBLIXQ, M.D., M.L.0., savs
n Melbourne, May 2‘, 1S9:). Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligraolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Ohronio
and hare found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. 11. EMBLING, M. D."
LIGMOLLIENK is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth Its weight In gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Maiyox,— August 21st, 1893.
With great pleasure I how sit down to reoord progress
with regard to my old enemy. "Eczema Oapitis," from
Which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Oall
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligrnolliene
and after about two months treatment 1 may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLXUOUSE, M.R.0.5., U
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM N€NRYMALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist ,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists,
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7a. 6d. Eacli.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Stdnby ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
[ Cramps,
\ Colic,
\ Colds,
Ps»\
- \
ms, 1
Cafs«
Burns,
Braises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for Iheae
troubles is
"Pofm-KiUev
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHANI & GO.,
WHOLESALK AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Doctors fake |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a 'Remedy for Affections of the
stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARKIICEA, INFLUENZA
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it wall save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
"" LOZENGES.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss marie on the plan of ttie above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away I Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss— Jihutic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that mav
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY!
As for CUKES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now he had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World I If ruptured
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c. •
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TItUSS CO
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
&2T
o
v.'S
3
OLD 'W-
tP
sc
SUN BU.
fimg
UO
HA
lT
y
2/Vr
Y
N
p *o
P RI£T
ORS
CARLTON ALE
The Fact that
it is impossible to ascertain the
quality of a plaster by a casual
examination should be a sufficient rea-
son for buying a plaster with a repu-
tation.
There is no plaster that has been
before the public so long; none that
stands or ever stood so high; none
so well guaranteed, none whose
guarantee is so substantial and so
liberally interpreted; none so safe
to buy as an
Allcock^s
Poifcmjs pjusier'
It is a marvelous cure for all kinds
of lameness, rheumatism, sprains, stiffness of the joints
limbs, and congestion in the throat or chest.
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
Allcock's
POROUS
PIASTER
is the one you want;
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
&
b
o
V
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6
Sole Makers— Hl. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
RUSH
TE
OPPOj
otAjjffl
Intending Travellers by Sea or Lane
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 George-street, SYDNEY
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
&3T The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for ou
Goods areLONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE.
BRUSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 33 36
£6 6s £6 15s £7 7s
BRUSII’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 IS 20 22 24
Lined jean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
„ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH'S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
leather.
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 55s
DRUSII’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT CASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size.2oin. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d each. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
BRUSH'S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap-
sible, a splendid hag for hard usage and rough
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Prices from
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH’S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
Size lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
Price 3s Cd 4s 6d 5s 6d 6s fid
Better quality 5s fid 6s fid 7s 6d 8s fid
BRUSH'S OVERLAND TRUNKS, English leather, hand
stitched.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value ci
65s up. Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to b
added to country cheques for exchange,
-PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.,
MANUFACTURERS an
IMPORTERS . . ,
403-405 George-street, SYDNEY
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfactiou if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and catirecom-
meudit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and mosti
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
83S FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous Value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -t
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6;
A Special bine, very good patterns,
12 O. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
br Cycling Suits, 35 Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits*
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens td
Select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade*
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/H. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9;
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys'
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
_ find Cuffs, 2/-, 2JI, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 0> Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Hugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 trimmings included.
ALBERT'S
PIANO K £ w
vamping
Patented CARPS
Anyone quite Ignorant of Music will be able, with the
aid of ALBERT’S VAMPING CARD, to play accompani-
ments and VAMP on the Piano, Organ, or Harmonium to
thousands of Sonars, Pieces, and Waltzes in all major and
minor keys within five minutes’ practice without the
slightest knowledge of Music.
PRICE, Is. 6d. The instructions are short, plain, and
printed on the Card, to be had from all Stationers and
Music-sellers all over Australia, or direct from
J. Albert & Son, 118 Klng-st., Sydney,
Manufacturers and Importers of Music, Musical Instru-
ments, Strings, and Spectacles.
Illustrated Catalogue and Music lAst FREE.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/3 eaolw
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, fi/6. all real hair,
CUTTINGS A COMBINGS
up, i/6 per oz.
W« are the cheapeittn Aua*
traJla for all Hair Wort.
Send Color of Hair, y
W. H."wig*ell}
'llO William Strret, .
corner of Palmer-streeti
r SYDNEY. __
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe Llsti. ’■
Prompt attcnfcion'given to Country Ordstt
FREW
The Reform Price
J ewellers^
Watches Cleaved and Regulated, 2/6
Best English Mainspring - - -2 6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jewellery Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
FRETSTCH’S, 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney's leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
ECZEMA'OLEAC
Discoverer—Chris. Mudd, F.L.S., Prince of Wales’
botamst. Mr. J. Vernon, 14a Osborne St,, Williams-
town. writes : —“My honest conviction is that had it
not been for your ‘Oleac ’ I should now be in my
grave.” Mrs. Poole, of Cootna, writes:—"l am fu ly
recovered, and not used one jar." Mr. Gill, Bal-
moral Crescent, Surrey Hills, writes: —“l am happy
to tell you the eruption has entirely disappeared.”
Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10. Chemists or Depots:
SYDNEY—M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE—Harris A Kzmp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOURNE—Frsd. J. E. I’hii.i ips, 817 Collins St.
What is Health?
Tfheumatiom, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Ao, t
Completely cured by 2 Ur. C.
FA UK ICR, 145 Victoria Parad*.
FITZHOY. Send tor Treatise on
these Complaints.
Atiiclavits, Testimonials, mailed tree.
Six penny stamps.
DEAF
HEP
The New Patent
I SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to tha
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do thi3 entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. VV. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers
Pitt-street, Sydney.


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address: Care GrEJO. .a. ID .A. IVES, Hobart.
Silver City C. July 26.
35,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
N ame ___
Address.
Adelaide Grand National H. August 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Spring H. August 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name ,
Address
CAULFIELD C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
Cup.
Name
Address
s
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ■
Address
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
jjESt
w
Address ■ -
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Silver City C. ... 25,000 at
Spring H. ... ... 25,000 at
Caulfield C. ... ... 100,000 at
Melbourne C. ... ... 100,000 at
5
5
5
5
TATTEESALL.
Please allot me .Shares
the Special .
Name
Address
For fuSI particu&ars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


i
Anthony
Hordern's
FOR EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get . .
THE BEST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
tD carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in ...
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US I
AND TASTE OUR
QUALITY.
SEND FOR —l
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Faslsions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney.
PAKRgT
Br^nd"
fear
5r*.4WS Wound c
(OUGNS C°LPS 2?
[Beware of >
/MITATJ°AIS
American Carriage Repository
(24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY)
For All Kinds of VEHICLES.
\
\
\
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
“POWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
tea
GrO TO HET.T.-
I GOLAN l) for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real pood stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SO CI ETY ia prepared to LEND in any amounts
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of botia fide s on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Veil ' los, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
r ARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
v AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
ls not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
—— a—Mnmiwi m— WaBBMHHBBBBHi
a THE MOST DEUCIOI S SAUCE IN THE WORI.D.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
■AiivnMNV a*ios
saixxoa ao snoiTiiw
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold in Bottles, 6d., x;-, and 2> eacli.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New SoutH Wales:
TII,I,OCK & CO., KEM' and I.IVERPOOI. STREETS, SYDNEY.
fUB
* Plum ’
TUB
‘ Plum*
(GENTLEMEN vvho find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
H trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. Wc guarantee cadi Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, Gd. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
M.S.W. Carriage & SaddLlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, 4511.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE,—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for leas
than we oau. They cannot do ho, and you pay 15 pur
eut. more for your reuuiremeuls.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUlt SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.IV. ltaihrays, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.
Selections from a week’s exams, in a
Victorian secondary school:—
Jeffreys was a cold-blooded man who hanged People by
the thousand upon a lampost in the Street.
The bottom of the sea is covered with a lot of little
bushes which are called Under-Currants.
To modern Invention we owe the Telegraph, the Forth
Bridge, the Torpedo, the Iron clad, and other life saving
appliances.
One of the most interesting, but least
known, institutions of Melb. is the Bo-
hemian Chess Club. Entrance gratis, and
subscription nothing. In the underground
smoking-room of the Victoria Coffee Palace,
afternoon and evening, all the year round, “ the
royal game ”is played. Sometimes the local
talent meets a eounti'y parson or schoolmaster who
“understands” the game; sometimes an ex-
champion or a local alleged * master ” will pass an
hour or two—over a move or two; or a pretty
problem will be set to puzzle the solvers, or an
interprovincial or international game will be
analysed. All meet equal. An ex-miner from the
west, an ex-Minister of the Crown, a retired
parson or two, a University coach, asmart Yankee
patent-medicine man, and Marshall-Hall’s friend
—Dierich, the chain-cigar smoker.
A Bush Evening.
I remember, long ago,
How beyond the old verandah
Round the paths we used to wander
In the golden afterglow.
Slowly was the sunlight fading,
Evening silently invading,
Deeper, darker grew the shading
Down below.
And we walked beneath a green
Mass of branches, making dimmer
Still the place, till but a glimmer
Of the last light stole between.
Willow streamers hanging o’er us,
Willow streamers on before us,
While the frogs sang croaking chorus
Through the screen
Now the sun has set, and soon
Pale and yellow still, but finding
Silver in the river winding,
Through the darkness glows the moon.
Everywhere her rays are gleaming,
Sparkling silvery, softly streaming
Past the cattle lying dreaming
By the old lagoon.
Listen to the curlew's note
Far away across the marshes ;
Now the constant croaking harsh is
Chorused where the branch-ends float.
Rabbits scuttle through the bushes ;
Something rustles in the rushes ;
And, as darkness falls, a hush is
O’er the bush remote.
How the water in its flow
Ripples over stones and mosses,
Sparkling where a moon ray crosses
Through, where branches thinly grow.
Now the night is swiftly spreading ;
As we turn, the darkness dreading,
Moonbeams hold a silver wedding
On the stream below.
CURLEW.
“Stumps.”
Grindin’ up the sandhill with the festive mallee
stump
(Chuck ’em quick an’ lively with a chunk ! plunk!
chunk !)
Creakin’ thro’ the rubble with a joggle an bump
(Very nearly done !
Six bob a ton !
Just about enough to do a good square drunk !)
Sloppin’ thro’ the crab-’oles w’ere you nearly lose
yer load
(Slip ’em over, sonny, ’fore the sun goes down !)
Plowin’ up the metal on the rotten “ council ”
road ;
Axles ’ot as ’ell!
Must take a spell !
Cartin’ kitchen mallee to the “ two-pub ” town !
Fifteen bloomin’ shillurs for the load : two-ten a
half !
(Slew ’em on the weighbridge w’ile they shunt
that truck !)
Fifteen bob between us for a week of steady graf’
(That’s the bloomin’ lot !
Cripes ! ain’t it ’ot !)
Mine’s a “ butcher,” sonny. Got yer own ? ’Ere’s
luck !
NIL.
Disillusion.
I set her on a pedestal apart,
A sweet, pure soul, to worship from afar;
As high above me and my longing heart
As some far-shining star.
Yet from her pedestal she gladly bent
When sweet temptation stretched forth beckon-
ing arms,
And slowly through the vale of love we went
And tasted all its charms.
Above my reach, I would have loved her long;
Laid at her sacred feet my manhood’s best ;
But love is dead—the woman that I wrong
Was just like all the rest!
PLYMOUTH SOUND.


c
rslas
MU
or PURE
IT
ug
ft
WITH
/popK^PH'TEsr
—of Lime
Potash &. Soda^
A Reliable Remedy for Constitutinal Weakness Poverty ofthe Blood Consumption
Chronic Couchs & Wasting Diseases of all kinds. Retained by the most delicate
iStomach -Speciallysuitable f£r weak & debilitated Children
faWn-r
HPOHUiJaSjiBiM
■WASHINGTON.HSOUUC° t ‘» l «|/6 & 2/6
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
Cffl til
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments; attendants throughout day ttU u
night.
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G-.P.0.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 798.
TARIFF:
10s. per Day.
VV. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Fainleaa Dentistry.
THE ....
[ondon genial
Institute,
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and M |{. S. f). A i'll KK, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Leyitimateiy Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without futi
trouble, rainless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2t>ls.
THE METROPOLITAN —: —-■
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from 6/- per Day. D. Swiss-Davies, Prop.
Telephone 784. (Member Com. Trav. Club.)
STI6K T©
CIGARETTES
NOBEL-SLRSSOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“ Thistle ” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITE.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected t>y Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
ms
te
KP
s
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed,
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over <£6oo at Gun Club, Notting Hill, in November
and December, 1808 ; or more than all other powders combined. Vide Eield, 14th Jan., ’99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: “ Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp. ”
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland , Messrs. Brabant & Co.
PURIRI
NATURAL : MINERAL : WATER.
IT BUBBLES UP
from springs beautifully clear and sparkling in appearance, and
to the taste refreshingly cool and invigorating. To most palates
the effect is that of a pleasing Seltzer Water, and the combina-
tion of a medicinal dose of good Brandy or Whisky gives a
beverage that should satisfy the most fastidious.
It issues from the ground in the far-famed Thames district of
NEW ZEALAND
It is exceedingly rich in alkaline salts, and as antacid, a
diuretic, and in larger doses a mild saline aperient, should find
favour in the treatment of the dyspeptic, the rheumatic, the
gouty, the obese, and sufferers from gravel, inflammation of the
kidneys or bladder, and is so recommended by the medical
profession. No person should be without it.
FOR SA.LE XJST
SYDNEY (N.S.W.) and BRISBANE (Q )
BY
E. RICH & GO. LTD.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
“ Fair Girls $ Gray Horses/’
gankee Ooodle
IN AMERICA.
The Legend.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
general, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused
them. Marching with drum and life
was an old man, Jeremiah Wynton, and
his son, and grandson. The old father,
with silvery flowing locks, sturdily strode
through the field. The son with ban-
daged head fifing lustily, the youth,
catching the spirit of his grandsire, rolled
out with him the soul-inspiring rattle of
the drum. Father, son, and grandson
had accompanied the troops as volunteers,
. and were ever in the forefront of the
fight. The fierce light of battle was in
their eyes, they knew no fear, and many
a wild cheer arose, as on that fateful
day Yankee Boodle was heard as never
was heard before or since. . . „
Tobacco Manufacture
m
New South Wales.
Statistics:
RETURNS show
that during . 1898, over
60 Tons more of DIXSON’S
Tobacco were sold than that of
any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf.
DIXSON’S used in manufac-
ture over 149 Tons more than
all the other Tobacco factories.
DIXSQN’S Brands are—
Yankee Doodle (Dark and
Bright Aromatic).
Champion (Bright).
Conqueror (Dark).
BONANZA CIGARS^
Machine-made; contain the
choicest Tobacco, and are
placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.— N0. 1012.
SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1899.
Prick 6d.
Some faces seen in front of a
newspaper scoring-board last Mon-
day. For further particulars see
below.
So the Devil takes Edmund Barton to the height
of the Federal referendum, and offers him all the
kingdoms of the Premiership if he will but cast
himself down.
SET A BORE TO CATCH A BOftß.
In re the proposal to send a N.S.W. contingent to
Africa on a Boer-hunt, what’s the matter with J. C. Neild„ our
poat-eoldier, as commander 1
THE
CRICKETERS.
THIRD TEST MATCH.
THE ENGLISHMEN LEADING.
UPHILL EFFORT BY TRUMBLE !
AND LAVER
KELLY BATS RESOLUTELY.
HE ARNE PERFORMS THE “HAT.
TRICK”
BRIGGS ABSENT, ILL.
Gov. Beauchamp visited the Zoo last Tuesday and was
such a popular “ feature ” that the Council had to place him
in a lion’s cage for safety.
“Great interest has been taken by the public in
what is known as the Mosruan licensing case, in which
the Licensing Court granted a conditional license in
face of an adverse local option vote.
Much dreaded effects of the above upon one of The Bulletin staff who resides
in the district, and who has hitherto been a strict teetotaller,
JJracon Ay > A/nctersfiteAy.
UNCONSIDERED TRIFLES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians. 99
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bt; let in
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Eer Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Or rector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Netvspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilacle and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.—Jß. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith <se Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. S. Australia.,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper zan be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to % imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
fflie
SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1899.
The Politician who Went Away.
Thomas MTlwraith, the boomer and bor-
rower, the magnate of many overdrafts at
the Q.N. Bank, the man who founded and
deserted the short-lived and hazy “ National
party ” in the North, the fat speculator, the
supporter of Kanaka labor, the Politician
who Fled when the storm came and never
returned—is writing open letters to the
people of Queensland imploring them not to
join the Australian Commonwealth. The
latest is dated from “ Kensington Mansions,
London,” and the address is rather a shock
and a surprise to Queensland. For some-
how it has been a legend in the North that
the country shouldn’t be too hard on the
man who helped so much to hustle it down
asteep place into the deep sea of ruin,(because
he had buried himself hopelessly beneath
the wreck of his own boom. He was old,
as everybody was aware ; also, it was sup-
posed that he was bed-ridden, partly para-
lysed by some curious and very rare disease,
incurable, stone-broke, and eking out a
miserable existence on nothing and sixpence
a week at a shabby German watering-place.
And when the Politician who Fled writes
with some vigor from a rather expensive
London address, it is a surprise to his old
acquaintances in the North.
* * • »
This is the plea of the Politician who
Fled :
The great part of Customs duties is raised on goods the
products of the colonies themselves, this has been esti-
mated at from £600,000 to £1,000,000 per annum. This,
the anti-Federalists say, will be lost in Federal collec-
tions. Federalists retort, “ How silly to call this loss, the
money remains in the hands of the people si ill.” Quite
true, but. the argument is a very strong one, neverthe-
less. It is this, that to the extent of that million revenue
must be raised —(1) either by increasing the tariff (which
may not produce the effect), or (2) (which is much more
likely to be the case) by substituting direct taxation.
Queensland must look aghast when contemplating such
an event, for all admit that the direct taxation is much
too heavy now. Some effort is being made to show
Queensland the futility of seeking relief at another con-
vention in which her interests might be represented. I
-nink it essentially necessary to save future grief. The
Convention in Melbourne finished its labors more than a
year ago; yet that time has been consumed by
Wew South Wales mostly in an appeal from the
Convention to get the terms altered a little more
in her interest. Queensland, who has not been
heard at all, has the right to demand that the whole
subject should be re considered, when she can speak for
herself before she takes the irrevocable step of joining
the tederation. We know now the terms on which the
present Convention BUI will admit us. Those terms are
much against our interests, and we know we shall be in a
better position to federate,if Federation be still advisable,
twenty years hence than now. It is amusing to hear
your opponents predicting to us ruin from our isolation
if we do not join now. Queensland owes her strength to
herself, and not to any friendly interest taken in her by
the other colonies. Our friendly relations with them will
continue, and may even increase, although not in the
same Federation ; and when Queensland joins, if she
does join, she will join as a bigger factor in the then
development. If she joins now, she will be yielding a
great deal of ground that we have already won, and must
be content to play the humble instrument allotted to her
in the concert.
* * * *
As a gross and utterly unscrupulous mis-
representation of the case this appeal can
compare favorably with the old balance-
sheets of some institutions with which the
Fallen Idol used to be connected. Queens-
land’s net revenue from customs duties is
£1,160,000 per annum, and not the “great
part ” of it but about a quarter is raised by
customs on the products of the other pro-
vinces. Out of £5,450,000 worth of imports
about £3,200,000, or a good deal more than
half, are from countries outside the proposed
Commonwealth, therefore even if the im-
ports from Australasia paid as much duty in
proportion as those from outside, Queens-
land couldn’t lose more than £490,000 per an-
num by abolishing its interprovincial duties.
The loss of “£600,000 or £1,000,000”
is an utterly impossible bogey which can
hardly impose on any save the most ignorant.
And, as a matter of fact, only about £250,000
of the Queensland customs - revenue, at
most, will be sacrificed by the abolition of
interprovincial duties. The spirits, tobacco,
rice, opium, cigars, cocoa, tea, and the bulk
of the heavily-dutiable articles come almost
wholly from over-sea, and the over-sea trade
consequently supplies the bulk of the cus-
toms-revenue ; the interprovincial trade sup-
plies very little. Queensland’s busted brass
god simply multiplies the possible loss
through abolition of border-duties by four or
five, and asks Queensland to believe that it
will lose 90 per cent, of its tariff-revenue by
abolishing the duties on 43 per cent, of its
imports.
* * * *
In one respect, indeed, Queensland comes
off better than any of the other provinces.
Every one of them, by federating, gives up
the right to collect customs duties on goods
imported from the other provinces of the
Commonwealth. Therefore Queensland gives
up the right to tax 43 per cent, of its im-
ports ; Victoria and New South Wales each
the right to tax 44 per cent. ; Westralia 51
per cent. ; South Australia 54 per cent. ; and
Tasmania 68 per cent. The province which
does the largest proportion of its buying
from its neighbors and the smallest portion
abroad, which is Tasmania, makes the
largest sacrifice of customs revenue. Queens-
land, as the province which buys least from
its neighbors, makes the smallest sacrifice.
And Queensland gains more in another way.
That province, if it federates, agrees to cease
taxing the £2,200,000 worth of goods which
it imports from the neighboring provinces—
which is Queensland’s loss. And the
neighboring provinces agree to cease taxing
the £5,600,000 worth of goods which
Queensland exports to them—which is
Queensland’s gain. Therefore it stands
to make an enormous profit by joining
the Commonwealth—a much larger profit per
head than any other province. A State
which buys comparatively little from its
neighbors and sells them an immense amount
has everything to gain by the abolition of
border tariffs.
* * * *
Then, in addition, the Federal Government
takes over the postal and telegraph services.
Queensland, in 1897-1898, made a loss of
£54,000 on these. The other Australian
provinces among them made a profit of
£41,000, so, when the departments are all
lumped together, the other provinces really
take over most of Queensland’s loss and
divide it among them. It isn’t a large item,
but here again Queensland is a distinct
gainer. After allowing for these things, and
putting matters at the very worst, and leav-
ing a large margin for contingencies, it is
impossible to see that the kanaka State will
have a gap of more than £300,000 a year to
fill by direct taxation. The Politician
who Went Away claims that Queensland is
already so heavily burdened by direct taxa-
tion that it can’t pay any more. Here are
the respective burdens, taken from the latest
issue of Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies,” pages
367 and 416 :
Direct State Direct Local
Taxation per Taxation per
Inhabitant Inhabitant Total.
per annum. in incorporated
area per annum.
Maoriland ... £0 18 2 £lB 5 £2 6 7
South Australia 016 1 013 1 192
Tasmania ... 0 11 8 16 5 1 18 1
N.S.W. ... 011 7 10 2 1 11 9
Westralia ... 0 10 11 018 2 19 1
Victoria ...096 0 18 4 17 10
Queensland ...076 013 3 109
Instead of being heavily burdened by direct
taxation as Thomas M'llwraith represents,
Queensland is the most lightly direct-taxed
province of the seven. And if Queensland,
with the smallest burden of direct taxation,
with no land-tax and no income-tax, and
with the prospect of losing a smaller propor-
tion of its customs revenue by the abolition
of interprovincial duties than any other pro-
vince, because a smaller proportion of its
imports come from the other provinces than
is the case with either N.S W., Victoria,
Tasmania, S.A., or Westralia —if Queensland
dare not face union with all these special ad-
vantages, then it can only be because the
Queenslanders are the one Australasian com-
munity which hasn’t the grit to meet its own
shadow in a lonesome place by night.
* * * *
Queensland, as casually mentioned above,
depends more on the other provinces for a
market than either New South Wales, South
Australia, or Victoria. If Queensland
stands out of the union, then the Common-
wealth tariff will proceed to shut out its
goods from the Federal territory, as far as
possible. And wherever any of the federated
States can supply the others with the goods
which they used to get from Queensland,
the Queensland products will be heavily
handicapped. Victoria sells less than a
third and N.S.W. about a third of her
exports to the adjacent States, so they could
stand out with only a moderate loss. Queens-
land depends on the adjacent States to buy
nearly two-thirds of its surplus products,
and if it stands out, the results in a few
years are likely to be ruinous—or very near
it.
* * * *
The Politician who Went Away preaches
to the country he so judiciously left the
doctrine of delay. He claims that if Queens-
land stands out its “ friendly relations ” with
the federated States will improve just the
same. This is assuming a good deal on no
visible evidence, for if the Commonwealth
adopts any kind of protective tariff the valu-
able N.S.W. market must, to a great extent,
be closed against Queensland until Queens-
land comes in. Again, he urges Queens-
land to lie low because 20 years hence
it will join as “a bigger factor ”
than at present. So it will, pro-
vided it increases in population faster
than the other five provinces—not otherwise.
If all the provinces multiply their population
by 10, then it will be just the factor it is
now. If Queensland multiplies its popula-
tion by 10, and the other provinces by 11, it
will be less of a factor than it is now. At all
events, the Constitution Bill offers Queens-
land rather more than its fair share of Par-
liamentary representation if it joins noiv, not
otherwise —the right to equal representation
in the Senate belongs to Original States only.
And the Queensland democracy has the
solemn assurance of the Q.N. Bank
overdrafter that, if it federates, the result
will be less customs and more direct taxa-
tion—in other words, that the Fat Men of
Kanaka Land are likely to be at last smitten
by the long-postponed land and income tax.
If the Queensland democracy regards it as a
good and fair and wise thing to throw away
Australian unity in order to preserve from
direct taxation a gathering of Fat Men who
have hitherto dodged it with more success
than any other Fat Men in Australasia, the
Queensland democracy has a perfect right to
its own opinion. But if it solemnly declares
at the poll next September that it has that
opinion, The Bulletin would greatly like to
know where it got the opinion from.
A Reconstructed Sydney.
A recent Bulletin article on the above
subject has evoked the following valuable and
trenchant criticism by Alderman Thomas
Hughes, of Sydney :
Your article (24/6/99) only serves to illuminate for a
moment the general gloom hanging over the whole
subject of municipal government in N.S. Wales, and then
to make it still darker by contrast with what has been
accomplished elsewhere. The administration of a
modern city does not begin and end with the collection
of its garbage and the sweeping of its streets, yet under
existing conditions little else can reasonably be looked for
here, and until the citizens of Sydney take an active in-
terest in the affairs of their city, it is almost hopeless to
expect much real progress in the direction of reform.
What use is there in talking about a higher city rate to
be paid by public-spirited citizens for the improvement of
the city, when a few months ago I could only find four
aldermen, out of 24, to support my motion to raise the
rate from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. merely to provide for the
estimated deficit at the end of the current year, and to
pay interest on a bank overdraft of £120,000 which repre-
sents the accumulated deficits of the past five years?
At present Sydney Oity Council is scraping along in a
parsimonious fashion and practising every variety of
small economy in its endeavor to stop the leakage without
resorting to extra taxation, but with no prospect of deal-
ing with the overdraft except by the time-honored prac-
tice of floating a loan, and passing the liability on to pos-
terity. Yet nobody seems to care, and the sudden energy
shown last year by the Citizens' Reform Committee, and
prompted by the dread of extra taxation, seems to have
died away from sheer lack of interest in municipal affairs.
The one bold attempt to improve the city by widening
Moore-street has proved a dismal financial failure owing
to a combined attempt by many of those charged with
betterment-tax to evade payment on technical grounds,
but an amending Bill will be introduced into Parliament
next session, which, it is hoped, will remedy the blunders
in the original Act. It seems to me that to create and
maintain a healthy interest in city government the fol-
lowing reforms are needed.
* * * *
(1) A broader franchise, extended to all occupiers of
rateable premises (including sub-tenants). This system
works excellently in Great Britain, not only widening the
circle of voters, but increasing the range of choice in can-
didates. In Sydney, many of the best class of city-men
have no voice whatever in city elections. Tenants in
blocks like Wentworth Court, Vickery’s Chambers, doc-
tors’ consulting-rooms, merchants’ offices, &c., have no
municipal votes.
(2) A re-arrangement of the city wards, and an increase
in the size of the Council. Twentj'-four aldermen are too
few to properly govern a city of the size of Sydney.
Manchester has a council of 104, Birmingham 72, Leeds
Sheffield and Liverpool 64, Glasgow 78, and Dublin 60.’
Leeds alone has 15 standing-committees, 40 sub-commit-
tees, and 8 sectional ones. Prior to this year, Sydney had
only one standing-committee—a General Finance one.
Now it has three—General Purposes, Finance, and Works
—but, when special committees on Electric Light and
Garbage were also sitting, recently, it was sometimes
difficult to form a quorum, and one committee—appointed
to revise the by-laws—had to be temporarily abandoned.
(3) An alteration in the mode of election of aldermen.
The present system, by which only one-third of the Coun-
cil retires each year, prevents the possibility of effective
reform. Personally I have always advocated the election
of the whole Council at one time, and the success of I his
system in the case of the London County Council justifies
my view. Public interest would be aroused, and a
definite municipal policy would take the place of a purely
personal issue. My brother's Bill, providing for a general
election of the City Council in December next, has been
passed by the Legislative Council, ami now awaits the
consent of the Assembly in the coming session.
4. VVider powers should be conceded by Parliament to
the City Council. At present it is hampered in every
way. It has no power to resume one inch of private
property, whether for widening streets or any other m, r
pose. It must chaffer and bargain with the owners in
every case, and is helpless if one owner refuses to sell A
Bill containing the necessary powers of resumption is now
under discussion in the Council, and will also be placed
before Parliament next session. City rates are not a
charge upon the properties rated, and are irrecoverable
at law after three years, but yet another attempt will ba
made this year to remedy this. F
• • * .
The Council has no power to borrow money without the
authority of an Act of Parliament, and although the
Sydney public are crying out for some efficient method of
deaung with garbage, and a sub-committee of the Counci
has recommended its destruction hy fire, there are no
funds available for the purchase and erection of destruo
tors. Numerous appointee Boards exercise powers
which properly belong to the Council-e.q., the Water
and Sewerage Board, the Fire Brigades Board the Citv
Improvement Board (now virtually defunct, and with
it, many necessary powers which should be vested in the
Councd). and the Transit Commission (the licensing work
of which is efficiently managed, in Melbourne, bv the
City Council, and the control of the traffic should be as
in London, in the hands of the police). Then again, the
Council regulates the sale of live stock, and the sa e of
dressed meat, but by some singular anomaly it has no
control over the abattoirs, a work peculiarly within the
world* 06 ° f municipal g° verni uent in other parts of the
In short the whole trend of the city government in
modern Europe is collectivist, and is aimed at controlling
all the common services of water, sewerage, gas electric
lighting, abattoirs, tramways, &c., and the’ profits
derived from these services are applied in reduction of
the yearly rates, while in Sydney the tendency appears
to be in precisely the opposite direction.
* • * •
It isn t often that this paper has the pleasure
of speaking respectfully of an alderman, there-
fore it is all the more gratified to be able to
approve of and endorse every word of the
above epistle. But in the way of reform it
would go even a little further than Mr.
Hughes suggests. Its principal ideas for put-
ting the dreadful civic fathers of Sydney and
the 40 suburban municipalities on a common-
sense footing are these :
(1) That every adult male resident should have a vote
after, say, six months’ residence. The great bulk of
adult males are ratepayers directly or indirectly If a
man doesn’t pay rates directly he probably pays them in
his rent.
(2) That the 41 pocket-handkerchief municipalities
which make up the N.S.W. metropolis and a few adjacent
ones (Bankstown, Field of Mars, &c.) should be com-
bined by Act of Parliament under one municipal govern-
ment without W'aiting for their consent. The trouble is
not so much that these tired, ignorant, muddled, garba«-e-
-haunted bodies object to consolidation as that they are
too weary to seriously consider the matter. The metro-
polis can’t wait till they are rested and educated because
meanwhile all improvement is practically blocked. And
it can’t let all Sydney grow to be a by-word and an eye-
sore because municipality No. 39 stands out. If Parlia-
ment wants to be tender with the rights of the 41 munici-
palities let it enact that a vote shall be taken on the
subject on a certain day, and that if a majority of the
municipalities vote for consolidation it shall be carried.
(3) The consolidated city to be governed bv a County
Council of, say, 80 members, so that it can divide itseif
into sub-committees for various purposes.
(4) The new County Council to be dissolved and wholly
re-elected every three years. This would make sufficient
excitement to give the people some interest in municipal
politics. r
( 5 ) The County Council to take over and consolidate
the debts of all the municipalities. These now cost
on an average £4 12s. per cent, per annum interest. By
consolidating them at 3i per cent., which should be quite
easy, the saving would be £26,000 a year. A sinking
fund of 2 per cent, per annum to be made compulsory
both on the old debt and on all future loans.
* » • *
(6) Rates to be levied on land values only—not on im-
provements. The present system penalises the man who
adorns the city with a beautiful building, and lets off
lightly the one whose waste allotment is an eye-sore, and
a goat-haunt, and a deposit for old bashed tins, and a
rendezvous for loafers who curse and play two-up.
(7) All rates to be a perpetual charge on the land till
paid, and to accumulate at 5 per cent, compound in-
terest, and the municipal authority to have power to sell
or let property on which three years’ rates are owing. At
present, as pointed out by Alderman Hughes, rates are
irrecoverable after three years. There are allotments
about Sydney 7, the owners of which judiciously conceal
themselves, on which 20 years’ rates are owing, of which
17 years’ rates are past recovery. The sale of neglected
properties for rates would remove many eyesores.
(8) The municipal authority to have power to order the
removal or repair of dilapidated buildings, fences, &c.,
and, if its orders are not obeyed, to remove or repair
them at the owners’ expense.
(9) The municipal authority to have power to build
bridges ; to supply 7 water, gas, electric-light and electric-
power ; to make new streets (all new streets to be not
less than 90ft. in width); to widen and straighten old
streets ; to resume land and buildings forpublic purposes,
the value to be fixed by arbitration ; to construct model
tenements, public baths, sewage systems, dessicators,
abattoirs, &c. ; to make recreation grounds ; to borrow
money for these purposes, with a sinking-fund attached
to each loan ; and to levy betterment-rates on adjacent
properties which derive special benefit from these im-
provements, as well as ordinary rates, in order to cover
interest and sinking fund. Also, the Council to regulate
street traffic, control the fire brigades, take over the
duties of the Water and Sewerage Board, and do many-
other things.
(10) All municipal accounts to be audited annually by a
State auditor. Loans to be floated for public works only 7,
not to cover deficits in the ordinary receipts. And where
the ordinary receipts fail to meet'expenditure, the State
auditor to have power to fix the rates for the enduing
year at such increased figure as he reckons will meet the
year’s expenditure and cover the previous year’s shortage.
These are some of The Bulletin's ideas on the
subject of municipal reform. Clauses 6,7, 8
and 9 should apply not only to Sydney, but to
all municipalities. So should the proviso about
the dissolution of the Council every three
years. And in addition to all this, the com-
plete Local Government system, for which
N.S.W. has so long been waiting, should
be hurried along. It doesn’t come along mainly
by reason of the old borrowing curse, which
influences every department of N.S.W. politics,
and how the borrowing curse comes in can be
easily seen by looking at the Victorian muni
cipal system. In Victoria, where practically
the whole province has Local Government,
there are shires with few people and an im-
mense area of rough country to supply with
roads and bridges, which can’t possibly do
their work out of rates. Therefore 2nd class
shires receive an endowment from the Treasury
of 245. for every £1 raised by general rates;
3rd class receive 28s. on each £ ; 4th class
receive 40s. on the £ ; sth class get 475. 6d. per
£ ; and 6th class get 555. per £. No Treasurer
has yet had the effrontery to charge the muni-
cipal endowment to loans ; it all comes out of
revenue. So when an outlying shire like Omeo,
Orbost or Tambo spends £l5OO on a new
bridge, the State pays £llOO of it out of
revenue. And if £l5OO is spent on a new
bridge in a similar district in N.S.W. the
State pays the whole of it out of loans.
And because N.S.W., if it extended Local
Government all over the country, would have
to endow the remote shires quite as liberally as
Victoria does, and because it wouldn’t look
well to pay municipal endowments out of bor-
rowed money, and because it is far easier to
pay £l5OO out of loans than £llOO out of
revenue, therefore the N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment Bill hangs fire just as it has hung fire for
the last 25 years or more.


The Anti-Australian Apple of Discord.
Sydney Telegraph, badly beaten in its fight for
parochialism, Sydney monopoly, and newspaper
prestige, is now endeavoring to rob the victors of
the spoils. Its efforts have been brought to naught
by the people; it is now fishing in the narrow
waters of N.S.W. Parliament, where private
jealousies, party feuds, and personal ambitions
enable it to set dog eating dog, and dingo snarling
at dingo.
* » * *
Looking round for tools, the Telegraph finds
William John Lyne —the Man who Wants Hoffis.
Lyne is the discredited ex-leader of N.S.W. Op-
position ; and he lives just now in the Telegraph-
editor’s pocket. He came off the Federal fence at
the Telegraph’s bidding, and proclaimed himself
an anti-Billite and Little-Australian ; and now
the TELEGRAPH, which hitherto has persistently
derided him, is nourishing him on hopes of Hoffis.
Barton, it declares, is no longer Opposition
leader; Lyne is the friend, not Barton. And
Lyne smiles again with hope.
* * « *
The Telegraph’s troubles about Lyne ! Lyne
is a man of no political account—an accident of
the past, an impossibility for the future—and well
the Telegraph knows it. But —any port in a
storm!—and the .Telegraph thinks it can use
Lyne to frighten Barton. It wants Barton to
come down from the Federal platform—come down
from his place as Leader of the Nation —and fight
Premier Reid for precedence in the miserable
arena of N.S.W. Parliament. With Barton and
Reid united, the Telegraph knows the anti-
Federal cause is hopeless. With Barton and
Reid fighting for Hoffis—who knows ? ’Tis a
forlorn hope ! —something may happen to wreck or
postpone Federation. So the Devil takes Edmund
Barton to the height of the Federal referendum,
and offers him all the kingdoms of the Premiership
if he will but cast himself down.
* * * *
Listen to the voice of the tempter : “ You are
the true and natural leader of Federation. But
Reid has usurped your place. You are only play-
ing second fiddle. Reid, as Premier, takes pre-
cedence. He, not you, will nominally lead Aus-
tralia to independence. If there is question of
forming a Ministry for the Federal Parliament, he,
not you, will be called upon by the Imperial
authority. You have time to oust him yet. You
may become Premier yet. He may play second
fiddle yet, if——if you take my advice and drop
Federation while you scramble for Hoffis.” And
there are no horrid hoof 3 and horns about the
TsLEGRAPH-tempter— no wolfish eyes like those
which frightened little Red Ridinghood. He is a
real gentlemanly tempter ; and proposes to be
Barton’s best friend, if Barton only allows him.
* * ♦ *
And the anti-Federalists think that Barton is
so simple a bird that he will be caught with that
chaff—they really do. As if Barton has not now
all the credit of N.S. Wales’s entry into the
Federal movement —which his unselfishness and
patriotism made possible. As if, under the Fede-
ration, Barton will not at once take his proper
place—the place to which his character and talents
entitle him—whoever may be nominal head of the
first party or the first Ministry. As if Barton
was a child, to throw away all the fruits of
national victory for a petty personal triumph.
What fools, after all, these Anti-Federalists be !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Blot.
The good old Braddon Blot, which did so
much service with the Parochial push in
N.S. W., is now the prize spectre of Brisbane
Telegraph, which wants to know, in the
grammar of the small school-boy with the inky
collar :
Is it known in the civilised world thatani/ Government
can purposely collect four times as much revenue, or any
at all, in excess of its own requirements ?
That’s an easy one. It is known. Almost
every Government collects money in excess of
its requirements for exactly the same purposes
which the Blot is intended to cover. Under
the Braddon clause it is provided that the
Federal Government shall pay to the various
Local Governments an endowment equal to
three-fourths of the customs and excise revenue
in order to enable them to meet the interest
on their debts—this only until it takes over
their debts, when it wall pay the interest itself
out of the money. Some precedents are :
The Queensland Govt, collects £75,000 a year more
than it wants, and gives it as an endowment to its Local
Government bodies, exactly as the Federal Government
will do under the Braddon clause. N.S.W. collects
£BO,OOO more than it wants for same purpose.
Victoria collects £112,000; S.A., £97,000 ; W.A.
£32,000; Maoriland, £172,000 ; Tasmania, £6OOO more
than they want for similar purposes. Also, they make
large special grants. The Canadian Federal Government
collects nearly £1,000,000 a year more than it wants,
with which to pay subsidies to its States.
Britain collects £8,250,000 a year more than the
Government wants, with which’ to subsidise Local
Government bodies. It follows the Braddon Blot idea
most accurately. According to the admirable Blot three-
fourths of the Australian customs and excise are to be set
apart temporarily as a subsidy. In Britain all the
license revenue, half the probate duties and certain of
the duties on alcohol are similarly set apart.
The German Federation hands back to the States a
large portion of the Imperial customs, excise and stamp
duties. The Government retains a fixed sum, and hands
the rest back. At present, the States get back more than
three-fourths of these revenues; Germany carries its
Braddon Blot further than Australia proposes doing, and
its Blot is permanent—not temporary. Its Federal
Government raises £20,000,000 a year “ in excess of its
own requirements.”
This ought to be a great load off the Brisbane
anti-Federal organ’s mind. Instead of the sub-
sidy idea, as provided for in the Blot, being a
new and reckless experiment, it is exactly the
thing which all the above countries, and others
which it would take too long to enumerate, are
doing, and have been doing all the time. Also,
the manner of doing it is almost an exact copy
of the system which works so admirably in
Britain and Germany.
♦
The Case of Baby O’Callag'ban.
Melbourne has been troubled for a good while
with a mysterious parent. A nurse, one Mrs.
Dillon, received <£9o from somebody in con-
sideration of adopting an illegitimate child.
The child died, which isn’t at all unusual—the
mortality among that sort of child is remark-
able—and there was an inquest. Naturally
enough, the Coroner wanted to know whom he
was inquesting, and demanded that the father’s
name should be given in public court, but the
nurse absolutely refused to give it. She re-
fused with an energy that even the £9O didn’t
seem sufficient to account for. The court
hadn’t a rack handy, and there was no appara-
tus available to brand the witness with, but it
did what it could by threatening her with in-
definite imprisonment for “contempt.” She
still refused. Even if tied by a long rope to
the back of a Bourke-street tram-car, and made
to run up and down the street till she either
perished or imparted the secret, she was re-
solved to die running rather than tell. Then
the warrant was made out, but powerful legal
assistance rose up like a bewigged spectre rising
from the dead, and argued the point bitterly
before the Full Court. The Full Court held
that the Coroner’s warrant was good and the
case started again. But when it resumed all
the cast-iron spine had gone out of the Law.
After all its previous fury it didn’t even ask
the nurse for the father’s name, much less order
her to be suspended by the hair in court till she
overcame her reluctance and spoke. Instead
the Coroner said, in a humble, > hastened
whisper, that publicity would do no good, and
would be painful for the families of both faiher
and mother. Then press and public were
expelled from the court, and the missing father
drove round in a closed vehicle to the back-
door of the morgue, and was silently sneaked
in through the damp room of slabs wherein the
“ found-drowneds ” do congregate. By which
signs Melbourne knows the father isSomebody of
Social Position, for otherwise the Law would have
bawled out his name in open court, and told
him gruffly to get into the dirty box, and kiss
the old diseased “ buke,” and take off his hat,
and stand up straight, and not shuffle with his
feet, and speak up so that the court could hear
him. In the eye of Victorian law the gulf
between the gentleman who occupies a high
position and the fellow who has a job is very
wide indeed. And it is very wide in the eye of
the law’s grovelling servant, Coroner Candler.
That gentleman, so long as it seemed that the
father was just an ordinary person, was solid
on the fact that his name should be given in
public so that the glare of publicity could get
on to it. And when he found out that the
father was somebody he didn’t dare to do him-
self what he had nearly sent a woman to gaol
for not doing—he didn’t dare to do what he
had previously said was the right thing to do.
He just stultified himself, and cringed to the
father of Baby O’Callaghan, and "turned off
the search-light of justice at the meter.
+
Wanted, a Minimum Wage in N.S.W.
The N.S. W. Law again started out the other
day to help the local slave-owner to re-capture
his two lost chattels. It was the old trouble
over that unspeakable gang of sweaters and
nigger-drivers, the Camel Carrying Co. of
Bourke (N.S.W.). Two of its slaves, both
Afghans, sued it for £2 each wages, and the
co. prosecuted them criminally for “desertion.”
The daily paper report reads as follows :
Naaid then gave evidence. He admitted having signed
the agreementat Bourke, but denied that it was explained
to him, or that he knew its contents. He worked 11
months, a,nd received £3 10s. in wages ; £2 2s. was debited
against him for clothing, but he only got a pair of boots,
a pair of trousers, a blanket, and a shirt. He was cold
and hungry, and had no inone)', so he wanted his wages.
Abdul Wadk, manager of the company, swore that the
agreement was interpreted to the men by the Govt,
interpreter, who was brought over from Sydney. It was
signed by the police magistrate at Bourke, the interpreter
and witness. Plaintiff had worked eight months and 28
days for the company up tn June 19. So far as witness
knew no wages were due to him. For a period of eight
months and 28 days he was entitled to £l7 17s. 4d. His
passage-money, £ll 17s. lid., vyas debited against this,
and £2 2s. for goods he received, leaving £3 16s. 6d. in
cash. That made altogether t'l7 16s. 6d.
Mr. Edwards explained lhat if plaintiff had completed
a full month up to June 22, only ninepence would be
owing to him, but, under the agreement, he was only to
be paid at the rate of 25 per cent. Clause 3 provides that
75 per cent, of the wages shall be paid at the end of the
term if the employb faithfully carried out the agreement.
The Camel Carrying Co. lias frequently been in
Court, pursuing its lost nigger by the aid of
the free and enlightene 1 Cornstalk law, and
during previous cases its smellful policy
was very fully explained. According to
the evidence then given, the men were engaged
in their own country, where they signed an
agreement. When they came to Australia they
were made to sign another agreement which
might, or might not, be quite different from
the first. Anyhow, the first one was never
produced in court. Agreement No. 2 was not
properly explained by the interpreter ; the in-
terpreter swore that the boss of the Camel
Carrying Co. interrupted him, and stopped his
explanation, and insisted on explaining him-
self—presumably in his own way. The men
were engaged for a long term at miserable
wages. Their passage-money came out of the
wages. Their clothes were apparently supplied
them by the co. at its own price. And three-
fourths of the wages were to be retained by
the Camel Co. till the men had completed their
term to the Camel Co.’s satisfaction, the Camel
Co. retaining the right to sack the men
at any time, and thereby prevent them com-
pleting their term, and thus save three-
fourths of their wages. But there was no
corresponding right on the part of the men
to leave at any time ; they were bound to serve
the syndicate which drove the humpy
animal through the wilderness for a long
term of years, or be pursued to the last ex-
tremity of the law. And their food consisted
of anything which the Smellful Animal Carry-
ing Co. thought fit to give them. For the fifth
or sixth or dozenth time the N.S. W. law, to its
own unspeakable disgrace, has upheld this dis-
graceful contract, and the two shivering
Mohammedans, having lost their case for wages,
were sent to gaol for failure to pay costs. And
the Camel Carrying Co. keeps on importing
niggers because N.S.VV. law backs up the un-
speakable sweater. If the law put a large,
honest, Democratic boot through the agree-
ment nigger-importation would cease because
the profit would have gone out of the business.
The Further Contumacy of Annie Smith.
Annie Smith’s primary irregularity consisted
in camping in a culvert in Melt). Royal Park,
for which she was ordered, on Jan. 21, by
Carlton Bench, to proceed to Abbotsford Con-
vent, there to wash the unclean shirt and
mangle the clean-boiled shirt, till further
orders. Tired of the monotony of the mangle
and the wash-tub, from daylight till dark, at
nothing a week, Annie, in company with an-
other inmate, who had been more-or-less com-
pulsorily detained for nine months, escaped
over a 12ft. wall. She was recaptured, and,
with her mate, was sentenced by the same old
Carlton Bench to a further imprisonment of 12
weeks. This term expired June Bth, but, as
this obstreperous girl was just then in the gaol
hospital, and unable to leave her bed, Messrs.
Greenwood and McCrory, J’sP., kindly called
at Pentridge Stockade that morning, and sen-
tenced her to a further term of three months,
on the awful charge of having “ no lawful and
visible means.” The contumacious and un-
seemly behaviour of Annie Smith in failing to
gain a means of livelihood, or even a competence,
while confined in Pentridge, would be evident to
the most ordinary beak, but it is beginning
to strike the callous Melbourne public that this
sort of gaol-trial and sentence is getting too
frequent. Moreover, The Bulletin has ob-
served that when a well-connected prisoner—-an
embezzler or defaulting bank-manager—begins
to suffer in health through confinement he is
usually released on that ground; the prisoner
with influential friends is never sentenced to a
further term in order that he may recover—or
die. Only a month or two ago The Bulletin
commented on a somewhat similar case where
an old lady was sentenced to a further term of
confinement, for no earthly offence, but simply
because, being old and poor, it was hoped the
further term would last till she died, and so
save worry and bother. She duly died, and
was buried on the same identical day that the
girl Smith received her further sentence. Vic-
toria has by this time got itself thoroughly
accustomed to seeing its poor and old and sick
sent to gaol, there to die or recover as the gods
see fit. But if that province is prepared to allow
innocent persons to be gaoled by a couple of
J.’sP., without even the pretence of a trial,
then it might as well do away with its expen-
sive judicial system at once and allow the
police and the honorarium magistracy to run
the whole business. Only a few days later an
old lady who, on June 14, ’9B, had been given
12 months’ imprisonment for “ having no visible
means of support”— i.e., for being poor—was
re-arrested immediately on her discharge and
sent up for a further 12 months for her own
protection ! This, in a pseudo-civilised country
is utterly disgraceful, but it was at least done
in open court, whereas the Pentridge sen-
tences were practically secret. For it is note-
worthy that neither of these secret sentences
or mockeries of trials were even referred to or
mentioned in any way by the Melbourne morn-
ing papers, wherefore the interesting question
arises—-how many more Pentridge confinees are
lingering in that silent hole, never released on
the expiration of their sentences, but sentenced
over again privately, in gaol, without trial, by
casual J.’sP., till they finally die from old age
or disease ? And what has Premier Turner
got to say to all this after his statement in the
House last session that no more indigent per-
sons would be sent to gaol ? And what has
Chief Sec. Peacock to urge in extenuation of
these disgraceful star-chamber methods of
administering alleged justice ?
—4,
Holt’s “ Pardon.”
John Holt, convicted at Adelaide August
Sessions, 1898, of garotting, and sentenced to
ten years with hard labor, has been declared
innocent, and was released on June 24, after
serving nearly a year of his sentence. The
evidence at the trial was, as pointed out by
The Bulletin just after the conviction, flimsy
in the extreme. The prosecutor, O’Dea, was
assaulted and robbed on the night of 7th July,
’9B, by three men on Frome-road, a dark avenue
on the outskirts of Adelaide. One of the men
struck him from in front with an umbrella, and
stunned him. O’Dea was unable to see clearly,
as the spot where the assault was committed
was particularly dark, and there was no moon,
neither was there a lamp in the vicinity. All
the men got away. On the same evening, about
an hour after the robbery, Detective Jones,
when passing through Victoria-square—half the
city away from scene of robbery—arrested
Holt on a charge of vagrancy. (At that time
the assault and robbery had not been reported).
When searched by the detective, nothing, save
a few coppers, was found on the prisoner, al-
though O’Dea’s watch and chain and some
gold and silver had been taken from
him, and there bad been only an hour in
which to get rid of the plunder. Holt
was next morning placed in a row with
other prisoners, and, after some hesitation,
identified by O’Dea as the man he didn’t see in
the dark. The latter’s evidence at the trial
convicted the prisoner—there was absolutely
no other evidence of any kind that had any
bearing on the case. Holt, found far from
the scene of the crime almost immediately
after it, with none of the plunder on him, was
convicted solely because O’Dea swore he was
one of the three men who struck him in pitchy
darkness. Holt protested his innocence when
the verdict of guilty was returned, but he
got 10 years. What has happened since
his incarceration has not become fully pub-
lic, but it is announced that the real
offenders, who are now “ doing time ” for
another offence, have confessed to the crime and
entirely exonerated Holt. The police ridiculed
the confession at first, and fought hard to keep
their prisoner, but, after inquiries spread over
four or five months, and an investigation by the
Chief Justice, Holt has been pardoned for an
offence he never committed, regains his liberty
with the magnificent douceur of £2 in his
pocket, and the question of compensation is
being considered ! Holt’s case is another
instance of how “ police identification ” works.
The Provincial Sunset.
There are no more provincial parties in N.S. W.
Parliament. Freetrade and Protection have
gone—and Premier Reid announced the other
day that the great war-cry of Cobden was no
longer a shibboleth to him. Even Ins and Outs
have gone since Opposition - leader Barton
joined hands with Premier Reid to secure
Federation. The only parties now existing are
the Federalists and the anti-Federalists, For
and Against Australia ; and the only question
before the country for the next few months is
how to settle administrative business as quickly
and quietly as possible, while waiting for the
complete revolution in the old order of things
which Federation will accomplish. Sydney
Telegraph’s attempt to galvanise the old
jealousies, and (ostensibly) shove long Bill
Lyne into Hoifis is doomed to disaster. Even
the Antis have swallowed the situation. No
Parliamentary opposition can override a 25,000
majority on a mass referendum, with the biggest
vote ever taken in the province. Prudent men,
who think they can get into the Federal Par-
liament, are plotting out constituencies, and
balancing House of Representatives against
Senate. Even imprudent men who think they
can get in are calculating chances. The throat
of N.S.W. Provincialism is cut. Austra-
lia, like a new Governor, has made her
private landing in the launch, and her formal
entry into her kingdom is only for a little
deferred. Everywhere men are adapting them-
selves to the New Order, and everywhere the
wattle-bud of nationhood is bursting into bloom.
Yet, hoping against hope, Sydney Telegraph
raises the old banner of “Party Strife!” and
rallies the faithful Garbage-trees; and Diogenes
Haynes, the old Irreconcilable, cowers in his
tub to catch the last setting gleams of Provin-
cialism, and calls upon Australia to “Get out
of my sunlight ! ”
♦
N.S.W. Labor party decided that its members
should have personal freedom with regard to
the Federal Bill, and Sleath and Ferguson
thereupon decided to fight for the measure.
The local political labor leagues in their dis-
tricts screamed at them and denounced them ;
and yet, in these genuinely-Labor electorates,
the voting was—Wilcannia, 5 to 1 for the Bill;
Sturt, 3to 1 for it! White Cliffs, where
Sleath’s head was declared to be unsafe from
“an indignant populace,” polled—Yes, 436 ;
No, 133. And Sleath had only one chance of
addressing a hurriedly-summoned meeting there
on the night before the vote. The local Labor
Leagues have a perfect right to scream if they
want to, no doubt; but it is clearly about time
they gave up the idea that theirs is the scream
of the working-men voters. As a matter of
fact, though Sleath and Ferguson were the
only “ traitors ” among the Labor-party, 15 of
the 19 electorates which Labor men represent
gave majorities for the Bill, and in most cases
overwhelming majorities into the bargain.
♦
“ T’othersider ” writes from Westralia :
Federation here suffers much at the hands (or mouths)
of the “ leaders,” while flourishing- in the hearts of the
people—if such an anatomical reference may be per-
mitted. Premier Forrest is lying low, saying nothing.
An awful Scawtch person named Matitieson wastes much
public time in dull and deadly analysis of the alleged
finance question. Mathieson is determined to get into
the Commonwealth Parliament. He is said to favor the
notion that he is helping on Federation ; but if there is
any danger to the cause it is his flatulent finance. Asso-
ciated with him are two or three other dishwater politi-
cians such as flourish only in Groperland. The erratic
Vosper is doing a little harm and very much good for the
Commonwealth Bill. Meanwhile Federation has caught
on with the people. It is seriously stated that" if
Parliament tries to defeat it the Coolgardie and
Kalgoorlie miners will organise an agitation for a
separate government, and having been Imperially
divided from the Forrest country, will sue “ on their
own ” for admission to the Commonwealth. No anti-
Bill barracker has yet ventured into the goldfields. The
National League (of isolationists) held its first meeting
in Perth Town Hall, and received the derisive laughter of
an audience that turned out to be Federal with absolute
unanimity. The “National” League now submits
motions at its meetings favoring the submission of the
Bill to the referendum, so, after all, it is not too
blind to see a hole in a ladder. One Leaguer, auctioneer
B. C. Wood, M.P., suggests that it will be time enough to
have the referendum next March or April. However, the
sweeping N.S.W. majority for union has served to bring
matters to a head, the idea of the Commonwealth forming
and Westralia out in the cold being the very stimulus
needed to thoroughly rouse the urban population.
-
What would be the use of “a monster petition
to N.S.W. Parliament” against the Federal
Bill ? The Bill passed at the referendum by a
majority of 25,000 votes. Now, a vote is a
tangible, authentic, officially-verified act, but,
as it is utterly impossible to verify the signa-
tures to a big petition, which may be (and
nearly always is) signed over and over again by
the same individuals, and by children, a petition
means absolutely nothing, as compared with the
result of a properly-taken poll. Therefore,
even if the Cabbage-tree Mob manage to whip
up an anti-Bill petition bearing what purports
to be the signatures of three-fourths of the
N.S.W. electors, that petition will, beside the
25,000 majority-vote at the referendum, not
amount to as much as a row of pins.
+
“ Kennedy ” preaches an old-age pension ser-
mon :
An octogenarian recently charged, at Melb. City Court
with “ no visible,” was a 50 years’ colonist, without a
mark against him. The Salvation officer ran his eye over
the veteran ; no use to him—couldn’t work ; and'several
ladies and gents said there was no room in their charit-
able institutions, so the police conveved the colonist of
50 years to his last home—the Gaol. Yet, I know of men
and women who have spent their best days in gaol or on
the town who are now ending up a useless life in the
charitable institutions. Why? Because thev had dona-
tion-friends who paid for them for, say, a year. Couldn’t
turn them out when pay stopped ; and now Mr. Mealy-
mouth comes round with a gang of visitors and points
out with pride—Sal Smith, 50 years in gaol, or Bill
Sikes, done 50 years in gaol, now “ seeking salvation ”
The visitor weeps over them, and brings them comforts -
while the old colonist wears the broad-arrow and eats his
hominy ! These so-called “ charitable ” institutions, in
fact, are full of donation-patients, at 20s. or more a month
payable to collector by self or agent, and, of course, it is
to the collector’s interest to recommend same—for his
percentage, and doubtless a little oil from other end.
For an alleged Tory Govt, the Salisbury-
Chamberlain combination Ims dealt heavy
blows at Fat-Man. The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Bill and Automatic-Coupling Bill were
good democratic measures. And the Bill to
assist workmen to obtain dwellings of their own
is absolutely socialistic. This is a huge scheme
for turning every municipal or county council
into a land-bank for the purpose of advancing
money to the poorer classes for the purchase of
homes. It applies only to people who desire to
purchase dwellings of the value of £3OO. or
under, and in their case provision is made for
advancing four-fifths of the purchase money at
very low interest. The chief drawback is that,
owing to the accursed tenement-house system,
only a small proportion of the working classes
can find homes to purchase which will answer
the prescribed conditions. Yet, so far as the
agricultural districts and the small towns are
concerned, it is a great socialistic idea and a"
smasher for landlordism.


AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY
Tii.© A-d Liaise Camera
A Magazine Hand Camera, holding 12 6x4 Plates.
THE SIMPLEST AND BEST MADE CAMERA YET INTRODUCED.
Price, =£3 lOa,
Fullest particulars on
application to the
Sole Australian Agents
Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
375 Georjfe-street, SYDNEY ; 260 Collins-street, MELBOURNE ;
65 Rundle-street, ADELAIDE; 81 Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Sydney artist Percy F. S. Spence (now in
London) is apparently “laying to his book ” in
sticking to cattle subjects, having recently had
two such pictures “honorably placed” in the
Royal Academy Exhibition, and very favorably
noticed by the critics.
Fowler’s Traction Engines.
Portables, LocoS, Road Rollers, etc.
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
73 Clarence-street, Sydney
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ A Trip to Chinatown."
Royal “ One Summer's Day."
Lyceum “The Merciless World."
Criterion Curtis’s Minstrel Co.
Palace McAdoo's Georgia Minstrels.
Opera House “ Tit for Tat.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The King’s Musketeer ”
Theatre Royal “Straight from the Heart..”
Buocj Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Fuller's Myriorama Co.
Athenaeum Hall. ..... Fred. Villiers (Khartoum at last).
Would any decently-discriminating musi-
cian have “discovered” Amy Castles? Amy
Castles without the Age and the Akgus ? With-
out her complement of admiring multitudes press-
ing from afar ? Candidly, no. She sang in Syd-
ney Town Hall to 3000 people last Wednesday.
The house was full, but not in a state of jam-
pack ; that is to say, there were seats unoccupied.
Miss Castles came third on the programme. She
entered in a short white muslin frock, and white
shoes and stockings—a simple little figure en-
circled with the pathos of youth that aroused
one’s sympathies. She was warmly received, and
opened fire with “ Qui La Voce.” Her upper C,
and thereabouts, showed off well in this selection’.
Those high notes are her future at present. They
rang out brilliantly and powerfully, and “ Qui La
Voce gave them an opportunity of exhibiting
themselves often. Why speak of her technique?
Is it fair to demand technique ? Even to com-
ment on it ? It seems to writer that the voice, as
a natural organ, is all we need concern our-
selves with at present. She can buy a lot of
technique. And the voice, as a voice, is not
an extraordinary voice ; not a voice that would
move this listener to deeper admiration than
some other Australian singers do—than, to choose
local products unstamped as yet with the European
hall-mark, Florence Schmidt, with her round,
liquid notes, and Hetty Holroyd, whose voice re-
sembles Amy’s. The upper octave is beautiful
and powerful and charms with its breadth. The
middle and lower registers are again the trouble—
the old soprano trouble. Think of the sopranos
who can throw out superb high notes ; then think
of how sadly few are those whose middle registers
correspond in their own sort of quality. And it
seems strange that critics have classed her as a
soprano drammatico with such a poor base to her
vome. It must be with these fine head-notes that
Amy Castles has slaughtered Melbourne ; for
what else is there that is unusual in her organ ’
She has a tendency to get out of tune. That is
dangerous. She is not satisfied to sing girlishly.
She irritates by assuming a common, genteel sort
of expressiveness (in her singing, not in her
manners, those are as simple as could be). She
sang Tosti’s “ Good-Bye ” in encore, and betrayed
with the first verse what the floridity of “ Qui La
Voce had partially concealed, that there is not
much breadth of mind working behind.
* * * *
tt “ Falling leaf and fading tree ” and
Home, Sweet Home” mean nothing to Amy
Gastles, for she presents them to you with no
meaning. Age and tuition will help her to assume
much of that sort of thing, but one demands some
sort of indication now that the strange, elastic,
emotional soul of a great singer is there in embryo
before one can predict a great future. She sings
and she sings, and no more. With the end of the
song the song is ended. Nothing remains with
the listener. Making all allowance for her
and <£4ooo it will probably be
tbOOO before she leaves Australia—you will
never carry away a wealth of emotion from Amy
Gastles singing. Some young voices have in
themselves a quality that touches, even though
the undeveloped songstress herself knows not
how to touch and thrill. But, unfortu-
nately this moving quality is not there to
assist Amy Castles’ big organ to hide a poverty of
understanding*. One can safely say
she has a beautiful voice—a big voice—which cul-
ture should bring to a respectable cash value.
JNlot its present cash value ; one can scarcely con-
Slder respectable. It sprang out of an inex-
plicable boom. There is nothingto justify thecrowd
in trumpeting her as “ sensational ” and “pheno-
menal ” ; m breaking chairs and tearing off a man’s
ear in a struggle for seats. This scribe has heard
her sing “Qui La Voce,” Tosti’s “Good-bye,”
Home Sweet Home,” “The Wind in -the
1 rees, Hear Ye Israel, ” a Hope Temple ballad,
two local compositions, and, in common with thou-
sands of others, has been moved to nothing* more
enthusiastic than Wfiat a big voice for a girl
m short frocks, with her hair down ! ” The hair-
down and frocks-up lend a sort of false perspec-
tive to the voice. It grows larger by comparison
with these young small things. And it isn’t a
very youthful voice, for it suggests a long period
of weird practising and teaching. At her second
concert it flagged through sheer fatigue, and refused
high notes m the Hope Temple ballad. If there
are any kind friends of hers in Australia they
should carry her away at once to rest, and nourish
her voice on vocalising pap like scales and breath-
ing exercises that will teach her to save what she
is now throwing away so recklessly. For every
head note produced as she produces it, and flung
as she flings it at an audience, means so much the
less chance of a great future for Amy Castles.
* • * *
Probably it is that last sentiment that has
been moving certain Sydney critics to express
themselves with candour over her concerts. Free-
man’s Journal for instance. Freeman’s Journal
lately delivered itself of the following:
This wonderfully irifted young lady happens to be a
devout Catholic, and as it is an axiom of the infidel creed
that one who believes in God and practises virtue must
be totally bereft of either genius or ability, the Sydney
organ of infidelity, The Bulletin, cast its piercing' glance
upon her. 6 b
The Melb. representative of The Bulletin, a
personage afflicted with the vice of telling the
truth as he understands it, at that time had
spoken of her voice as “large, round and fairly
sweet,” but that it failed to thrill. Freeman’s
Journal has now heard Miss Castles itself, and
down it climbs to comment thusly :
Why she was classed as a true dramatic soprano is a
puzzle. She is not a true dramatic soprano of the grand
air, and the ringing tones of dignity, breadth, and
power. Nor is she in the best sense one of Nature’s
sniffers. Having ifiven the voice—a rich (rift — Nature
would seem to have been niggard in supplying musical
sentiment and musical instinct in any common measure.
• • • People had taken Melbourne opinion on its word
and honor. The disappointment experienced, but good-
naturedly concealed, must have been keen.
Looks as if Freeman’s Journal had been casting
‘ a piercing glance ” also. Or can it be that that
pious print is nourishing a viper in its bosom?
* * *
It was left to Miss Castles’ matinee concert
to produce anything extraordinary in the way of a
house. That really was a surge, chiefly a bon-
netted one. The crowd overflowed on to the
organ platform, tilled the aisles, and crammed itself
into all available standing or squeezing room,
Before three o’clock the front doors were shut,
but already the crowd inside was far too big for
the house. The passages leading to the hall were
blocked with struggling women and children, who
fought for admission for half-an-hour after the
concert had begun, and then streamed home
angrily. It was the largest concert house ever
seen in Sydney, quite eclipsing the Albani racket.
* * #
The author of “ One Summer’s Day ”
describes it as “a love story in three acts,” and it
is probably the best description he could have
arrived at. It is a love story pure and simple—an
idyll that begins and middles beside a blue, glassy
river, and ends under the stars on a lawn—a clean,
refreshing little tale which will be appreciated by
every nice girl who has a bath regularly, and
keeps her hair neat and her skirts fresh, and
doesn’t wear holes in her stockings and trail her
boot-laces behind her. Also, it will be appre-
ciated by the fellow who is after that girl. And
as the fellow and the girl are very many, “One
Summer’s Day ” should do good business at Syd-
ney Royal, though The Bulletin doesn’t care to
bet on it. Sometimes the public catches on to the
quaint, pretty, refined play, and sometimes it
rejects the same with scorn, and calls out for the
large, raw, gory, eight-inch beefsteak of drama—
the 6d. kind, without a tablecloth, and with the
big, mangled loaf dabbed down beside it on a
bare board.
* * * •
The “Summer’s Day” is beautifully
staged. It runs two-thirds of its pleasant existence
in a hayfield beside a river (river supplied by the
lamented George Gordon and his son) in which
the reflections of the sun and the trees are painted
with startling fidelity. A cheerfully irrelevant
small boy who fishes with a disreputable worm
during two acts, and blackmails the young man
who is mashed on the gipsy and the doddersome
old man who is partly mashed on her also, is a
commendable feature hereabouts. The small boy
has no direct relation to anything, but young
Sydney Smith makes of him a most valuable
essay on the fiendishness of small boys in general.
Brough is the hero of the play, and Brough, as a
handsome, serious, elderly man of the world, is a
very great success. The Romany woman of Mrs.
Brough—a fiery, much-married gipsy, with long,
bare arms that stretch out to claw jewellery and
foolish boys who can get jewellery, and Miss
Is oble, who is the other half of the love story, are
practically the rest of the show. The latter is one
of the best things that this clever young
lady has done ; it is a narrow part of the
tender, clinging order, but she plays it for all
there is in it. Ihe fat lady with the vegetables in
her mou th and the other people are little more
than incidental circumstances, though Miss Bessie
Thompson is a brilliant success in 'stout, elderly
ladies of uncertain temper. Altogether, the ver-
dict on ‘‘One Summer’s Day ” is distinctly favor-
able. Everyone grows weary now-and-then of the
large, underdone beefsteak of stage-literature, and
this dainty item is a pleasing change. And it
seems to have a beneficial effect on the character.
Almost anyone who had any character at all would
speak a little more kindly than usual to the eat
when he got home after seeing it.
** * *
On Saturday night a great human tide
poured into the Criterion to see Curtis’ Afro-
American Minstrel Carnival. The show was
opened with “ My Creole Sue ” by the whole com-
pany. This immediately challenged recollections
of Rooks beautiful melody at the Palace a week
before. And Rooks’ exquisite gem gleamed on
serene and undimmed. Master Blutch was twice
enthusiastically encored for his comic song about
a girl who stole his heart away. Then Robt. Logan
threw down his glove to Gerard Millar, of the
Palace, by singing “Asleep in the Deep, ” which the
former had boomed so magnificently seven nights
before. Logan can boom too, but bis boom is to
that of Gerard Millar as an American organ to
the one in the Centennial Hall. The Master of
the co. is Ernest Hogan, “Actor, Author and
Comedian.” He is evergreen, full to the brim
with human fun, and his personality is altogether
delightful. The Olio was opened by “The Ken-
tucky Four, ” and they defiantly wave on the
programme a <£looo challenge to the world to pro-
duce their equals. The world would have a pretty
large contract but it would probably get through.
Ihe Bronze Patti ” gave an operatic selection
showing a wonderful range of voice. Then a lone
black figure rose up in the gallery, and the gods,
with blood-curdling threats, ordered him to sit
down or be disembowelled on the spot. But he
was part of the show, and stilled the tempest by
bursting into song. Then Siren Navarro, the Lilli-
putian Creole contortionist, reeled on, and for nearly
10 minutes was so tangled-up that someone declared
she was a cleverly-arranged optical illusion. The
average audience always has a hazy suspicion that
clever contortionists are optical delusions.
“Black Dante ” appeared, and mystified the audi-
ence by making real roses grow out of pots of
sand by placing an empty cone over them,
by making “ spirits ” write from dictation on
the inner side of two slates tied together. Then
he borrowed sundry rings which he hammered flat,
and fired from an old horse-pistol at a box in the
d.c. In the box were found sundry other boxes,
in the innermost of which were all the rings but
one. The lady of the missing ring became
clamorous, and, while search was being made,
Black D. went among the audience with a
bottle, out of which he gave anyone who asked
as much rum, whisky, brandy, or gin as he liked
to take. Then the bottle was broken and found
to contain a white rat, perfectly dry, with the
missing ring attached to its neck. After this, the
audience was pretty well broken up, and didn’t
properly recover till it found itself in the street at
11.30, and all the pubs closed.
** * *
The present Sydney Opera House season
has kept on its two thin legs longer than Opera
House shows usually do, but a few comedies like
“ Tit for Tat ” should kill it deader than Abel of
Genesis. The new comedy, if it started punctually,
and cut its intervals down to five minutes each,
ought to finish about 9.30. It seems to be mostly
interval—long, weary interval like the great sandy
desert of time dotted all over with the bones of
dead minutes and hours. There is something in
the play about a man who has assaulted a ticket-
taker on the railway and is committed for trial,
and who has decided to fill in his last night before
he surrenders to his bail at a supper. After he
has gone to the supper his bail springs a leak, and
the _ police come and arrest a musician who
is in his house and talking to his wife.
Then there is an interval, and the Bony
One with the scythe and the dumb-bell puts
up a record of 15 or 20 minutes before the
play resumes. In Act 11. there is a supper and a
duke with dusty boots ; the hero is very drunk,
and pretends to be a baronet, and tells a confused
tale about a cockatoo ; and a gaol governor is also
drunk and pretending to be a baronet. And, in
Act 111., they meet in the gaol and find that they
aren’t baronets. W. J. Montgomery brightens up
the show somewhat, partly by being drunk, and
partly by giving way to natural excitement when
he finds another man of the same name in the
gaol, and learns that the other man has been
arrested in his wife’s room. But he sheds a great
gloom by calling himself Sir Adolphus Fitzalba-
tross. Mr. Walshe brightens things somewhat by
also being drunk; and the most cheerful thing
about the supper party is the presence of a lady
called Miss Fitzbattleaxe. Another lady sings
something about “ tum-ti-um-ti-ay, ” and some-
body else sings dreadfully. A cold night, and a
thinly-peopled theatre, and a short, thin show,
and the cold, cold wind whistling eerily down the
spacious corridors of these great intervals, make a
sad combination of events.
** * *
“ The Stranger in New York ” has failure
written so largely upon him that his career comes to
a well-earned close on Friday. “A Trip to China-
town ” will be revived on Saturday. This paper
has a vague recollection of having once said un-
kind things about “Chinatown,” but it now takes
them all back. It has seen a lot of musical comedy
since then, and in the light of later experience it
begins to regard it as a very meritorious produc-
tion. Certainly it is one of the best of its class,
and leagues ahead of the present lamented enter-
tainment, so The Bulletin hopes to fix a kindly
eye on it next week.
** * #
At the Palace the organ-like vibrations of
Gerard Millar’s voice still nightly thrill spell-
bound hearts, and Leon P. Rooks, Turner Jones,
Mabel Hearde and Flora Batson make sweet
music that can only be likened to the far-off
falling of many waters.
#* * *
The tremendous doings of Mr. Saunders
and Mr. Stanford have raged at Sydney Lyceum
all the week, and the decapitated remains of the
latter will fall into the basket at a late hour for
some time longer. The public beheading of Mr.
Stanford is a piece of thrill which comes dan-
gerously near to being overdone. Something
severe might be said about the wildly-ridieulous
executioner, who, just when the public begins to
despair of things ever coming right—it is five
minutes before closing time, and Mr. Stanford’s
career of iniquity is still in all the fragrance of its
bloom —suddenly settles matters by executing the
wrong man. But in a play where there are 125
horrors, all more or less ridiculous, a trifle like
that is hardly worth mentioning.
** * *
Mr. Cinquevalli has balanced the unstable
billiard-cue upon his brain all the week in the pre-
sence of large audiences, and the two billiard-
balls on top of the cue have kept up in a marvel-
lous fashion. How the Tivoli juggler does it in
this cold weather, when the draught blowing
through his tights would naturally make his teeth
chatter, and the chattering of his teeth would
naturally unseat the top billiard-ball, is a mys-
tery. The cannon-ball, too, must be very cold to
handle just now, unless it is aired at the fire
before using, but none of these things appear to
trouble Cinquevalli much. His popularity is
growing. The first night he did the most amazing
things so easily that everybody had an idea that
they were easy—quite easy. But, since then, the
public has been trying to balance the billiard-ball
itself, and, not having a cannon-ball of its own, it
has been practising with a big lump of coal, to the
great disaster of both its feet; also it has tried,
in the seclusion of its bedroom at the hash-tower,
to keep all its luggage in the air at once, with the
result that the umbrella promptly got into its eye,
and the portmanteau knocked it endways and
most of the furniture as well, and rebounded off
the bedstead and wrecked the wash-basin. The
Sydney publio has a vast respect for Cinquevalli
now.
«* * *
At Melb. Royal the bloated, irrelevant
millionaire is still getting murdered with much
success in a gorgeous first scene. The balance of
Bland Holt’s show continues to get along about
as well as could be expected. “ Straight from the
Heart ” has the brand of Vane—Sutton Vane—
upon it, and the workmanship of that modern
English drama-maker is evidently getting worse
instead of better as the demand for his goods
increases. He doesn’t take the trouble to weave a
thread of probability into his yarn, therefore the
company, with the exception of’ millionaire Styan,
act like people who have been engaged to talk by
the yard till the piece runs out. Styan is merely
under contract to drop his aitc.hes and make himself
opulently unpleasant for lialf-an-hour, and know-
ing that the wages of vulgarity will be an
interesting death from the dagger of Albert Nor-
man he rushes to his doom with enthusiasm. The
millionaire is just beginning to appear the main-
stay of a promising drama when Norman cuts
him down in his prime like a turnip, and he ex-
pires gently on the drawing-room floor. Subse-
quent events fail to justify this prompt removal of
the aitchless plutocrat. The burning ship is a
bright incident enough, likewise the horsey tableau
on the Algerian coast, and the guillotine at early
dawn; but the plot and dialogue appertaining to
these stage pictures are poor stuff to set before a
mid-winter audience. Bland Holt would do well
to revive one or two of his last season’s successes,
The Bulletin is thinking.
** * *
“The King’s Musketeer” is getting
through a-third week at the Princess’s, and the
artistic naughtiness of Miladi’s bedroom-scene
commands fairly warm support. All the same,
there is said to be some local religious feeling
against the play, on account of one or two matters
which would not be missed if they were cut out.
The passing suggestion that Cardinal Richelieu
once set his apostolic cap at Anne of Austria and
was rejected by that impressionable Queen is an
absurd detail, anyway. Also, sundry little,satires
on Miladi’s easy piety are unpalatable to the Faith
which, having no capacity for laughing at itself,
gets indignant on the least excuse. The satires in
question, written for a country where the Catholic
vote is not a serious consideration, seem to have
been overlooked by the importing Firm. There is
no falling-off in the death-rate among the Car-
dinals guards, and his Majesty’s joyful regret on
learning that five of them have been killed as
usual goes a long way towards commending his
royal legs to the audience’s sympathy.
** # *
The indisposed Keziah recovered her usual
health with great agility, and is now running up
and down a ladder at Melb. Bijou, assisted by the
two other Keziahs. Likewise Harry Shine, the
Englishes, Wallace King, rolling Woodson, and
the Rickards co. in general are doing their best to
keep a prosperous business up to the mark.
** * *
John Fuller’s Mynorama, which has started
a Saturday night season at Melb. Town Hall,
seems quite bright enough to satisfy the chronic
yearning for a “bob ” entertainment. Many large
colored pictures of London are cleverly produced
on the screen, and the discourse of the incidental
lecturer, although rather hard and unfeeling in
the delivery, contains interesting material apart
from its jokes, and some of the jokes carry their
age well. Songs by John Fuller, Miss Minnie
Waugh, Miss Hettie Warden, and basso Hahn
are scattered amidst the Myriorama. All four
artists achieve the desired encore, especially John
Fuller with his light, sugary tenor ; likewise the
ladies are fair to see, but the selection of songs
might be less “popular ” without losing the
applause of low-priced congregations. Melbourne
ballad concerts lately have made the mistake of
rating the popular taste a little too low.
** * *
Benno Scherek’s orchestra continues to
take the platform at the Town Hall on Saturday
afternoons, and the reputation of that rational
musical band is growing and expanding like a cab-
bage in the springtime. Scherek chooses high-
class music of the kind that even a bank-director
can understand and admire, and the orchestra
treats the programme as though it were a labor of
love, with a pecuniary profit hanging thereto.
Everybody (except Marshall-Hall) speaks admir-
ingly of these concerts. They are excellent, and
the man who tries them once, in preference to taking
his usual dose of football-match, comes back next
Saturday afternoon for some more of the same
music.
*m * #
Fred. Villiers, the war correspondent and
artist, is to appear at Melb. Athenaeum Hall this
week, with his up-to-date story of how Villiers
and Gen. Kitchener carried Khartoum by storm.
The top of the lamp that hung over the Mahdi’s
Tomb before it was burgled by the British forces
is included among the lecturer’s exhibits, and,
what with his stirring narrative and his fierce
imperial appearance, the success of old friend
Villiers can be guaranteed in advance.
(For “ Poverty Point ” see page 24.)


ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
a nd particulars apply
S. ZOLENER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. 60LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & GO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
Jaqnes Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery*.
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, eto.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of thee machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
• * * *
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
3d NVAO
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°/.
All Mining: Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street),
Mklbournr ;
llPittst., Sydney; 68 Currie- si., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NJt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The South Australian Government proposes
taking another wise step in the direction of State
Socialism, by making its State Land Bank also a bank
for the receipt of deposits and the issue of notes. With
Government security behind it, it will be the safest place
to leave deposits, and its notes will be the safest paper
currency, in Australia. The usual Tory groan and lamenta-
tion about the rash innovation of State banking will
doubtless come along, but, as a matter of fact,
it is much too late to talk about State Banks
and Land Banks as innovations, Queensland, India,
United States, Canada, and dozens of other coun-
tries have State-note issues, some of them of very long
standing. Norway’s State Bank is now 47 years old, and
prospering greatly ; also, the State has a large interest in,
and wholly governs, another bank. Sweden, Austria, and
many other countries, have State banks of long duration.
As for State or State-governed land-banks, they are scat-
tered all over the earth and date back as far as the early
days of the oldest inhabitant.
* * * •
The proposal of Maoriland Govt, to extend the
operations of the State Land Bank to advances on town
and suburban lands is the adoption of an idea which The
Bulletin strongly advocated when the Bank was first
established. There is money to be made for the State by
borrowing at low interest and lending at rates a shade
higher, and by extending the operations of the Bank to
towns as well as to farm-lands, the State can do a bigger
business and make more money. A large bank can be
worked at a lower percentage of cost than a small one,
and by extending the business, and thus reducing the
cost of working, it will be possible for the State to
lend to everybody, including the farmer, at lower
rates. And, in a sense, the city landlord is quite as
important as the farmer; if either of them borrows,
probably from a foreign capitalist, at needlessly high
interest, then there is so much extra money
going out of the country, and the country in
general is so much the poorer. Moreover, if the town
landlord must needs be foreclosed upon for arrears of
interest it is better that his property should go back to
the State than that it should be foreclosed upon by a
private individual. The M.L. State Land Bank com-
menced by lending money at 5 per cent. But it has
prospered so well that a reduction, probably to 4)4 per
cent., is to be made this session. And when the in-
stitution grows still larger there is no earthly reason
why a 4 per cent, rate should not be practicable.
* * * *
At time of writing the revenue returns from
only six provinces are available, VVestralia being still
missing and somewhere at the tail of the procession.
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria and S.A. all finished their
financial year on June 30, and Maoriland on March 31;
while Tasmania is half-way through its year. The results
so far as available are :
Increase as com-
pared with corres-
Revenue. ponding period
of last year.
Victoria (12 months) £7,378,842 £491,379
Queensland „ 4,174,000 406,000
N.S.W. „ 9,754,184 272,092
Maoriland „ 5,186,428 198,796
S.A. „ 2,665,501 98,890
Tasmania (6 months) 461,948 17,873
So far as information is available the approxi-
mate surpluses or deficits are about as follows :
Maoriland Surplus .. .. £327,917
Victoria „ .. .. 250,000
Queensland ~ .. .. 149,915
South Australia ~ .. .. 46,000
N.S.W. ~ .. .. 41,000
Westralia Deficit .. .. ?
These figures are, to a great extent, guesswork (barring
the Maoriland returns which have been definitely ascer-
tained) ; still they are as near to reality as the various
Treasurers have been able to get at such very short
notice.
With regard to the six provinces which have an
improved revenue the increase in proportion to popula-
tion per annum is as follows :
Increase of revenue
per inhabitant per
annum.
Queensland .. ... .. £0 16 3
Victoria .. ... .. 0 8 4
South Australia.. .. ... 0 5 4
Maoriland .. .. .. 0 6 4
Tasmania .. .. .. 0 4 0
New South Wales .. .. 0 4 0
Among the six provinces New South Wales comes out
worst, seeing that it is the only province which has in-
creased taxation during the year. But there is a great
improvement all round, except in Westralia, whose
figures were still being waited for at time of writing.
New South Wales is the only province whose
loan expenditure was known when these remarks were
written, and the figures are a pitiable commentary on the
bogus economy of that bogus economist, Premier George
Reid. During the year ended 30th June the ordinary ex-
penditure increased by £302,926, while the loan expendi-
ture increased by £394,220, and climbed up to £2,102,192.
Some recent loan expenditures are as follows, the figures
for previous years being taken from Coghlan’s latest issue
of the “ Wealth-and Progress of N.5.W.,” pave 946 :
1893 Dibhs £1,929,580
1894 Dibbs-Reid 1,330,046
£ of 1895 —Reid .. .. „. .. 659,125
1896 „ .. .. .. 1,279,098
1897 1,477,318
1898 „ 1,644,769
1899 2,102,192
There have been only nine years in all the thriftless his-
tory of N.S.W. when the loan expenditure, has been
larger than it was under sham-economist Reid in 1899.
* * * *
Sydney Mont de Piefce shares have lately had a
heavy fall —from say 31s. 9d. to 265. or under—consequent,
it would appear, upon those in the inside running be-
coming aware that the co.’s coming div. will be 8 per cent,
instead of 10.
« - * * *
S.A. Govt, gives expert help to wine-shippers at
both sides of the water—here, through the Export Dep6t;
in London, through the province’s cellars, where Burney
Young, a locally-trained man, does the preliminary sort-
ing and the pushing. Results Shipments last year
totalled 138,645 gallons, or nearly double those of the pre-
vious 12 months ; and the names of 500 wholesale buyers
added to the customers list. Still, sales have not in-
creased as rapidly as export ; and stocks are accumulat-
ing on the Other side—mostly to the great benefit of the
quality. \
N.S.W. Judge Owen decides that Sydney Fire
Brigade is entitled to salvage for extinguishing fire on a
vessel lying alongside a Sydney wharf. The owners con-
tended it was the brigade’s business to save property
without looking for reward; and the Buteshire’s was a
test case.
* * * *
S. A. Govt, four years ago took over the manu-
facture of its own water-pipes, with the result that in
that period £29,090 has been saved as compared with pre-
vious contract prices.
* * * •
Silverton tram shares have lost all the advance
which they gained in the last 12 months in consequence
of the increased activity in the sulphide business. The
modified slump is the result of an awful fear that at
length the State will have horse-sense enough to take
over the line or jpuild a competing one ; and as the State
could build the necessary 30 miles of line for £50,000 or
so and would not look for 50 per cent, a year on that
outlay the co., which has had a fabulous 12 years
innings, is naturally anxious. The proposal for a Govt,
line to go via Binnacles and Thackaringa is now before
the Railway Commissioners for report; and the prospects
are that it will go on to the Works Committee in the
coming session. Ear-western members’ political lives de-
pend on their fighting for it hard—if fighting is necessary.
* • * *
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assays alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not. only give a statement of metallic contents—
owners will be advised by an experienced, practical metal-
lurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in bulk,
whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation, smelt-
ing, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should not be
less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
* * * *
Substantial-investment advisers have been point-
ing lately to Broken Hill stocks as being worth more
attention. So far, Block 10 has been most in fashion ;
its deep-level development caught the eye first. Also its
management gives such ample information that one can
tell what it is doing, what a big margin there is for the
coining zinc-extractor to work on, and approximately
what its prospects are. Still, it does not necessarily
follow that a mine with a working at 800 ft. is better than
one whose deepest level is at 400 ft. Block 10’s ore is par-
ticularly heavy in zinc, and this product is becoming of
value ; but then Block 10 has sold nearly half of the
“ zincs ” it has produced, while the others have theirs
stacked at surface. Block 10 has 100,000 shares ; Block
14 has 100,000 also. But Tens are quoted at four
times the price of Fourteens. Block 14 is most miserly
with its information. Its reports are patterns to avoid.
Nobody knows (from them, at least) what the ore in the
mine is vvorth, or what percentage of metal is being ex-
tracted. If gen.-manager Greenway were not so good a
metallurgist, shareholders would not stand it. The co.
owns a first-rate plant, all paid for ; and it will not be
surprising if it makes the first move in the direction of
zinc-extraction. The mine has very great resources of
ore of rather under-average value. It is the least likely
to do anything sensational ; it is about the most likely to
go oil giving moderate returns, and to reap the first fruits
of local zinc-treatment. (As far as can be gathered, Mr.
Greenway at present proposes only local zinc-ore concen-
tration.)
B.H. South is much like Block 14, without,
however, Block 14’s carbonate reserves. Besides, it has
to go deeper for its ore ; and, spite of all they say
in prospectuses, it is in precious few cases that mines do
“ improve with depth.” The South is worked on much
the same principle as Block 14 ; but it lias nothing like
the same assets. . Also the South Co. consists of 200,000
shares. The shares in the Central (Sulphide Corporation)
are just getting on the Australian market. The Central
is probably the biggest mine at Broken Hill outside the
B.H. Proprietary. Practically nothing is heard of it this
side ; but its development has been surprisingly good,
and its management, if somewhat expensive (hut, then,
an Earl is its chairman), is excellent. The British early
met with disaster, unparalleled in Australia, the most im-
portant of its workings caving in ; ever since it has
suffered from the handicap. It has been too busy battling
for daily bread-and-butter to thoroughly prospect the pro-
perty ; when it has felt that way somebody has begun a
law-suit against it—-or something else has happened. It
can only do very little things at present ; but there are
possibilities about it which do not belong to some others.
Junction shares have been sustained by big
buying on English account ; but for that the mismanage-
ment must have brought prices far below the level
ground. There is not much prospect of a dividend this
side of Christmas. Then the mine should do almost as
much as the South —and the South is valued in the market
at something over £170,000, which is more than twice the
Junction’s present value. Still, the Junction is not worth
more than Block 14, and that is valued at £105,000. It is
worth observing that while South’s have advanced 100 per
cent, in 12 months, Block 14’s have remained practically
stationary. (A good deal of the South’s rise has been jus-
tified though ; and un i :' rround developments have been
somewhat better than Block 14’s.) North’s have ad-
vanced about 110 per cent., mostly at the expense of the
Junction North—which is quite in accord with what the
Wild Catman three years ago, and many times afterwards,
said must happen. So far as appearances go, the Junction
North is a mine in miniature, and, comparatively, a
pretty expensive one to handle. The North has improved
its prospects every month, and must be treading on the
heels of the dividends which it has had an eleven years’
chase after. When it catches them they will not be
large, but they ought to be steady ; and when zinc treat-
ment comes along, it will get a particularly big lift.
The uncertainty of the silver and lead markets
is, however, a big element in appraising Broken Hill
investments. Movements in silver affect the B.H. Pro-
prietary, Block 10, Central, arid Junction most, in that
order ; movements in lead affect comparatively the South,
Block 14, and North most. The B.H. Prop, and Block 10
are best prepared to take advantage of any development
in zinc metallurgy ; Block 14, and perhaps the Central
and British, are most alert in the matter. It is simply
impossible to say which would gain most by the discovery
or the evolution of a zinc process ; it is enough to say
that all will gain so much that details needn’t be con-
sidered until the thing itself happens. Present prospects
are that, directed by the success of the German metal
firm (the Australian Metal Co.), some treatment will be
evolved, a beginning being made with magnetic concen-
tration and the shipment of the product to the cheap
fuel and labor of Europe.
* » » *
North Centrals. —The little boom in these stocks
has had the effect of raising some £2500 for the develop-
ment of the mine, consisting of forfeited shares bought in
by the co. and let out in big parcels as soon as the market
would take them. Annoying no doubt to the boomsters,
but a good thing for the mine, as the co. will now be able
to see what it’s stuffed with.
* 9 * *
Re the over-capitalisation of mines, it has taken
three members of N.S.W. Chamber of Mines to write a
paper on this subject. By-the-bye, how many members
of the O.M. are there whose hopes of making a good
thing don’t absolutely depend on over-capitalisation?
Mr. Harrie Wood, who read the paper, remarked that
although he had bestowed much time on the subject he
could not satisfy himself as to what was over-capitalisa-
tion. Mr. George Robson suggested that “it would be
instructive if they prevailed upon Minister Cook to place
in writing what he meant by over-capitalisation.” For
Mr. Wood’s benefit, writer remarks that over-capitalisation
is brought about in numerous ways. Pegging out some
miles of river-frontages, creeks, or alluvial flats at a cost
of a few pounds, and asking the public to find all the
money and take the whole of "the risk for half the shares,
with or without cash, is one form of over-capitalisation.
To get a mine under offer, with or without an insignificant
deposit, arid to succeed in placing it at three or four
times the price regarded as quite enough by the mine-
owner, is another form. In fact, it is almost impossible
to carry on the business of mining flotation without over-
capitalisation, so degraded has the industry become—es-
pecially in London, where everything, including news-
papers and guinea-pigs, has to be nobbled, and the mine
and the contributing" shareholders have always to carry
this additional burden. Sometimes the mine proves itself
able for it, but mighty seldom. The Minister’s written re-
ply, asked by Mr. Robson, might consist of two words,
“Mount David.”
* * « *
Mt. Apsley, N.S.W. —A prospecting copper-
mine opening the lode at 240 ft. There is 13ft. of some-
what-mixed ore averaging over 4 per cent, copper in one
drive, and 9ft. of solid sulphide worth over 6 per cent,
copper in the other. Preparing to send away regular ore-
consignments which will probably be treated at Blayney
Smelting Works.
• V * *
Blayney Mining and Smelting Co., N.S.W. —
With fair weather the first 120-ton blast furnace should be
running within the next month. 1000 tons of sulphide
ore already calcined ; two more heaps of black ore burn-
ing, and heaps of oxides and other raw ores ready for
smelting. In a month or two the co. will be ready to
treat ores of almost any sort. The directors are confident
they can compete against Dapto or any other smelting
works for all ores mined within, say, 100 miles of Blayney.
* * • •
R. A. Price, M.L.A., told N.S.W. Mines
Minister t’other day that the N.S.W. rivers were more
suitable for dredging than those of Maoriland, and that
dredging results from them would probably be better.
Now, if Ratkinson Price had said that N.S.W. was a more
suitable country for the making of well-fitting clothes,
and that the profits from tailoring in Sydney were better
than in Otago, writer would have accepted it as authori-
tative. This paper declines to take the tailor M.P. seri-
ously as a dredging expert at any price.
. * » *
Molong, N.S.W. —“The width of the copper
lode at Burrawang is about 18in., and presents a rich
appearance. During the assay, lib. realised 2oz. copper.
It is expected that the ore will average 4001 b. of copper
to one ton of ore, which will pa3' handsomely.” Same old
game—expecting to get more by the ton than by the lb.
• * * *
Avoca, N.S.W. (once called the Birthday.)—An
evening paper says of this, that, judging from the results
obtained by other mines around it, several of which are
paying divs., the shares are cheap, as the mine is likely
to do something great below the barren zone. Names of
these div.-paying mines'not given.
* »' * •
N.S.W. Minister Cook says he means to stop
the shepherding of mining leases for the purpose of sale.
If his determination is .to be much more than a vigorous
expression, he can count his bands full for the rest of his
official term. Next to good gold comes good shepherding,
where the speculative value of a mining lease is concerned,
and less ingenuity has of late years been employed in the
extraction of the gold than in whistling such tunes to
the sitting Mines Minister as will induce him to remit the
labor conditions. Even though it take all his time, how-
ever, Minister Cook should try to give effect to his deter-
mination. No other Parliamentary business at which he
can employ himself would, if he but half gain his end,
profit the country more. But, unfortunately, N.S.W.
Mines Department is chock-full of similar expressions of
determination made by his predecessors.
* * * *
Once more the leases of that metallurgical
puzzle, the White Rock, are gazetted cancelled.
» * * *
Westralian gold - yield for June, 161,9520 z.
(£615,420.)
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent from Mt. Malcolm,
W. A. :—“ Have just returned from Mertondale, scene of
the sensational find by P. Merton. The Reward claim
looks as rich as has been reported. Without doubt it is
a great show. To date, she has crushed some 200 tons
of ore for about 1700 oz. gold, of the estimated value of
£6500 sterling. Half of the ore crushed has actually been
raked up off the surface. W. Callaghan, Merton’s part-
ner and mate in the Australian Peer claim, is seeing him
for a share in the Reward claim, and, meanwhile, develop-
ments will he retarded, hut the manager is actively pre-
paring for the erection of a 10-head mill, with power to
work 20. However, the claim may be only a kidney—in
fact it is in appearance very much like the Emerald mine
at Yalgoo, on the surface of which £40,000 worth of gold
was got, but below it was worthless. The Merton
lode is an ifon - stone formation, and a line of
reef can be traced for about three miles north and
south, the whole of which has been pegged, most of
it with the expectation of a boom. On the north end of
the Reward claim are two leases held by Geddes and
party and Robinson (Merton’s manager) which have every
appearance of developing into good properties ; on the
south end there are only two properties vvorth mention.
The Plying Pig (Drew and party) and another claim held
by tributors are both looking well. The line of reef is a
very narrow strip of country surrounded by a barren
plain of granite. Those holding the shows mentioned
above seem to be in for a good thing, but for the man who
comes behind nothing is left. There are already three
stores on the ground, to supply about 70 men.
* * * *
Golden Zone, W.A., “is opening up well.”
This is what the Golden Zone seems to have been doing
for the last three years.
* * * *
Hannan’s Pride of the Valley.—Mini ng manager
finds that Brown Hill Extended lode has a strike too far
to the west to come into this mine’s ground, but there is
some consolation—the B.H.E. has another lode, a very
low-grade one, which might be found in the Pride.
sfs ♦ ♦ ♦
Dick Hamilton, the Boulder manager,
threw another bombshell into the directors’ camp re-
cently by a cable declaring that next crushing would be
under 25dwts. ; that it would be impossible to maintain
even this average, as some of the stopes were depleted,
and that the mine’s oxidised ores were being rapidly ex-
hausted. All sorts of excuses have been given, but these
statements cannot be specifically denied. There is a lot
of oxidised ore left in the mine, but the quantity is small
compared with that already taken out. The Boulder has
enormous reserves of good-grade sulphide, but that is
another question. These reserves have been known for
two years, but no attempt has been made to treat them
outside the infamous milling contract. Were such a con-
tract made by any Australian board, not only would the
directors be “ fired,” hut it is very doubtful whether they
would ever get on another board in the country
* * * *
According to Western Argus (Kalgoorlie) Lake
View Consols will have no difficulty in maintaining the
May gold production for two years without encroaching
upon the reserves below 300 ft. ; in which case pro-
fits should be equal to a 10s. div. monthly—£l2s/00. If
this is true, the shares are the cheapest on the field. But
is it true? The sulphide ore sent away from this mine
during May and June to Illawarra Works contained over
30,0000 z. Is it, therefore, to be understood that this
mine is going to keep up a monthly output of over
25,0000 z. ? Even so, it is not enough to pay the 10s. div.
* * * «
At present Collie coal is profitably sold in Perth
(W. A.) at 17s. 2d. per ton, while the Newcastle article, by
reason of freight charges and other things, costs 255.
The margin is big enough to make the local coal-owner
feel dead-sure of getting the whole local market to him-
self if he would only dig out enough coal to supply the
local market, and it is also big enough to give him a fair
chance of being able to compete with N.S.W. coal in
Adelaide market, if he would dig his product out. Yet
of the six big coal leases on Collie field four are lying
idle, and another only makes a pretence of being worked.
The groper is almost too weary to pick up cash when it is
lying on the ground in front of him.
* * * *
Mfc. Lyell.—ll furnaces now running, making
it one of the biggest smelting plants in the world. The
erection of others decided on. “ Now certain that every
ton of ore raised on Mt. Lyell field will be treated by Mt.
Lyell Co.” Not very consoling this in a country where
haulage is so mountainous. It would probably he more
to the point to say that it is now certain that Mt. Lyell
Co. has a mortgage on every mine around it. The co. is
now erecting 56 coke-ovens of its own at Port Kembla,
in Illawarra district.
* * * *
S. Australia is getting used to the awful Social-
istic doings of the Kingston Govt. —it has even left off
predicting that Red Ruin must follow any departure from
the principle of private enterprise. It stood unmoved
successive announcements that the Govt, would provide
cyanide plants, batteries, smelters and concentrators, and
that Govt, prospecting parties would be equipped ; and
now it has not turned a hair at the news that the State
has been running a mine for a couple of years past. The
simple, unheroic statement of the Minister is that the
Govt, had a battery and a cyanide plant at Mt. Torrens,
that alongside was a mine which would yield just about
enough to pay expenses, that there were men wanting
work, and that it was just as well to keep the plant going
with ore from this mine when private owners didn’t supply
it with enough to go on with.
Judge Dash wood comes down from the Northern
Territory, where he has B]>ent half-a-dozen years as Govt.
Resident, gleeful over the N.S.W. Federal vote. The
N.T. is too big a thinff for little S.A. to handle, he says.
As to mining: “ Most exaggerated reports have been
issued, for the London Stock Exchange chiefly. Yet we
have excellent mines—l think they will he the founda-
tions of our progress. The Chinese system has meant
running along the rich parts of the reefs, discarding all
else.” Chinese miners on wages get ss. or 6s. a day. As
to Asiatic markets—“ Not frozen meats; no. But we
can do a big thing in a live-stock trade. The Asiatics
like to do their own killing.”
The first of the S.A. Govt.’s concentrating
plants will be erected at Mt. Fitton, in the far North ;
copper abounds there. The high price for the metal has
not only put the old Blinman mine to work again, but it
has led to a co. being formed to re-open the Sliding Rock,
Both of these were once almost famous northern mines.
And the old Kapunda mine, further south, is under offer
to an English co.
* • » *
Chillagoes, after running up to 475., have
receded to 375. or 38s. As there was not the slightest
reason for the rise, there is every justification for the fall.
They may go to 305., or they may stay where they are,
and within' a few days they may go to 475. again.
Speculators who can extract satisfaction out of this tip
are welcome to it.
* • * *
Dear B.—You print in a recent par. that Chil-
lagoe railway will not be completed for two years. lam
ready to bet the writer of that par. that trains will run to
Chillagoe in July, 1900.
• • • *
Chillagoe Bedford and Mt. Garnet, Limited’s,
railway scheme likely to secure Parliamentary sanction
next session. Route is from Mareeba through the Ather-
ton scrub lands and Evelyn plains to Mt. Garnet, with
several short spur lines ; estimated cost, £250,000.
* • • *
While the Sabbath Shellback seems to have
largely retired from the mining-tipster business, John
Norton’s Truth has come into the field as a picturesque
boomster of N.Q. copper-mines. According to this new
authority, there are at Mt. Garnet “ 200,000 tons of ore
containing 10 per cent, of copper, 15 per cent, of
silver (ye gods!), and a small trace of gold.” Also
alleged that the gold and silver will pay for work-
ing and smelting alone. Well, 15 per cent, of silver
ought to. It is predicted that the mine will pay £9
per share in dividends every year. “Of course there
may be some flaw in these figures, but I have gone into
them very carefully and have verified them by every
means in my power, and although it is an astounding
position for a mine to be in, I verily believe that these
figures will work out. Then it is given out that Mt.
Garnet is “ only a circumstance ” to Chillagoe, where there
are two leases having bigger ore-bodies of richer ore
than Mt. Garnet. There appears to be one lode 30ft.
wide, which, at lowest computation, is going 20 per cent,
copper. Then there is another, 130 ft. wide, which so far
has averaged 30 per cent. On Red Hill lease there is a2O
per cent, lode 30ft. wide, and on two of the leases alone
there are over 500,000 tons of ore which would go con-
siderably nearer 20 per cent, than 15 per cent, copper.
And it can be all mined and smelted for -375. 6d. per ton.
Yet Chillagoe shares are at a beggarly 38s. or so.
• • * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• • • •
Sohlapp—called in Westralia “Herr” —is
making his first trip to the new alleged copper-mine on
McKinley ranges in Cloncurry (Q ) district, some 200 miles
from Winton, the nearest railway station. After his trip
with Gov. “ Jerry ” Smith through Westralia, Sohlapp
will enjoy making this one alone and will be able to start in
the mornings at the reasonable hour of six instead of at
noon. Schlapp’s luggage while travelling largely consists
of a toothbrush and several other articles, weighing less
than lib., while Gov. Smith’s weighed several tons. It
must have been an appalling spectacle to see Smith’s
luggage being put up on the coach before or after
Schlapp’s.
* * * *
The South Tharsis Copper Co., Mt. Lyell,
have lately entered into a contract with the Austral Otis
Engineering Co., South Melbourne, to supply a complete
crushing and concentrating plant for treatment of their
ores, which, are mostly low grade. The plant is to be a
very complete one and comprises compound steam-engine
and boiler of 100 horse-power, 3 rock-breakers, 2 sets Roger
rolls, 8 4-compartment eccentric jiggs, 4 improved buddies
and Otis circular vanner, with the necessary trommels,
&c., for sizing and classifying the ore. The plant
has a capacity of 100 tons per day, with provision
for 200 tons. The Otis Co. are also supplying a self-acting
tramway from the mine to the mill: also, a pumping plant
to supply the mill with water from the dam.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) mine maintains its place as a
gold-producer. Its last four-weeks’ return is a record,
£25,723 being obtained from 7,890 tons ; and the total
value of bullion produced now tops the million. During
the last twelve months the capital has been doubled by
the issue of another 160,000 shares, but the divs. and
price of shares have remained unaltered. The co. has, in
fact, doubled its capital, doubled its divs., and doubled
its share-value. Gold won
Tons. £ s. d.
1890 .. .. .. 21,112 13 0
1891 .. .. .. 23,935 511
1892 .. .. 18,236 .. 44,888 2 4
1893 i.. .. 19,805 .. 61,900 10 11
1894 .. ... 24,864 .. 82,827 2 2
1895 .. ». 33,670 .. 120,334 2 2
1896 .. .. 34,400 ..137,321 8 2
1897 .. .. 40,764 .. 144,040 9 7
1898 .. .. 77,929 .. 256,494 12 7
1899, to data .. 38,749 .. 116,939 0 0
Total to date .. .. £1,009,793 610
Lessee Deakin (he lately took over the Wes-
tralian State coal-mine at Collie for a long period) is now
so well satisfied with the quality of the coal available that
he is ready for the promised severe warship test. The
Admiral has undertaken to try 100 tons.
* * * *
Now we understand some recent booming of
Westralian tin-fields. The first statutory meeting of the
Greenbushes Tinfields, Limited, has been held in Perth.
“ Mr. Leslie A. Norman, the managing director, re-
ported ” —various things.


d
ft •
A NEW DEPARTURE
In Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
m- We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS, "
SYDNEY.
:
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J4-plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Brisbane Branch : 34 QUEEN STREET.
Melbourne Agents : CRAVEN & CO., 179
COLLINS STREET.
PHOTOGRAPHERS \
Consult your interests by procuring your supplies
from . . .
Harrington $ Co. [td.,
Photographic Merchants.
The most Extensive Stock of all kinds of
Photographic Materials in Australia.
The very latest improvements in Cameras, Newest
Materials and Chemicals. Fresh shipments by
every mail. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue
sent free by return.
Address-
-66 King-street, SYDNEY.
Note.—Our Goods may also be procured from WM. ANDREW
3 James’-place, Adelaide. ’
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
Here is an affecting little S.M. Herald
item :
, young ladies of St. Patrick’s school paid a visit to
the foundling hospital at Waitara last Thursday, each
girl taking with her a parcel of clothing, tins of con-
densed milk, and some biscuits for the little inmates.
After a happy day spent in picnicking and nursing the
little foundlings, the girls, many of whose parents also
attended, returned home.
Hum! “Tins of condensed milk.” Bulletin
wonders what the brand was. The average make
of condensed milk—consisting, as it does, of skim-
milk and sugar—is about as deadly to infants as
diphtheria.
* » s. * •
The single girl with one unwelcome infant
in her arms is apt to regard herself as unlucky,
but in Melb., last week, a poor girl fell down be-
side the Sydney-road and gave birth to twins ere
she could be removed. The doubly-unfortunate
one and her family were eventually carried to the
Women’s Hospital, and, as there were no com-
mittee-women about to demand her marriage-lines,
she and the youngsters were admitted.
ALL IN GOOD TIME.
“ I say, old man, you do look seedy. You ought to
have a change."
“Oh, Fm going to Wife’s going up the
mountains next week.”
In unfortunate baby mite, at Port Melb.,
a few days ago, being seized with convulsions*
was given a dose of castor-oil. An hour or two
later it had another fit, and, the mother being
absent from home, the father placed it in a hot
bath, with the result that the infant was badly
scalded, the skin peeling off legs and feet and
portion of the back. Two hours later the child
had a third fit, whereupon the mother gave it
another hot bath, with the result that it came out
of the fit in five minutes! Three hours—three
whole hours—after the horrible scalding episode
the family speculated in some liniment for its par-
boiled offspring, and in another hour the miser-
able 2J-year-old had gone where callous and
ignorant parents are unknown. An illogical jury
duly verdicted accidental death. The absurdity
of putting a scalded child into a hot bath is a fit
and suitable circumstance in a community which
wastes itself on carrying to the heathen the bless-
ings of civilisation and the “ Gawspel.”
* * * *
“ C.C.” writes :
In view of the child of two years or so that casually
strayed into the bush t’other day—and, so far, hasn’t
strayed back a {rain—and in view of the many children
that yearly boil themselves in washtubs, or roast slowly
at too-easily-attained fires, it strikes one as strange that
lower-class mothers don’t tether up their children
out of mischief as they do the other live-stock about the
place. A system of leg-bail would keep little Johnny in
order better than the rope’s-end. The Chinese have dis-
covered this, just as they have that other plan of teaching
a baby not to yell by putting a hand over its mouth when-
ever it starts, till the baby reasons that the pressure is
caused by the yell, and yells no more. Consequently,
Chinese children, never needing to be slapped and
banged and chivvied here and there, grow up into the
most engaging and sweetest-tempered youngsters imagin-
able. Besides which, thej' have a chance of growing up,
as the Chinese, not being a civilised race, prefer to do
their infanticide out-and-out, and not by the slow-roast
plan
• • * *
It isn’t the city alone that has its mean
tragedies, in which contraband infants form the
central figures. At far-out Wilcannia, the other
day, an unwedded mother was charged with
murder; and here is a fragment of the police-
evidence :
The mother (who had taken the police to an outhouse,
where she admitted the ohild was kept) picked it up ;
it had some little calico bags over its hands, tied round
the wrists ; the mother said they were to prevent it suck-
ing its fingers and making them bleed ; when the mother
picked it up it clawed at her breasts ; the child was a
mere skeleton.
It appeared also that pumpkins formed part of the
12-months Told infant’s diet. The girl was even-
tually discharged, with a characteristic backblocks-
beneh warning never to do it any more.
* * • *
A poor old outcast preached a more
trenchant sermon—an old-age pension sermon—
than ever did priest or parson to the Victorian
public in Melb. the other day. Retiring in ’93, at
the age of 60, from the Railway service, after 25
years’ work as a shunter, he struggled along in
great poverty, camping latterly in a rickety cot-
tage in S. Melb. Rinally, the owner started to
pull the shanty down, and when but a single room
remained, neighbors heard the old man weeping
bitterly. Next morning, workmen, looking in,
found him lying dead, his throat cut. He had
helped to build up Melbourne and the province,
and his reward in his old age was the gaol, the
knife, or the Yarra.
The Bulletin lately complained about
the way in which interpreters were picked-up
anyhow, even in important cases, out-back in
N.S.W. Several times recently Afghan camel-
drivers have either sued or been sued, and an
agreement has every time been an important
feature of the case. Yet, generally, one or other
of the officers or servants of the company, which is
alleged to have got the agreement signed anyhow,
has done the court interpreting. That happened
on the first occasion when this awful agreement
was mentioned—at Tibooburra, months ago—and
it happened the last time it was mentioned —at
Broken Hill, the other day.
* * * *
A lucid interval in the hysterics of parson
Gladstone, of Nathalia, is evidenced by the pas-
sage in one of his discourses in which he
denounced as unspeakable rubbish the columns of
dress-descriptions with which out-back papers
load the local ball. A country editor of the
writer’s acquaintance used to invite each woman
to write a par. detailing her habiliments—and
how the women jumped at the chance ! He said
he adopted this course when he found that if he
employed one or two women to do it they would
glorify themselves and debase their rivals.
Another editor got his wife to do the work—but
the poor woman died suddenly. There was no
inquest, but there were suspicions. Of course,
the country paper follows in this matter the suit
of the city papers ; but the example is bad at best,
and with the machinery available out back only
its worst features can be reached.
* * * *
The good Mr. Gladstone isn’t the first
parson who has tilted at the manners and the cus-
toms of Nathalia. A few years ago—it was in
Mr. Gladstone’s day, nevertheless—a Wesleyan
sermoniser who was permitted the run of the
“ Notes about Town ” column in the local sheet
made remarks therein about the strange things
that happened along Broken Creek. That parson
was unmarried and didn’t have much luggage—a
circumstance particularly fortunate in view' of the
hurried departure that he found expedient. And,
strangely, the “ call ” wasn’t to a higher stipend,
either.
• * * *
A press application for the names of the
guests at a recent Adelaide vice-regal ball was re-
fused, on the ground that their publication would
hurt the feelings of the people who were not there.
But, then, think how it would have pleased the
folk who were there !
An appeal from
“Tom Collins ”
Dear B.—Give spirit-
ualism a show. Such
questions are not set-
tled while you wait.
Seeing- that the origin
of life is jealously
and justly claimed
as a subject of scien-
tific research, why
should an ulterior
phase of the same
life be left in the
domain of dogma,
or be altogether ig-
nored ? “ Looking
before and after ”
that is the idea. In
stopping half - way,
we stultify our own
pretensions, for sci-
ence is a unit. If
seschatology
be honestly
challeng-
ed as a
branch
of mor-
al sci-
n ce,
THE HUMORS OF
AGE.
YOUNG ENQUIRER:
“ I suppose it feels
rather funny to he
old? ”
ANCIENT : “ Sometimes; but it all depends
on the rheumatism.”
dogma will be choked off all its prey, except
Matthew Arnold’s “three-fourths of life” —and we
demand this residue for science, under the name of
ethics. But asschatology must be captured first.
And, by the way, ecclesiastical hostility to all inquiry
into spiritualistic phenomena is in favqr of their genuine-
ness. In each manifestation there are three factors : (1)
the normal individuality of the inquirer ; (2) the medium
of communication, the bridge from the known to the un-
known—table, vocal utterance, spontaneous writing ; (3)
something beyond ; and the exhaustive analysis of this
something is a legitimate task for science.
• * * *
An advt. in a Sydney paper asking “ kind
gent, to lend mon-
ey to “temporarily
embarrassed young
lady ” was an -
swered by a mar-
ried business man,
and an appoint-
ment was made at
the damsel’s
“ home ” in Surry
Hills. After he had
been an hour or so
at the place, he was as-
tounded to have a
cheque for £lOO put be-
fore him to sign. “ You
see,” he was calmly in-
formed, “ your wife will
presently be here to in-
quire for you. She ha*
been told where you arq
and if you would like to
escape through the back
you had better sign at
once.” He signed—and
the cheque was honored
too.
• * *
A strikingly pretty ex-
pupil-teacher was once ap-
pointed to an outlandish
N.S.W. locality. She went.
She saw. She wrote respect-
fully to the then Minister of
Public Instruction ; and en-
closing a splendidly - finished
panel portrait of herself, asked
was it fair to send such as she
into the remote wilderness. Re-
sult : transfer to good position in
the leading State-school of a popu-
lous provincial town. Served her right!
Dear Bulletin.— Why this howl over the
A.N.A. art-union? I’d have to pay my shilling
anyhow to see the sports ; then why not give me
a chance to win .£lOOO and yet leave charity the
gainer?—E.K.
* * * *
A big London illustrated’s picture of N.S.
Wales Lancers’ “ Farewell to N.S.W.” shows Port
Melbourne railway pier.
* * • •
Latest cry of Sydney Anti’s :—“The re-
leased gaol-birds of Melbourne will make for Syd-
ney.” The anti-Feds. seem to think Sydney a
congenial atmosphere for gaol-birds.
News of the death of the S.A. Governor’s
uncle, Mr. Arthur Tennyson, reached Adelaide
during a ball at Govt. House, but was consider-
ately withheld for the moment. The Governor
gave up a military social two days later, but after
that carried out his social engagements.
* * * *
Chief-Justice Way made some scorching
observations the other day about the monumental
incapacity of the South Australian J.P. Three
of them had sat on an affiliation case at Queens-
cliffe; had found that defendant, despite his
energetic oath to the contrary, was the father of
plaintiff’s child, and ordered him to pay medical
expenses and 7s. 6d. a week. According to S.A.
law there must be at least one witness in such
cases who can directly or indirectly corroborate
plaintiff, and in this case all the solitary corrobo-
rator was prepared to swear to was that, eleven
months before the birth of the child, he saw
defendant alone, whistling and leaning against a
wall. And he didn’t even say where the wall
was. Seemingly, a wall is a dangerous thing to
whistle against in S.A.
* * * •
Retort courteous from witness in box at
County Court, Bairnsdale, Yic. : —“ Yes, your
Honor, I honor my honor just as much as your
Honor honors your Honor’s honor. ”
Dear Bulletin. —Be ’bus-top
women. Struck a passengerless Waver-
ley ’bus, took seat on top, and lit a
pipe. Three so-called ladies followed
me, and one set to work to frown
my pipe out. Stood it for a bit, and
then solemnly told the woman that
really I was awfully sorry, but the
driver wouldn’t let me smoke inside.
She took the hint and got down.—
C.F.
The picturesque Eastern garb
has its disadvantages. In a Melb.
suburb recently a Syrian hawker
called, and persisted in pressing
purchase till the door had to be
slammed in his face. Even then
he didn’t go. He rang and
rang at the bell till the
house-father, rushing to
the door with a bludgeon,
found that the dusky
gentleman had been se-
curely moored to the establish-
ment by his robe, shut into the
door-case.
“The ninth edition of the ‘Encyclopaedia
Britannica ’ is universally recognised as the most
complete and perfect of the works of reference.”
This is quite true; but, all the same, the “ Eneyc.”
contains one very curious error. “The best
colonial beer is made in Tasmania, whence it is
shipped, in frozen blocks, to Australia and India.
In Calcutta, on the hottest day, the residents now
suck (not sip) their frozen pale ale. ”
ON THE BLOCK.
MUVALLA : “ Why do you call that boy your in-
tended when you are not engaged to him? ”
COLLINDINA : “ That’s all right. I intend that I
shall be engaged to him.”
N.S.W. Justice Owen, in chambers, inter-
preting the jury- verdict in the libel-action Hutchi-
son v. Star decided that “ independently of ” did
not mean “in addition to.” The paper paid .£5O
into court, and the jury awarded <£2oo “ indepen-
dently of ” the money paid in. But as the jurors
were available, why were they not recalled and
made interpret their own decree ?
TO WILL OGILVIE.
We drink a toast to your fair-haired girl,
But we drink again to the dark-tressed maid.
For you there is charin in a golden curl,
But for us there’s a magic in either shade.
We drink again to your horse that’s grey,
But we drink again to the steed that’s black ;
And our hearts go out to the brown and bay,
And the chestnut, too, when he heads the track.
No fault we find with the grey or gold,
Of either sort there are good and bad.
So to each good horse here's a rider bold :
And to each kind lass here’s a lively lad.
SMIRE.


Zetz Spa Water (naturally effervescent)
taken with meals absolutely cures and prevents
indigestion. There is no other table water as
pleasant to take, or as effective. Try it.*
Henry Lawson’s “ While the Billy Boils,”
with eight plates by Mahony may be had in paper
covers at 2/6 or in cloth at 3/6 (postage 6d. extra)
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, and all book-
sellers. Mrs. Campbell Praed, the Australian
novelist, said this book made her feel that all she
had written of bush life was pale and ineffective.
Sore Throat.
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buyinq
Condy’s Fluid,
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Condy’s Fluid * * can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
S U O'l C a k e
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
3. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tu.clcer & O a.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Lungs, Neuralgia and Headache. Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Sgpior’S
Sgpior’S
HEADACHE CURE.
BLACK CURRANT BALSAM
For Coughs and'Colds.
BEWARE of Injurious Imitations of these famous
Remedies.
SENIOR, CHEMIST, 246 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
In the bath-rooms of a swell N.Q. hotel
appears the legend :
LADIES ARE REQUESTED
NOT TO WASH
STOCKINGS
IN THE BATH.
An acidulated correspondent discourses on
“The Country-Hospital Clique
The hospital clique in a N.S.W. country town is a
recognised evil. The cause is not far to seek. As soon
as a medico is appointed.it is his business to quarrel
with other practitioners, to appoint satellites of his own
as nurses, and to get a name as a good fellow first, as a
good doctor secondly. He is backed up by all the would-
be “toffs” who want cheap adoration as patrons of
charity, literature and sport. These are then smuggled
on to" the committee. One device. At, say, Boolah-
mine station there are 200 men during shearing. Sup-
pose them to average a crown each, the dollars are
bunched into groups of four under one local name, thus
securing 50 votes and fulfilling the law. Next a touting
circular is sent round to the cookies, sawmillers and con-
tractors. Once the clique is established the original ap-
pointers are afraid to jib. The consultant medical
officers are ignored ; the very committee hectored and
flouted Oases needing skilled assistance are conducted
in camera. Death under the charge of the appointed
surgeon requires no inquest. The P.M. is suborned, the
police chin-chinned, and when rusty patients are ejected
“vi et armis,” loafers are run into the beds. Nurses
play cribbage or tennis when moribunds can only appeal
with the eyes, voice and action being gone. A staff ot
winter valetudinarians and hypochondriacs are ready at
the muster, yearly or half-yearly, to reduce the death-
averages, and all goes merrily until the matter becomes
too gross for print. Even then it must be screened by
the sale of the doctor’s practice—his health or character
having given way under his multifarious dues not
duties. „
* * * *
Nothing ever happens in Westralia with-
out champagne popping. Even inquests are often
thus opened. There were dozen of corks drawn
at the opening of Perth Mint. Gov. Gerard
Smith presided and delivered a couple of speeches
after the manner of the “all of the olden time
school,” crammed with elaborate compliments,
punctuated with as much bowing as if he were
dancing a minuet with a poker in his long but
aged back. Premier Forrest started the machin-
ery, and the Bishop of Perth started the lunch
with a muttered grace. Admiral Pearson was
there, and made a speech of a single sentence to
the effect that a man should not talk about what
he did not understand. Those who thought this
was a joke laughed, and, strange to say, some of
those who thought it was no joke also laughed.
Thus was the Mint declared open.
The performing J.P. has
been loose on the Auckland
gumfields again, and this
time the playful animal has
gambolled on to
justice, or there-
abouts. The usual
gumfields store-
keeper supplied
two men with the
usual outfits on
the usual terms —
that they were to
pay for them and
sell him all their
gum (at his own
price, presum-
ably). Finding
that they could
get a better price
elsewhere, the
gum - diggers
promptly went
elsewhere, and
the lynx - eyed
storekeeper just
as promptly had
them run-in for
theft. The case
came on before
two J.’s.P., who
pro no unc e d
“ judgment for
the amount
claimed with
costs,” where-
upon uprose
prosecutor and
pointed out
that what he
wanted was
jug—unmi-
tigated jug.
The Bench
resented this
interference
and asked coun-
sel for the defence
what he desired.
He desired the dis-
charge of his clients
without a stain on their characters, and the in-
dignant Bench said “Certainly.” Case dismissed
accordingly.
* * * •
Brisbane 0. of E. folks are getting par-
ticularly lively over the Sunday-closing business.
The same highly-respeotable religious body owns
one of the finest hotels in the city—re which pos-
session it was recently severely chidden by one of
its own clergy. Now, almost every hotel in
Brisbane slakes the thirst of the weary citizen on
the Sabbath, Is aforesaid hotel libelled by those
who say that it also (despite its sacred connec-
tions) dispenses the long beer and the short
whisky to the casual wayfarer?
* * * *
He was a Queensland legislator appealing
to his constituents to return him again in : 99, as
they had done in '96. On the platform behind
him sat his wife —-a lady as ardent in political
warfare as himself. The constituents were lively
and uproarious. They had had enough of him,
and plainly told him so. The howling was simply
terrific, and the M.L.A. almost dropped down on
the platform in disgust and despair. Of a sudden
his wife rose, clipped him in her arms, and kissed
him affectionately and defiantly before the whole
audience. And even that didn t mollify them.
Hr * • *
“Scotty W.” : Herewith Christian (!)
names of the prize young ladies of Sydney’s very
toniest ladies’ college. (Daren t say girls
school.”) Ida, Irene (2), Alice, May, Ruth,
Hilda (2), Millicent, Doris (2), Flora, Lucy,
Amy (2), Marjorie, Margery, Muriel (2), Maggie
(I’m glad she got the crucial test prize and that her
other name is Barton), Isabel, Grace, Ethel, Lily,
Elsie, Stella, Edith, Gwendoline, Dorothy (3),
Una, Dulcie, lorna, Mary (thank goodness !),
Daisy, Maude and Myra—which last if spelt
with an “i,” would be in Italian Tmk
that, now!” Not a good old Elizabeth, Sarah,
Jane, Ann, Kate, Bridget, Ellen, Julia, Hester,
or Hannah. Am always grateful for having a
cousin Patricia, because I can call her Pat.
» * * *
“F.C.” on a Melbourne scandal already
here mentioned :
Melbourne’s soulless commerciality—which has led it,
for long, to gaol its sick and old poor—has made it a scon
and a byword among the provinces, but it has lately ex-
celled itself by gaoling a man who merely asked for work.
At Prahran Police-court, June 13th, a destitute, blind
person applied to the bench to see if that agglomeration
of wisdom could put him in the way of earning a living.
The soulless J’s.P. promptly responded by charging him
with vagrancy and remanding the matter for a week for
inquiries. At the end of the week an investigating con-
stable informed their worships that prisoner had been
earning 20s. a week in the “ Blind ” Asylum, but thecom-
mittee of management had changed his occupation to the
extent that he could now only make 12s. Whereupon he
had made unseemly observations, and had proceeded to
the local police-court to ask if it knew where he could
find a better-paying job—with the result stated. The
outraged beak, on learning the character of this blind
villain who wanted to earn more than 12s. a week, froze
on to him with great violence, and remanded him for
another week. Prisoner protested, and characterised the
proceedings as a disgrace to the country. Which was un-
doubtedly true ; but as the province of booms and stinks
is impervious to any feeling of shame over its treatment
of its poor, the gaoling of one blind man more or less is
not likely to much disturb its equanimity.
* * * *
A most dangerous and pernicious practice
is being allowed to spring up in Vic. County
Courts. There are two or three barristers always
briefed on one side or the other of County Court
cases, and very often a Judge is kept waiting for
a couple of days doing nothing, merely because
Mr. X. or Mr. Z. is engaged before another Judgein
a previous case ! The other day there was a Court
idle, a Judge idle, with a long list to get through
and, when inquiries were made as to why a second
County Court was not set going, it was frankly
stated, “ Oh, Mr. X. is in the next case on the list,
and he is engaged in the case now proceeding.
The Sandgroper is a long-suffering person
and slow to wrath. For 20 or 30 years the people
of Perth have noticed an ungainly hump in the
middle of Hay-street, and some of the more ener-
getic of them have wondered why it was, or have
thought that they would wonder some other day,
when they felt stronger. At last Perth decided
to go in for tramways, and in cutting up Hay-
street to lay the rails a huge tree-stump was found
just below the surface. The early road-makers
were too exhausted to take it out, so they
made a hump in the roadway to cover it, and
generations of gropers went up that hump and
down the other side, and took it as one of the
mysterious dispensations of Providence.
* * * *
A long, hairy Scot was prosecuting two
pickpockets in Melb. City Court last week, and
identified as his a coin found on one of the
prisoners. “ Will you swear that shillin’s yours?”
asked the accused. “Ah weel,” responded the
witness. “An’ how do yer know it is?” per-
severed the suspect. “ Becaws Ah’ve had eet in
ma posseesion for twa years agone.” That ended
the case. Prisoners pleaded guilty, and prosecu-
tor left the court triumphantly wi’ his shullin’.
♦ * * *
Fifteen hundred Mackay kanakas were
recently examined for leprosy by Q. Govt.’s medi-
cal officers. “ Only three suspects were dis-
covered,’’yells a Govt, paper triumphantly. “Only
three suspects ! ” Here’s a ground for gratulation.
How many certainties were quietly put on one
side for deportation?
• • * •
Goulburn Gaol Gov. Mackay’s idea of set-
ting his prisoners to farming, and making them
grow potatoes for the gaol community, looks one
of the most sensible ideas yet applied to local dis-
cipline. The men are kept at healthy and profit-
able work, and trained to a useful calling, instead
of being left to eat their hearts out in confine-
ment.
* * * *
“At Launceston (Tas.) Benevolent
Asylum, one day recently, a mother, aged 90
years, applied to have admitted her son who had
reached the age of 72 years. The super., in ad-
mitting the youngster, told the mother that if he
misconducted himself he would be returned to
her for correction.”
* * * *
“ Melb.” : Talking of commercial-travel-
lers and their fine new club just opened in Flin-
ders-street, next the Gas Co.’s office, it seems to
me that the Flinders-lane soft-goods man needs
far more nous than any of them. Travelling in
grocery, ironmongery, wines and spirits, or any-
thing iike that, is pretty much the same six-and-
eightpence all the year round and every year. But
HIS EVIDENCE.
LEARNED COUNSEL : “ You say you are a sailor. Come now, were you
really ever at sea in your life? ”
WITNESS: “At say, is it? Thin how d’yez think I kem out from Ould
Oireland—in a waggon? ”
the “ pushing ” of soft-goods “ lines ” in season
and out of season, the inventing of catch-names
for goods (such names being often invented “ on
the road ”), and the constant dealing with
women, as well as men, give the drapery bag-
man plenty of scope for the exercise of the
“ higher ” business capacity. The successful ones
are often great diplomatists as well as great
blowhards.
* * * *
Nearly all the Chinese in Australasia are
from the southern provinces, mostly Canton and
Amoy (writes a Bulletin man from Shanghai).
Recently, however, I met a Kangsi man at Chin-
kiang who staggered me. “ You savee Sydney ? ”
said he. “ You bet,” said I. He then told me
that he was for five years gardening at Waterloo,
and knew the lamented Louisa Collins. As an
E. News reporter I witnessed the hanging of that
lady, and to hear about her here in China, was
indeed a staggerer.
• * *
“ Puyyaka ” on a recent question :
The hairy man does not attract the average woman. A
certain number of female reversions to a very primitive
type are gratified by the display of a hirsute masculine
limb, but the smooth-skinned athlete is the beauty-man.
The doctrine of Evolution gives a few pointers. Mans
descent from a hairy ancestor is plainly shown by the
lanugo or woolly covering of the foetus which persists for
a period after birth as an abundant downy coat covering
body and face alike; but he became smooth-skinned soon
after he branched off from the ape-like form Darwin
characterises this as a secondary sexual development,
women being less hairy than men from the first, and
exercising sexual selection in favor of the smoother can-
didates. The hair-loving female is either a morbid pro-
duct or a Homopithecal reversion. As an indication of
bodily strength, hair is a fraud. Consumptives often
become magnificently hairy, and the hirsute growth over
diseased localities in the body is well known. On the
other hand, the majority of exceptionally powerful men
are remarkably smooth-skinned. The writer several
times examined Eugene Sandow, and found his elastic
satiny skin almost devoid of hair, only a liirht down
being apparent on legs and forearms. Daring a
talk on the strength question Sandow affirmed that
hairy men were never as good as smooth ones for top-
notch strength work, although they were frequently the
stronger at the commencement of the training course.
Subsequent inspection of a number of his pupils and of
their records bore this out very remarkably. Therefore
the hairy man may hereby consider himself as a reversion
towards a primitive type, and his female admirers should
get measured for a bear-skin and cave. The Maoris had
a proverb that “There is no woman for a hairy man,
and they were an up-to-date race in physical
especially where sexual selection was concerned.
Some cynical monster to The Bulletin ;
Despite Gilbert, the policeman’s life is not an unhappy
one—in Sydney, anyhow. The Sydney cop has free
drinks at nearly every puh. (the toll for serving after
hours and on Sundays), and on the regular beat gets
something to nothing for his fancy p n > while
pocket-money fairly rushes in from fan-tan Cho\ys. And,
as for Flossie— ! What the force does not know about
Flossie is not worth knowing. Then, what an opening
for vigilance if Bung is dry-hash, the tote-man new at
the game, or Flossie unamiable 1 How do they run them
in ! What time the Beak smiles from the bench ?.nd
Robert earns his sthripe.
Twenty years
hence, if anyone takes
stock of the thin, tough
spinsters of Mel-
bourne, he will find
that an amazingly
large proportion of
them were born in 1872
or 73 or 74. They
Represented' the 'crop
of nice gj rls who cajiie
,of marriageable age
about ’93. The great
burst came that year,
and the johnnies wh6
should haye niarried
these girls weren’t able
to buy the necessary
frying-pan. And when
things came round in
’97 and ’9B, and these
young men could afford
to get married, they
went and married
newer girls, and the
old girls were left.
What a lugubrious
dirge could be written
about these “ Girls of
’93 ” the ones who
wouldn’t keep, anq
who had fallen into
the sere and yellow
girl before the mar-
riage market looked up
again !
The late Archi-
bald Michie’s property
at St. Kilda (Melb,)
is said to have been
part of a tract of land
originally included in
the St. Kilda Ceme-
tery grant, and subse-
quently divided among
a group of privileged
purchasers or “ selec-
tors.” If Frank Mad-
den wants to shine as
a revealer of bygone
land-jobs he might as
well call upon Vic.
Govt, to produce all
documents and plans
appertaining to the cemetery aforesaid, which is
about to be closed against further burials. It
seems to stand to reason that the first allotment
of bone-yard was ever so much bigger than the
space now crowded with tombstones.
CUPID
FOR THE [?]
(Should you iJjnjK our fyearfs
Ije’d (jarr'ow,
<Jj3ould you rtj 19k Ijed
hur\r-T>, fly,
S£ls> weve 'seep
“ b in 9^y° u or,<:l •*•»
O') a/Card-sr
eighteen pence -
feii'Hy Ijis llfrle bow
dnd cxmow
IS is aii-* erf, iopo-
cepce ?
(£9ouid you rtynK hed sfyoot"
0> cb&ppy ?
. fePould you H)ir)h lyed do
«—• fcucb Hy.'r)g& ?
b'=>. liltte w 'd£ £ > , ?
■po^ l b' & eid>-)fee-9 p«-<yny a>vyj\le. •
toe caq maße you cl —cf uiylye p p y
lye C15005V-6 -‘jor t> wlyile
(&5 el \j pk course e> lyjeuy s es JakGpid
course lye i&,l Ko oW .>
c jpo lei" 'any
y?|tyd persuacle lyTm tif-c S> a Wreck :
70MI me i$ u csVcK €>upid
0 siyexll PiQg lyis> Vidtle lyecK 1
W.H.O
GWENDOLINE.
They made you of sin, Gwendoline ;
They lighted your eyes at the Devil’s fires,
And a dimple was set in your chin.
And your hair was a mesh of gold—
And ’twas woven by imps in Hell,
From butterflies’ wings, and cobwebby things,
That cling and shimmer as well.
They fashioned your lips from a rose—
From a blood-red rose on a tomb —
Whose roots spread far where the dead things are,
And struggle with skulls for room !
They taught you to laugh, my sweet;
And they made your laugh in the sun
Where the sparkling dew and the rainbow meet,
Where the south wind wanders across the wheat,
Where the poppies blaze in the early heat,
Then wither one by one.
A 1 he laugh stirred wild desire,
Tb... burnt in men’s veins like fire !
For the sin to slip through your rose-red lips
And give them their hearts’ desire.
A whisp’ring voice cried, “ Come ! ”
And dancing eyes said, “ Here ! ”
Hot kisses rest on the dazzling breast;
Sweet eye-lids fall by fierce lips prest.
And now, in Hell, you laugh at the rest —
The end and completion of sin, Gwendoline 1
MARS.
AN UNKNOWN QUANTITY.
I know her well enough to tell
Her sentiments concerning me;
Her tricks to test and all the rest
Of sobs and sighs and secresee,
But, when she comes to meet her chums,
I fail to gauge most dismallee
The true intent and sentiment
She nurtures towards another She.
O.P.


MAN
WANTS BUT
LITTLE
HERE BELOW
BUT WOMAN
WANTS
MARK FOY’S
you KNOW.
All Drapers Everywhere.
All the principal ironmongers or, at least, those
that are “ up-to-date,” are now carrying stock of the
“ Albatross Lamp Wick.” If anyone tells you they are no
better than ordinary wicks, you" maybe sure he doesn’t
know what he is talking about or is too greedy and does
not want to lose the immense profit upon the old wick.*
Grand
Expansion Sale
Prior to going into
our
New Dress
and
Silk Shop.
LARGE
RE D UCTIONS
in all
DEPARTMENTS,
as we must have room
for the workmen to
make alterations.
WM
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Write to us for Madame Weigel's Patterns.
GLOBE TEAS have Equai -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257. George-st., Sydney. .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 4, 1899.
My Dear Myee,—
Amy Castles is now in danger of being under-
rated. If she does not get away to Marehesi
quickly, there will be no voice left her on other
people’s tongues. Either a phenomenal voice, or
no voice at all; for nothing but voice makes
itself heard this week. How the tongues of
profesh warblers wag ! Every teacher in Sydney
is telling his pupils how he would have made Amy
Castles sing. Registers are fought over till you
might think the place was full of dogs. And two
tenors have nearly come to blows. One said that
he, for his part, didn’t believe there was any such
thing as a Register. The other took that as a
deadly insult (strange what things ,singers will—or
won’t—take as insults). He was doubtful whether
he would hit the infidel, or expound his own
theories. On reflection, decided the latter would
hurt most, and is still achieving, still pursuing.
Luckily, there is not much blood to run out of a
tenor. Even when he is big it is fat, not “ bleed,”
that abounds.
Her first concert came off on Wednesday.
Rumors of a terrible crush were not fulfilled, for
the audience of 3000 was not too large for the hall
that has seated 4000. tin perfect order were all
the concert arrangements. Lady Darley was led
in on Mr. Aengenheyster’s arm ; Lord Beauchamp
paused at the door till “God Save ” was started ;
so much society rolled up that the distinctive air
was lost in a multitude of airs. Also, the cream
of Sydney’s intelligent and musical people was
represented by that house.
What followed ? A warm reception, but no un-
controllable enthusiasm after her songs. A hearty
encore for each number, but not the slightest evi-
dence that the big, critical house was being carried
off its feet. After Amy Castles’ best bit of
vocalisation, “ The Wind in the Trees,” crowds of
people moved to go out, and the aisles were filling
rapidly when Amy appeared again with “ Home,
Sweet Home ”in her hands. The house had not
waited to see if an encore was forthcoming.
And do you know why I lay stress on trivial
things like these? Because Melbourne Age, still
working at the boom, in a wired notice of the con-
cert, brazenly remarked, “She at once captured the
audience, and was obliged to double and treble her
numbers, in response to encores that would not be
denied.”
The song-bird’s plumage was a skimpy white
frock, made of strips of lace and tucks, sleeveless
and low-necked. The hair was tied back with
white ribbon, and shoes and stockings were also
white. Everything was as simple as possible, and
she stood the fire of those 6000 eyes with a per-
fectly wonderful calm. She grasped her music
firmly, and the usual signs of palpitating sheets
and trembling lips and knees were not to be seen.
She says herself she is nervous. But she is not
nervous to the extent of being unable to conceal it.
Her smile was as free from wobble and as cool and
pretty as if she had been looking at no one but
herself in the glass. It flashed out brightly before
and after each song, and she gathered in her
bouquets and backed off the stage far more col-
lectedly than Albani, who always bumped into
something or other on her way out.
Have you noticed that Amy Castles is always
in the same frock? She wore it when I saw her
last week. She wears it in the Melbourne photos,
taken at the beginning of the boom. Wherever
she goes in Sydney she is always dressed in that
same navy coat and skirt. And only one unpre-
possessing little platform frock ! This suggests
that a tight, strange hand—possibly an uplifted
hand with down-bent fingers—is clutching the
girl’s money. _ A young thing visiting a strange
town-in the midst of such unique popularity might
surely have been allowed a few new chiffons.
Now, don’t say the . money is all to go on her
voice. Rev. Father Robinson allowed £6 15s. for
refreshments at two Melbourne concerts. You
may be sure they didn’t go on her voice.
It reminds some people of a once wildly-popular
actress. At the time when a certain theatre used
to be crammed to the doors with people to see the
star, she had scarcely sixpence to call her own,
and had her street frocks doled out with severe
injunctions to take care of them, for goodness
knew when she would get another.
When Amy’s concert was over, the out-pouring
house was shocked to hear a certain excitable con-
noisseur exclaiming loudly in the passages, “ They
ought to give me back my half-a-crown. I con-
sider I’ve been done.” What did he mean by
half-a-crown? I thought all the seats were five
shillings.
For support there were long programmes of
local musicians at both the concerts. Miss Kate
Rooney, whose mezzo-contralto has been reared in
a convent by Madame Christian, pleased the
second concert audience hugely. Vollinar, Stael,
de Beaupuis, de Alba, Wiegand, Henry Weir, and
the Pleyel Quintette all assisted. On Friday the
“ five, three and two house ” asserted itself in the
usual way of reduced prices, and filed out when the
artist-singer of the evening, Signor de Alba,
stepped forward to roll his big, rich voice round
something operatic.
“And the wickedness, I repeat, the great, the
ghastly wickedness of these women who go to balls in
ball-frocks, and allow the arm of man to encircle
their waists and lead them forth into the meshes of
the giddy raise. . . . Oh, my brethren, let us pray
for the abandoned souls of these , gay gyrators.”
Soothed-down extract from a Victorian parson’s
sermon. That’s the worst of being.a parson. You
know too much about wickedness.' Ordinary, dull
people see nothing in a waltz but a waltz.
I fear this sad, bad Gladdy must have been tak-
ing his ideas of frivolity from novels. For novels
lay to their books as consistently as Melbourne
papers over a certain boom. The beautiful
woman in pure white with the blue-black hair is
still the centre of an eager crowd of men begging
dances. She still bestows her waltzes with a chill
smile and floats away in the arms of one after the
other of her desperate partners. There is still the
Russian Prince sueing for a dance with barely-
veiled admiration in his eye. Still do the dozens
of finely-chiselled young Guardsmen waylay ber
at every whirl. Still does she see across the crowd
a pair of deep, inscrutable eyes that come nearer
and are introduced, and bear her away in a long,
dreamy waltz, and her heart still whispers, “ ’Tis
my fate I have met to-night. ”
But step out of books, and where is she ? No-
where. So subtle are the causes that make the
world go round that ’tis now “provincial” to
dance often at a ball. Only a debutante wants to
fill her programme. Society takes three names on
her card, revolves twice, and stands about lan-
guidly conversating for the rest of the evening.
Even Sydney has arrived that far. His Ex. dances
once; other people twice ; or three remnants.
After that, the very, very suburbs, whose Good-
ness nobody could question.
The tale of a ball - room : Everything was
settled. Who should take in whom was
definitely fixed. When—the lady who was to go
in on his Ex’s arm sent word that she was ill,
but her young, pretty, unmarried daughter would
take her place ! This was the day before the ball.
Wild consternation in the committee ! Imagine
the dang::- of sending His Ex. in with another
woman’s young, pretty, unmarried daughter ! That
committee nearly went further out of its mind
than any other committee on earth. And no
wonder. Then two ladies recovered themselves.
One said, “/ cannot go in after a Miss. I shall
enter before the procession, and receive His Ex.
on the dais by right of my title.” Which she did.
But the other lady put the case in black and white.
“ His Excellency does not go in with Miss Dash !
I come after Mrs. Dash. It’s either Mrs. Dash or
I that goes in on the Governor’s arm.” She
fought it to the death ; fought hard and fiercely,
as only a committee-woman can fight. The re-
sult ? Oh, Mrs. Dash was not as ill as she thought.
Sometimes, Myee, I wonder is there anything
left that is new to say about a ball ? At the begin-
ning of the season there is a certain novelty to be
found in the first brew of new ball-dresses. But
after sampling a few dances, what a palling family
likeness between them all begins to obtrude !
True, it may be a big ball; or it may be a small
ball. There may be many beautiful dresses; or
there may be a noticeable few. But, having re-
marked on these points, what is left, from the
point of view of the Pen ? For who that was not
there, cares to hear about the decorations ? And
who that was there noticed them? And who
wants to be reminded of a supper since consumed ?
And who that was not there to look upon that
supper in the flesh can bear to read of it ? Nothing
then remains to your Goulish letter-writer but the
chronicle of who wore what; the general all-em-
bracing epitliets ; and a painful attempt to give a
picture of what one is really trying to conceal, the
life in the room, the movements of the heroines
and heroes as they meet and part. And
they may not even be heroes and heroines.
They don’t like it. You must know nothing of
their strategies, plans, conversation. They are
lay figures wearing frocks. Pull the string and
you get: “I wore pink satin and a diamond
tiara.” “I was in amber brocade with malmaisons
in my hair.” “My daughter was much admired
in blue chiffon flounces and turquoise necklets.”
“Dear Carrie Otherside looked such a sight in
a green polonaise and pink bouquet.’’ And if
there is more animation in that last sentiment,
who can wonder? Spite has its own mercury.
And yet, let us not be spiteful for the love of
Heaven and the sake of Myee reading at the
other end.
Otherwise, the University Ball was a beautiful,
brilliant, highly-successful dance, crowded with
pretty young girls and society women in lovely
frocks. Quite one of the dances of the season.
Lord Beauchamp and Lady Mary shone on one
corner of the room for several hours. His Ex.
was talked to in the language of the learned for,
strangely enough, reverend prof’s and doctors and
learned ladies never seen before at a ’Varsity ball
came to this one. What was the attraction? Oh !
I forget.
Lady Mary substituted big pearls for the dia-
mond necklet, and wore oyster brocade, with
touches of rose and bands of fur on the bodice.
His Ex.’s big star glittered as he talked through
somebody’s ear-trumpet. Many people Would
have liked those clear tones to ring through their
ear-trumpets or drums, but a band of elderly men
had a great deal to say and look to His Ex. that
night, and they talked to him of the orations of
Demosthenes, and he looked Greek at them, and
lonely women looked plain English at them all.
Mayoress Harris, in a long train, was accompanied
by her pretty, lively daughter, in rose-embroidered
chiffon over silk, and a waistband of violets. Mrs.
Edmund Barton also shed violets on her gold
brocade. Among the ’Varsity girls who removed
the slur of dowdiness from their species I noticed
Miss Caro in a frilly black-spotted white muslin,
with violet velvet swathing on the bodice, and a
simulated polonaise; Miss Ethel Maynard in
pink silk with deep pink roses on the corsage ;
Miss Adams in a jewelled guipure polonaise over
billows of little blue chiffon flounces ; Miss Russell
(whose engagement to Mr. Registrar Barff is just
announced) in rose-red silk with a white lace fichu;
Miss Louisa M‘Donald in black satin and intel-
lect ; and many others. Two pretty rosebud
sisters in pink muslin and white satin rejoiced the
eye. Madame Buhrow was elegantly frocked in a
black satin “empire.” Altogether, it was far and
away the most successful ’Varsity dance to date.
Apropos of the ’Varsity, “ Jem” Pickburn, son
of the well-known Dr. Pickburn, was married last
week to Miss Birdie Prosser. The quiet wedding
came off at Chatswood, where they intend to
reside, the bride wearing simple white brocade
with a trail of orange blossoms from waist to hem,
and a Limerick veil.
Another of last week’s weddings was that of
M iss Phoebe Chisholm, of the pretty soprano
\oice, with Mr. Norman Alston, a lately-arrived
baritone.
Speaking of marriages, people are wondering
why one countryman with dark cheeks (living in
Sydney at present) should own twenty-six wives
to his partner’s three. A few women still find the
old problem big enough—why some men have no
wives at all. But the Indian merchants are much
discussed.
The matinee of “Dandy Dick ” filled the Royal
with a chiefly feminine house. Holiday school-
girls swarmed the gods, and the play went mer-
rily. Long ago, Mrs. Brough made a hole in
people’s hearts with her sporting aunt. She wt . .rs
the same clothes mostly, and the golden-brown
cloth frock has turned old - fashioned at the
placket, and been let down with a frill in front.
She looks as fetching as ever in her hard-
hitter and shoulder-glasses. Winifred Austin
played off a short white muslin frock and brown
shoes and stockings. But why does she look at
the audience so often ? The audience is frequently
looking at her. And Emma Temple ? I always
think of Emma Temple as a very, very good
woman. She plays all the parts without savor or
color. Plays peaceably parts so utterly untinted
that she has to wear a red wig to lend them a little
distinctive hue of their own.
The red wig appeals again in “One Summer’s
Day,” that sweet, little, spineless play now run-
ning smoothly at the Royal. Saturday night’s
crowded house wiped its sympathetic eye after a
few of the moist places, and if the idyl offers a
variation on the usual Brough sparkle, the
change is not aggressive. Mrs. Brough makes
up dark, wears earrings and represents a
gypsy. She looks very handsome in her
swarthy skin. But Mr. Majeroni, billed as
gypsy Seth, is a Murrumbidgee boundary-
rider from his hat to his accent. Grace Noble
shows what can be done with a well-starched blouse
and skirt. A red waist-belt and tie, a high white
collar, and little red-banded sailor-hat tone-up her
smartly-cut pique skirt and linen blouse till they
become things of beauty. Women with next
season’s wardrobe hanging over them took a keen
interest in that simple, snappy summer costume.
Emma Temple plays an ingenue part, originally
read as a girl of fifteen. A beautiful, hot, all-day,
headache picnic surrounds two acts. The second
act gives a lifelike study of things that always
happen after lunch at every well-conducted picnic.
Miss Bessie Thompson reading uncomfortably in
a boat; Mr. Dartrey (made up like this-city’s most
haunting bore) sleeping the sleep of an unhappy
picnicker on bits of stick and earwigs ; all the
wrong people going off together in couples, and
the Headache looming large in the background.
Exceedingly picturesque scenery has been painted
for this picnic on the Thames. The only flaw in
. the charmful picture is that there isn’t a billy,
and nobody even mentions the word tea.
Miss Inez Bensusan is giving dramatic recitals
in the suburbs this month. Parramatta will be
visited on Saturday, July Bth (when Mrs. Beres-
ford Brodie will contribute her Langley Waltz) :
N. Sydney School of Arts, Wednesday, July 12th.
Mr. Yatman— not Fatman—the Yankee evan-
gelist nowin Sydney, knows howto rake in the
crowds. Fully 4000 found seating-room in the
Town Hall on Sunday night, and many had to be
turned away. Mr. Yatman has a platform manner
• that would do credit to the Shah of all tlie Persias.
When he raises his right arm and says “ Let there
be silence, ” one is irresistibly reminded of the Ist
chapter of Genesis, for immediately there is silence.
Mr. Yatman’s favorite anecdote concerns a giant
oak that stood in the eastern part of the U.S.
People used to say it was worth a fortune to see it
standing there in all its strength and beauty. One
day a cyclone came along and tore it up by the
roots. Mr. Yatman, a boy of 12, sat on a fence
and cried like a child at the sight. The oak was
found to be “full'of worms.” The application of
the story was that probably most of the gentle
shepherd’s auditors were rotten at the core.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At the Royal, in ‘Straight from the Heart,’
Elizabeth Watson, as the British tar’s coo-dove
daughter, clings to the glances and attitudes of
the stage person with a past. That dearth of
under-skirtings, for the better display of legs, is
an escapee from the sometime-adventuress’s bag
of tricks.
“Re misjudged saints: a local damsel was
lately so impressed, by the fetching foreign accent
of a missionary visitor that during his first appeal
she experienced ‘ one clear call ’ to the vineyard.
When his reverence invited her and other would-
be warriors to a week-night conference, he
harped on ‘de armamend of a meeg und
quied sbirit,’ and frowned disapprovingly when-
ever the enthusiast-in-chief jingled the trin-
kets on her chain. Later she fussed to the vestry
with sister enquirers, looking as big as two in her
sac ulster. She took off this garment to hand
round leaflets, while the gospel-messenger warmed
his coat-tails, and glared through his glasses at
her green tartan skirt (huge checks), so tight up
above that its wearer wriggled rather than walked,
though vvide enough below the knees to brush all
} ;be furniture, including the onlooker’s own hal-
|9 we d broadcloth. Later on, the good man told
j lis dear young sister” that it was “sdrongly
b° rne 111 on bnu ber . place was at home mit
“ er a S pd barents”—which, being interpreted,
Rieant (as he was overheard remarking in his
piquant broken English) that “swoggering und
stroddiing in God’s house looked unwell for the
01 r^ n e
do return to the Royal: heroine E. Watson
favors pure white attire (1) at the ball when re-
P ,: j dn B' an amorous millionaire; (2) as Baker’s
bride on the High Seas ; (3) as a famished cast-
avvay on the Algerian coast with a shade of appro-
P rla l ;e dirt, and her poor arms showing through
transparent sleeves. One can’t blame the ship-
wrecked bride for averting her eyes as she falls on
* be nee k of ber given-up-for-lost bridegroom,
Sf k f’ ith such ; s ] tub,de ab over his grimy cheeks,
on a the fl chla , of r her beart s ldol are
® aou fj h to turn the finest feelln S s of Mere Woman
l f a ‘
„ . ne pubhe rushed at the chance of hearing
Muller play for notliing at the winding-up
?. , • Vincents Hospital bazaar last week. The
b , e fellow gave a brilliant rendering of Men-
delssohns Rondo Capricioso, ’ which seems to
belong to youthful prodigies, it having been a
ff rea t favorite with Josef Hoffmann and others far
ba ? b ln be bne which has now grown so long,
Fritz gave a short, brilliant composition of his
own as an encore, slightly reminiscent of Paderew-
f ky " Little Helen Brassey insisted on shaking
hands with him, going after him in her eagerness
as be P asse d her by after saluting her mother,
_ “ ‘ Bob ’ Burt, pressman, a man of many neck-
ties, and a great favorite in a wide circle, is dead,
a fter a long and brave fight against consumption.
Burt was the first man in England, apart from
be doc tqr, to know of Parnell’s death, and, but
bjr him, it is likely that the great man of secresy
an d silence might have been buried ere the world
knew he was dead. Parnell had been suffering
boln what was thought to be only a cold. Burt,
then a reporter at Brighton, passed the house,
noticed the blinds all drawn, and instinct told
bnn what had happened. Inquiry confirmed the
g ue ss. Within ten minutes he had lodged a
telegram, ‘Parnell dead, ’ to the office oi: the Lo-
ndon »goncy of which he was Brighton, cor-
respondent. j
“Since Mi is McGeorge, an Adelaide girl,
settled in Melbourne, art-needlework has been
booming in circles where good taste attends
leisure. The result was seen at a recent show,
Lady Brassey, who is clever with her needle,
turned up and critically inspected the exhibits,
some of which were beautiful specimens of work,
Fine art, in golden and silken threads of many
colors, has chased the dear old antimacassar out of
the civilised world. Strange that some people do
not learn tapestry-weaving. It is troublesome to
acquire, but worth the pains ; and so many clever
women are seeking profitable avenues of einploy-
ment which are not overcrowded, that this work
might repay study. Witness the success of the
Morris tapestries in England.
“Mrs. Everard Browne (nie Chirnside) is re-
joicing over the arrival of her first-born. So is
Mrs. Vallange (nee Madden). Both the little
strangers are girls.
“Fate never takes its eye off some people. An
up-country doctor has just lost his wife, a lady
not far on in her thirties. Before, she married
Medicus she was the wife of a Vic. bank manager,
who left her for dead, murdered his children, and
killed himself,
“Puff paragraphs about the enterprise of the
Argus in selling the ‘ Encyclopaedia Britannica ’
for the price at which it has been obtainable by
the intelligent purchaser any time within the last
five years, are written in the office, and insertion
is procured in the minor journals. But the show
was given away badly when the pars, got mixed,
and that intended for one paper got into another.
Thus, there are in Melbourne a little tea-and-
muffin social print called the Sun, and a Wes-
leyan-Methodist paper called the Spectator.
The other day the Sun contains a puff about the
Argus enterprise, including this sentence : ‘The
Spectator, with all its heart, wishes good speed
to this magnificent project. ’ The office-boy should
have remarks made to him for leaving the par. at
the wrong office
“ Lala Fisher, compiler of ‘By Creek and
Gully,’ is a native of Rockhampton (Q.) and niece
of Mount Morganaire D’Arcy. Frank Richard-
son, author of lines recently quoted on Red Page
from her collection of ‘ Australian ’ verse, is her
brother.
“ Everyone is trying the new ‘food-cure’ (21b.
weight of provender compulsory at every meal),
But if there’s a less-stuffy way of retaining flesh
under difficulties it should be made known,
"Vours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
ASSETS ----- £44,000,000.
Resident Board:
The Hon. Shi JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G.
(Chairman).
G. C. WESTGARTII, Esq.
W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
THOMAS P. PURVES, General Manager.
Dept, of Australasia :
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or at least to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa plays an important
part, acting .solely as a first-class nourishing food
—it strengthens the system to resist, oppose, and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, “So-and-so has a strong constitu-
tion ” ; follow that up, and you’ll find that So-and-
so follows the golden rule of being temperate in all
things, and pays attention to diet and exercise.
Does he or she keep up this strong constitution by
taking medicine and swallowing pills? No in-
deed ! They have discovered that prevention is
better than cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a
means in the hands of everyone to build-up and
maintain a sound constitution, which enables its
possessor to travel his life’s journey without the
aches and pains which are in many cases pre-
ventive. Thus we come round to sound common-
sense based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.*
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIYEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Wavkri.kv Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Ttoderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers.
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
—“Margaret”—will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number.
Zetz Spa (naturally effervescent) is a
natural mineral water. The analysis on each
bottle is guaranteed. It is more pleasant and
wholesome than any other water with spirits, milk,
eto. Obtainable at all good hotels and stores.*
The Australian Climate.
Many seem to have an idea that the Australian
climate is more trying than many others. In
reality there are less lung troubles, consumption,
bronchitis, and chronic diseases, and less epi-
demics than in any other known inhabited
country. But we Australians do have to guard
against liver disease, and thousands do that by a
timely use of Warner’s Safe Cure. It seldom
fails to quickly remove all symptoms of bilious-
ness, nausea, giddiness, indigestion, and head-
aches. Mr. R. Moss, of the well-known firm of
Henry Moss Lighting Co., 6 Ferrars Place, Albert
Park, Melbourne, writes : “ I have used Warner’s
Safe Cure for liver and other affections, and found
it very beneficial. It is, without doubt, a first-
class medicine.”*
Mr. P. K. M’Caughan, the genial, gorgeous
Irishman who had that celebrated legal bout with
the Argus last year, is “putting-up” for Mel-
bourne City Council, and hopes to be duly elected
to-morrow (Friday). The advt. of Patrick the
imposing, which appears in this issue, sets forth
his claims to be returned by a majority as large
as himself. His strongest claim lies in the un-
deniable fact that lie knows his Melbourne well
and can find plenty of time to devote to municipal
affairs. M’Caughan has long been a popular
adornment of the Melbourne Block, and Thk
Bulletin can see no cause or reason why he
shouldn’t take up a commanding position among
the City Fathers and do his duty by the rate-
payers in a most satisfactory and picturesque
manner.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
If he cares to take the post, W. J. Lyne
will probably be the next N.S.W. Speaker.
It used to be remarked how very much
alike were Michie, Mill, and Cardinal Manning-
three M’s.
Gov. Beauchamp is billed by Pall Mall
Magazine to write an article on Madresfield
Court, his home at Malvern Link.
John Downer is now the “ father” of S.A.
Assembly, lie has seen continued service in
seven Parliaments although but 55 years old.
Obit the energetic Michael Landy, father
of liop-growing in Gippsland, chief founder of
Vic. beet industry, and director of Maffra Beet
Company. >
Men live long in Warrnambool, Vic.
James Walsh has just left Spudopolis for a
brighter sphere, aged 101. Ho leaves a sister 98,
not out, whose husband lately died at 100.
The explanation of the extraordinary Melb.
MTntyre-trial postponements is not so much the
fact of the defendant being a lawyer as the son of
a Conservative leader and a big gun in sassiety
himself.
The death of E. Webb, M.L.C., breaks
the cordon of ancient names on which Bathurst
prides itself. The official Stewarts, the squatting
Rutherfords, the Lees, and the Webbs have been
Bathurst’s glory.
It is urged zealously in certain circles that
the interval between the sending of the Federal
Bill to England and its passing should be spent in
organising subscriptions over all Australia to
raise a statue to Henry Parkes.
George Brookman, who has endowed S.A.
School of Mines with a eift of <£lo,ooo, is credited
with having made <£250,000 out of the late advance
in Westralian gold-stocks. Brookman was a part-
ner in a grocery business in Adelaide when he and
his brother pioneered the Coolgardie syndicate
which eventually floated the Great Boulder and
Associated Mines.
AT AN AMY CASTLES CONCERT.
Howard Taylor, the Westralian goldfields’
first Parliamentary representative, and later a
silent Federal Conventioner, has set up in England
in great stylo. Ho has bought a racing-yacht from
an Italian duke, and flies at the highest stakes.
Taylor was an early and heavy plunger in Wesb-
ralian stocks. His racing-colors are a black swan
on a yellow ground—appropriate, anyhow.
One delightful phase of the metamorphosis
by which a Labor editor becomes an M.L.A.,
appears in the comments of the Labor journal on
its previous Boss. Brisbane Worker on Higgs
and Towers Eagle on Lesina are indeed delight-
ful reading, and give rise to the suspicion that
somebody in the present editorial sanctum is
wiping out ancient grievances with a great and
holy joy.
Mayor Dickson, of Cootamundra, N.S.W.,
has had, while Mayor, twins born to him on two
occasions. As the municipal habit is to present a
silver cradle to the Mayor endowed with twins,
there is talk of a golden cradle.
Dugald Thomson is the only member of
N.S.W. Assembly who turns over the whole of
his Parliamentary salary to the charities of his
electorate. No member of the House now declines
to take his <£2s-per-month cheque.
W. E. Johnston, lately appointed acting
County Court Judge (Melb.), is connected by
marriage with Donald Wallace. And Donald was
connected with Carbine —so Johnston is connected
with Carbine. No wonder he was appointed 1
The recent unveiling of the monument to
ex-Premier John Robertson at Watson’s Bay
brought together a group of politicians and ex-
politicians, most of whom are deader than the
eight-years-dead man whose memory they com-
memorated.
Bishop Higgins’ promotion from Auxiliary
Bishop of Sydney to Bishop of Rockhampton
gratifies those who, during his 10 years in Sydney,
always claimed to know that he was obliged to
work with tied hands. Bishop Higgins is by
temperament an initiator.
If Chief Justice Griffith, of Queensland,
be not remembered when the law prize of the
Federation is conferred, opinion, based on flying
words, has it that, like his predecessor, Lilley, he
will quit the Bench and enter Federal politics.
His age, 54, is in his favor.
Major Castine—the new S.A. Opposition-
whip—holds the S.A. jawbone record; spoke all
night once. Although Castine is personally very
small potatoes, a U.S. town is named after his
grandfather. Like Neild, the N.S.W. chin-wagger,
Castine is the ferocious commander of a tin-soldier
corps.
Bishop Stone-Wigg, who went aproned to
Papua a short time back, reports himself carrying
the white man’s burden. He has had sunstroke,
neuritis, bunged eye (not open for five weeks),
and ulcer on left leg. Before going north, the
Bishop was a fine, uj)standing athletic and sound-
bodied man.
Some Australian birthdays for July ;
Archdeacon Farr (S.A.) 80, and King O’Malley 41
on 2nd, Dean Cowper, of Sydney, 80 on 3rd,
James Lee Steere (W. A.) 60 on 4th, John Downer
(S.A.) 55 on 6th, Mrs. Humphrey Ward 48 on
11th, Adelaide Advertiser, 41 on 12th, W. A.
Trenwith 52 on 16th, Bishop Dawes (Q.) 56 on
24th, J. H. Gordon (S.A.) 40 on 26th, Agent-
General Clarke (Vic.) 75 on 27th, and Lord
Lamington 30 on 28th.
Gov. Beauchamp is the 20th Governor to
rule over N.S.W. He may also be the last of his
class, State Governors under Federation being
likely to be reoruited from local residents. Some
of the Lieutenant-Govs. —as, for instance, Capto.
Grose —held office as long as the average Gov. and
in most cases did the work better.
The veteran Archibald Michie might have
been living still, and have lived to complete his
century, had he not persistently refused to take
the pension granted him by a grateful Govt,
many years ago. The Vic. Treasury, saved
.£40,000 or more by Michie’s devotion to principle.
For a man to refuse a peuaion is to deliberately
knock years off his life.
Dean Selwyn, of Newcastle, N.S.W., dead
at the age of 70, was one of the very few instances
of squatter turned spiritual shppherd. His first
12 years in Australia ho devoted to sheep and
cattle raising, and was fairly successful at the
business ; but the roligious strain in the family
asserted itself, and he souarht ordination at the
hands of Bishop Tyrrell. He was related to the
great Sehvyns.
Of the older school there was hardly a
better-known Australian mining man than George
Armstrong, whose death by accident has been re-
ported from the West. He left Victoria after
years of Bendigo experience to go to the Northern
Territory for the Millars, who, after the Pine
Creek railway construction, had a great idea of
the mines of the inlands. He got back (the re-
sults up there had been disappointing) in time to
take a hand in the Westralian spurt.
Another of the order of Rougemont is
threatened. M. P. Cosgrove, a much-travelled
Sydneyite, who has prospected in most places —he
was early at the Broken Hill, Coolgardie, Papua,
and the Klondyke rushes, and has worked also in
the Kimberley country—has been interviewed by
Reuter’s in London ; and as the outcome of his
sensational tales, publishers have, it is alleged,
trooped in upon him. Cosgrove was one of the
earliest of Rougemont’s attackers.
It is a coincidence that the two promoters
of the rival Broken Hill private-railway Bills,
though comparatively young m»n, died within a
few months of one another. W. P. MacGregor
sat for Wentworth for the few months that
sufficed to put the Silverton Co.’s Bill through ;
G. M‘L. Matheson got a seat for Glen Innes.
But instead of getting his Pinnacles-route Bill
through, Matheson only pulled poor old John
M'Elhone’s nose. And John is dead, too.
J. P. Abbott, who, it is understood, will
retire from the Speakership when N.S.W. Parlia-
ment reassembles, will then have held the chair
longer than any previous N.S.W. Speaker, except
W. M. Arnold, who assumed office in 1865 and
was drowned in ’75. The other Speakers averaged
about three years each, Murray holding office two
years and Wigram Allen seven. Altogether
N.S.W. has had eight Speakers (including Abbott),
of whom four are alive, Cooper, the first, heading
the list.
In the course of legal proceedings at Mel-
bourne between one John Slattery and his uncle,
ex-priest Slattery, the anti-Catholic spouter, it
transpired that the latter’s “ lectures ” had in
three weeks raked in =BBOO. And was it likely,
asked the ex-priest’s counsel, that his client was
intending clandestinely “to leave such happy
hunting-grounds?” Not much! The two most
paying “ lines ” in Australia appear to be those of
.£ LOO-poll-tax-protected-Chow and “ converted
priest.”
Francis Kenna—an Australian native—has
inauspiciously begun his reign as editor of Queens-
land Worker by an ill-advised declaration of
anti-Federal sentiment, and by allying himself
with Unmack, Barlow, Nelson, and MThvraith.
This is the first time that the Labor-paper has run
in harness with that high-priest of Boodlewraith,
Brisbane Telegraph. It is agonising to sincere
Laborists to see their organ backing up Australia’s
wickedest and most selfish clique of political re-
actionaries.
The Maoriland petition to remove Judge
Edwards from the bench, on the ground of bias
in the Jellieoe case, repeats in some of its phrases
the similar petition got up against Judge Willis,
resident judge of Port Plnllip, in 1842. Bias was
one charge, lack of dignity another, and not
having the confidence of the public a third. The
Superintendent of Port Phillip referred the case
to the authorities at Sydney, and Judge Willis
was removed from what was then called the
Colonial Bench.
Died at Bendigo, lately, “ Jimmy ”
M'Craw, one of the earliest, and for a great while
one of the most successful, diggers at Golden and
Pegleg Gullies, and afterwards equally early and
successful at Castlemaine. Then his luck changed,
while Lansell’s (they had been working close to-
gether) kept on. Both were plucky prospectors ;
but, whereas 25 years ago Lansell owned deep
mines and batteries, Jimmy was glad to take a
billet in one of the latter. And Lansell saw to it
that it lasted all his days.
The editor of Brisbane Courier was forced
the other day, in the interests of his literary and
composing staff, to take a rather unusual step.
He wrote to one of the leading champions of pro-
vincialism, who has been swamping the Press with
verbose and undescipherable letters on Federation,
telling him that his contributions were inserted
wholly on account of the writer’s official connec-
tion with the Anti-Bill Loague, and not by reason
of any merit in the letters themselves; and sug-
gesting that the anti-federalist should get his copy
transcribed by some legible person conversant
with English spelling and grammar. The official
is now resting.
Vic. M.L. A. Hume Cook is a 28-year-old,
entered Parliament at 23, and has been pining
for a portfolio ever since. His recent observations
about discontent “ amongst the young members of
the ’ouse” are nothing new. He has been spas-
modically arching his back at Turner for the last
two years, and, though a seat on a royal commis-
sion would probably mollify him, “ plain George”
apparently doesn’t think it worth while. In
person, Code is small and cadaverous, but he has
a muscular memory, and is a mathematical gym-
nast of some skill. When the ’ouse is not sitting,
Cook drives around collecting rents and pondering
the grievances of the numerous tram-employes
resident in his constituency. His seat is sure.
Even in democratic Maoriland dead lions
are at a discount. The Liberals cheerfully
stumped up £lOOO to give brawny Jock M'Kenzie,
Lands Minister, a trip to his Highland hills, but
they have not subscribed .£5O towards a memorial
to the late Hori Grey. At Auckland, where Grey
was idolised during life, the Liberal Association
voted £2 towards his statue, and a few weeks
later gave <£4o to the M'Kenzie testimonial. A
Grey memorial list, after lying for a month in a
public office at Wellington, bore but one name—
that of a little girl, who offered one penny. A
pathetic reminder of Grey’s popularity with
children, and of the ingratitude—or let us call it
the utilitarianism—of the full-grown Democrat!
A NATURAL QUESTION.
HE: “Do you know, I came across a medical hook
giving rules for prolonging life. I’m trying
them. ”
SHE: “ Yes, dear, how interesting! And do you
find that you live any longer than you used
to do? ”
Journalist v. journalist seems to be a
growing fashion in N.S.W. libel eases, both
criminal and civil. In the early days it was
Governors or other high personages who assailed
the journalist with court proceedings. Journalists
then fought one another with pens. The first
important invocation of law by journalist against
journalist was when Stevens and Stokes of S.M.
Herald sued Stephen and Nichols of the
Australian.
Isabella Cockburn, mother of the S.A.
Agent-General, who has just died in Adelaide at
the age of 80, was a woman of real liberality of
view. Although her only daughter married a
pastoralist who is a bitter antagonist of Kingston
and all his works, the old lady always sided with
her Radical and brilliant son in political contro-
versies. Which fact was a great stay and comfort
to him in face of the open and not always very
fair opposition of brother-in-law Giles.
ANS. Wales ex-M.L.A.’s application for
a bankruptcy discharge was postponed the other
day as an unpaid account of £8 10s. owing to the
Govt. Printer stared the Registrar in the face.
But next day the Govt. Printer withdrew the
item, and the discharge was issued. Before the
present Govt. Printer took office it was well
understood that whatever accounts an M.L.A.,
ran up with the Govt. Printer perished when the
M.L.A. lost his seat. In fact, while he retained
his seat he was never pressed, and thus the mem-
ber who got his little speech reset or bound, or
otherwise used the office, escaped payment, what-
ever happened. In Potter and Richards’ days
hundreds of pounds worth of work was done in
the Govt. Printing office yearly, to gratify mem-
bers’ vanity, and for 15 or 20 years not one mem-
ber paid the account tendered to him.


WOLFE’S
SCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
A
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
and
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEWYORK:
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
for
WolfeS
Schnapps
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
CITIZENS’
Head Offices: Cr. Moore and Castlereagh Sts,, Sydney,
Directorss
JOHN SEE, Esq., M.P., Chairman.
W. J. LYNE, Esq., M.P.
J. J. POWER, Esq., M.B.
F. B. FREEHILL, Esq., M.A.
Actuary: W. R. DOVEY, F.F.A.
Resident Secretary: P. J. O’DRISC/OLL.
LIFE
Assurance Co., Ltd.
JOHN J. GARY AN, Esq., F.S.S., Managing
Director.
SIR W. P. MANNING, Knt.
F. COFFEE, Esq.
General SecretaryAßTHUß M. EEDY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Australia has been built
to please everyone who desires
the luxury of living in the best
style, at a cost that is strictly
moderate.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manaqbr,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
About M‘Gregor’s courtship. At a ball,
up North, bashful M'Gregor fell in love with the
belle. He took her for a ride next day. For the
first six miles he never spoke a word ; then he
asked her if she had ever seen an owl. She looked
at him. “ Yes,” she said, and laughed heartily.
M'Gregor joined in the laugh and thought he was
making wonderful headway.
• * * *
Apropos Steele Rudd’s “Dad.” T’other
day a lean, heavy, Gippsland selector called at
office of a bung Melb. building society to cash
five cheques of <£lo each, representing interest on
deposits dated ’B5 to ’B9, cheques drawn on since-
defunct City of Melb. Bank. The poor devil hadn’t
been in town since he got the first in ’B5 ; “didn’t
know the society was winding up, but thought it
was time he got some more cheques.”
• * * *
“ Yarrum ” tells what a South Coast
(N.S.W.) farm-hand does for 6s. a week :
He “turns out” at 5 a.m., makes fire, gropes around
gullies after cows, which are yarded at six. Then milks
for two hours, and has hardly sat down to breakfast be-
fore he is hurried away to separate milk. Separates, feeds
pigs and poddies, catches and harnesses moke, and away
with milk to catch train. Back with “empties” at 11,
washes cans, and off to dig spuds, after which yokes up
bullocks, and fetches load or two of wood from ranges.
After dinner, cuts couple of waggon-loads of greenstuff,
and distributes it about paddocks for cows ; ploughs a
bit, and rides two miles to P.O. Then again after cows,
which are “in” at five. Sweeps milking-shed, milks till
7, and separates till 8. Then cleans separator—an hour’s
graft ; and feeds poddies and pigs once more. Then sup-
per, and after helps make tallow-candles until 10.30, and
attends “ family prayers ” till 11. Then to bunk, from
which he is called in his shirt, on average three times
nightly, to “ sool ” dogs on bull in sorghum-crop, or chase
native-cats from hen-roost. “ Between time 9 ” he is ex-
pected to “set” hens, and run down bandicoots and
hares for dog’s feed. What sort of a boss should he make ?
* * * *
From the Far North :
Besides Chows, Japs and Kanakas, Cairns(N.Q.l is now
over-run with dirty, turban-roofed Hindoos. They mostly
take stumping and chipping contracts from- alleged white
sugarrrs, and are bossed by one of their own lot, who
makes the bulk of the money. Periodically, numbers of
them stink out the local P. 0., where they go to send
money to India. (The official returns of these remittances
should be interesting.) Said that one Hindoo has £4OO in
the Q.N.8., made by gang-bossing. Intends shortly to go
to India for fresh contingent of nigs., who will work for
almost nix. At present, tucker, &0., costs him the
fabulous sum of 4Jd. per nig. per diem. In India, men
will walk 10 miles to work 16 hours for 4d., and then 10
miles back. And yet whites are asked to compete with
such ! May Heaven jump on the Dickson Govt. I —6Y.H.
* • * •
’“Gobung”: “U.” (B. 17/6/’99) says
bushwhackers don’t trouble over trifles. Neither
do shellbacks. For instance : In a ship of which
writer was 0.5., one of the crew, a red-headed
Scotchman, while having a surreptitious smoke on
the mainyard, fell on to the deck—about 30ft. —
THE NOBLE ANIMAL.
SELECTOR’S SHORT-SIGHTED WIFE (who is driving
a “jibby” horse, not noticing the log): “Get
up, you old knock-kneed beast I You might
work them jibbin’ tricks with the old man, but
I’ll be hanged if you can get ’em on here!”
and while we were rushing to pick him up he
arose himself, and deplored, with many oaths, the
smashing of his pipe !' He had broken his wrist,
too. Later on, as we were nearing Sydney Heads,
I was shaving same philosopher when razor
slipped, making three-inch gash in his cheek.
“Nevermind,” said he, “shove a lump of soap
in it 1 ”
A Bulletin man once saw a hand fall from
foretopgallant - yard and be shunted off by
lower-rigging into sea. He was picked up none
the worse, except for a smart bruise where he
had “glanced ” the “swifter ” ; yet, rubbing said
ON A WESTERN RUN.—PULLING BOGGED
SHEEP OUT OF A TANK .
bruise, and looking at said swifter (which had
saved him from everlasting smash), he grumbled
out that “ some of the blanky gear was always in
the way ! ” But only Bull-land could have pro-
duced him.
* * * *
N.S.W. school-inspector’s report on the
aboriginal school at Brungle recommends that the
full public-school course of studies should be fol-
lowed in future. His recommendation is based
on the high merit of the children’s attainments in
their present limited list of subjects. The report
is valuable, especially if compared with the reports
of 20 or 30 years ago, when it was the fashion to
speak of aboriginals as incapable of substantial
brain-development. Govt, then only hoped to im-
part a few of !the barest rudiments, and scholastic
authorities gave small encouragement to that
hope.
• * * *
“ A. A.” : As soon as old and deaf German
Anton started to fill the seed-peas into the drills
prepared for them, Shandy, the pet emu, keeping
a few yards behind, faithfully followed along the
drills swallowing every blessed pea as he went.
Three hours from the start Anton finished, and
turned round in time to observe the last few peas
being picked up. Not a pea was left in the whole
40 drills. The old ’un swore loud and long
in English and German, got the gun out, and
blew the head off the pea-swallower. Then, after
much deliberation, he buried the remains in the
centre of the plot ; and although they were sown
somewhat broadcast, every one of those peas came
up, and we had by far the best crop in the valley.
* • • •
“ F.P.” : Re time snakes can live without
food (“Caesar,” 8., 3/6/’99). Had a 3ft. 6in.
carpet snake which lived foodless for five months,
and seemed none the worse. Wouldn’t look at
rat put into cage.
• • * *
“No. 7 ” : Millionairish fortune awaiting
somebody in the blank, blinding desert—which, in
wet seasons, isn’t a
desert. Then the de-
pressions (miles long)
fill with water and
swarm with fish.
How they come is a
poser—not being dy-
ing - fish. Drought
arrives; lakes go;
fish stay— very dead.
Result of
long con-
tinuance of
this is that
a deep de-
posit,
principal-
ly of fish,
remains, covered with white
stuff, like salt or magnesia.
In the drought, far off, at
evening, you see a dazzling
lake, and, when you get up,
it is this stuff shining like
water. Millions of tons in
various places. What about
a “ Central Australian Consolidated Manure Co.” ?
« * * *
“ C.F.” : Re snakes’ swallowing capacity
(B. 17/6/’99). Anyone knowing construction of
snakes’ jaw will easily swallow the Clonourry pill.
Know myself of 24ft. python taking in big sow
(containing 13 young). Once killed a 4ft. python
with a dozen duck’s eggs in him. Not very un-
common to find in Borneo jungle skeletons of large
python and of big sambur stag side by side ; the
snake having crushed deer to death and been
choked in endeavoring to swallow the antlers.
Snakes invariably swallow their prey head-first,
and in these cases the “ tines,” acting as barbs,
prevent either further swallowing or rejection.
* * * *
Dear Bulleiin. —White magpie, I ob-
serve, is “ off but, re albino animals in general;
at a Buddhist temple near Kobe (Japan) is a fine
collection of these, including, when I saw it, deer
and monkeys. Although albinos have, generally,
red eyes, pure white cats often have one brown
and one blue, and such cats, strange to say, are
invariably deaf. Have seen albino Chinaman and
Filipino of Palawan. The white elephant of
Siam is not albino, color being due to skin disease,
as is also the mottling of the “ marbled ” negro.
-C.F.
A mean joke waa
once played on a re-
cen tl y - deceased Vio.
M.L.C. The old fellow,
a miner of 1852, plumed
himself on geology ;
and, to test him, a
friend procured a lump
of a certain dishonor-
able substance found
in a street where dogs
are numerous, and
submitted it for in-
spection. “ That, ”
said the authority, “is
ky-olin. Ky-olin exists
in large quantities
on the coast of
Switzerland, and
contains nearly
twice its own
weight in copper.”
• •
“ Yar ” : Near
Milton (N.S.W.)
lives a boy who
has been snake-
bitten three times
(twice on band and
once on calf). Each time cured himself by
tying ligature above wound and remaining
an hour or so in running water. Just now, he
must be about snake-proof. [Nothing to show
that the immersion had anything to do with re-
covery.]
• * * *
Western Riverina court. Two aboriginals
up for stealing. First darkie (to prosecuting ier-
geant): “You see Charlie” (his mate) “go into
kich’n ? ” “ Yes I did.” “ You see Charlie come
out’gen?” “Yesldid.” “ You see me go into
this kich’n?” “Yes.” Darkie (excited)Now
then, Mr. Pleeceman, you see me come out of this
kich’n?” Sergeant hesitates. “No, I didn’t
see you come out.” Darkie (triumphantly to
Bench): “Den I mus’ b ederyet/ Jus’you dis-
missem us, boss ! ” J.P. (deliberately): “Oi
gives the pair o’ yez 12 months each apiece, and
that black villain that spoke larst. six months
extry for using disrepectful abuse to this bench.”
Collapse of the dusky “ Plunkett.”
A WRONG REGIMEN.
BOSS COOKIE: “ Leavin’ 'cause of the tucker I
Why, you've got fat since you came here.”
HIS HAND: “ That’s the trouble —gotter work to
keep me weight down.”
“ Vernon ” : Zoological lore! Leaving
Tambo for Blackall (Q.) with menagerie and
circus, it somehow got rumored that one of our
lions had escaped. Three miles out of Tambo we
received a “ wire ” from a Blackall business man—
“ Hear you lost lion. Was seen in six-mile pad-
dock. Will be all right; plenty grass,”
* * * *
“Beth” : Re “ Werrimee ” (24/6/’99) on
the social status of the police. A policeman is no
more a “ toff ” out-back ” than “inside,” and he
doesn’t mix “ only with squatters and sich.” He
mixes with everybody, as everybody else does—if
the ordinary interchange of civilities by people
who know each other can be called “ mixing.”
And, out-back, everyone does know the other ;
likewise his horse and his ox and his maid-ser-
vant and the prospects of an increase in the
family—the writer knows everyone within 100
miles of him and most within 150. Wherever one
finds rabbits and saltbush, he can rely on hospi-
tality, whatever his status. That’s all. When
the out-back squatter is more than the mere repre-
sentative of a company—when he is a squatter—he
is in nine cases out of ten a liberal, genial host
whose mind has expanded with his acres ; and,
as a rule, he is intellectually and every other way
superior to the long-faced coastal cookie, who
fancies his farm the universe, himself God. and the
“bobby” but a worm of the earth. Further,
with all deference to “ Werrimee,” the law out-
back is no more one-sided than anywhere else.
There is generally a P.M., and when there isn’t
the friendship of squatter with police would
scarcely breed bias in civil cases ; and it is only in
civil cases that the squatters’ interests are likely
to be involved. Even then his adjudication in
any shape is not an indispensable condition.
Drought has reduced the muster of cattle
on one Cunnamulla (S.W. Queensland) run from
6000 to 200. And south, over the border, a
Walgett station has losb 36,000 out of 47,000 sheep.
Yet, further west, as at Cobham, the season is
particularly good—partly because of patchy rains,
partly because for some years past the country
hasn't been overstocked.
* * * *
Hard times have been responsible for
numerous kangarooing parties in the most acces-
sible districts of Westralia, and the slaughter has
been great. One S.W. trader alone has taken in
3500 skins this season. Native-dogs, following
the hunters for the carcasses, have become a pest
to the sheep-men, who are appealing to the police
for protection.
* * * *
A Maoriland doctor claims to have dis-
covered that early rising leads to kleptomania and
insanity. Present writer fully believes that, so
far as the kleptomania is concerned. The earliest
rising he ever did was 18 years ago, when he got
up at 2 a.m. on a winter’s morning in a miserable
hotel among the Gippsland mountains, to leave in
a coach which started through a snowstorm at
three. That* morning he took an overcoat that
didn’t belong to him (he had one, but he put them
both on), also a pair of gloves that seemed more
woolly than his own, and somebody’s flask. And
before he had been two hours on the roof of the
vehicle he could have passed as a very respectable
lunatic. Early rising leads to stealing clothes,
right enough.
* * * *
“ Heimsdal” : Snake-pets are not so rare
as seems to be thought. A Kilmore (Vic.) resi-
dent used to have a tame “ carpet,” which was
allowed to roam about all day, but was usually
shut in at night. It used to turn up at regular
hour for allowance of milk. Kept the place clear
of rats and mice, and was a great favorite with
family. One night was forgotten, and got on bed
in room set apart for guest, who, on entering late
at night, took a gun and ignorantly shot the pet.
A Mudgee resident frequently carries snakes about
with him—poisonous ones at that —and the reptiles
seem to know him.
“ J.R.” : Re sheep taking to water. When
the Cockburn river, after long drought, began to
flow again in something like a stream, I saw some
sheep walk deliberately in and paddle about
for 10 minutes or so in depths of from up to
bellies to nearly swimming. This, which
I never otherwise saw happen, was about
a dozen miles from Tam worth, at a
place where boundary-riders have to
swear themselves hoarse trying to get
jumbucks across when the stream is
only ankle-deep.
* » *
“ Number Seven Grien-
Rougemont doesn’t stiike
me as half the liar he is
cracked up to be—or else I
am another. Have been
at Cadelgo (out Sturt’s
Stony Desert w ay). for
years, and seen things
that would astonish
you. Have seen
blacks swim 100yds.
(or more) under
water and catch wild
ducks by the legs.
Didn’t want th m,
cither, being v. ell-ted
station nigs. Have
seen a darkie try all
the morning after a duck, and, when he at
last got it, throw it away.
* * * *
“Kooka”: Re frog-cannibalism. The large
green frog will swallow his smaller brother every
time. The little chap swells, kicks, and croaks;
but he goes down all the same. After dusk in the
bush is often heard the protesting croak of the
victim. Dogs won’t meddle with frogs, but I have
known cats take to eating them, especially the
hind-legs. The big green frog is most useful
about a nursery, as it eats an enormous number of
moths and other nocturnal insect-pests. Have
known these frogs to be exported to the “ Old
Country ” for this purpose. Take small flower-
pot, half-fill with earth ; put in frog ; fill up with
earth ; turn pot upside-down on bottom of case,
and there is your frog good for three months, and
how much longer I can’t say. Best place to look
for this kind of frog is at banana-leaf stalk.
* * * *
“Yang Anyut”: Gippsland leeches (“U.,”
B. 17/6/’99) must be more amenable to reason than
those of Borneo. There, it’s almost impossible to
pull them off, and, in any case, ulcers are the re-
sult of forcible removal. A touch of tobacco or
salt, however, soon shifts ’em. Have wakened up
with a couple hanging to inside of my cheek, and
know of their getting into even less accessible
places, from which dislodgment was only effected
by a surgeon! Socks, “pullys” and gaiters, in
conjunction, even fail to keep ’em off one s feet
during Borneo’s rainy seasons.


One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney—who own the Willson patents for
Australasia—are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. Thisco. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
COLD LINKS
LONDON MADE.
BEST FINISH.
lOot., 12/6
150 t., 21/-
lOofc., 12/6
150 t., 21 1-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney),
.23 Hunter Street (Only).
In this issue is the portrait of Bernard
Espinasse, who so recently and effectively drama-
tised “ The Three Musketeers ” for Mr. Geo.
Rignold, and who commenced dramatic author-
ship, as a small boy, with a play in 15 acts and
67 scenes ! He has since been very successful
with pieces of less portentous dimensions, and,
though actually English-born, may fairly be con-
sidered Australia’s best dramatist. Mr. Espinasse,
who has also had a turn at journalism, has in all
about two dozen pieces to his credit, and has at
present two plays under consideration by London
managers.
E. D. Millen, Land, Mining and Financial
Agent, 14 O’Connell-st., Sydney. Applications
under Advances to Settlers Act prepared and con-
ducted.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ingextending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. 11. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian, gems.*
An English paper publishes a vague and
feeble fiction —extensively reprinted in Australia—
to the effect that a nervous bride lately got- mar-
ried to the groom’s best man by mutual mistake at
the altar. The peculiar inanity of this yarn lies
in the fact that marriages are not completed at
the altar, but in the vestry, where the register is
signed. Even if the. parson were allowed to hitch
the wrong “boy” to the right girl, the other
fellow would be bound to recover his self-posses-
sion when the parties adjourned to the little room
at the back. Moreover, if the parties were not
properly sorted out in the vestry the best man’s
signature in the fatal book wouldn’t correspond
with the husband’s name as entered from the
special license or the marriage banns.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
GIVE THAT “TIRED FEELING” A REST
AND DRINK
WHITE LABEL LAGER
WATSOISPS WHISKY.
A PROTEST.
MISS SMITH : “ What do you think of all this talk
of Lord Beauchamp marrying an Australian
girl?”
MRS. JONES: “ There ain't no truth in it. Look
at me—I ’ave six unmarried daughters, and
yet I ain’t give the matter a thought, and I
'aren't ’eard you express no ’ope.”
Warren (N.S.W.) Laud Board faces a
unique phase of the unprovided-for. One Mait-
leni, of Grulargumbone, drew a lot at a land ballot.
The law provides that the result of the ballot
must be confirmed ere the drawer takes legal pos-
session. In this case, when the day to confirm
arrived, it was found that Maitlem had died.
But, before dying, Maitlem had devised his
estate, leaving all to relations. Now the relations
claim to go on the land, but the drawer of the
ballot paper next to Maitlem’s insists that the
land should fall to him. And the Board has no
precedent.
* * • *
In this olf-season of the year the current
wage in some of the best S. Australian farm dis-
tricts is now 3s. fid. per day of about 10 hours. In
the fruitful Stratlialbyn district the best offer any
of a party of young men could get was 3s. a day.
They have “ gone West.”
* * * •
Year after year S. A.’s gilded stock-
breeder, J. H. Angas, to whom a few lb. of wool
doesn’t make much difference, gives the job of
shearing his Hill River flocks to the aborigines of
the two southern S.A. mission stations. Forty
shearers and eight pickers have just been mustered
for the work.
“Eccles” : The potato
cookies of N.W. Tasmania
havecurious inethodsof trans-
porting spuds. Usually yoke
two bulls to a dray with a
horse in the lead, bulls often
havi n g horses’ breechings
fastened to the yokes. But
the funniest team I’ve seen
consisted of an ancient gee-
gee—all hips and shoulder-
blades and ribs—in the shafts,
with an equally antique he-
cow in the lead, wearing a
horse-collar upside-down !
“C.C. ” : Your iguana-
eating correspondent must
have a queer taste. Shot one
recently, and, ere he was quite
dead, his mate came down same
tree and started to eat him. Shot
the cannibal, and an exploration of
his interior panned-out —Fore-paw of a
wallaroo, hind-leg of a kangaroo-rat, shank-
bone of a sheep, hoof of same, and various odds and
ends of carrion. A dainty dish—ugh !
* • * *
iSons are forking hay up to old cookie, bare-
footed on top of stack, when suddenly the old man
gives a yell, slides down off stack, and bolts
towards house, shouting “Boys, I’m bitten!”
Sons capture him. One pulls out knife, locates
bite in ball of foot, and carves out egg-sized chunk.
Then they waltz patient around for half-an-liour
to prevent falling asleep, dosing him, at intervals,
with kerosene —only “stimulant”obtainable. But
no symptoms of snake-poisoning appear, and ex-
amination of cut-out piece reveals embedded
thistle-spine !
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Nad Dyoll : No flour in that damper
E.S.H. : Give your verses to the young lady direct
M.C.S. : “ Ode to Bed” put there W.M.W. : Parody
unusable—and you’re miles away from Whitman ... Fos-
sette : “Early Morning” is the better ; hut is not quite
individual and distinguished enough D.S. : The Boers
are drilled by German otficers, anyhow Nemo : The
“ 17-and-16-are-32 ” catch may be new up your way. Very
old down here Daniel Murphy : The powers of the
proposed Federal Governor are exactly the same as those
which the provincial Governor has now. So if you reject
Federation because of the arrangement about the Gover-
nor’s powers, you remain under exactly the same arrange-
ment, only without Federation 8.T.: Scheme for mak-
ing Britain and the United States into “ a great Eng-
lish empire ” has been put in the dog-kennel. “On His
Beat” good in places, but metre and rhyme go wrong
from too hastily “ dashing it off.” ...Grin and Bear It :
We grin .... Snakejuice : No. Only the returning-officer
or his deputy has a right to interfere in the matter
Marco : Story has good points, though it is written in the
language of the American comic-paper tramp —not in
Australian loaferese M.H. : No moral in it save that
when a woman who is untrue to her husband gets in front
of a runaway horse her sin will surely find her out.
It is like the terrible case of the man Who robbed his trust-
ing friend and was accidentally shot 35 years afterwards.
...Mac : Interesting, but if we'printed it, it would be said
with some show of reason that we were “ glorifying
a criminal.” H.S. (Boulder): Victoria perhaps excels
in light wines : South Australia in heavy wines. But
plenty of good light wine is grown in S. A., and Victoria
also produces good heavy wines P.A. : But such
qualities are not “ merely normal they involve restraint,
of natural impulse, and successful resistance to tempta-
tion is as fair a subject for self-congratulation as any
other kind of success . O.W. :We don’t know, but we
have read that all four ships, Dunbar (Sydney Heads),
Duncan Danbar, Phoebe Dunbar, and Dunbar Castle,
were wrecked within 15 years.. Eucalyptus: The
Bulletin wasn’t talking of morality. It was talking of
conventional decency—quite another thing. Some of the
most immoral people know how to behave themselves in
public while some of the most moral contrive to con-
tinually shock others’ sense of propriety M.A. : You
are precocious, but not in the literary way C.M. A.: The
poem-in-prose isn’t acclimatised here A.O.C. : Tiie
Bulletin is only a paper—not a squattage. It can’t stop
to howl much over the victory in N.S.W. The time and
space are both wanted to boost along the movement in
other provinces M. : Just you call and enquire for him
—and tell him that you are the writer of that post-
card Kooka : Text-gag antique Kline : Thanks, but
Bulletin never puts marmala eon its own plate. Self-
praise is no recommendation Also, this paper never
speaks of itself as a “valuable” journal. “Valuable”
is too indefinite a word. The Bulletin’s price is sixpence
—6s. 6d. quarterly in advance “ D.S. ’: Well, suppose
you are staying at the Metropole, why on earth should
we publish that bald fact ? We have known much
more important people to stay in the Domain
A.J.G. : Below criticism ...J.G.J. : No value A.B. :
Simply abysmal M.H. : “ Black-boy” not good enough;
nor “Dawn.” H.O. : “Quest” would be bettered by
concentration; will look up “Rosalind”; writing
Gilaomi: Wants foroe and interest ... Pukaki: Will use
“ R.” F.M. : Letter posted Malthus : Don’t al-
together agree ... J.O.E. :No use to man or god or devil.
R.G.N. : All stale news. .. Jumbuck: Funny, but
unprintable M. Grime: Never ...Oponura: Thanks
for cutting ...Subscriber (Oreswick): Presume some-
A BAD SIGN.
1ST BULLOCKY : “ Have you seen Tom since he left
the horspital?”
2ND DITTO : "Yes; and he says he feels better,
but I don't think so—he ain't got a single curse
in him.”
body’s arithmetic went wrong .. H.O. : Anti-Bill items
out of date now . .H.A. (Brisbane): Item about horse
and God not large enough Tired Tommy : Thanks
Frank: Many thanks Randwick: Not enough thrill.
Baloo : Unsavoury David G.: None of them quite
hit the mark .. Mixer: One suggestion may do
Eugenia: “New Woman on ’Change” doesn’t “get
there.” Nora : Poem seems quite tame, so we risk one
verse—
....Bimble : Undressed part of that yarn would have slain
it, even if white-cow ghost hadn’t been such a weary old
spectre Saltbush : Clumsy and overdone.. Stan W. :
Factory-made lyric .. Karl C. : Has promise, but is
hardly class enough Gobung: “ Averted,” well enough
conceived, but too daring of detail and rather crudely
handled Jack Shay: “ The baby is the crux of the
sex-problem.” On the contrary, the perennial baby is
the best proof that there isn’t any sex-problem. Also,
the most profitable parents to the race are those who,
combining fair intellectual and physical development,
are most likely to produce a moderate number of well-
endowed children. Genius produces either no children
or degenerates; animalism produces, with rabbit-facility,
progeny with rabbit-intellect. Nature reverts ever to
the “ norm.” ... Irex :No point Darkie : You wander
aimlessly round the subject ; but, briefly', the white man
and the black, under like conditions, are about equally
oruel. As to Australian blacks never inflicting pain—
what aboutthe “bora”? Onlooker : “ There’s nothing
In It.” Oh, yes; there’s something In it, but not enough....
Adea : Veteran idea Phil G. : Bishop-yarn Silurian .....
6YH. : A J.P. who runs a billiard-table 1 Well, urn t that
as respectable as running a drinkery? Commercial :
Unpleasantly suggestive of unspeakableness Harmer :
Old—why “ The Banjo” told it in verse years ago .....Ben
Sun : Mining-sketch and monkey-yarn may possibly pass.
... Wilga : Threadbare subject, and treatment disfigured
by gross improbabilities S.S.: Don’t know, but Mulhall
writes that a eucalypt has been known to grow 24ft. in
three months Brolga : See memo, posted J.B.T. j
Weakly unclean. ..Liches: “ Excuse me while I curse
is an appropriate last line E.C.: Unusable Fern:
“Memories” not strong enongh; thinking over “Even-
ing.” (If you don’t see it, we’ve thought it under.)
T.E.R.: Tedious W. Griffith (B. of G.): You send no
address with your excellent verses Lanoo : Telling not
up to mark R.B.H. : Purely domestic J.S.: Too
stiff Louis M.: Old ; and you handle it awkwardly....
H. L.: Unusable R.J.M.: Not bright enough T.D.
(W.A.): Please send separate paragraphs, not a long, con-
fused narrative. Most of your items are stale news ..
J. Ilix : Might do for Mr. Goodge to re-write. Story old,
and your versification doesn’t freshen it. His would.
Over the mountain, over the sea,
There is a little brook thrice dear to me ;
Oft has its waters washed o’er my feet—
Where is the stone that was made for a seat ?
The N.S.W. Speakership.
“ Locdst,” which name covers the personality
of a well-known M.P., writes on the subject of
chaos:—
Dear Bulletin.— lt is certain that, at the opening of
next session of N.S.W. Parliament, Speaker Abbott will
retire, in consequence of ill-health, which everyone, I am
sure, regrets. A choice must then be made of the pre-
siding-officer of the rowdiest debating assembly in the
world, perhaps, with the exception of Austria. It can
safely be said that there is less bright debating-power per
representative in N.S.W. House than in any other Aus-
tralian Assembly; and yet there is an oceanic flow of
speeches. Causes not far to seek. Number one : Absence
of local-government. Local affairs come up for debate —
if you can call it debate —in the Assembly, which ought to
be threshed out in shire councils or divisional boards.
You have long ago pilloried the “member for Smith’s
Curse ” and the gigantic hearings of eloquence over the
“ bridge at Monkey.” Yet you would not be so hard on
the member for Smith’s Curse if you knew chat he had for
several weeks received threatening letters from some of
his constituents with regard to the bridge at Monkey, or
from another set, all related, who wanted to get the
failure of the family into the police where the
failures invariably go (when they are brieht and
successful, they become school - teachers). That
member, perhaps, has roosted on departmental door-
mats for several days until he is as exasperated as his
constituents. When the estimates come on he is “ loaded
for bear.” So are others—and the results are deliberative
chaos every time. Cause No. 2—want of local govern-
ment. You don’t elect debaters, you have no use for
them. Statesmen are shunted for departmental hustlers.
[All right, I’m coming to the Speakership gradually.]
You remember the actual, veritable arguments used
against Barton in the Hastings and Macleay election :
“ Mr. Barton is a statesman and therefore the worst man
you can get. He won’t hustle for roads and bridges and
culverts. He may save the country, but he’ll ruin your
district. Federation may result from his election, but
what’s the use if your drays are bogged at Mudtrap?
Elect Mr. Smith. He has absolutely no capacity politi-
cally, is not listened to in the House, and therefore can
sleep soundly while Barton is debating and get ahead of
him at the opening of the Works Department door next
morning.” Cause Nos. 3,4, 5, &o. Same old cause.
Now, as to the rowdiness of the Assembly. Perhaps it’s
the plan of the building which lends itself to the disorder.
Or perhaps it’s the natural hoggishness of the members
themselves. See them trying to catch the Speaker’s eye.
Mr. Blank, a man of large bulk, comes from the cross-
benches, say, from which he should have risen, and sits
on the Government or Opposition benches, well up to the
front. When the previous man sits down (and often
before) a dozen jump up together. The bulky man inter-
poses his elephantine carcase before several better men
than himself, and gets the call. If he doesn’t, he makes
it unpleasant in the lobbies, or worries the Speaker or
Chairman till they are afraid of him. This is an actual
instance —one Of many. It is a rule with Speakers—a
good rule, too—to call, a man from each side successively.
I have seen some of these belligerent members cross sides
in order to secure the call, and speak from the side hostile
to them. This is opposed to the very ancient and honor-
able etiquette, which keeps men on their own side of the
garden fence. Yet these “pointers” are tolerated, and
are more successful in securing the call than those even
whose speeches are worth listening to.
The new Speaker ought to be a man whose first duty
would be to put his boot down on these blatherskites
His next most important duty would be to sit down hard
on interrupters. Speeches in N.S.W. Assembly are rarely
solos, they are generally duets, trios, quartettes, or
choruses. And the stupid, senseless, inane interjections
are actually reported in Hansard (nowhere _ else),
whether they are pertinent to the speech, or imper-
tinent to everything and everyone—which they gene-
rally are. This ought to be stopped, and you want
a man who is capable of doing it. Who is the
man—that’s the question !- It is alleged that M'Coort
is the Governmental choice. If this choice goes,
Chaos itself will be law and order compared to the result.
Mr. M’Court’s amiability of disposition, which secures
for him the liking of the House, absolutely unfits him for
ruling a “ wild-west ” Assembly like ours. Imagine a
lamb presiding over an assembly of wolves—and goats 1
When a wolf rises to a point of order, showing a nice set
of teeth, what is the poor lamb to do ? Especially when
the lamb doesn’t know anything about Parliamentary
law and has never succeeded in learning the faintest rudi-
ments ! But when several wolves rise together, led by the
champion interjector of the House—the Int.erjector-
General—in the person of the Premier—well, then
Debate flies disgusted to the refreshment-room, and
Disorder ensues. Lyne is mentioned— Copeland, Ashton,
none of whom know a single thing about Parliamentary
law, and are therefore doomed to failure for lack of tech-
nical knowledge. Wise would be a good choice ; but
Wise is after higher game, I should think. Crick is
about the only man actually equipped for the position;
but he prefers, evidently, to waste his fine gifts on the
turf. So he’s out of it. I look in despair for a man who
possesses the necessary firmness combined with the
necessary knowledge, who has suavity of demeanor, com-
bined with inflexible impartiality, who has the iron hand
in the velvet glove, and yet is a sociable mortal when off
duty. Such a man would rescue N.S.W. Parliament from
the stigma of brutality and stupidity (a character which
the last two Parliaments have earned and deserved), and
would secure an honorable and well-paid position for as
long as he liked to hold it.— Locust.
That Obnoxious “ State Interference.”
“ F.C.” writes on the above subject:
The Vic. Factories Act, ’96, expires this year, and the
local Anti-Sweating League is already working hard not
only for a re-enactment, but also for a much wider exten-
sion of its provisions. Wherefore, the remarks of F. T.
Derham, president of Vic. Chamber of Manufacturers, on
the subject are interesting. Derham is practical owner
of a large local factory (Swallow & Ariell), and is loth
to admit the existence in the community of any such
thing as sweating, except, perhaps, among a few small
firms. “Although,” remarked the illogical Derham,
“ the existence of this evil must be deplored by every
right-thinking person, to endeavor to cope with it by
widely extending the operations of the present Act would
be a mistake.” He did not approve of Govt, interference
with wages rates. The more those engaged in the work
of building up a country were left alone the better, me
Chamber must set its face strongly against the proposal
of the Anti-Sweating League—that a B 11 should be intro-
duced into Parliament for the appoinim nt of boards to
fix rates of wages and hours of labor in any trade.
Which last—for the information of employers generally—
is exactly what Democrats and Progressives in all the pro-
vinces want to bring about. The provisions of the Yic. 96
Factories Act, especially those relating to hours of labor,
wages boards and apprentices, have already worked im-
mense good in the few trades to which they apply, and
there is no reason why similar provisions should not be
extended to all trades and occupations. How is it that,
in some Melb. suburbs, drapers’ and milliners’ assistants
get no half-holiday, while bootmakers and barbers ana
sundry other workers next door get an afternoon a week .
Why are tinsmiths exempt to such an extent that one
Melb. firm employs nearly twice as many boys as men ?
Why are butter-factories, creameries, and wineries ex-
empt? The Butter Factory Managers’ Conference, sitting
at Melb. recently, told some beautiful tales as to the
sweating carried on in that greasy trade. (An instance
was given of three of the largest Vic. factories whose
annual turnover amounted to £160,000, whose managers
received as salary barely o'4B per cent, of that sum among
them, while the Melb.' agenbs-they were middlemen—
BERNARD ESPINASSE.
Photo., Exchange Studios.
gathered in no less than 4’4 per cent). Also, why are
certain laundries, alleged to be carried on for charitable
purposes, carefully exempted, while the ordinary white-
shirt-ironer has to comply with the regulations? More-
over, the books of the Anti-Sweating League show
that it is not the small man only who grinds his few em-
ployes ; the big wholesale trader, whose name stands
high, who is a pillar of the church and a liberal donor
to charitable and philanthropic objects, owes his wealth
and position to his ability to squeeze his workers. And
as the policy of the Fat Man Govts, of the past has been
that of strict non-interference, in accordance with the
gorgeous theory of free competition and the equally gor-
geous law of supply-and-demand, and as the result has
been unlimited sweating and bone-grinding and industrial
slavery, it is time any Govt, which pretends to call itself
democratic started in to perform the duty so long neg-
lected. The Turner Government made a fair beginning
at the work so far as the brutishly-selfish House of 48
Rich Landlords would permit. But it was only a begin-
ning, and unless the country stands by with a large brick
ready for its House of Landlords that beginning will be
an ending also.


THE POLITICIAN WHO WENT AWAY.
M'ILWBAITH : “ My boy, I rise in my expensive London mansion to warn you. This Bill means direct taxation on the Fat Man; if you federate you are ruined.'
QUEENSLAND : “ Why, I heard that you were ruined. We all fancied you were in the Benevolent Asylum."


*«Wed h ‘“/*">«» ingles Ua r
fc-, r» n, emb er /vt
*n Ik | * or
*feV*^^ r »*t«7'; "Won J„ he %> mtisf
4?«? «" th . "»* * n ' l ;' tf >e j^Lf^Part
uw
Itemfjgo fe gaining fin enviable name as'
the nursery of artistic talent. w
£?mT |(j e^
' r?/;Wkl. iv/“’™Z ce 7 —/
And, to take an instance of
tlie other class, what Is the use of
.taking up the question of old-age pen-
sions on,the eve of union, when we
kuow that, at the wish of those who
believe in the principle, this sufejeet t
has been handed over to the Federal-
Legislature?. It one or
two states, notwithstanding that union
Is near, persist In rushing measures of
this nature on to their statute-hooks,
they will deliberately create eonfusioul
and difficulty. No scheme of old-age
pensions should be thought of except a
national one.
fl/rotee
Oq deforce tfe 7?derc\/ ™,
7%r7/\yevT~ <q? Pfe «Aj*
tf?Arou S : VbPsiw! /cf~sfcn*toh
<=7> go or, wvff /as
f 000R-
** - n.’su-ans^'r
/lot oe
af/rp/f-estyoK
zpotfe-r, Jf'is-rfe:
Tpzp w}o Cap Zffir e cs\
rffeT/ofte' of- 3e/*pgr
\sus/ev<? c <l <>y '/tfe
I \fius//?ess -e-pcL
\?7y?\cfe. "
MELBOURNIANA.


A SILVER WATCH
G-IVEKT A-WAY!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
\A7E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T*E T * M * F* R E* E*Y* O * Y.
The only'condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
“The Manager English Watch Co. —Wesleyan Parson-
age, Port Fairy, Vic., 29/4/’99. Dear Sir. —I beg to
acknowledge receipt of watch and chain, and am pleased
to state that both are very satisfactory.—Yours truly,
M. Cock.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
“ Bohemian
FORTUNE TELLING
and Flaying Cards.
Latest Novelty !
Most Amusing and Entertaining.
Post free to any part of Australia, ONE SHILLING and
TWOPENCE (1/2).
sar* These Cards are a Full Set and may be used as
Ordinary Playing Cards.
The “ARCADIAN” Razor : Hollow Ground, equal
to any Razor advertised. This article we guarantee,
and is stamped with our name. Post free and regis-
tered, 6/6 (Six Shillings and Sixpence).
R USSELL~WILKINS,
RED ARCADE,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Branches—
Ipswich, Maryborough, Mackay, Warwick, Gladstone,
Townsville, and Charters Towers.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
£*7
Sit? l
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunisi
ld ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs>
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Arnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
VOTIIING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION. —Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1,6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. R'mission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
DODD’S KIDNEY PILLS.
/S'>
111
iumn
,VV '' «t*.
V. » .«***«" 0 *«* UKIIK] UUHI «■' „„•„ •‘ , ’ , aIU" -
* **Utg “Untit niiiinni o *»■ *“ ..nut"" 1 -X*
" w,fc wm»Mmimmn'w«** o
s-Tsrsrs^
The ONLY CERTAIN
cure for
Rheumatism,
Brights
Disease,
Diabetes,
AND ALL IMPURITIES OF THE BLOOD.
TESTIMONIALS have been received from ALL PARTS
of the WORLD.
Price, 2/9.
Fop sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers
Or will be sent (post paid) on receipt of price by
The Dodds Medicine Co., 17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
A Beautiful Fabric,
THE
*[ouis*
VELVETEEN.
NOTE WELL I—Each yard of
Genuine “LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled LOU'I'S
and in no other way) and is
stamped with a guarantee of
wear.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
King Street, Sydney.
“166 Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I’i ice, 10s. (ill.
Sole Agents :
2
Ihe Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-832 George- st Jt Sydney
KealGerman Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEE
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO- LONDON r
A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, JEWELLERY and SILVER-PLATE is the largest and best assorted stock
in Australia. Direct from the London House. Guaranteed the utmost satisfaction.
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
ALL AKTTCLES
POST FREE.
m
A. Saunders.
Special-made Gold Waltham, | Keyless Lever,
20 years’ guarantee, £4 4s; 14c. ditto, £5 6s;
25 years’ guarantee, extra jewelled, high-grade
works, £6 10s; pure Silver, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Perfect timekeepers. Extra strong. Highly re-
commended.
Wife WVy *> <
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Design, Gold Brooch. Bell, Chain.
Red, White, and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 25a
15c. Gold 3-bar Amethyst, 465.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold,
£2, as above. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2 16s.
Very Latest Style.
Silver Gilt, Turquoises, 3s 6d-
Any Initial.
18c. Gold, Pure 5 Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
8 Emeralds and 2 Diamonds,
£5 10s. Cut hole in card.
A, Saunders.
S-bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
15c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Links, Heart and
Dumb-bell, 12s 6d ;
Smaller, 10s 6d.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
9c. Gold, 22s 6<L
16c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
2 Birds, Chain, and 2 Diamond-out
Amethyst, 20s ; Pearl-set Birds, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold Pearl Set, £2.
Gold Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Red Stone Set Scroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock,
265, 30s, 355, £2 ss, £3,
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3,
£i, £4 10s, £5, £O, £ia
Extra for Key Padlock
All with Safety Chain.
160. Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 20 Diamonds, 8 Opals
or Sapphires. Extra Strong, £l2 10s.
Solid Gold Oharm that
charms, 10a od.
Procured onlv at
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds,
£3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£B, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold.
6 large Diamonds,
£2O, £25, £3O.
KINDLY
CALL,
IRY
US.
All Articles Post Free.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s ,
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s,
£3; Key, 255, 30s, 355; Solid Gold
Keyless, £4, £5 ; Superior Quality,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d: Extra Strong, 10s;
16c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d :
16c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6cL
a. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keener* iv.
Solid Gold, 6s fld,% 6d, 10s each; GoW
16s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s •' extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send lor card. ’
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR VARIED ASSORTED DISPLAY. ALL ARTICLES POST FREE,
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER, 815 G-eorge-street, SYDNEY (nearly opposite Railway Station).


/pf^A\-AWo^
my r \Jas i&acJe-t'
li
-Jrte.
f
i.1./i'A
I I'' Von
I, 1& *fiui-
M AS,S>S ?i
'T 3 £.T&.K • i
A
/V
ts_
'/s <=>K
"BiUtX
/ • If


DRINIfO/tfL*
WfflTEfP®
Ifflf
Meukows
BRANDY
ASK
FOR
__
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Treading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Jler<hants.
The Commercial World (London) writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society :
“ We always confidently anticipate a good year from this
vigorously-conducted Mutual Society. The circumstance,
therefore, that the figures for 1897 show no falling away
from the stead 3 r and substantial progress which is inse-
parably connected with the Society’s past career occasions
us no surprise. As a matter of fact, the Society earns its
success by deserving it, and, that much being conceded,,
the best possible has been said for the continuance of the
large measure of public support which it has hitherto
fallen to its fortunate lot to receive.” Pleasant reading.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY » CO.,
Ftirtiiture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Room*:, 324' George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
83F“ Sales Held at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walteb Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
Tli e Perfect Slaeep-Marker.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
In Three Colors — BLACK, BED and BLUE.
is
the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MARKING
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Justice portfolio, after a short and
not too distinguished rest in the hands of a lay-
man, goes back to the tight grasp of the prac-
tising solicitor, Gould, Lee, Hughes.
“ Are two-thirds of the electors to coerce
one-third ?’’asks ex-Premier George Dibbs, with
a hazy Federal fact in his eye. And G. D.
proposes to slay this monster of oppression by
working up *-be one-third to coerce the two-
thirds.
Reid, the first N.S.W. Attorney-General
Premier since James Martin’s day, will now have
to appoint Judges and sanction or withhold their
claims for holidays. While merely Premier he
used to say, “ I possess no patronage in respect to
the Bench.”
Minister Lee, who goes to N.S.W. Works
Department, is the only properly-called country
member in the Reid team. Brunker and Young
are Sydneyites in all essentials, while Carruthers,
Parkes, Hogue, Hughes, and Reid are Sydneyites
even in accidentals.
DIDN'T LIKE THE SECURITY.
ISAAC ABRAHAMS (financier, etc., etc.): “S’elp
me, Rebecca, one of us must shi ft from here!
Your fortune-telling shop next door to me tells
all de shentlemen’s deg vos coming into a
fortune right avay, and dey come to your poor
old fader and rants to borrow £50 on der spot
on der strength of der hr aspects.”
Sydney Telegraph’s Federal defeat
rankles ; and the bad blood issues in many sur-
prising places. Even its obituary notice of the
late Edmund Webb, a Bathurst resident, whom
999-1000ths of Australians never even heard of,
was disfigured by a final tear for the great man
lost to the Anti-Billites.
J. H. Gordon has designs on the S.A.
premiership. He will leave the Council with the
next batch of retiring members, and, on the Consti-
tution of a Federal Parliament, will seek an
Assembly seat. He is the only S. Australian
front-ranker who promises to make no attempt to
reach one or other of the Federal Houses.
“ The Bill doesn’t acknowledge majority
rule. We’ll petition the Queen against the vote
of the Referendum ; ” and so on at a Sydney
mixed meeting. To whom a local Aristotle : “If
a majority adopt a Bill which doesn’t acknowledge
majority rule those who favor majority rule must
also adopt the Bill to secure the triumph of their
own principle.”
Dr. Cullen, M.L.C., declined, “for private
reasons,” to join the Reid Ministry as Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council. All the reasons,
however, weren’t private : it is publicly known
that the office named carries no salary. In the
re-arrangement of offices, Mr. John Hughes be-
comes “ Justice,” Mr. Carruthers Treasurer, Mr.
Young “Lands,” and Mr. Lee “Works.” Mr.
Carruthers’ removal from the Lands Office will
involve a public loss, as his successor has neither
the capacity nor the knowledge necessary to ad-
minister such a department.
One of the complaints of the Uitlanders
against “OomPaul,” of the Transvaal, is thab
Kruger’s Government levies a tax of 5 per cent, on
dividends. Which doesn’t seem so very dreadful.
Tasmania and Queensland also tax dividends 5
per cent., and the British Government hasn’t
been moved to bombard Rockhampton or Devon-
port—at least, not yet.
Q. Labor-leader Dawson—whose efforts to
extend the franchise, during the passing of the
Enabling Bill, led some people to class him
as anti-Federal—has now publicly and emphati-
cally announced himself as a supporter of the
Commonwealth Bill. Someone stigmatised Daw-
son a “ Yes-No,” and he replied with a vigorous
“ Yes ! I leave the ‘No ’ to the Telegraph
crowd.”
The new Sydney city-railway proposal is
to make a central station on the block bounded
by Park, Elizabeth, King, and Pitt-streets.
It is the very best idea up to date, but
it will make the rebuilding of Sydney even
more imperative than it is now. The closing of
Market-street and Castlereagh-street will further
congest narrow, crooked George and King streets,
and they are already congested enough.
Sydney Daily Telegraph now seeks to
renew the fiscal fight and anxiously looks for a
Freetrade leader and at the same time invites the
Opposition to appoint a successor to Barton—some
one who will wipe out the D.T.’s great Freetrade
policy. Barton’s only followers, according to the
Telegraph, are See, Copeland, Ewing and Dugald
Thomson. Yet a day earlier the paper an-
nounced that Mr. Thomson was to be taken into
the Reid Cabinet. The Telegraph’s motive
clearly is to stir up party warfare on the chance
that in the strife something may turn up to block
Federation.
The cry for federation with Australia
raised by a party in Maoriland is the first sign
of the reversal of old habits. Absolute indepen-
dence of Australia has been the fixed purpose
of all departments of Maoriland activity. Even
its churches keep aloof. Maoriland C.E. has
its own Primate coequal with Australia’s ; its
R.C. hierarchy is also independent of and co-
equal with that in Australia. Yet there are
already signs that Maoriland will one day join
the Australian Federation and make the third
large State in the Commonwealth. And N.S.
Wales, as the mainland province most closely
associated with Maoriland, should “feel good”
at the prospect.
Western N.S.W. Crown tenants are
modest. When Minister Carruthers visited
Bourke t’other day, a squatters’ deputation
bombarded him with three requests : That they
should be forgiven 50 per cent, of their rents
for five years ; that all resumed areas (the parts
now open to selection) should be returned to
their leaseholds; and that for the lot they
should be given 14 years’ longer lease than they
now hold. This despite the facts that their
rents have been cut down lately 27 per cent, on
an average, and that when they can show that
their lands are not wanted for settlement they
can, under the last Land Act, get them at-
tached to their leaseholds. The Minister told
them that the landlord had already made big
concessions, and they must get some from the
mortgagees before they get any more from the
State.
During the few months of delay before the
Commonwealth can be formally welcomed, Bar-
ton’s place is not in N.S. W. Assembly keeping up
pretence of opposition in a Parliament where all
lines of party cleavage have merged into one—for
or against Australia. His place is up in Queens-
land whenever he can be spared—consummating
the work he has so well begun, and completing
the rout of the enemies of Federation.
S.A. Oppositionists, despite confident
Tory forecasts, did not challenge the Kingston
Govt, on its policy. When the last election was
over the Ass. crowd whooped that the Govt,
would meet the new Parliament minus a working
majority. The Tory artillery, it is now an-
nounced, is being reserved for Household Suffrage,
and Kingston, who has a majority of at least four
on that question, gaily invites the enemy to come
on.
Melb. Argus exhorts Premier Turner to
avoid all “ dangerous ” democratic legislation
during the next six months, and spend the time
in “ discussion preparatory and helpful to Vic-
toria’s place in the Commonwealth.” The Tory
journal seems to have a broad, statesmanlike idea
that three months at least might be usefully
devoted to educating the Federal mind up to the
beauties of having no property-vote on the Com-
monwealth.
In a little sub-leader of 30th June, Sydney
Telegraph once more got off its forlorn lie about
how “ the Bill places this populous colony on the
same basis, so far as votes and ultimate power are
concerned, as Tasmania.” (N.S.W. will have 31
votes in the Federal Legislature to Tasmania’s 11).
There is no visible purpose to be gained now by
lying over these matters—the referendum is over,
and the parochial drum has burst, and the country
has wiped its large bluchers on the parochial flag ;
but, after being crooked so long, the paper pro-
bably finds it difficult to get straight all at once.
Melbourne’s Mayor McEacharn, who so
badly put his foot in it over the footballers and
the Women’s Hospital, has again egregiously
blundered by announcing himself as a candidate
for Melbourne in the coming Federal Parliament.
The Mayor’s sole hope for legislative honors rests
on finding a purely Fatman constituency, and
the distribution of seats under Federation would
pive none of these. Melbourne city electorate
in Vic. Parliament is Tory, but under
Federation it would necessarily be so extended as
to include N. Melb., Footscray, and probably a
bit of the Port.
What the Uitlanders in the Transvaal now
demand is “ full citizen rights and a proper re-
distribution of seats,” and it appears that the
British Government is going to swim in blood to
get it for them. And while the British Govt, is
on the job it might swim in blood in Westralia
over an exactly similar matter. It would save
money by doing both swims at once. In Westra-
lia four small constituencies, where the old Sand-
gropers are, have 4 members for 330 voters ; and
four constituencies, mostly inhabited byUitlanders
from the East, have 4 members for 14,118 voters.
In other words, one ’groper is worth 43 Uitlanders
for voting purposes. Westralia gives the
Uitlanders a vote with reluctance, and it is worth
practically nothing when he has got it.
THE REV. FOOTBALL CAPTAIN AS A
PREACHER.
Sydney Telegraph :
Now that some of the opponents of the Secret Con-
ference Bill have decided to accept invitations to cam-
paign against the measure in Queensland, “ spontaneous ”
invitations will probably reach the leading supporters.
The Any-Pricers attach importance to the entry of
Queensland into the Federation.
Which is indeed rich. The “Any-Price anti-
Federalist Party ” which so loudly shrieked “ Waib
for Queensland ! ” and it was the Any-Price anti-
Federal leaders (Pilcher, MacLaurin and Heydon)
who so strenuously demanded a proviso to render
N.S.W. powerless to enter the Commonwealth
without Queensland. Of course the Telegraph-
Heydon crowd is now only too anxious for
Q’sland to stay out: for then they would allege
that as a faint excuse to resist the verdict of
the N.S.W. referendum.
The unsatisfactory issue of the Mercadool
(N.S.W.) land-dummying cases practically hangs
up a number of Riverina cases
which Minister Carruthers had in-
tended to proceed with. With
regard to the latter the Land Board
reported finding, as far as its juris-
diction went, two cases absolutely
proved. But the protracted charac-
ter of the Mercadool cases, the ocean
of public money they swallowed,
and the Full Court’s finding that
the prosecution was bad ab
initio, have taken away the pub-
lic appetite for a fresh exploit.
Only one man has been punished
legally for dummying in N.S.W.,
and he would, probably, have got
off had he not pleaded guilty. Yet
dummying was the local industry
which established several of the
first families of N.S.W.
In 1895 Maoriland shut
down hard on any further ex-
tension of the tied public-
house curse, bv enacting that no
contract of the kind made after
that date would be binding.
But it didn’t know exactly how
to adjust the vested interests
involved, so it agreed that all
existing contracts should still
hold good. Maoriland now
grows restive under this partial
survival of the old curse, and it
wouldn’t mind giving as much as
2s. Gd. to anybody who could find a
remedy with out doing too much damage to good
old Vested Interest.
The conscientious S.A. Parliamentary
Labor-party is making a serious effort, praised on
all sides, to really understand the pastoral problem
—and in S.A. it is a knottier problem than it is in
even N.S.W. So leader Batchelor and a Parlia-
mentary mate have been camel-tripping through
typical country, millions of acres of which have
lately been abandoned. They went over runs
covering 10,000 sq. miles, but carrying only 150,000
sheep. S.A. Govt, pays for improvements on
abandonment of country ; and this policy, which
luckily has never been seriously considered though
often suggested in N.S.W., is giving some start-
ling results.
The Bulletin keeps wondering what the
anti-Federal crowd which denounced the Braddon
clause (providing that each province shall get back
three-fourths of its own customs and excise) and
praised the Canadian system (which they knew
nothing about) would have liked to try the
Canadian idea. In Canada the Central Govt,
doesn’t give back to each province, rich and poor,
a fixed proportion of its own customs and excise.
Instead it gives each province a fixed subsidy
according to its needs. The richest province gets
80 cents per head, and the others go on
a sliding scale till the poorest gets 3 dol.
per head. If it had been suggested that
there be no Braddon clause, but that the N.S.W.
State Govt, should receive an annual subsidy of
3s. 4d. per head, while Tasmania got 12s. 6d. and:
the others varying amounts in between—well
there would have been very few admirers of the
Canadian Constitution left in the camp of Anti-
Bill.
The Forrest Grovt. reluctantly admits that
the question of a redistribution of Assembly seats
must be considered, and it proposes to sit down
and go to sleep alongside that problem in a serious
spirit. In ’9B things were bad enough, when
Ashburton, De Grey, East Kimberley, and Roe-
burne had four members for 336 electors, and the
four Coolgardie electorates had four members for
8289. But this year the first lot has been moth-
eaten down to 330 electors (a decrease of 6) and
the four goldfields constituencies have 14,118
voters (an increase of 5829), and the time is getting
near when the gold country will come and disre-
spectfully deposit all its decayed cats on John
Forrest’s front steps unless it gets justice.
According to official returns the wages of
10,135 operatives in trades mainly affected by the
Vic. minimum-wage law have gone up by
•£101,244 per annum as the result of that law.
And all these trades appear to be prospering des-
pite this handicap. Apropos of the proposed re-
enactment of this law, which is now expiring, J.
M. Davies, M.L.C., made some disappointing re-
marks : “ I don’t know if it has produced all the
results expected,” said Davies, “ for I don’t know
what was expected ” (cheers from Embling,
M.L.0.). “ But it hasn’t produced so much harm
as I thought it would ” (wail from Embling). “In
fact, so far as I can learn, it has been productive
of good ” (dry howl of anguish from Embling).
Even among the 48 Rich Landlords signs of con-
version begin to appear.
Some idea of how heavily that great tired
feeling afflicts the Cornstalk may be gathered
from the fact that, in the city and suburbs of
Sydney alone, there were 35,252 men holding
elector’s rights who failed to cast them either for
or against Australian unity. No doubt some were
dead, some gone a journey, but in all probability
most of them were sleeping, or howling themselves
hoarse at the football-match. Strange to say, it
seems to be the native-born who fails most in this
respect. Writer knows of one case where the native-
born poetically spread himself, and called upon
everybody to stand on his hindlegs, and take off
his hat to the new nation. Then, exhausted by
the great effort, he fell down, dead tired of the
whole subject till he heard that the votes of
104,000 other men had carried the day. Another:
Three families living in one terrace, three fathers
British, eight sons Cornstalk. On the day of
battle, the fathers rose early and cast their three
MANLY OZONE.
S HE: “Boatman, can you tell me if the Salvation
Army is to hold its meeting to-day? ”
BOATMAN : “ There is to he an ‘open-air ’ meeting
this afternoon
SHE: “Is the open-air in the barracks or on the
beach? ”
BOATMAN : “ Anywhere you like to-day, mum! ”
votes with all their might, and then stood round
and barracked for and against; five of the eight
sons fooled about the home till it was just time to
catch the last tram to see the football-match start,
and Australian unity went hang.


Everything that is
BEST in
Musical
Instruments
at
*
V v
o
We are exclusive dealers
in Musical Goods of
every description.
*
Our facilities for buying
are unequalled.
*
We deal direct with the
Manufacturers.
*
All Instruments are fully
Guaranteed.
*
They are the kind that
enable you to produce
the
BEST
RESULTS.
V
o
$
v
V
V
Violins
Corosts
BaojoS
AOtobarps
Polyfopops
Coocertipas
A^cord^oos,
BAND aod
ORCHESTRAL
INSTRUMENTS
At Cheapest Rates
•Ci
fir
►
V
0
6
-6
4
*frr
y
C?
&
er
>ft
ft
O
4$
&
ft
STEIN GS
ana FITTINGS
for All Instruments
Lowest Prices.
EASY
TERMS
w.
H.
PRLIN<S*C° L™
338 deorge St.
Sydocy.
Brisbane
Newcastle
La Trobe Ward Elections.
MELBOURNE CITY COUNCIL.
THREE
(Sood ReasooS
wby
Ratepayers should VOTE FOR
and SUPPORT
Mr. P. K.McCAUfiHAH
1. He is opposed to and will strongly
resist over legislation against the
shopkeepers.
2. He is opposed to over taxation.
3. He can devote the necessary time
to guard the ratepayt interests.
POLLING DAY :
FRIDAY - - 7tb JULY
Continuity of iJjear
Soon shows up the
weak points in cheap
grade tyres—whilst
it only serves to
emphasise the fine
quality of material
and workmanship
embodied in
MULTIFLEX
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 months.
FIRST in 1888. FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ctd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
111. Illont tie piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Largk White Marble Building),
tySi CASTLEREAGH ST.,
i * SYDNEY ■ “
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPawnbvoking Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh. and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
i LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
■ SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, i’500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business ill
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company) : 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 Greorge Street (facing Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. 1 ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Public Risk Depart-
ments.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Mii,lan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
UNIVERSAL
LAND and DEPOSIT
BANK LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874.
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fixed Deposits
Received for
1 Year at h\ per cent. p.a.
2 Years at 5 per cent. p.a.
3 Years at 6 per cent. p.a.
Advances made upon Freehold property. Temporary
loans on deposit of deeds, without valuation or mort-
gage cost. ERNEST O. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London 8t Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors— John See, Esq., M.P.; F. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
V* TrOstecs, €*€C*itorS,
AND
Cotppaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £73,375 15 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ... £6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
.Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. .. £3.123,555 15 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. IT. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : - Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
- - ' Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors; John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
hondon Office: 1 Bisiiopsfjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 373 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in' all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the. East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 Pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices ■ ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,201,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
National trust ee s,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 lOa.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line”; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
IS A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, July 8,12 Noon.
-Gabo, Wednesday, July 12, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday. July 16, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Wednesday, July 12,6 p.i
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Wednesday, July 12,6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, July 8, 2 p.m.
■Julia Percy, Tues., July 11, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 15, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 8, 2 p.m.
'Leura, Saturday, July 15, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
1/1 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until .used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most iavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
([| < |luiraith,|||‘Eacharn&C o -
- LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
]| Revolution in Qentistry^c
The patients who had their aching, decayed
teeth and roots painlessly extracted, and
teeth painlessly stopped, by the aid of Mr.
J. I. MARSHALL’S (of 28 Wynyard
Square, SYDNEY) Newly - Discovered
Local Specifics for one month numbered 500.
That is equal to 6000 a year. This is un-
doubtedly the largest register of painless
dental treatments in Australia, and ought to
be convincing proof of thorough genuineness
to all. Letters of thanks may be seen at
the Parlors, 28 Wynyard Square (per-
mission having been given to show them),
from doctors, clergymen, literati , chemists,
and many leading ladies of society.
FORBICHNT
STAMPS
vMtm
mmm
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, Is 6d; 16 Routnania, 6d ;
8 Bootiia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Qhili
Telegraph, 3d; 16 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d ; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is; 100,256 d; 150, ss. Re-
mit by P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. BONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, Ss 9d; ditto Faunt-
lerov ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4/6,
6/6, 10,6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
Bv using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 1016 and 81;- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG & AITKEIM,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Rockton, Friday, July 7.
_ Transhipping at Melbourne.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, July 16.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. u
S.S. Rockton, Friday, July 7.
Transhipping at Melb.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
July 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra. Friday,
July 7.
Best do Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., I .'I’D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Forts and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
. The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Ge ™“
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Passengers carried in
.1898, 161,963.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents for Australia, Exchange Corner, 63
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A. U- S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI -Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Fassenf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE - B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Value Unapproachable.
Beware of Imitations
t ~ & Co.’s f-plate Hunting English-Lever Watch
IUU jewelled movement, chronometer expansion balance, sunU
seconds enamel dial, strong Hall-marked silver cases, best value
procurable, £4 10s.
No. 6.—S.D. & Co’s “Derby” Double Chrono-
graph, gives an instantaneous record of any evenfa
m minutes and seconds; the movement is f-plate
liever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer expansion
balance, Brequet spring, In solid silver cases, open-
iace £6 10s., hunting £7 10s. j in 18ct. gold cases,
>pen-face £2O, hunting £22.
No. 12.—S.D. & Co’s “Excelsior” Keyless English Lever is
■unsurpassed by any watch; it is compact, convenient, and reliable,
dust and damp proof, has very best f-plate movement, full jewelled
in rubies, real chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked hunting
silver cases, each guaranteed for five years, £6 10s.
No. 4.—S.D. & Co’s Lady’s Hunting
“Defiance” Watch, with §- plate
jewelled movement, engraved solid
silver cases and tinted and enamelled
dial. These beautiful watches surprise
ourchaser, £llos.
No. 11.—S.D. & Co’s Special Value in Wal-
tham Watches, has best finished movement, enamel
dial, gold hands, heavy hunting Hall-marked silver
cases, and is recommended as a reliable timekeeper,
£2 7s. 6d.; keyless, £3.
No. 7. —S.D. & Co’s Gent’s Keyless Hunting
English Lever, has finely finished movement, ex-
pansion balance, enamel dial, strong keyless wind-
ing, Hall-marked silver cases, £3 10s.
S.D. & Go’s Ladies’ Presentation English
f-plate Gold Lever, in massive 18-carat Hall-
marked cases, movement jewelled in finest
rubies; chronometer balance; Brequet spring;
unsurpassed as a timekeeper, £2O; also in plain
case for monogram. Warranted 10 years.
Wo^w 13 -^ *T 0 j’ s Lad y’ s Gold Keyless
Watch, has finely finished and full jewelled move-
ment strong 18ct. gold hunting cases, richly en-
graved and decorated, a reliable timekeeper com-
bining the maximum of excellence at the minimum
of cost, £5 10s ; also made a size smaller, £4 10s.
Silver cases, £2 10s.
°?’ s English Hunting Lever Watches, contain special patented im-
provements ensuring durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The
= m^r nt r re ul i C^ e o d ’ dust proof ’ i ewolled in rubies, the cases are strong sterling
PYmlti a lT rked Q £3 • 10s '’ f ar F ant ®d for three y ears - Special quality, with chronometer
StT balance, ® pairs extra jewels, £4 10s. Unequalled value. Beware of worthless
No. S.—S.D. and Co’s Gent. ’s Gold Keyless
Hunting Lever Watch, has fine quality f-plate
lever movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer
expansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18ct. gold cases, £l5 10s. ; in open-face, £l4 10s.
No. 2.—S.D. and Co’s Lady’s
Finest Quality Hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, §-plate full jewelled
movement, expansion balance, richly
engraved silver cases, £3 10s.
No. 3.—S.D. and Co’s Lady’a
Magnificent Gold Keyless Watch,
has exquisitely finished fine f-plate
jewelled movement, strong 18ct.
gold case, elaborately engraved, per-
fect keyless action, open face, £6los.
In hunting cases, £7 10s.
rrr i^f 0 ' Lady’s Gold Keyless
Waltham Lever Watch, with best finished f-plate
movement, patent safety barrel expansion balance
jewelled, strong sojid gold engraved hunting cases’
perfect keyless action, sunk seconds, and enainelled
dial, £6 10s., exceptional value. Silver cases
£3 ss.
i B V~I ' Co s Ma gmficent Keyless f-
plate English Gold Lever of the very best make
with finest finished movement, jewelled in rubies’
real chronometer expansion balance, perfect key-
less action, massive 18ct. gold hunting cases £22 •
open-face, £lB 10s.
On receipt of Remittance, any of the above Watches will be sent (with guarantee'! Securely Packed and -p • i , . . ,
(securely racked and Carriage Paid, at our risk, to any part of Australasia
Stewart Dawson & Co., 412 George-st., Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth, London. J ’


As anticipated, the mining-boom has been
causing also a burgling-boom. We learn from Adelaide
that a number of sharebrokers’ and other offices have
been entered and robbed of mining-scrip, mortgage
deeds, jewellery, &c., with cheques for £5O and
£67 16s. 6d. The clever gang have left Adelaide, and are
supposed to have come to Sydney. It will be wise,
therefore, for those with valuables to at once place them
in the Sydney Safe Deposit, in Ash-street, off George-
street (back of Paling’s), where they will be absolutely
secure. Inspection is freely invited.*
Hon. (ex-parson) Brentnall, the Brisbane
Tf.LKGKAI'H director whose frenzied literary ebul-
litions against Labor-leaders contributed so largely
to the present strength and cohesion of the Q.
Labor movement, has burst out in his rag against
the Commonwealth Bill with an article on
“ Democratic Federation.” Brentnall is the man
who tried, unsuccessfully, to gaol Labor-leader
Mabbott—now in Paraguay—for slander. The
Judge, in summing-up, contended that the words
used were slanderous, but that the provocation
palliated even illegal reprisals. Does the ridicu-
lous Brentnall seriously think that Democrats
will vote against Federation on his recommenda-
tion ?
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loclcyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
2500 tons of sulphuric acid are consumed
annually by the Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Company of Queensland. It has been a matter of
some difficulty to find a material for roofing acid
towers which would resist the intense fumes
generated in the manufacture of acids. One of
the Company’s towers is roofed with P. and B.
Ruberoid, and present indications lead to the
belief that P. and B. Ruberoid will prove an
economical roof for acid towers or other buildings
which are subject to fume attack. The iron
trusses which support the roofs over the immense
roasting furnaces are protected from the acid fumes
by applications of two coats of P. and B. Paint.
This has furnished a perfect protection for over
two years. P. and B. Paint is specially valuable
for coating cyanide vats of either wood or metal.
Messrs. E. Rich and Co., Ltd., of Sydney,
N.S.W., are general agents for the colonies.*
THE BEST IS THE CHEAPEST.
Drink the best only, no matter how expensive.
“ D.C.L.” Whisky is thebest product of Scotland,
and bottled in Scotland under the supervision of
Her Majesty’s excise officers.*
The feature of last week’s Sydney sheep-
show was the close competition between the
splendid rams Premier and Jubilee; and the
experts present in the main agreed with the
decision in favor of the former. The single-judg-
ing system was so successful on this occasion that
it is not likely now to be departed from. There
was a goodly gathering of wool kings to
witness perhaps the finest display of ‘‘growing
wool ” ever seen in Australia, and a novel and
good idea was the holding of the jumbucks, while
being judged, by Technical College students, who
would thus, doubtless, profit by the judge’s remarks.
In the fat-sheep section the condition was hai-dly
as prime as writer would have thought necessary
for the home market; and many of the lambs in
this section were decidedly below the mark. Pre-
mier, the champion of champions, was bred from
American stock by Clark Bros., of Gestingthorpe,
and his fleece (not 12 months’ growth) was esti-
mated to scale, at lowest, well over 401 b. The
ewes’ grand championship fell to S. M'Caughey’s
Queen Annie, and the Lincoln honors were an-
nexed by S. Wiseman, of the Hunter River,
whilst with border Leicosters J. A. Cochrane, of
Victoria, was first. Amongst the Shropshires
(coming into favor for crossing with merinoes), B.
A. Cutler took several firsts. The great attrac-
tion of the show, however, was the sheep-dog
competition, won by a black-and-tan slut, owned
and worked by T. Webb, of Temora. This clever
animal put up what is probably a world’s record
by completing her task in less than 3 minutes.
Last year’s winner got only 4th place.
World’s Cban?pioi)Sbip
AT MONTREAL, CANADA.
3 TEST RACES
TO SELECT AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTA-
TIVES, ■
—WON BY— 7
B. GOODSON lot
0. NEW 2nd
BOTH ON
Canadian ‘Massey-Harris’
Bicycles.
£5O Challenge Match-
W. T. CAMPBELL v. J. T. HERBERT,
Won by W. T. Campbell on bis
: “ MASSEY-HARRIS.”
‘‘They Run Easy and Keep Running Easy.”
MaSSey-Narris Co., Ltd.,
Established 1847,-
385 GEORGE-ST. (opp. Strand Arcade),
SYDNEY.
*
)£- \£-
*
A
1
*
THINKING' Cyclists Hide, and
THINKING Agents Sell'
“ BED BIRD ” Cycles,
Because They THINK.
DO YOU THINK ? If so, take a look at our 1899 Model
“RED BIRD SPECIAL,” and have it explained to you.
MANUFACTURED, SOLD, and GUARANTEED by . . .
The Goold Bicycle Co. Limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. ;
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
261 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Via.;
BUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.;
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.
Factories— Brantford, Canada.
'O-1
-3\
SPORTING NOTIONS.
As far as can be gathered from the cricket)
cables, the Englishmen had no bits of bad luck in the
third test-match. When they lost the toss—well, it was
“embarrassing" for Darling to win the toss “under the
circumstances,” although the oircs. didn’t prevent
Worrall from scoring 76 (run out) in the Australians' first
innings. And when Briggs took ill, the critics at this
end laid no stress upon the fact that the A.E. team had
lost about 33 per cent, of its bowling strength, together
with the services of a batsman who could always be
expected to play sturdily “on the pinch.” In fact,
Briggs’s sudden disappearance was put down to the
glorious uncertainty of cricket. And the rain was a
fortunate thing for the Englishmen, seeing that if it had
cleared off in time to give them a ohance of scoring 158
runs on the third day they probably would have been all
out for less than 100 on the soddened wicket.
Cricket “ experts ” laughed at The Bulletin’s
suggestion that the Essex sailor-man (Young) should have
been tried in the first test-match. Here is another foolish
suggestion—of a likely English team for the fourth test
—Young, Hirst, Hearne, Mason, J. T. Brown, Jackson,
Fry, Maclaren, Lilley, Hayward and Jessop. Evidently
Ranji should be omitted. The Indian “prince” is the
Jonah of A.E. Elevens. They have had him with them
four times on English ground and all those matches have
been lost or drawn. The one Australia v. England match
which Trott's last visiting team pulled off, was the one
wherein Ranji played and scored a three-figure innings.
Twice when he didn’t play the Australians were beaten.
* *- * *
The aphorism “a game is never lost till it’s
won ” applies even more to cricket than any other sport.
With the Englishmen needing only 150 to score a win
in the third test-match, and having 10 wickets to fall,
the chances of Australia looked blue indeed; rain,
and with it the abandonment of the match, came oppor-
tunely. But it cannot be said that Australia had all the
luck either, for it would be hard to compute the chances
of three such bats as Hill, Gregory, and Noble again
playing five innings between them for nil in a single
match. However, the match was an object-lesson on the
difficulty of setting in “a rot” on the native boys; for
when {Larne played the hat-trick with Noble, Gregory,
and Hill, the four following batsmen—Kelli', Trumper,
Trumble, and Laver—ran up 101 runs among them.
The littleness of the mind of the average Aus-
tralian barraeker was strongly manifested in the third
Test-match. Most of them saw in the poor Australian
display the hand of Darling “faking” the game in the
interest of future gates. This paper, though uot too strong
on the inherent goodness of human nature, is credulous
enough to think that the ’99 Team will walk a straight
line in all matches.
• * * •
Yet Trumble’s recent successes entitled him to
a better position in the order of going-in, but in both
innings of the recent Test, Darling kept the Victorian
back. Public opinion veers to the opinion that, after all,
Worrall should have led this year’s team.
* * * *
Trumble saved his side in the third test-match
by his 56 run-out in 2nd innings. The long Victorian is
never seen to such advantage as when the odds are
heavy against him ; witness his stand with Hill against
Stoddart’s team in the 2nd test-match of that tour when
6 for 60 became 7 for 210. Noble, up to date, is no doubt
the best all-round performer in the present combination,
but Trumble runs him close. In all matches he is easily
first in bowling, and is 6th in batting, beating Trumper,
Kelly, Laver and Iredale. In the test matches he is
again top in bowling, while in batting he is actually
second, Hill only leading him. His figures—l 6 not-out,
38, 24, 20 not-out and 56 : average 51. A big feat for the
team’s star bowler with a bowling average of 61 wickets
for 807 runs.
» • * »
Nohle got a pull on Hill through the latter
standing down in the Oxford,. Leicester and Derby
matches, three of the softest fixtures of the tour, in which
he scored 240 runs and now leads by 76 for the aggregate.
The three leading averages at the end of the 3rd test-
match are—Noble 43, Hill 42, Worrall 41.
* * * *
“T.S.” writes: One of the surest signs that a
side dunno where it are is the constant chopping and
changing resorted to in England this season. Australia
18 months ago played 11 men, plus Lyons one match,
Worrall one, M'Kibbin two; she was playing a winning
game. England has already, for three matches, tried
men enough to make two full teams. And how curious
and changeable is cricket form 1 Abel and Lockwood
must have been among the first men picked for England
at the end of last season ; this year they apparently do
not come within the first 22, while Briggs—now cabled
to be very ill—returns to international honors, at the
expense of Rhodes. Tyldesley is given two test matches
because he has been one of the few able to play Austra-
lian bowling ; he pockets £4O and contributes 50 runs in
four completed innings—l6s. a run. Meanwhile, of the
four men who have made centuries against Jones, Howell
and co., three are never suggested for the big matches;
probably those dashing undergraduates,. Taylor and
Champain, could not between them repeat the success in
50 tries.
• * • »
The Australasian’s photo, of the Aus. XI.
v. Surrey would indicate that the English crowd stops
away vigorously from the match its own side is losing,
and that the present tour in consequence will prove
financially one of the least successful op' record. The
photo, shows 15 men on the arena—players and umpires
—and exactly 14 men and a small boy watching them.
What the proportion of “ gate ” would be to each player
is a mathematical problem that might be worked out at
the next matric. exam. B.S.—These remarks were
written before accounts of the third test-match came
along.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Your London correspondent,
“ F.G.8.,” tried to explain away the Essex defeat of the
Australians, but the figures in last week's test-match
make “F.G.B.’s” apology look as ridiculous as most
cricketing apologies look six weeks after the event.
Essex howler Young followed up his destruction of the
Australian wickets at Leyton by taking 4 for 30 at Leeds,
so it is clear that the first performance was due to Young,
and not to any “ lifeless and lamentable ” batting on the
Australians’ part. The Britishers don't often achieve a
brilliant bowling feat—let them have full credit when
they do it once in a way.—X.X.
• * * *
The last All England Eleven included three
little ’uns in Quaife, Briggs, and Brown.
• * * *
The leather-hunting struggle Queensland v.
England on Exhibition Grounds (Brisbane) last Satur-
day afternoon drew 10,000 people—looo more than ever
previously patronised a football match in that province.
Gate totted up over £6OO. Q. secured first blood per
medium of a try. Gralton made a splendid attempt to
convert but failed. Score 3—o. Little later Evans,
after some capital passing, touched behind the
posts and Gralton, more successful this time,
sent the ball across the bar—B—o. Before half
time Corfe got a try—Gralton failed again, and the board
showed 11 ; England, nil. Renewing hostilities, Mul-
lineux quickly collared the leather, and by means of a
brilliant effort placed it near corner flag. Adamson tried
at goal without avail; 11—3. No further scoring took
place. Home team kicked with the wind in first
half, and thus gained an advantage. Visitors, with
wind in their favor during the second half, had
all the better of the game—keeping the ball in
enemy’s territory most of the time. Bananaland’s for-
wards played well and proved too speedy for the heavier
Britishers, of whom Martelli, Timms, Bucher and Adam-
son showed best. Nicholls, the top-notcher of the team,
was palpably off. Rev. Captain Mullineux, interviewed,
said the form of his men was unaccountably bad. He
thought the referee stuck too closely to the letter of the
rules, and characterised one or two decisions as unpar-
donable errors.
* * * *
Football, through the initiation of the district
system, booms in Adelaide after a three years’ decline.
The gate at match Port v. S. Adelaide, June 27, was £lBO
—the highest for years. Ports and Souths were .the
strongest opponents of the system which promises to put
them on their feet.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—“ M‘G.” (B. 25/7/’99) says
Melb. C.C. has for years bought up all the best footballers
and cricketers, and wonders that the monster (M.C.C.)
finds clubs strong enough to play it. Funny, seeing the
M.C.C. hasn’t won the football premiership for over 20
BURNT-CORKED.
That Eclipse of the Moon was no doubt caused by
the rush of colored talent in Sydney.
THE MOON : “ Wal, I guess I'd better black-up !”
years, and has been well-licked again and again for the
cricket championship.—Ken.
* * * *
The V.R.C. Grand National meeting 1 , now
promoted to the dignity of a 3-days’ fixture, will get a
good send-off on Saturday, weather permitting. Mel-
bourne has been so particularly damp of late that an out-
break of sunshine seems likely to happen this week ; on
the other hand, there is the probability of more flood and
mud. Taking one consideration with another, The Bul-
letin feels sorry for every sanguine punter who has risked
his shirt on two “dead-birds” for the “double.” The
state of the course next Saturday may rob the heavy-
weights of whatever chance they ought to have had, or it
may enable them to show their paces at the expense of
lightly - burdened commoners, such as Last Glen
and Podarces. The G.N. Hurdle - race result is
powerfully influenced by the heavens every year, and this
year the foolishness of an early fancy is rather more
marked than usual. Soult, who promises to start a hot
first favorite, is not the sort of horse to romp home
through a quagmire, although he has only a middle
weight to carry, but another 10 inches of rain before the
event would suit Nilus or Mystery right down to the
ground. Taking a batch of twelve as the most dangerous
—Soult, Valdis, Clamorous, Acton, Collendina, Mystery,
Loch Fad, Podarces, Myrmidon, Nilus, Last Glen,
and Borderer— The Bulletin plumps for Soult,
simply because there is nothing else worth plump-
ing for —on paper. Next to the dandy black
gee-gee, Mystery, Valdis, and Nilus may be worth
talking about, just for the sake of argument. Also,
it may be casually remarked that none of the afore-
said are “ real good things,” and they all have a chance
to fall at the last hurdle. Noctiluca, a very well-bred
mare, looks to have a big show in the Maiden Hurdle
next Saturday, and Reaper ought to score in one of the
flat races during the meeting.
Saturday’s running will throw a little light on
the Steeplechase question, but, meanwhile, Domino,
Pirate, Hayseed, Troy and Vigil appear to have reason-
able prospects of beating Floater, and the hopes of this
journal are pinned to Hayseed and Pirate.
Handicapper Dakin was up to time with Caul-
field and Melb. Cup weights last week. Noticeable that
Gauleon, full-brother to winners of last two Melb. Cups
(Gaulus and The Grafter), only gets 251 b. from
Bobadil as against 231 b. last year, since which time
“Bobby” has done some wonderful things, including
wins of Australian Cup and Champion Race ; while
Gauleon has not, during his career, got away with a
single event. Gauleon’s treatment is just as bad when
compared with that of others. Gozo—lndustry progeny
are apparently not going to be given an opportunity' to do
the “ hat-trick ” with Melb. Cnp, though you never know.
A close study makes writer think that Ace of Diamonds,
Massinissa, Renown, Cocos, Dirk Hammerhead, Parthian,
Wait a-Bit, Mora, The Chief, Scorn, or Chesney will
supply the winner of the big prize, while that at Caulfield
looks like going to Ottoman, Plutus, Dirk Hammerhead,
Mora, Maecenas, Ace of Diamonds, the Watchdog, Cale-
donia, Fleet Admiral, or Wait-a-Bit.
• * • *
Cobar jumps to the front Among far-west
N.S.W. towns with a proposal for a spring programme of
between £4OO and £5OO. Broken Hill, which ought to be
easily' first among these wayback towns, runs four clubs.
Lately it was proposed that three of them should amal-
gamate and offer big money, but local owners kick—they
don’t want outsiders to come in—and the local public are
too tired to kick back.
* * * ■*
“ Old Timer ”: Saw that wild and woolly M.L.
fighter, Otto Cribb, at work, at Golden Gate Club
(Sydney), Saturday night. What a hurricane he is—quite
devoid of science, as generally understood, but a tough
’un from Toughville. Crude as were Joe Goddard’s
methods, Cribb’s are even more so. He’s on top of his
man from the word go—wiring-in with both hands—land-
anywhere and everywhere, and frequently nowhere ; it
matters not to Cribb where his hands pull-up so long as
they're flying round freely. Twice he missed his man and
punched the ring-posts, and ring-siders had to give the
ropes a wide berth for fear of stopping the misses.
“ Paddy ” Martin constituted the opposing element, and
“Paddy” also made things hum. His plan of campaign
chiefly consisted of headlong rushes, for butting purposes,
and, whenever the object of attack managed to avoid
these, Martin shot fair through the hempen boundary on
to the boards. At times, he flopped on all-fours and
“rabbited” the Maorilander. Once, while ducking for a
mad rush, Cribb caught Martin on his shoulder, and rose
with him like a butcher carrying a carcase of beef, and
the referee had to drag the load off. 700 people alter-
nated howls of excitement with screams of laughter
during 11 of the hottest, funniest, and most indescribable
rounds ever fought in a roped square. Martin skied the
towel ere the 12th round opened, a badly broken-up man,
and as limp as a dead snake. The M.L. boy won a good
stake and hosts of friends.
» * » •
“ M.” : It seems widely believed that Jews are
not game, and could consequently never he successful as
prize-fighters. Mendoza, “ the Jew-boy,” and dozens of
others —grit to the core—are conveniently forgotten.
Saw Otto Cribh fight, last Saturday' nighr., the pluckiest
and fiercest up-hill battle ever witnessed in Sydney. Ap-
parently beaten in the opening round, he hung on grimly
and ultimately won. His opponent butted, hit low, and
in other ways fouled time after time, but Cribb never
flinched or complained. Will swear his name is Jacobs,
Isaacs, Cohen, or Davis—certainly not Cribb —for a more
pronouncedly typical Hebrew could hardly be imagined.
• * * *
A Sydney Sunday paper boomed up novice-
boxer Bert Andrews as a second Griffo. Writer saw
Andrews at Sydney Golden Gate Club on Wednesday
night, and now marvels where the Sabbath scribe got
his notion from. A second Griffo ! ' What has the
unfortunate Sydney Rocks phenomenon ever done to
be thus maligned ? Andrews made such a poor showing
that novice Rollo really won handily on points, but
didn’t get the verdict—the match was declared a draw.
* * * *
A Wyalong (N.S.W.) resident has been fined
£3 and costs, at the local police-court, for allowing his
son, a lad under 18, to play “ Devil’s pool.”
* » * •
Donnelly has finished his boat (to the order of
Mark Foy) intended to meet the Maid of Kent in England.
She is simply a decked-in flat-bottomed scow, 24ft. over-
all, and 22ft. on the water-line. That she could not live
with the Effie, the Sydney crack 22-footer, writer feels
assured, and it seems a pity Mr. Foy did not take ’Ome a
boat of Australian type to meet the Britisher, as, allow-
ing the new boat wins, the victory will be shorn of its
relish by the fact that she is merely built in Australia
from an English model. Win or lose, Australian boating
men should not accept her as a local representative.
* * • *
On the other hand, “Red Kangaroo” writes:
Sydney sailing • men (Mark Foy included) have
long boasted that Port Jaokson was the home
of small - boat sailing, and that the local un-
limited-crevv-and-Bail 22-footers were the fastest boats of
their size in the world. Nathless, Southern Cross, at
present building by Joe Donnelly, to Mr. Foy’s order, to
represent Sydney against England, is not a typical P.J.
boat at all, but a limited-crew-decked craft—closely
resembling Maid of Kent. Looks as if Sydney’s idol, the
open 22-footer, had been knocked out in one round.
* • • •
Cabled that Australasian champion swimmer,
“little Fred Lane,” started well “down-under” last
Saturday by annexing a half-mile scr. race, easily heating,
among others, the champion of London. Jack llellings,
the Woolloomooloo Bay (Sydney) lad and erstwhile
premier Australasian sprinter, is champion of London,
having won that title last season over a 500yds.
course—licking the London police crack, Claro,
by 2yds. in a very exciting finish. That Fred
would prove Jack’s master was evidenced soon after
former’s arrival, as in a friendly go he, without undue
exertion, held Jack all the w’ay. Lane was expected to
compete in long-distance (5 miles) championship of the
Thames to-day (Saturday), but a letter received last
week indicates that there is some probability of him
being a non-starter.
* • • •
Champion swimmers Cavill are in clover. Said
that Ernie, the best of his time in these provinces and
now a resident of Boerland, recently hitched on to a
Yankee lady with a big bank credit. Sid., who lately ex-
ploited America, created such a favorable impression
there that he has been offered a good salary as instructor
at the fashionable ’Frisco Olympic Club, and will leave
for the Golden Gate by next boat.
At Poverty Point.
From Perth (W.A.) : War correspondent Villiers
opened to a hip- crowd at the Town Hall. on 12th
June. His limelight ohotos. are most convincing, notably
one showing the civilising effect of the Maxim gun on the
dervish soldiery; the audience could almost smell the
blood from the piled-up corpses. His lecture seemed to
be mostly a reading of extracts from F.V.’s own articles
with chunks of Villiersian humour, e.g. : “The Indian
Govt, lately issued an order that in future all letters ‘ u’
in native names be altered to ‘ a.’ Umritsur to Amritsar,
for instance. The name of dum-dum bullets was not
changed for obvious reasons.’’ (Loud and prolonged
silence.)
Some three years ago, when Miss Olive de Hugard won
the scholarship for pianoforte playing at Melb. Conserva-
torium, The Bulletin, in publishing the young damsel’s
photo., exhorted her not to cut short an artistic career by
getting married to a supposititious bank-clerk, or any-
thing of that sort. The charming Miss Olive effected a
compromise. She became the wife of Herr Eduard Scharf,
the pianist, and the other week she dedicated an inter-
esting little musical composition to her lord and master
under the title of “The Olive Branch.” That’s is to say,
Mrs. Scharf took the diploma of Ma.
Charming little Mdlle. Dreyfus scored a big success at
the Alliance Framjaise the other evening. The tall
Frenchman who played “ Hubby ” in the late Alliance
Frangaise comedietta is a recent arrival in Melb.—stands
over 6 ft., is a fair actor, plays a rattling good game of
tennis, knows a point or two about boxing, and was a,
member of the French team of footballers that played
England a few years ago.
“ C.C.” : Great indignation at St. Mary’s R.C. Cathedral
on Sunday, when outsiders jumped the pews at ten o’clock
to hear Amy Castles and had to be threatened with the
police from the pulpit before they would vacate. But if
St. Mary’s did not want the coin of the outsider, why
advertise Miss Castles’ appearance? If a church behaves
like a theatre, it is liable to be. treated as such.
Amongst the wild things said in Sydney about Amy
Castles is the statement that she aspires to be a “so-
prano assoluta.” The word “soprano,” though desig-
nating a female voice, would require the masculine
“assoluto” just as “barba” (beard), though denoting a
masculine characteristic, is a feminine noun. And, in any
case, the expression is nonsense ; as, though we can speak
of a prirna donna soprano or a p rim a donna contralto,
“ assoluta ” is only applied to the “absolutely” leading
lady, whatever her class of voice, and soprano assoluto
could only mean the leading soprano of the planet. And
Miss Castles is hardly &c. Another critic remarks
that a dramatic soprano is “ more nobler” than a light
one. Possibly this gentleman had himself had “more
nobblers ” than are advisable for the critic of a “great ”
daily.
“Lemuria”: Theatrical competition has now reached
the cut-throat stage in Sydney. The Curtis Co. at Sydney
Criterion is a replica and amplification of the McAdoo
Georgia Minstrels at the Palace. They even sing the
same songs. They also cut into the Tivoli. All three
have jugglers ; and the Criterion juggler beats the Palace
man very badly—that is, as far as amusement goes.
How he stands with Cinquevalli, this writeress knoweth
not, never having seen the man with the startling name ;
but the “Black Dante” of the Palace will take a lot of
beating. Both Palace and Criterion are running “cake-
walkers ” and “ buck and wing dancing.” Cake-walking
about even, but “ buck and wing ” business scores for the
Criterion. But as for singing, ah I—leaving1—leaving the doubtful
Miss Castles out of reckoning as an unknown quantity (not
having heard, cannot say) there are only four singers in
Sydney just now’—and they are all at the Palace, except
one : Mr. Duncan (of the Tivoli), Gerard Miller, Miss Bat-
son, and Mr. Rooks. They simply romp over everything
else running in the shows. Miss Hyer, of the Criterion,
has a voice of rather good range, but so has Miss Batson,
and Miss Batson’s is a date-plum compared to a peanut.
Most other alleged singers in Sydney, especially at the
Tivoli, want their larj nxes taken out and fresh reeds put
in, as their present ones are utterly worn out.
The well-beloved Edgar Straus, ’cellist, who has long
been seriously ill, left Sydney for San Francisco by the
mail on Wednesday, taking w'ith him an address sub-
scribed by many friends in and outside of the musical
profession. The address was presented at Paling’s, on
Monday afternoon by Mr. Edmund Barton, Q. 0., in the
presence of a numerous and sympathetic company.
Many friends will regret to hear that Alfred Dampier is
rather seriously ill at Newcastle.
Melba is said to be very enthusiastic over Regina
Nagel’s contralto voice. But the, question arises as to
whether Melba’s opinion isn’t biassed to some extent by
her alleged unfriendly feeling for Ada Crossley.
That wonderful old violinist, Dr. Joseph Joachim
who recently celebrated his 68th birthday, has now
been before the public for sixty years, having first
drawn the tail of the horse across the intestines of the
cat on St. Patrick’s Day, 1839.


“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND*
Madfi by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Propriet6r . - GEO. W. ELLIS.
A Silver Watch Free.
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we:* will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you; want one, write to us without delay.
With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and stamped
envelope), for-which we will send you Six of our full-
sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons, which wear like
solid real silver throughout. The watch is sent by regis-
tered post on your complying with our advertisement and
the marvellous offer which we will send. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
REA. Will MINNIE REA, who left Ireland
for Melbourne in 1864, and Mrs. J. M. O.
CAVE, nee Sarah Rea, or latter’s sons, com-
municate with “Review oe Reviews,’’ 169
Queen-street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
ifIfiEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
the Bro6gb Co.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, 6th JULY,
One Summer’s Day.
A Love Story, in 3 Acts, by H. V. Esmond.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
T rCEITM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
A Genuine and Established Dramatic Success!
EVERY EVENING 1
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Company, in
Tbc : Merciless : World.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
IT HR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mtisgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
Chas. H. Hoyt’s Farcical Comedy in 3 acts,
“A StraQggr it) York.”
SaLurday, July B—A TRIP TO CHINATOWN.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
NDER VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
TP
A GRAND FAIR and PRESS BAZAAR
in aid of the Queen Victoria Home for Con-
sumptives will be held in the EXHIBITION
BUILDING from August 10th to August 26th.
General Manager, Mr. P. H. DRUCE,
14 O’Connell-st., Sydney.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. M. B. CURTIS*
EVERY EVENING at 8.
<Zrat)d Afro-Anpcricai)
Carnival.
50
50
ARTISTS
50
50
The Largest and Best Aggregation of Colored
Talent ever engaged under one management.
The Acme of Refined Minstrelsy:
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
■pALACB THEATRE, SYDNEY. ~
SUCCESS AB INITIO”
of Mr. O. M. McADOO’S
Georgia Minstrels and Alabama Cake
Walkers.
30 STAR NEGROES 30
PRICES : 35., 25., Is. MATINEES Wednesdays and
Saturdays 2.30. Children Half-price to Matinees.
«p IV (> T7l TIIEA T R E, SYI)N EY.
•*- Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
WONDERFUL SUCCESS OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
A most Brilliant Success achieved by the
Bessie—VALDARES-James. Mr. R. H. DOUGLAS.
Frank Rowen. The Leslie Bros. Chas. W. Cogill.
Keenan Bros. Fanny Powers. Hamilton Hill.
Fred Duncan. Jas. Mooney. Violet Bishop. Ida Holbein.
Lulu Zesch. Nita Clarke. And all our Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY.
IJOU Til BATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Instantaneous and Emphatic Success of
THOS. and LILLY ENGLISH, Artistic Musical Team.
SPRY and AUSTIN, Duettists and Dancers.
3—KEZIAHS—3, Marvellous Lady Gymnasts.
MANUEL WOODSON, the Lightning Contortionist.
Continued Great Success of BELLMAN & MOORE,
WILL WHITBURN, and all our Brilliant Company.
matinee P every A wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Bland Holt.
ANOTHER FURORE!
The Unique, Picturesque, and Romantic Franco-Algerian
Melodrama,
STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART.
First Time in Melbourne.
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and. Arthur Shirley.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager .. Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
INHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERYI
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children-SIXPENCE.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING !
Tbs Kiog’s
The Famous Romantic Drama, in 5 acts, by Henry
Hamilton, founded on Dumas’ Great Romance,
“ The Three Musketeers.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Town hall, Melbourne.
X/- Saturday, Bth July. X/-
Gigantic and Unique Entertainment. Pop. SHILLING
Through Ireland on a Jaunting Car.
Mr. JOHN FULLER’S MYRIORAMA COMPANY.
Mr. John Fuller, the Popular English Tenor, supported
by Miss Hettie Warden, Mezzo; Miss Mary Godwin,
Contralto; Miss Leonore Orelli, Soprano; Mrs. John
Flora, Myrioramic Expert; Mr. Arthur Hahn, Basso;
Mr. Walter Fuller, Elocutionist.
Plan at Glen’s. Booking Fee, Is.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHENA3UM HALL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY (July 6,7, 8),
Mr. FREDERICK VIDDIEKS
The Famous War Artist and Correspondent, who was
with Kitchener at Khartoum , will give his graphic
account of the recent Soudan Campaign, entitled
KHARTOUM AT LAST.
Profusely Illustrated with Snapshots and Sketches taken
by him on the Battlefield. Box Plan at Allan’s, Collins-st.
Mr. Villiers will shortly appear at Bendigo, Ballarat,
Geelong, Adelaide and Sydney. Manager, Mr. W. Pontin.
NOW READY.
IRON NED KELLY
IRON ,/ELLY'
♦ •rarM'Tf'V *AND
NED
HIS BANG
AND NIS <SAN<S
THEIR ASTOUNDING CAREER
OF CRIME.
AN ENTIRELY NEW BOOK JUST PUBLISHED.
The long’, notorious career of the KELLY GANG probably
represents, better than anything else, one extreme of the
wild and lawless possibilities of bushranging in its most
successful form.
Unrestrained either by civilisation or law, and well under-
standing the forces with which they had to deal, they were
successful for over two years in their depredations.
£BOO in Rewards secured the destruction of the most
successful outlaw gang Australia ever produced. The
amazing story of their lives is
told in this Book.
This Book is written by an eye-
witness who investigated their
entire career.
• • e
ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTO-
GRAPHS TAKEN ON
THE SPOT.
JUST ISSUED!
Send for One.
Post Free Everywhere.
Price , Is. 6d. post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
16 Park Street, Sydney.
SIR ROBERT
Bear*
OOK.
CATALOGUE.
m
ffRFECI
ipf
THE
PERFECT Bicycle
as the name implies, has no superior.
The DOMINION
affords the best value at a low price.
eST APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
(Sole Distributing Agent for Australasia)
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Sicy clea, A ccessories, and. Materials,
263-265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Special and Public Warning.
We hereby warn all whom it may concern that we are
using special means to discover those unscrupulous people
who fill our bottles with a worthless mixture and sell it
as the genuine article; when discovered, these rogues
will he prosecuted criminally. We will handsomely
reward whoever may give information which will lead
to a conviction.
FISHER & COMPANY'S
MIGHTY “ALOE”
(REGISTERED).
THE FAMOUS TONIC.
FRESHLY PREPARED from the AFRICAN KOLA NUTS (Cola Acuminata).
Guaranteed on Affidavit to contain 20 per cent, of Pure Kola.
First Prize Medal at the Royal Agricultural Society’s Show.
BUY it by the BOTTLE (UNBROKEN) to avoid Imitators, Impostors, and Rubbish,
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle, at all Hotels, Chemists, Brewers, Wine and Spirit
Merchants, and Grocers.
The greatest APPETISER and p|CK'(DE-lIP in the World.
Scientific Examination of 3lighty “ALOE.”
By the most eminent authority in Australia, and for many years at the Sydney University.
Dr. HELMS, M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and Analytical-Chemist.
“Messrs. FISHER & CO. “6 Bridge-street, Sydney, February 1, 1898.
“ Gentlemen. —I have examined your preparation, MIGHTY “ALOK,” and find that
it contains, besides Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs having well-known tonic pro-
perties. “ Yours faithfully, A. HELMS.”
Chiaranteed not to contain Quinine or Iron, or any injurious ingredient-
PNEUMONIA. PNEUMONIA.
To FORTIFY the SYSTEM against PNEUMONIA, INFLUENZA) COLDS, GOUGHS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, &c., take -with HOT WATER—a DRINK of
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
“ALOK” (REGISTERED) is UNINTOXICATING, but has more Sustaining Power
than Spirits or Alcohol.
BEFORE BEDTIME, and DON’T YOU FORGET IT.
ALL HOTELS, with SODA-WATER, 6d. per GLASS.
Insist upon being served with MIGHTY “ALOK,” and you will be served with
FISHER & COMPANY’S Famous and Original Preparation. Ask for it Bitter or
Extra Bitter, according to your Taste.
Pharmacy: 337 George St., Sydney (nearly opp. G.P.0.)
ALOK
(Registered).
ALOK
L 0
0 L
KOLA
ALOK
(Registered).
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood. Sole Proprietors.
The Australian Mining and Property Burean,
CABLE ADDRESS: 't'&S 222 CANNON ST.
“Donned,” London. London, E.c.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FRANTKI JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
l¥f~ Address till end of June, Aaron’s Exchange Hotel, Sydney


Sure Cure
for Colds
When the children get their feet wet and
take cold give them a hot foot-bath, a howl
of hot drink, a dose of Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral, and put them to bed. The chances are
they will be all right in the morning. Continue
the Cherry Pectoral a few days, until all
cough has disappeared.
Old coughs are also cured; we mean the
coughs of bronchitis, weak throats and irrita-
ble lungs. Even the hard coughs of consump-
tion are always made easy and sometimes
cured by the continued use of
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
Your own doctor will explain this to you.
He knows that wild cherry bark is the best
remedy known to medical science for sooth-
ing and healing inflamed throats and lungs.
You may rely upon Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral to
stop your cough.
Beware of worthless imitations. The namt
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is blown in the glass of
each bottle. Put up in two sizes.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drope.
FER BRAYAIS
FER BRAYAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
, for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/t hat all
the good effedt of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
soil) BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORT.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
On the assumption that sea-sickness is due
to lack of cerebral blood-supply, the wearing of
red spectacles is recommended. The ocean will
then be itself a red “ spectacle,” and will thus, it
is asserted, promote the flow of blood to the brain.
“Viator”: The Irish - Australian finds
Dublin very different to expectation. First, in
the deserted, flabby, dead look of the streets, after
the bustle of Glasgow, Manchester, and Liver-
pool. Second, in the almost Venetian appearance
of the city from the bay, whereas he had thought
of it as a pig-sticking Rotterdam, dingy and dirty.
But where is the glory of Imperial Federation,
as a birthday celebration, with a sullen Dublin ?
It is the grandest-pitched city on British pro-
perty, with Bombay second. Even the heart of a
Sassenach must swell as he mounts upon Howth
and surveys a panorama beating that from Mala-
bar. Phoenix Park is not named from the Classics,
but from Irish words signifying Fair Water.
“ A.D.” on the humors and brutalities of
the Sydney small-boy :
Pleasant watching the small-boy who haunts the harbor
piers, slipping like an alligator into filthy blood holes and
always alert for a “ cop.” They swim out joyously into
the open, and return with frantic strokes and bulging
eyes whenever the cry of “ Shark-oh ! ” goes up ; only to
go back with magnificent valor on finding that the alarm
is false. Nicknames such as “ Bondi,” “ Liver,” “ Sago,”
“ Stinker,” and “ Dingo,” are much in use. Watch them
for half-an-hour and you begin to see some of the pitiless
savagery that dominates the average boy of 11. And
just when you begin to hate him and his malicious cun-
ning, he will suddenly illuminate the depression with
lightning streaks of humor. Yesterday, at Rushcutter’s
Bav, “ Dingo” and his little “ push ” were soaking in the
billows at the sewer’s mouth. “Dingo’s” lirrle sisitah
Hemma mounted guard over their heaps of rags, while
her hilarious brother floated afar off with heels to shore.
In the mind of “Dingo” was the thought that
many prowling vestals were observing him, and
he felt sure that if they got a side view of
his feet they would mistake him for a man.
From time to time little Hemma left the rag-heap to
wring her hands over the jetty. “ Oh, Jimmy, Jimmy,
th’ sharks’ll git yer ! Come back, Jimmy; they’ll git
yer! ” She has net forgotten the wine-red patch that
smeared the water after “ Bondi ” Cleary had been torn
in halves within an inch of the pier, therefore she does
not approve of “Dingo” washing himself in the harbor.
“ Jimmy, they’ll git yer ! ” “Dingo” cast up his long feet
threateningly. “ Shut-up, will yer ! I’ll kick sparks outer
yer when I come a-out. Bloomin’ shark can have a beef-
steak if he wants one ! ” “ Stinker,” bitten with jealousy,
watched him from the less dangerous sewer, offering occa-
sional remarks. “ Look at ’im ! Blime, ’ow ’e kids his-
self. Thinks all the lydies are a-foxin’ ’im.” It seemed
that his words lashed the floating “ Dingo ” into fury, for
he swam shoreward with double-arm strokes until he
faced “ Stinker” in the sewer. “ Don’t chiak me’cause
yer father ’appens ter be a Crown-street bludger.”
“Dingo” turned to the naked “ push,” to observe the
full effect of his statement. “’ls father's a Crown-
street bludger. Bli-me, I ain’t afraid ter swim afore
the lydies, me body ain’t covered with pimples. Gam,
yer father’s o’ny a bludger.” “Stinker” retreated into
the sweet seclusion of the sewer, rifling his brain for
something bitter in the way of a gibe. “ What’s your
father?” he said, cautiously. “Nobody ever sees’im.
What’s your father, eh ?” “ Dingo ” splashed him gently
with a handful of filth. “ Garn, my old man’s a
toff. My old man,” said Dingo, reaching for more filth,
“is six foot in’is socks. ’E’s in the Govermint.” A flash
of recollection lit up Stinker’s eye. He leaped from the
sewer as if a sword had prodded his back. “ I know
’im ! . . . cripes, I know ’im ! ” He made furious gestures
j to the push. “ Don’t yous know that bloke wot smells
like rhubarb pie ? ” The howl of insane laughter that
followed proved that Stinker had scored.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, lor I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists; Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BltOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green la! el on each box. (Regd. copyright).
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MED4L
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETIXIOKT.
WINES ne Best Bmvda onlv 0) SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
.xajNEaAs
J'eatc ‘('BJta'BJiflL'Bxil
'(aaimri)
esi'BT:) OJLdVa
SMELTERS.
1*» ' • - '• ■ 'i - •
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
mm
■ ■
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BBAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAR BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company, of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected..—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
Bengar’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses. '
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Hvz RaSSn)OSS€o’S AlfaliQe Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY POP EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
■*
■
I
1
■
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH. -
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor”—sent free.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor”—sent free.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
the3 r have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectl v at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain Free Book, “ The Natural Doctor.’
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
OST OFFi
%
imuii'
if I'AMitlMli
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
AIF aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
AIF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SEIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Fills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- -
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
m
m
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials.
Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RasSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
i M ————^»>
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 827 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justioe of the Peace.
For further testimonials, see my new book, "The
Natural Doctor ’’—sent free.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet 9ent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant ours
for all kinds of headache, no nlatter how caused. IS.' per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Kerr Rassmissei’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SHODEIi
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS : *
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z , WELLINGTON 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Koyal Theatre)
COOEG-ARDIE
Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-street (opposite P. 0.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


GRAMOPHONES.
Just landed, ex R.M.S. Britannia, a large apsort-
ment of new records for tho
GmA-IVE-O-FHCOWE
comprising, amongst others, selections by the
following well-known artists, artistes,
Bands, Orchestras, &c.:—
TOM COLLINS Nursery Rhymes
RUSSELL HUNTING Casey Dialogues
Mrs. MADGE KENDAL
Recitations
G. H. SNAZELLE
Humorous Recitations and Bass Sengs
CHAS. WYNDHAM
Recitations
Miss CISSIE LOPTUS
Imitations
Mr. PRANK LAWTON
(Belle of New York) Whistling
BERT SHEPHERD Comic Singer
ALBERT CHEVALIER
Coster Songs
J. JACOBS r ■' Violin Solo
And numerous others.
Full Catalogue is now in the press and will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a post-card.
A. P. SYKES, 227 laittleCollins-st.,Melb.
*
IU
GOLEMAHE’S EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
For Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Fevers, and Chest
Complaints generally it can’t be beat
GUARANTEED PURE, AND SOLD ONLY IN Joz. and
ioz. BOTTLES.
Insist - always on Colomana'Q.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
Electri* Light throughout.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
■V3
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
Tbc Federal .
Palace Hotel,
MELBOURNE,
AS A TRAVELLERS’ HOTEL,
... IS THE ...
Premier Hotel in Australasia,
CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMERS,
and CENTRE OF CITY.
*ar ItOOMS ALL PRICES.
Publications, etc!
Books! Books! Books!
Popu'ar Educator, 6 vols., £4 for £1 ; The Home
Physician, £2 10s for I7s6d ; Universal Instructor, £llss
for 15s ; Webster’s Household Dictionary, 25s for 10s. I
have the largest stock of Second-hand Books in N.S
Wales. Write for Catalogues. I have also three Choice
Books Is (id each, or three for 4s. Can only be procured
by Post ; all Book sent post free.
R. W. SKINNER, Second-hand Book Arcade,
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY. Telephone 3043.
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1899
J. J, MILIEU'S SPOUTING PAMPHLET
And Athlktic Record.
All Booksellers and Newsagents.
Price Is.
’ s Sb??p-Braodii)g LiqCiid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade & 00-,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH & 00. LTD-
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Increase the Value of Wool and Shins.
Black, ir&ed, and Sine. 3s 6d per gall. in. Melt>. and Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, -i vi Brisbane
James
&
m
any Limited.
wan
GUNS.
Special Notice to Sportsmen.
Note Our Surprising Prices.
(SUNS.
D.B. B.L. HAMMER GUNS, 12a.
Reduced
From To
Goatee’ Bar Lock,' Doll’s Head
Extension £3 15 0 £3 5 0
Gashinore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Doll's Head Extension ... 5 5 0 4 12 6
Oashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Solid Strikers, D. and E.
Bolt 6 10 0 6 5 0
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Solid Bar Action, Cross
Bolt 8 10 0 6 6 0
Weliley’s, Damascus Barrels,
Riirht Cylinder, Left Choke 10 10 0 912 6
Gashinore’s, Solid Bar Action,
Damascus Barrels, Cross
Bolt, Solid Strikers 17 10 0 12 15 0
Reduced
From To
W. and 0. Soott and Son’s
“ Excel ” Club Gun, Damas-
cus Barrels, with case and
tools 25 0 0 21 5 0
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
32in., Wedge-last clips ... 27 10 0 21 6 0
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels, Side
Clips 22 0 0 17 6 0
Cashmore’s Whitworth Fluid
Compressed Steel Barrels,
in case 45 0 0 32 16 0
Cashmore’s Solid Bar Action,
Cross Bolt, Damascus Bar-
rels 13 0 0
10 6 0
D.B. B.L. HAMMERLESS GUNS, 12a.
Reduced
From To
Field’s, Damascus Barrels,
Reduced
From To
Cashm ore’s, Damascus Bar-
rels, Wedge-fast, with case £35 0 0 £26 0 0
Cashmore’s, Whitworth Fluid
Steel Barrels, Wedge-fast
Clips ... 46 0 0 34 0 0
E.C. Cartridges, Eley’s Loading,
Best Cases. Per 100.
42 grains 16s Od 12s Od
45 grains 16 0 12 6
47 grains 16' 0 13 0
Schultze Cartridges, Eley’s Loading, Best Cases.
45 grains 15 6 12 0
47 Grains 15 6 12 6
Per lb.
E.C. Powder, in flasks 7 0 6 0
JAMES M'EWAN & CO. Ltd., 119 to 125 EllzaDetli St., Melt).
A Cure for Miners’ Lead Poisoning.
▲ MOST IMPORTANT MATTER TO ALL MINERS.
Hay Street, Perth, 19th May, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, “ Vitadatio Institute,” Perth.
Sir,—Just a few lines to express to you my thanks for the re-
covery of my health, which is due to the use of your “ Vitadatio. *
While working in the Broken Hill mines I contracted Lead
Poisoning, which brought on a discharge of blood through the
bowels, and left me in such a state that it became impossible
for me to follow my occupation of an engine-driver, or, in
fact, to do any work at all. Luckily for me, you brought this
wonderful medicine to West Australia, and I was persuaded
to try it. I have taken about ten bottles ; the discharge
of blood has entirely stopped, and I am feeling altogether
a new man, and can once more enjoy a life free from
pain, to which I have been a stranger so long. Once
more thanking you, Mr. Palmer, I am, faithfully
yours, JAMES TAYLOR.
Witness: Frank Wuitb, Blincowe-st., Leederville.
A Cure for Cancer—Positve Cure.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, 45-47 Bourke-t., Melb.
I give you permission to make known to the
public that my wife has been cured of a
Fleshy Cancerous Growth under the tongue
by the use of Vitadatio. The growth was.
there for two years. —Yours sincerely,
F. B. GOODWIN.
No. 3 Wicklow St., South Yarra.
Note. —Mr. Goodwin and Mrs. Good-
win called personally at the “Vita-
datio Institute,” and with grateful-
ness tendered the above testimo-
nial. Mrs. Goodwin has consulted
many doctors and tried many
medicines, but was getting no
relief. Operation was talked
of, and those who have under-
gone such can readily under-
stand and sympathise with
that. No operation was
necessary with “ Vita-
datio.” Mrs. Goodwin
assures Mr. Palmer that
she will gladly see anyone
similarly affected, or will
send particulars by letter
to anyone desirous of
knowing about her case
—enclosing stamps for
reply. The family are
thankful for the cure,
and desire, out of
gratitude and from
a sense of duty, to
make it known.
A CUBE FOB CANCEB, GALL-STONES, AND JAUNDICE.
A Word of Comfort to Ladies.
Rosslyn Street, Middle Brighton, Victoria, 29th May, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Vitadatio, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —I wish to make known to you and those who may be suffering that Vitadatio has cured
my wife of a most serious trouble, viz., “ severe pains in stomach and spasms over the heart’s region.”
The best doctors were consulted, and stated the trouble was “Cancer, Gallstones and Jaundice,” and
that nothing could be done save “ an operation,” which, in her emaciated condition, we declined.
&
The doctor could only assist her in her great agony by administering Morphia and Chloroform, which only gave temporary relief. I decided
to try VITADATIO for her. She took 13 bottles. And is now better than she has been for many years. You may use this statement as you
choose ; other sufferers may thereby receive blessing as we have.—Yours truly, S. B. WALCOT.
I need make no comment on the above. The saved ones speak with no uncertain sound. Their praise is sweet music, and their desire to
benefit others is an acknowledgment of the “ Golden Rule.” “Do unto others as we would they should do unto us.”—Ever yours gratefully,
S. A. PALMER, VITADATIO, Melbourne.
Spring Flat, Ensay, East Gippsland.
Mr. PALMER.
Dear Sir. —My sister at Omeo has been using Vitadatio with good
results. Also my nephew, George Dyer, who was given up by the
doctor, is perfectly cured by Vitadatio.
G. HAMMOND.
Spring Flat, Ensay, East Gippsland.
A Cure of Lung Disease.
Mr. PALMER. June 9,1899.
Dear Sir.—Please accept my grateful thanks for the good I have
got from your Vitadatio. I have been suffering with my lungs for
some time, but feel all right again. I have taken (7) seven bottles
of it.
ALP. HAYSOM, 66 Alexandra Parade, Fitzroy.
/
* /y
/yy
--r
A Cure for what Defeated the Doctors.
Springhurst, Victoria, 30th May, 1899.
Mr. PALMER, Melbourne.
Dear Sir.—l have been a fearful sufferer for the past four or five
years. One doctor would not treat me. He said I was too far gone.
Another doctor gave me up, and another said he could do nothing
for me ; and I was considered to be in a state of collapse. The
doctors called it a general breakdown of the system, my age being
68 next birthday. During my illness I took some 30 bottles of
one advertised medicine, five bottles of another, seven bottles
of another, and two jars of another ; and, as regards doctors’
medicines, I really took same until I was sick and tired. Upon
reference to any of my neighbors they can tell you how bad I
was. I have now taken eight bottles of your VITADATIO,
and feel better than I have for years. I can get about and
do my work, and have a good appetite, and I must can-
didly acknowledge, with gratefulness, that your VITA-
DATIO put me on my feet, and it's the only medicine
that has ever done me any good. You are at liberty to
use my name if you wish.—Yours gratefully,
Springhurst. EZEKIEL M‘CANN.
[Memo, from S. A. Palmer: —The above magnificent
voluntary testimony has just come to hand, and
has been certified by Mr. D. H. M'Guinness, Wan-
garatta, either of whom will gladly answer any
inquiries or help other sufferers'with particu-
lars if a stamp is sent for reply.]
The Quality of Goodness is not
Strained.”
“ It is the elements of character—trust-
worthiness, faithful industry, self-con-
trol, and kindled vhtues—which must
enter into labor to purify and exalt and
make it of real worth to mankind.”
No Sham about Vitadatio.
Hinton, 127 Canterbury Road,
Toorak, Bth June, 1.899.
Mr. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —Please accept my
grateful thanks for the good
my little girl has received
from your most wonderful
medicine, Vitadatio. She is
now taking the second
bottle, and I am sure by
the time that is finished
she will be quite cured.
—Yours truly,
Mrs. J. JOHNSON.
Hinton, Toorak.


D.S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6; Cleaning, 26; Hairspring, 2,6; Jewels,2 0;
Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed 12 months.
D. S. Mair for Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels. Grand Timekeepers, 17/6. Guaranteed 3 years.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold Wedding 1 Rings, 4 6. Extra
heavy, 9/6. Solid Gold Bar Brooches, 4/6. Hall-marked
D- S. Mair for Ladies’ Solid Gold Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 3 years, 35/-.
Note address—6B4 George Street, Sydney.
THE ACME OF MECHANICAL SKILL.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece.
A wonderful invention; a
handsome ornament; will
play popular airs at will, and
is a perfect timekeeper. The
case is solid Nickel, orna-
mental brass front, brass
handle and pillars with srlass
sides ; unlike any other make
of alarm, you are awakened
by the strains of “ Home,
Sweet Home,” “There’ll come
a Time Someday,” “ Daisy
Bell," “Annie Rooney,”
1 “ Sweet Marie," and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always
tell you the correct time, and will play choice selections
the whole day, or as desired. Sold retail for JSI 10s. ;
OUR PRICE IS 155.; carriage paid in N.S.W. 1/2
extra ; any other colony, 2/2. Sent on approval; if re-
turned within 14 days, money refunded. U. Potier
and Co,, Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
TO LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CEAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 Gkorgh St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales * Barbers * Supply House .
fc. J n
HEADACHE
\ CURED I
A Headache Cure should be
instantaneous, safe, certain,
and effective, however often
it is used, and tree from dan-
ger of evil after-effects. The
public should know that some
so-called headache cures are
dangerous, and ought not to
be used except under medical
advice. A headache cure, free
from every objection, is ob-
tainable, and known as
BISHOP’S
Citrate of Caffeine
It immediately cures the
worst headache, and dispels
all feelings of exhaustion and
weariness. Supplied by all
Chemists at
i/i}4 and 2/-, or
of ALFRED
BISHOP, Ltd.,
Mfg. Chemists,
Mile End New
Town, London.
LAIN
TE
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant ana
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
' 'hires* —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box ICO, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested >t with success.
fIM
Good Health
PTIIE SUNSHINE OF LIFE.
The GLORY OF MAN is
STRENGTH. Hoiv to attain
PII YSICALand INTELLECTUAL
perfection is fully explained in
our little pamphlet, which is sent
post free on application.
EVERY MAN should READ IT
Address: The Proprietor,
P.O. Box 462, Sydney, N.S.W
HOI TO PRESERVE THE EiESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allpokt & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN,2loLambeth
Road, London, S.E.
H
A A R F A G E
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the world.
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
lIAARFAGER curls the hair naturally and permanently
in a few hours without curling tongs or pins. Will make
the straightest hair curl beautifully without trouble.
HAARFAGER restores the hair and will prevent the hair
from falling out. All chemists. Price 3s. 6d., postage 6d.
extra. Wholesale Agents, ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney. If not obtainable at your
chemist, send stamps or P. 0.0. to The Argyle Apothecary
Co., Old Oautorbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W.
The Life of the System.
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
D.C.L.one quality only
THE BRAND
OF MEJ2iT>
f-.
ASK FOB
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
THE BEST:ALWAYS THE -SAME
WESTINGHOOSE
ELECTRIC
MINING MACHINERY.
MINING
LOCOMOTIVES.
MINING HOISTS.
MINE HAULAGE
PLANTS.
M
%CU^
MINING
PUMPS.
POWER
TRANSMISSION
PLANTS.
SOLE AGENTS:
NOTES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
NICHOLSON CO.
Are the LARGEST IMPORTERS of PIANOS,
ORGANS, and MUSIC in Australia.
GERMAN PIANOS by the most celebrated makers
ENGLISH PIANOS b Z ** b J£
AMERICAN PIANOS at surprisingly low prices
AMERICAN ORGANS in great variety
ALL THE NEWEST AND MOST POPULAR MUSIC.
CATALOGUES FREE
ON APPLICATION.
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
The London & American
Supply Stores.
11
m
EMII
HUH ill
UPPIY .tjfffiSSORES
LONDON
. . FOB . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNS & CO.,
Directors.
|l!!Sf WILL
iiii ! ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
illMffid & IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS
■VESTRY
'/Mm
PLAIN NOME TALK.
By Dr. E. E
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings , 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 1/6. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6 ;
post, 3s. Australian Rkapy Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 items ; post la 3d. Five Hundred Way’s of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Fens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-ropin Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
It w ILL ANDRADE,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
U
SECOND EDITION. 220 pp.-^/e.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses.”
Medical,
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BfLT«R •
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every' purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 3D days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
| and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A Bit of the Truth.
The most pertinent and startling question ever
asked is this :—“ What is truth?"
A Homan Governor propounded it once, under
circumstances which greatly worried and perplexed
his official mind. And he was not the first man
or the last —not by myriads. So far as I know
there has been no satisfactory answer. Some
people (radicals and come-outers of various sorts)
fancy that in this, the tail end of a rather braggart
and conceited century, they have flushed a fair-
sized covey of truths by firing speculative shot-
guns into every wayside bush and bog.
But have they done it ? No, gentle reader, no.
They have put up crows and sparrows, the same
crows that picked the bones of the cave-dwellers,
and the same sparrows that sold two for a farthing
in the time of Pilate. There were plenty of fools
of old, and there are plenty now. The ancient
doctors, indeed, prescribed some horrible stuffs as
medicine—they used electuaries of viper’s flesh and
recommended pomegranate seeds for toothache
because those seeds resemble human teeth. Very
shallow and silly, to be sure, this sounds to us.
But if you wanted to find things that come very
near matching them in modern practice, I could
show you where to look. On my table I have a
1 list of about 300 new “remedies ” introduced to a
suffering world within the past twelvemonth.
“ Must be some good ones among them,” do you
say? Possibly ! Time will tell. Meanwhile let
us stick to whatever we are sure of. “We learn
how to cure diseases,” said Celsus, “by experi-
ence, not by reasoning.”
“ Some of the greatest truths in medicine,” said
a learned Scotch doctor, “ came by the humblest
means ; not by synthesis or venesection, but by
the observations of peasants and the experiments
of motherly women.”
Concerning a medicine discovered by one such
woman, thousands of stories have been told and
letters written. Here is an example:—
“ For many years I have suffered from indiges-
tion and weakness. I seemed to have no energy
for anything. 1 had a poor appetite, and what
little food I ate caused me violent pains in the
chest and between the shoulders. Frequently I
had attacks of giddiness, and when I stooped I
suffered from an unnatural rush of blood to the
head. The pain which I was called upon to bear
was often very severe ; it affected all parts of my
body, and at night I got little proper and refresh-
ing sleep on account of it.
“As time went on and the complaint grew
fixed upon me, I came to be exceedingly weak,
and now and again was obliged to take to my bed.
I lost flesh and became quite thin, living, as I
did, only on milk, beef tea, and other kinds of
liquid food. It will be understood, of course, that
I had medical care, besides attending the South
London Dispensary. Yet I received ho benefit
from what was done for me.
“It happened that in January, 1889, a friend
—Mr. Pullen —told me he had suffered in a similar
manner, and been cured by a remedy called Mother
Seigel's Syrup. Acting on his suggestion, I got a
bottle, and, after having taken it, I found great
relief. Presently my appetite returned, and food
no longer distressed me. Convinced that Mother
Seigel’s Syrup was adapted to my ailment, I con-
tinued the use of it until it was no longer needed.
My health and strength were re-established, and I
have since been well. This medicine has done
what no others had been able to do. My husband,
who suffered from biliousness, used it with thesame
result. You have my free consent to publish this
brief statement, if you desire to do so.”—(Signed)
Mrs. Julia Massey, 133 Lorrimore-road, Kenning-
ton, London, S.E., January 20th,. 1898.
There is no royal road to the discovery of truth
or knowledge. Anybody may find it anywhere.
It is not always he who seeks that finds. Valuable
discoveries are usually made by what, for lack of
a better word, we call accident. The medicine
that cures is the medicine we want, no matter
whether it is as old as the earth or was picked up
yesterday in the fields by a child. That Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, cures is proved by a cloud of wit-
nesses. It is a bit of the truth. Therefore it will
not die out, and nothing can take its place.
Catarr!)
CURE YOURSELF with our In-
strument and Home Treatment.
Our MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Neuralgia, Hay Fever, La Grippe,
Asthma, Catarrhal Deafness, Coughs
and Colds (Diseases of Head, Throat
and Lungs).
Free Treatment, at Office. Complete cure
by .mail, 10/-. (Postal Notes all Colonies
taken, except New Zealand, from where
Money .Orders must be sent). Hundreds
in use, giving perfect satisfaction. Write
for Booklet and Testimonials. No Agents.
Order direct from
Home Catarrh Cure Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET,
Htnlion" The Bulletin' when wiling.
E
MEDICATOR


David Braham $ Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
WINTER _ STJITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OP—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - -
AT REFORM
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS I
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ Winter Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLE and TO UNO.
X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address In Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Mana-rer.
SECOND-HAND
ANI)
New furniture
(Best Quality).
ljbl J ivU.U I/O
SAVE 50 PEK GENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geonre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/0
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
USB
IROYALNAVY DRESSiiiGj
FOR
I. BROWN LEATHER
BQOTS St SHOES
!='. OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
SliMHMbHiiiWltlMiiiQwSE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM.
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract 9
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
THE
DEAF
HEAB
* 4 Common Sense
« «Ear Drums”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
o.nmend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A pent,
' ALM2R3, 229 GollinsSt Melbourne
(INVISIBLE)
Mention “The Bulletin” when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EITCXS.ASIT,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can he »iven in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
lIEADOU \RTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY' CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
The Thermal Springs District.
WONDERLAND
THE
Grand Hotel, ROTORUA.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
in New Zealand.
JET. V. Gardner
(late of the P. & O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find —
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
i. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager
will receive prompt attention.
IJIHE GAIETY - THEATRE, ZEISHAN.
Seats up to 1000. Beautiful building;; large stage, 38 x
48 ; electric lighting ; usual stock scenery ; all modern
accessories. Equals any provincial theatre in Australasia.
In a rapidly rising district, with an amusement-loving
public. Terms from proprietor, EDWARD MULCAHY,
Hobart; or S. F. Hickom, Zeehan, agent.
mL ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
c.
■Ht
With ah ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round theinstep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a sci-sors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities— a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a lit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
The following are a few of our leading lines’.
GENT’S Kangaroo E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d
best French Calf ditto, 16s 611, 17s 6d ; F. Calf Kid-leg
Balmorals, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ; best F. Calf. WHOLE
Golosh, Kid-leg (neat caps) Balmorals, 20s, for best wear ;
F. Calf Half-Wellingtons. 24s 6d ; best F. Calf Jockey
Boots, sewn, 39s 6d ; F. Calf Riding Boots, 42s (worth
50s); heavy Calf Watertight Shooting Boots, stout soles
for rough tramping, wear 12 months, 15s 6d ; F. Calf
Cossacks, 14s 6d, 15s 6d.
LADIES. Best Glac6 Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, 16s;
ditto High-leg Balmorals, 19s 6d ; Button ditto, 20s;
F. Calf Lace Balmorals, 17s6d ; Colonial Calf ditto, 13s 0d;
Kangaroo ditto, 15s 6d ; F. Calf or Kangaroo Oxford or
Derby Shoes or E.S., 14s 6d.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT
FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOR —
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments & Remittanceof 13s.
6d.-, when you will have
mailedtoyou,post free
apair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide
toes. <
ipm
/COUP.ON
/CUINEA
{.MORAL
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address:
W. J. Ellis & Co.
Sydney.
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
anti at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Wo Household should be without it. To Farmers it is
invaluable. It should be found in every Stable.
All Athletes should use it. It Cures Speedily and
Permanently.
Aches and Pains vanish instantlv. A Child may us v it
without, fear. It has no equal as an Embrocation. Has
effected more Cures than any other specific ever offered
to the public.
LUMBAGO CURED.—Desiccating Works, Flemington,
11th June, 1806. Messrs. S. Cox and Co., 422 Bourke-st.,
Melbourne. Dear Sirs,—l obtained a pot of Solomon
Solution on recommendation, and applied it to the parts
in which I was affected with Lumbago, and have found it
to be an Absolute Cure. I removed that unpleasant dis-
order on a few applications. I strongly recommend it to
persons affected with Lumbago, or any complaint of a
similar nature.—Yours truly, F. lIAIRE.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. Cd. and (triple size) ss. per jar ; postage, Od. extra.
Copy of Testimonials forwarded on application.
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers— S. COX & CO.,
422 BOURKK STREET, MELBOURNE.
“Struck Down for Death.”
His Own Words*
Experts said he could not be cured
HIS PERFECT CURE A SURPRISE TO EVERYBODY.
(From the Freeman’s Journal.)
(by our own reporter.)
Mr. J. Hawkes, of Hawkesview^
Guildford, N.S.W., is now one of the
strongest and healtliiest-looking men one
could meet in a day’s march. We heard
that for five long years he had been a terrible
■sufferer, and that a course of Clements
{Tonic had completely restored his health,
so this paper {The Fnem in’s Journal, Syd-
ney) dispatched a reporter to see him.
“ You look as though you’d never had a
•day's illness in your life,” said our reporter
«on seeing Mr. Hawkes.
“ I may look well enough now,” was the
tteply, “and
My Health is Perfect,
hut once I was struck down for death. The
doctors have given me up, and it seemed as
though nothing remained for me but to
settle my affairs of this world and prepare
for the next.”
■“You must have had a narrow squeak,
then. What first caused your illness?”
■“ It must have been coming on for a long
time before it showed itself. My occupation
was very trying. I was a market gardener,
and I carted large quantities of vegetables
to the Belinore Markets. This necessitated
getting up very early in the morning, and,
as a matter of fact, I often waited up all
night so as to be first in the field and get
the best prices. My meals I got at very
irregular hours. I began to get a
Queer, Giddy Feeling:,
which I can hardly describe, and one day,
after I came back from the markets, I was
seized with a fit. That was the beginning.
I temporarily got better of this attack, but
I was a changed man. Shooting pains
w. uld suddenly dart through my back and
head, after which a feeling of sickness and
Faintness would Overwhelm
me. My digestion went all wrong, and
what little I ate did no good, for I got more
like a confirmed invalid every day.”
“ Did you see a doctor ?”
“Yes, several; but they didn’t know
what was the matter at first; but some of
them said I was suffering from a sluggish
and disordered liver, and they gave me a
whole host of directions as to diet and how
I was to live, besides any quantity of medi-
cines. & tried hot bandages to my back and
abdomen, but got no relief from them, nor
did the doctors’ physic do me any permanent
good. All day long I was in such a sluggish
state that I cared for nothing. I was in a
sort of sluggish
Stupor or Lethargy,
which never left me. I suffered in this way
Eor over five years. At last I got into such
a despondent state that when I wished to
see the doctor I was too nervous to drive to
his house. I was frightened of going off
through the shaking of the cart, so I was
forced to accept what support I could get
from a friend, and crawl along with him and
the help of a stick.
I had got so Weak
that I couldn’t walk without a stick. . My
face was drawn, and anyone could *•* in it
the pallor of a long-continued discos*. What
I have described was my usual state, but
every now and again the shooting pains .in
my head and back would become more in-
tense, and then I should have another fit.
Thinking that perhaps I could obtain better
treatment I
Went to the Hospital.
Three doctors there gave me a long and
very careful examination, but they could
not tell definitely what was the matter.
And all their medicines and attention failed
to cure me. livery doctor asked me the
same question, * What is the matter with
you ?’
This Silly Question,
in my enfeebled state, used to rouse and
irritate me. * That's what I came to you to
know,’ I replied.”
“ Your case must have seemed hopeless ?
“ Yes ; I had very little hope of ever
retting better. I became very low-spirited*
1 took lip interest iu anything. I
Consulted an Expert
in liver disease. He told me that my liver
was in a very bad state, and led me to
understand t'. at
I Could Never Expect
to be cured ; so I gave up all hope of getting
better again. I resigned myself to my fate.
I felt that I was already in the grasp of
Death, and lay in bed expecting my end.”
“ You cheated death, however, judging
by your appearance.”
“ Yes, and this is how it happened. My
nephew recommended Clements Tonic. I
got some, hoping it would at least relievo
me.”
“ And did it Mr. Hawkes ?”
“ The first dose was more use than all the
other medicines I had tried. It was vory
effective, for it
Struck at the Root
of my complaint. From the first Clement#
Tonic had a stimulating action on my liver.
The pains in my back were soon easier, and
my head felt lighter and clearer than it had
done for a long time.”
“ Did you still have fits ?”
“No, not a fit; it stopped them at once.
I persevered with Clements Tonic, and it
was plain to everyone that I was getting
better daily. I
Sacked the Doctors and scorned
their prescriptions. Their me-
dicines did not touch my dis-
ease. Clements Tonic cured it,
and all the evils went away without my being
aware of it. My appetite returned, I put
on flesh again, and soon got strong. I lost
all that tired weary feeling of lassitude and
was quite bright and cheerful, and instead
of sitting half stupefied in a chair all day or
Lying like a Log
in bed, I felt lively and energetic. A few
weeks’ treatment with Clements Tonic quite
restored me, but, of course after five long
years’ illness one cannot expect to
Rebuild a Wasted System
in a week, but the way Clements Tonic
brought me along was a perfect surprise, not
only to me, but to everybody. The only
regret I have now is that I had not been
lucky enough to strike Clements Tonic at
the start. If I had known iU value earlier
that first attaok would have been my last,
and I should have saved
Five Long; Years of Suffering;*
I am thankful, however, that I came across
Clements Tonic when I did —‘ Better late
than never.’ It entirely eradicated all
disease from my system, and did what
doctor’s physic could not do in all those
years. In short, it saved my life.”
“And may I publish your endorsement,
Mr. Hawkes?”
“ Certainly, it is the simple truth that
I have told you ; I am here to prove it, and
all the neighbours know I was
Knocking; at Death’s Door
for five years. I have proved Clements
Tonic a genuine article ; I owe my life to it.
Why should I, or anybody else, object or be
AAh&med to endorse such a valuable medicine.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Jauks Hawkrs, of Hawkeaview, Guilford,
in the Colony of New South Wales do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of eleven folios ana
consecutively numbered from one , t ?„ e f l ®, ve n n ’
that it contains and is a true and faithful acoount
of my illness and cure by Clemen ts Tome, a. d
also contains mv full permission to publish t he same
any wav ; and 1 make this Bolemn declaration con
scientiously believing the same , be d
virtue of the provisions of an Aetmade and P?“? .
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty;
intituled " An Act for the more effectual aboht on
Oaths and Allirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of
South Wales, and to substitute Declarationsm lieu
thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary an
extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Fairfield this sixth day of July, 1898,
befole, “ e - WILLIAM STIMSON, J.P a , rfiel<J _
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.


THE OWL
Consulting and
OUT RATH,
RUG CO.
Dispensing Chemists,
Corner
Wholesale and Retail-
Elizatoetn and. Batliurst Streets,
CUT-RATE PRICE LIST FORWARDED FREE ON APPLICATION.
MEDICINES FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cut Price, 18e. fid.
Sydney.
Wholesale and Retail*
Shots that Reach the Spot
I Clements Tonic, 2s; Cod Liver Oil, Is 3d;
1 Fruit Salt, 2s; Pain Killer, Is.
Dr.
ClarJtson 9 8
BEINTIGOEATOB.
A Concentrated, Vitalising, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE and
BLOOD STIMULANT : a remedy known to Dr. Clarkson only.
We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure. Price, 7/6 per
Bottle; Three Bottles for £1 —post free any part of Australia
TPn.mplilot Post Free.
ELECTRIC BELTS
Rtgular Priab—
One Guinea .
Restore the Weak.
Refresh the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Revive the Depressed.
Act Like a Charm.
Country Persons, save your money. Don’t squander it on quack
nostrums before trying our New Belt.
Pn.mph.let Post; FrMk
EPILEPSY AND FITS
Dr. HUGHES’S Celebrated Remedy, “ riTSEFILEF,” has proved to be one of the wonders of the age. So successful
has this remedy proved in Epileptic Cases, Fits, etc., that it has elicited favorable and spontaneous testimony from the clergy, doctors,
gentry, and the public generally—a testimony endorsed by the Press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PYRAMID PILE CURE
The Latest Specific for Curing Haemorrhoids. The most chronic and obstinate character of Inward Or Out-
ward Files readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Prioe, 3s. 6d. per Box, or 3 for 10s.; Postage, 6cL extra.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Specialist to give ADVICE FREE to all sufferers.
Address s
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDCR RESPECTFULLY SOLICITEP.
Vae Victis!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was his housekeeper and the mother of most
of his children—a large, deep-bosomed woman,
with a fine command of language upon occasion.
Evidently the occasion had arisen, for he could
hear her, as he sat in the office, scolding his eldest
and only child of a long-dead wife, and in these
early and more sober hours of the morning he was
apt to wonder how he had been foolish enough to
put so much in her power, and to make valiant
resolutions of pensioning her and her children off
when the station should pay better, and sending
his own daughter to be educated and brought up
decently.
The shrill voice, with its twang, sounded louder
than usual this morning, chiming in as it did with
more pressing worries. It was a bit of bad luck
the stock-inspector dropping upon him just as
those cases of anthrax in the sheep had cropped
up. He had suspected it, but hoped to trade them
off in time, and now they would have to be
destroyed. However, he didn’t know—there
might be a way.
Again that voice! Curse the woman, would
she never let him have peace ! He must really
make an effort to pension her. These were his
morning thoughts ; but as the day wore on and
the nips became more frequent, he viewed things
differently. The old girl suited him very well;
she was plump and yielding, and her cooking was
Al. The kids, too, were jolly little beggars,
especially the boy; he ruled the house, and no
mistake, and had the blind side of his mother
“ properly.”
Her husband was chopping wood in the yard ;
an elderly man, half-witted from the effects of an
accident. He did odd jobs about the place, lived
in a hut by himself, and was known as
“Softy.” The master hardly remembered his
existence, and, when he did, thought of
him with good-humored toleration as a poor
devil who was lucky to have his tucker always
provided for him. But the woman hated him, as
one can hate the human stumbling-block in one’s
path. But for him, she might have been mistress
m name, as she had long been in reality. She
hated him, as only such women can, for his mental
and physical feebleness, and, woman-like, vented
it in petty tyrannies. A habit he had, of hurting
himself through careless handling of tools, seemed
for some inscrutable reason to intensify her
hatred. The sight of him this morning, chopping
wood with a bandage round his foot, as she
turned from her scolding of the girl, roused her to
fury. . . ,
“ Leave that chopping, you wretched idiot, and
get out of my sight quick, or I’ll throw boiling
water over you ! ” she called, and as the old crea-
ture limped away like some poor old cur that has
been kicked, the look in her eyes was devilish in
its hate, and her lips grew firm in resolve.
* * * *
“Oh ! give it a rest. What narm does the man
do you ’ We can’t turn the old beggar away to
starve.” This was the usual tenor of the master s
reply to her periodical naggings on the subject.
Hitherto it had sufficed ; but a time comes when
the worm turns, and the camel is unable to bear
another straw. She had evidently reached that
stage.
‘ r You’re a fool!” she nagged back— “you
haven’t got the spirit of a mouse. Any other man
would have got rid of such useless lumber long ago
for good and all,” and she faced him defiantly.
He took his pipe out of his mouth and looked at
her.
“ What do you mean ? ”
“ You know what I mean ; it’s easy enough,”
and taking a folded newspaper out of her pocket,
she pointed to a paragraph and handed it to him.
He read it and flung it to the farthest corner of
the room with an oath. “By God, what she-
devils you women can be 1 Out of this. I’ve had
enough of you ! ”
• • • *
She took him at his word, and henceforth
confined herself strictly to her duties as working
housekeeper, only speaking when spoken to,
cooking the plainest of meals, and keeping the
children as much as possible to her own quarters.
At first he hardly noticed ; then he began to miss
the family life he had grown accustomed to, the
dainty little meals, and the blandishments she
knew so well how to practise; and, the incident of
the paper having faded from his memory, he tried
by various means to restore the old state of things.
She eluded him with feminine artifice, and he
began to feel all the ardour of a new pursuit; but
with continual denial he grew moody and irrit-
able, and passed from coaxing and pleading to
threats.
“There’s only one way, and you know it!” she
said, significantly. But he shook his head. The
time was not yet.
However, the struggle ended as it always does
where a strong will is pitted against a weak, self-
indulgent nature, and the day came when the
master ordered “ Softy ”to get a sheep out of
No. 2 paddock atid dress it. The man who
always did the killing heard the order and ven-
tured the remonstrance that “Softy” wasn’t
much of a butcher, but was told that the sheep
was not wanted for meat, merely as an experi-
ment.
• * • *
“Softy” died shortly afterwards. Blood-poi-
soning, the doctor said.
KARL CARR.
An exalted personage visited an Australian
watering-place during the past summer, and put
up with his suite at the leading hostelry. When
the visit terminated, the cavalcade departed with-
out mentioning such mundane matters as bills,
and, after a decorous silence of a month, the
account was rendered, charging the visitors the
inordinately small sum of <£2 10s. a week each.
The total came to .£BO, but a shilling or two more
was unavailingly spent in posting the bills to the
exalted debtor. At last, the matter was taken to
a solicitor, who informed the sorrowing boniface
that such personages are exempt from petty-debt
summonses, but he promised to do his best, and
again approached the awesome Presence to have
the account liquidated. But the Presence took ex-
ception to items for wine, horses, and different
things, which it held should have been included in
the 508. a week, and eventually the matter was
compromised by the payment of =£6o, in place of
the .£BO demanded. The next time that hotel-
keeper has any exalted personages at his house he
is going to have each meal paid for as it is dumped
down on the plate.
“As the Sayin’ Is.”
An Aboriginal Idyl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a gawky-looking dairyman. I met him
at the township ; and, as I was going his way, we
rode out together. He said he was glad of my
company, as he liked somebody to talk to.
■For a long time he spoke about an old bull his
grandfather owned about 20 years before. The
best ever was in the district. Had taken one
hundred and twenty-nine ‘‘blues ” at the different
shows, and they had “ as much ribbon at home as
would go half round the farm—which was no
pm all one.” He (the bull) was a wonderful
animal, “but they don’t breed ’em nowadays—
don’t pay.”
After he had exhausted the bull, he asked,
rather abruptly, if I had ever done any “ coortin’.”
Told him I had, once. Then he tried to draw me
out on the subject, but, finding that no use, ho
asked “straight” how I got on with it. Told
him I married the girl. He didn’t look satisfied,
and remarked that my experience of the other sex
was small —very small —and that I could know
very little about it. He seemed rather inclined to
pity me.
“Look here,”he said, “I coorted from before
I was eighteen until I got married at chirty-eight—
that is, twenty solid years of it—so that I should
be allowed to know a bit about it.
“The first piece I got in tow with was a good
sort, but she was no match for me, as the sayin’ is.
Yer see, we owned the farm we were on, and her
people were only tenants, and dash’d poor ones at
that. I was considered a catch at that time, as
the sayin’ is. All the same, this girl was all right,
although, of course , she knew, and her ole man
knew, that I’d never marry her. I was only
coortin’ —amusin’ myself like. At _ last, I was
forbidden the house, as the sayin’ is. But that
didn’t make any dif. to me. We used to meet
regularly in the dairy. Mostly we were in there
from 10 or 11 until 3 o’clock in the morning.
Lord ! I used to be that sleepy at the
milkin’ that I could scarcely keep my perch on
the stool—used to hang on to the cow to keep
myself from failin’ back. My old governor blamed
tobacco for it.
“Well, one night me and Mag was in the dairy,
coortin’ away, and we got an awful fright. A
big rat got into a dish of cream—that was before
separatin’ came into use —and if he didn t splash,
it’s a caution. Of course, he soon drowned, and
that was the end of him. But Mag thought it
was the ole man a-comin’, and fainted in me arms.
I soon brought her round with milk, though.
Just threw some in her face, and then rubbed her
wrists with some for a bit. I’m up to all them
dodges. .
“Another night we was billm away like two
turtle-doves, as the sayin’ is, when all at once the
bloomin’ole plough-horse fell down the well. Now,
the well was right in front of the dairy, and we’d
have been in a nice fix had the ole man heard the
splash. I couldn’t give the alarm, and Ma°: was
was not going to give herself away, so the horse
had to die —there was no gettin’ out. He splashed
and grunted and groaned for nearly an hour
before he turned it up, and he was a good ’un too.
I’ve often laughed about it since.
“But one night the ole man did come along.
He must have smelt a rat, as the sayin’ is. All
at once there was a hammerin’ on the door, and
he called, ‘ Come out ——or I’ll shoot! ’
“Is T ow, I knew the girl (although no match for
me, as the sayin’ is) would put herself between me
and all the guns m creation, and so I got a bit
cheeky. I told him to come in and I d brain
him —didn’t care for neither him nor his gun.
There were two doors on the dairy, and, when he
found he couldn’t get in at the front one, he went
round. That was my chance. I pulls back the
bolt, an’ ‘gets’for my ‘natural.’ That was the
last I saw of Mag until the other day. She was
a bit of a sneak, you know, or she wouldn’t have
met me in the dairy; an’ I never could stand a
sneak. Of course, she knew I wouldn’t marry her,
although I never told her so. Besides, she was
no match for me, as the sayin’ is. Just now she
is spliced to one of the leadin’ men here, an’ she
oughter make him a good wife, as the sayin’ is.
I’d give you her address, if you were stoppin’.
“ That’s the man has the money,” he broke off,
pointing to a house over in a paddock.
“ Who is that ? ” I asked.
“My old dad-in-law.”
“And the wife?”
“ One of the best women in the country. Just
a match for me, as the sayin’ is.”
YARRUM.
At Windever, near Mudgee, a Mrs. Mul-
hollar.d a publican, has taken out her fiftieth
license—said to be a N.B. W. record. The pub. is
named “The Good Woman Inn.”
The Tasmanian capital badly needs a com-
prehensive drainage system, and a poll is to be
taken about establishing one—the sewage to be all
run into the magnificent Derwent River at a point
right opposite the city. It is a beautifully Tas-
manian idea, but then they have a lot of Tas-
manian ideas in Tasmania.
“Miles”: Let me piece up Transvaal
history. The Boers, in 1835, began their dash out
for fresh pastures, just like the Mormons going off
to Salt Lake. England tried to keep them in the
net and ungraciously conceded freedom in ’52.
The annexation by Sir Theophilus Shepstone, in
’77, was a soft thing. He had no soldiers, only
26 policemen, and the Boers merely growled.
Rebellion in 1880-1. Colley was negotiating and
yet must needs do a brilliant stroke by seizing
Majuba (Pigeon) Hill. It was a masterly stra-
tegical move, but his soldiers got demoralised by
the deadly rifle-firing of concealed Boers. The
British held the hill triumphantly, and—pouf—
they were gone. A Boer shot Colley in the fore-
head, as he might an obstinate bullock.
S.A. Government Gazette prints the
certified returns of Parliamentary candidates’
expenses. Every electorate in the province is
double-barrelled, and the moral that gets the
biggest lift is “ When electioneering, always have
a pal.” Or, if you are pretty sure of winning,
get three or four pals to share the exes. Theo.
Bruce, who ran “ on his own ” in Sturt, has to pay
,£260 9s. Bd. (for nothing but experience, too), and
Conventioner Glynn, who had a big battle single-
handed at N. Adelaide, spent .£219 18s. 9d. John
Darling (Captain Joseph’s brother) topped the
score, however, with .£260 9s. Bd. But Treas.
Holder, who toured with three or four other can-
didates, put his slender bank balance back by
only £33. Poster, M.P. for Newcastle, declares
he spent only £3 15s. 6d., while his wildly extra-
vagant colleague, Burgoyne, got away with £3
19s. Premier Kingston’s expenses reached £Bl.


.£1 will buy you a gentleman’s mackintosh of a
really decent quality, suitable for stormy weather, and
as these garments are made with all the latest improve-
ments, satisfactory wear and solid value are assured.
The finish is excellent, the sewings of imperishable fabric,
ensuring resistance to the effects of the changeable
climate of New South Wales. Hordern Brothers,
Federal Clothiers, 203, 206, 207, 209, 211 Pi.it-street,
Sydney. Sent per parcels post, postage prepaid, to any.
Post Office in New South Wales.*
National Cash Registers.
No. 92.
The Storekeeper’s Coupon-Register.
No. 92.
A Coupon Printing, Detail and
Total-adding Cash Register!
What better could be desired?
A. RECORD
OB'
Every Individual Transaction.
A Perfect Cliecls
ON ALL
Cash, Received..
YOU
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
Whether you lost any money last month through carelessness.
Which of your clerks is making the most sales. ,
In which departments of your store you are losing money.
Whether goods sold on credit are always charged.
Which of your employes, if any, is careless.
How to secure a complete printed record of each day’s transactions
between clerks and customers in your store.
How to offer inducements to cash customers without discriminating
against credit customers.
The only method in the world which will economically and quickly answer
the above questions and many others of equal importance to business
men is -
EiNatiofyal Cash Register
Over 100 Different Machines Made suited to the Requirements of all Varieties of Financial
or Commercial Business.
Full particulars, price, etc., will be given on application to the
HEAD OFFICES FOR AUSTRALIA:
393 Cr£iO£tG-£ STREET, SYDNEY.
364 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager Australasia.
SoCu/Qpirs of Australia!? F^dcratioo-
Registered
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2/6.
Solid Gold. 12/6.
WE ARE AGAIN TO THE FORE
WITH UP-TO-DATE SOUVENIRS
COMMEMMORATING THE GREATEST EVENT IN
AUSTRALIAN HISTORY.
SOLID SILVER HAT-PINS, 3/- ; MATCH-BOXES, 10/-, 12 6 •
BELT CLASPS, 13 6, 15/—, in Great Variety.
MANUFACTURED and OBTAINABLE
ONLY FROM US.
Registered.
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver, 3'o.
Solid Gold, 13/6.
.Japanese Lantern
PLS AND CHAIN.
Solid Gold, 7 6.
Lantern onty, 4/-.
RECE
Solid Gold
Sword PIN CHAIN,
Garnet or Amethyst
Heart, 14/6.
Solid Gold
BIRD PENDANT,
Set with 17 Lovely
Opals, 15/-.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, and
' ■ ' Charity
PENDANT,
5/- each.
With Pin and Chain,
8.6.
Lucky, 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount, 5/-
Plated, 1/ and 1/6.
Registered.
Federation Souvenir Spoons, Solid Silver.
PLAIN BOWL, 12 6; with MOTTO in
BOWL, 13/6.
All Articles Sent POST FREE to Any
Address. Please Send for Our
Illustrated Slips of Novelties.
Silver, Gold Plated, set with 9 Real Turquoises
and 11 Orient Pearls, 10/6.
SWALLOW BROOCH,
9c., 6/6; 150., 8/-.
BIRD SAFETY PIN,
9c. Gold, 3/-.
PIGEON BROOCH,
00., 6/6; 15c., 8/-.
Amethyst Heart and
Bird
SAFETY PIN, fl/-.
DOVE BROOCH,
90., 6/-; 150., 7/6.
15c. Gold,
set with
17 Opals,
42/6.
IIA-fESI NOVEL-TV
S WORJQ
Bf^ooch
15c. Gold,
Set with 17 Pearls,
85/-.
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOKS,
2/6.
REGS
r m.
Solid Gold
SWORD l-Ijf
CHAIN and HELL
14/6.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian, Address — 90 KING STREET SYDNEY.
The Man Who Told You So.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Of all the fiends who walk this earth.
Whose game, it seems, is mainly
To make us curse for all we’re worth
And swear and speak profanely,
I’ll back the brute, in time of woe
Who comes and says, “I told you so !”
Does speculation bring you down
And ruin you completely,
Or spielers get your last half-crown
Particularly neatly,
He never fails to let you know
That all along he told you so.
With buoyant hope out West you went
To make a fortune speedy,
But came back home without a cent,
Disgusted, worn, and seedy.
He met you with—his face aglow—
“ Now recollect, I told you so 1”
That little bill, to save a friend,
Accepted by you blindly,
Meets with dishonour in the end,
And lets you in unkindly;
His hope that soon you’ll wiser grow
Is prefixed by “ I told you so ! ”
The maiden whom you were to wed,
Who swore she loved you madly,
Gets married to a pal instead,
Which wounds you very badly;
Again, his sympathy to show,
Out comes the same old “Told you so !'
And much I dread that, by-and-by,
When we’re amongst the tainted,
And with the imps in Satan’s sty
Are getting fast acquainted,
He’ll point to us from Heaven’s front row,
And wag his chin—“ I told them so ! ”
STYX.
Mrs. Steve Kennedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At that time I, in common with most of the other
men on the big western station, thought Mrs. Steve
Epnnerlv n *„ • ,•
y y > nderful and fascinating per-
son. l say most of the other men, for there were
two exceptions who took no interest whatever in
her or her actions, viz., Steve Kennedy, her hus-
band, and Harrington, the book-keeper. Now
looking back with the clearer eyes of middle age
• T 1 uxi * i-
and experience, I know her to have been nothing
more or less than a pretty, bold-eyed, vulgar little
cockney with a good figure and an overplus of
energy and brass
Life, if peaceful, had been drearily monotonous
before she oame. There were one or two women
on the station, but of no very attractive type,
from flat-chested, melancholy Mrs. Blake, the
overseer’s wife, whose thoughts were always full
of the wants of her numerous children, to Mrs.
Reuss, whose husband drove the bullock-dray, and
who was chiefly famous for being able to lift a bag
of flour on to her back with as much ease as the
strongest man on the place.
Steve Kennedy came along with his wife and
two children just as the boss was in need of a man
to drive the engine and a woman to cook for the
men’s hut and the quarters. Mrs. Steve cooked
well on the whole, but nocone of us dared to grumble
when things went wrong. No one wanted a
taste of Mrs. Steve’s tongue a second time. Sceve
was a taciturn, gipsy-faced fellow who never inter-
fered with his wife’s favorite pastime, which was
the harmless one of binding every male, from the
grey-headed butcher to the youngest horse-boy, to
her chariot-wheels.
Every evening, as the six o’clock bell rang, she
would put on a fresh print frock, stick a real gera-
nium in her thick dark hair, and saunter out to
meet Steve —her work-roughened little fingers
busy with crochet, the two pretty children run-
ning after her. She also met ali the hands, as a
rule, returning over the low-level bridge after the
day’s work in the paddocks or yards, and she had
a bright glance and a merry word for each.
I think the other women would have liked her
better if she had been slovenly or a bad house-
keeper—but everything was in order before she
went for that evening stroll. Years on years of
tropic summers and memories of long, hard
droughts had not laid their mark on her as they
had on those other women, poor tilings ; and she
used her ad vantages to their utmost, for she was
the vainest little creature on God’s earth. Some-
times, after the children were tucked into bed and
the piles of greasy dishes got through, with the
help of myself or seme other admirer, she would
come over to the quarters and entertain us with
tales of past conquests and experiences, and we—
starved for the sight of a womanly woman—hung
on every word and believed all she liked to tell us.
She used to say she would “ box any feller’s ears
who attempted to kiss her.’’ I waylaid her in the
passage more than once, and she didn’t box mine,
but I quite thought she meant all she said in
regard to the other chaps, and no doubt one and
all thought the same.
She called us all by our surnames without pre-
fix —except, again, Harrington, who treated her
as if she were a servant and nothing more, and
who never ans wered unless she addressed him as
“mister.” He was a quiet Sydneyite, with a
plain face and wonderful eyes, and he used to
read a lot when he wasn’t working. Mrs. Steve
called him a “ stuck up devil.” All the same, she
looked after his comfort in all sorts of ways, say-
ing privately that he was' just the mean sort that
would go and complain to the boss if she didn't.
He used to read with his back to the lamp and
his feet on the mantelpiece, on off-nights, and it
generally happened that she came in to entertain
us on those evenings, and afterwards, I remember
now, her bold black eyes were always roving in
his direction as she talked.
By-and-by, Blake, the overseer, used to stroll
round regularly after tea to chat with her, leaving
his wife to the companionship of her sickly, squal-
ling children, and the occupation of mending his
moles by the light of a guttering oil-lamp—no easy
task when the dull eyes have been weakened by
attack after attack of sandy blight. Truth to say,
Mrs. Blake was a most woful creature, and
station opinion did not blame Blake, who was a
fine specimen of a man, for seeking amusement
elsewhere if she couldn’t make his home “ pleasant
and cheerful ” for him. _
Pleasant and cheerful!—with fourteen souls
packed into the space for seven, and a pair of
weakly twins howling the house down ever-
lastingly. So might Mrs. Blake have defended
herself, just as she might have blamed early
marriage, many children and the tropic heat, for
making her the washed-out rag of humanity she
was, tho’her years numbered one less than plump,
fresh-faced Mrs. Kennedy’s.
A jealous woman is always ridiculous, and Mrs.
Blake was especially so. Mrs. Steve coaxed the
boss into letting us have the wool-store for a
dance. She contrived herself a wonderful co -
tume ; I believe it was yellow print and black
lace—but it looked A 1 at night, and it was turned
down in front to show the curves of a well-de-
veloped chest. Blake danced a lot witli her, and
Mrs. Blake made a scene ; her shrill wailing com-
plaints were quite drowned by her rival’s smart
and jeering retorts, and it ended in Blake flying
into a rage and sending his wife home. Reuss also
paid Mrs. Steve marked attention that night; but
Mrs. Reuss was a strong woman, and she sent
Reuss home and out of harm’s way. She had not
time to be jealous, and so took care to prevent its
possibility. Mrs. Steve acted the scene with the
overseer’s wife again for us next evening. She
was a born actress—no doubt of that—and she
imitated the “streak of misery’s parting speech
to perfection: “There’s nothin’ fair, there’s
nothin’ just in anything, or you’d get paid-out for
making mischief, you brazen-faced person!”
( Person’ was considered a term of great dis-
respect). _
And so Mrs. Steve gave us over again her own
spirited retort. .
“Person, indeed!” That’s how it began. The
rest isn’t publishable, for Mrs. Steve did not care
what she said, and had a wonderful command of
language useful for such occasions.
(( She ended up by tossing her head and declaring
that there wasn’t a naan in the district she couldn’t
have crawlin .after her if she wanted him ’’—and
such was our infatuation that I believe weone and
all hoped she considered us amongst the crawlers,
and not in the outer darkness that enshrouded the
rrien she didn t want. As I said before, those men
were (apparently) only her husband and Harring-
ton. One day all hands were out starting a big
mob of horses for the coast. They were bound for
India. How it happened is hard to say, but
Dixon, who was in charge, was thrown, and was
picked up with a broken neck, while the horse,
which had fallen with him, struggled up to its
feet uunarmed., Life or death—the workings of a
station can t be upset for accidents, and while
the boss gave orders for poor Dixon to be carried
home, I received mine to take his place, and
I galloped back to the station to get some
things together. I had the shortest time for pre-
t 0 c f ch , t f mob . U P* fc
stor? and fhe rWn T ”!•
store, ana, seeing the door open, 1 ran in, noting,
as I went, how sleepy and dead-alive the big
station homestead looked in its midday drowsiness
The office was only divided from the store by a
slab partition, and I heard Harrington’s voice a
shade removed from its steady evenness, say in"—
«* By,- p, lf iv. 00 i,„ • • • ■ * V.
B or God s sake, spare me any more of this
nonsense. Are you mad, woman ? Think of your
children—of your husband—anything-, in fact,
that is likely to bring you to your senses."
. Then he gave a sigh of mingled rage and vexa-
tion.
I stepped softly to the wall, unable to resist my
curiosity. 1 nearly jumped out of mv skin with
astonishment at what I saw—viz., Mrs. Steve
Kennedy, in her yellow-and-blnck evening dress—
kneeling at Harrington’s feet, her face red and
swollen with weeping. Harrington, perched up on
the tall office-stool, his coat off, and a pen behind
his ear, was not a romantic figure, and the annoy-
ance and disgust expressed by his whole attitude
were almost comical. “Do get up,” he said,
politely, “you—you—will spoil your dress—the
floor is very dirty."
( “ What do I care ! ” said Mrs. Steve, miserably.
“You wouldn’t come to the dance and you
wouldn’t Jiave seen me in this if I hadn’t put it
on. Ain’t there nothing you like the look of me
in? The other men said I was splendid.” Then
she sobbed.
“ Suppose anyone comes in and sees you in this
rig-out,” said Harrington impatiently, “ what
would they think ? ”
“Just the truth and nothing else,’’she answered
defiantly ; “and I don’t care who knows that I’m
shook on you, Mr. Harrington, and always have
been, and I——"
But this was too much for the book-keeper. He
interrupted her by springing off the stool back-
wards to escape her clinging arms, and then
taking her by the elbows he gently but firmly
pushed her outside the door and locked it.
I watched him for a minute. He went back to
his stool and returns, adding up the long rows of
figures as if nothing had happened. None of us
ever had understood Harrington. Even now, with
the light of years and wider experience to judge
men and morals by, I understand him less than
ever.
■ I then took a good long look at Mrs. Steve
Kennedy walking slowly towards the quarters; no
longer a triumphant siren, but a crushed and
defeated “ woman scorned,” the strong noonday
sun shining on her uncovered head and bringing
out all the garish tawdriness of her cheap yellow-
cotton gown and the rusty black lace which had-
looked such a dream of beauty in the glamor of
the flickering oil-lamps.
. I hadn’t time,to say good-bye to her or to Har-
rington—l had wasted too much over them as
it was—and in a few moments I was in the
saddle and hard on the tracks of the horses.
Circumstances which have nothing to do with this
story decreed that I was never to see either of
them again.
But I remember thinking, as I galloped over
the hard red road, of poor, washed-out Mrs.
Blake’s wild tirade against life and its injustice,
and wondering if she would ever know how neatly
fate had turned the tables on Mrs. Steve.
E.M.M.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Flesh,
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
VMM,
7/ ,
" Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
and was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go into a neighbor’s house until I was fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another, aud still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.”
This is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World's Greatest Family Medicine.”
“Ayer’s” is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Ml bllll That "Cures.
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIO
has been curing l
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lias.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull,
Sold in bottles, at Is. lfd.. 2 s. 9d., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of a I London and
Colonial Houses.
COPY RIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
If OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosdveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Murcular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions.with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W_ C- lEIjIDIRIIDG-IE & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltlv STlUJiit’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
IST* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
IJOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
JL..I. There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these errand medicines have not Jeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUGE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOK, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
PjTXFUAtE
Spiffs
Sen-Sen (®.
EARMNGDONAVENB
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
k SINGERS X SPEAKERS
cK e
m
onnington’s
Irish Moss.
THE MARVELLOUS CURE FOR
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
INEEUENZA.


a .
‘ LARGE
ST
of^ 0 MAKERS
Establishes
1647.
68V19-HOIH
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS Cd LIMITED
Bead Office and Factories » Toronto , Canada.
Australasian ireariq’rt’rs, 163-IC9 William-st. Melb,
New South Wales Address 2
35 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue lroew on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
JLND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option
SPOONS & FORES
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
-••'V.
&
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
Marx.
Empire Chambers, 93 York Si,
SYDNEY.
“ the block,* 1
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The (Host powerful Driving B®lt in the World.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, IndiOf
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from tbd Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... ... ... Queen Victoria St).
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
m
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
m PHTEIIT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Gtiardnteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents : ~i ihihiim*
Wm, Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisban
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
PimiPPrq rf e Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
i lUlluOi& 01 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sell# only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
r?-.:.
h , ■' *'
OTTUMWA WINDING ENGINE.
Catalogues Free on Application.
©O
Cl
**c©
*®e*
** e y
ft
8
W
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS
OF ALL KINDS OF
JNIN6 MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
AND
BOILERS.
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Batho’s
Baking Pow( |er.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little. Collins and Elizabeth
Streets The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANOE
OF THE STOCK 14 1).B. Breech loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete Usual price stock, best barrels,
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading uuns, snap 10 re dnced £3 17s 6d each,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners g onnd - ln „ locl ’ Sj snap action, left-hand
complete; 17 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, cngme-tur , . improvements, with cartridge machines
barre Hull choke bore, ba,rrel modifted c c , p 3 Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
and cleaners complete. £l4, quality, with cartridge machines and
solid bar action, highly finished, with al * t ' l * la *' e ® -,1 h complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
,oa straUsiTcolo 6 nies A Fair'Sgiven«dth every gun All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
B.S.A,
-f- hTT ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
HP MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia tor BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
OYOT E ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple s, 2 9 Stoss. Steel
L /i /« Him Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Balls K iii-incinle 12/6) Inside Tubes 36, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork llandle-tips
Covers (Dunlop prinupe,i2/t.),ins.aeiu 1 R ’ Double Rutted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
(6/11 dozen pairs), Ge ■ TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per-cent.' Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
dal T IfADE B SUPPLIED^GUARANTEED TpER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENBBAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
%
J. A. Fay & Co’s Celebrated
Woodworking Machinery.
IN STOCK:
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
&c., &e.
