

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
COCOA
EXTRACT OIF- MALT.
a
107
Kent
Sydney,
Street,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers r 'and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Rermisito*
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ Am, GENERAL IRONMONGERY. __ NEW am, SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS “axSbLR^ 1 ’
Over 2200 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINE^>
AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
N
s
S 3
Q
S*
U 1
+3
<D
O
CQ
00
•\ .
o
O
W
h 3
H
Eh
<1
PQ
•>
o
03
P 3
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract,
Testimonials and full particulars.
throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPAKE PARTS STOCKED. Sender
m
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT, Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last ..
Twenty (20> Years. MASIY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
? C/ 3
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
„W IMHOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, oppositeSb
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
Hadleys flrient (jotel.
a/j£,
oo
9
Bottles
360,1X2
Sold
One
Month
THE
CHEAPEST
AND
BEST
W?
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTINC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWiCI& SON, LTD.,
117 Yo,rk Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; IJobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
66
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
' BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO' A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT GAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
OWED
THE
EDISWAm :.:•==
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMELETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-sttfeet,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency tor Lamps : NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q'nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Love JSs Co.
240 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 20.—iN o. 1022. J
[Saturday, September 16, 1899.
Besnstered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the Australasian niterary Agency.
Representative in Sydney : A. G. STEPHENS,
9 AUSTRALIAN CHAMBERS, Rowe Street.
INTERVIEWS BY APPOINTMENT.
Representative in London : ARTHTJ It W, JOSE,
150 Fleet Street, E.C.
CRITICISM, REVISION, DISPOSAL.
The Agency will act for Authors in all Transac-
tions with Publishers. TERMS ON APPLICATION.
Texts received from W.G.W. ; B.B.; J.MeL ; Karma;
J.M.B. ; 0.1. M. : L.H.11. ; R.M. ; G.N. ; F.O’R. ; 8.0’R.;
E. ; El.O’R. ; Ed.O'R. ; E.H.O’R.; L.P. ; H.L. ; Book-
worm : J.H. ; Searcher; J.E.R. ; J.O’R. ; E.H.O’R.; Miss
O’R. ; 8.F.; L.0.P.; H.S. ; Footer ; J.W.E.P. ; F.A.G. ;
Alia ; 0.P.8. ; X.Y.Z. ; D.T.H.; C.R.M. ; W. Clay ; Tom
C. ; J.H. ; M.V. ; F.R. ; J.M.F. ; C.T. ; C.C.; T.E.A. ; J.L.;
F. ; T.F. ; C.O. ; W.J.F. ; G.A.G. ; M.E.B. ; Indu-
dax; D.S.Mc. ; C.H.R. ; J.M.M. ; J.S. ; J.M.F. ; E.W.D. ;
J.H.W. ; Harper Bale ; Ilex; E.T. ; D.W.M.8.; A.E.A.
J* <£*
The alliance between the American publishing
houses of Harpers and Doubleday McClure
almost parallels the case of English duke and
Chicago pork-packer’s daughter—Harpers’ trade
blood was comparatively so blue, the others’so red.
e^®
It looks as if England had produced a real new
poet in the anonymous author of The City of the
SOUL: he sounds more than a minor note. “0
let us tell,” he sings in praise of Art the sole Im-
perishable—
-0 let us tell
In lons carved line and painted parable
How the white road curves down into the night.
Only to build one crystal barrier
Against this sea which beats upon our days;
To ransom one lost moment with a rhyme !
Or if Fate cries and grudging gods demur,
To clutch Life’s hair, and thrust one naked phrase
Like a lean knife between the ribs of Time.
v® e^®
Humours of the local Medical Gazette —
At an out-patient department in a certain Sydney
hospital a woman consulted the medical officer for pains
in her back, and bogged him to give her a little erysipelas
to rub in. She meant eucalyptus.
In a country town in New South Wales a Chinaman
went to a local medico saying that his partner was dead,
and asked for the stiff picket.
A Sydney bookseller catalogues “Oliver’s Pulse-gaug-
ing ” under the head of Engineering Works.
There are others better, but not suited for a
general audience.
Jit J*
“Let us sing hymn No. 207, ’’said the Scottish
minister at the funeral; “it was always a favour-
ite hymn with the remains.”
i j EADY SEPTEMBER 28.
_|l\j Price sa. Post-free.
maoriland, and Other Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
*** The most characteristic book of Maoriland verses yet
published ; and a volume which will confirm the writer’s
growing reputation among local poets.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00., LTD.,
214 George-street, Sydney, Australia.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
2Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure .
A. The LarvhX, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachka or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
Inclinable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
HUDSON’S EIIMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registe
v- - . ~ w»Tiwri» Chemist,
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
Queensland, tor Postage Stamps of any Province.
Or from the Proprietor—G. HUDSON,
SYDNEY AGENT-S. TAYLOR, 5 and
Ir
ich,
Queen’s
THE RED PAGE.
ARTISTS DISCUSS CRITICS.
Several of Australia’s Representative Artists
write to put the Philistine firmly in his
place.
Julian Ashton is Satirical.
THERE may be something to be said for the
4 4 local critic. ” Both he and the artist have
to live, and if he gets paid for his work
while the painter does not, should that tell
against him ? True, he is profoundly ignorant
about painting, but then sometimes he not only
writes well, but is amusing. Watch him before a
picture; fierce mustachios are twisted; swart
brows are drawn together; doubt and dismay pre-
vail, until an Irish signature in the corner allays
suspicion, and all’s well. _ Or, swaggering into a
show with half-a-dozen friends, all 44 0 n the nod”
(forgetful that the artist’s work which does not sell
supplies paying copy for the “local critic”) the
Jovelike one introduces himself thus: “Not know
me, sir! Why, I have had to criticise your work
adversely! ” Why, man ! if by an ill-chance you
had praised it, it would have been as dead as your
work will be before that golden beard gets streaked
with grey : and then, again, it’s pleasant to think
that we artists have been of some slight pecuniary
advantage to you. Talk of 44 local critics ” brings
to mind one of our 44 looal poets ” who, intoxicated
by the sudden influx of inspiration in front of a
well-known canvas last year, after referring with
difficulty to his catalogue, murmured thickly,
“ Thash not (hid) Pan ; thash Dooley ! ”
The trouble with these “ local art-critics ” is
that they view pictures from a literary standpoint,
and demand something dramatic, something with
a story in it —a taste in Art about equal to the taste
in Literature which makes “Marie Corelli” so
great a favourite. Depraved as their taste is,
these critical gentlemen have their individualities,
dwarfed and superficial it is true, but sufficiently
marked; and I, for one, should vote for letting
them live.
But what can be said for the man who is so ruled
by his respectable but antique prejudices that he
wades through superlatives to hold up to admira-
tion the abomination of dullness and monotony ?
These outpourings are so lacking in any sign of
virility that it has been gravely suggested in the
“Growlers’ Comer ” that a maiden lady’s costume
would be fitting wear for the author of them.
I’m leaving no room for our bona-fide lady critics,
and some of them require a good deal of room.
When they don’t, they are nasty and bitter; and
when they do, they are amiable and inane. But
why shouldn’t they criticise when they get paid
for it ? I never met an office-boy yet who did not
criticise his “boss”; but he doesn’t always get
paid for it. Critics, like fleas and mosquitos, are
neoessary, and for very much the same reasons.
This does not explain the existence of fleas, but
it places the critic accurately. Now, I don’t blame
the f •(I mean the critic) for living upon me. If
he praises me sufficiently I admire and respect
him, and will pay for his whiskey if I know him.
But there’s the rub. There’s the one thing I have
against the critic. The Painter, the Author, the
Sculptor, the Musician, does his work ; signs it;
hangs it in the market-place ; and instantly gets
peppered by small shot from behind hedges.
Come out like men, ye critics ! and sign your
names if you have not skulked so long behind the
editorial we that you are unrecognisable as human
beings. Let artist and critic meet in the open,
signature for signature; then let the Public judge
between them.
Julian Ashton.
Howard Ashton Declines to Take the
Critics Seriously.
WITH one exception, I never take the
“ art critics ” seriously. Lord! I don’t
blame them ; I pity them. There are
two things in Sydney which are in-
fallible signs of the popular taste in art—the Post-
office carvings and the critics. Majestic creatures !
do they never reflect on the awful power they
wield? Do they never think that when they
frown some unhappy artist is hurried, Keats-like,
to the grave? Miserere! Do they realise that
when they term an exhibition “solid,” or an
exhibitor “ prolific ” (dreadful word !) they are
hurling insults? Do they know that many of our
craft feel hurt if work is not slated by them ?
Critic, a word of advice! —If ever you want to
really hurt us, gush about our work; tell
us it’s charmingly pretty; say our frames
are nice. But don’t tell us you don’t under-
stand us—that’s just what we like. No ! —these
reporters can describe prize-fights, dog-shows,
divorce-cases, and society, excellently well. But
their art criticism is simply unspeakable in its
guileless innocence of the subject. However, they
are paid for it—why should they refuse to tackle
it ? “ Don’t know anything about it ” ? A mere
trifle ! And then there is another aspect. I have
seen a studio full of artists reading critiques. One
reads out loud; the others laugh. And if the
critic knew how a little unconscious humour
brightens up our joyless lives he’d make his
critique twice as long. As to what art criticism
should be—well, let these “ critics ” read 4 4 Modern
Painters.” But, Good Lord ! we can never expect
a man like Moore in Sydney. Why should I say
more?
Howard Ashton.
♦
R. Sidney Cocks Launches an Epigram.
HIS real name is “criticism”: all other
titles, such as Mephistopheles, Old Nick,
etc., are just pet names.
R. Sidney Cocks.
The Irony of Alfred Coffey.
I HAVE to thank you for your magnanimous
invitation to write a paragraph for the in-
struction of critics. It seems to me like
asking a man unskilled in arms to come out
and fight several others equipped with quick-firing
guns, while the artist is to be allowed no more
dangerous weapon than a pea-rifle, and can have
only one shot. In addition, the artist must expose
himself in the open, while, no matter how well his
shot is aimed, he can never hope to hit his adver-
saries, who are protected by newspaper ramparts,
and never appear in person. Notwithstanding
these disadvantages I will commence with The
Bulletin critic, as he always takes up the highest
position when talking to painters—so high and so
far removed from commonplace earthly views
that, in order to express himself, he has to fall
back sometimes on nth powers and other
algebrsiio terms, for the reproduction of which the
unfortunate artist finds that his customary
technique is totally inadequate. From the fluent
way in which your critic writes, his ideas must be
very clear to himself. I would suggest, therefore,
that he translate them into a language which
could be understood by an artist of ordinary in-
telligence. Will he kindly paint just a very small
picture embodying his views ? lam sure that
such a work of art would be a revelation to the
public, to say nothing of the startling effect it
would have on the artists in general, including
yours truly,
Alfred Coffey.
+
A. H. Fullwood Explains Things.
LIKE the proverbial road to Hell, the Aus-
tralian art-critic is paved with the best of
intentions ; and we may suppose he knows
the benefits derived by the cultivation of
the fine Arts, and that the only record of nations
dead and gone is their Art. But the ways in
which the local critic carries out these intentions
are highly amusing. One type of critic is “the
common or garden kind,” whom every prospect
pleases, and to whom only man is vile. To every
picture, piece of music, or song—good, bad, or in-
• different—he gives the same applause in the same
stock phrases year after year—just a description
like an auctioneer’s catalogue. The critic at the
other extreme—with the same end in view, of
course—howls at everything; nothing is good
enough ; and he wades in with a big stick, sparing
no one. Both these types do a great deal of
harm ; for, on the one hand, everything can’t be
as good as they say, and, on the other, everything
can’t be as bad. The discriminating critic is the
kind that is only just showing above the horizon ;
and until we have a discriminating Press which will
notice good work and not bad, the public will
still hang on to the twaddle (as they are inclined
to do) and the good men will have to clear out of
the country and make a reputation in the big Art
centres where mediocrity takes its proper place.
Several Australian artists have already done this
without one failing to hit.
The lay mind cannot be expected to understand
technique; and the fact of exhibition should be a
sufficient guarantee that any work has that quali-
fication. Technique taken for granted, critics
should then look for something beyond. Technique
is quite right; and all people of average intelli-
gence will understand what is finest in art—the
moods, passions, designs, and scheme of colour, if
suggestive of nature, and rendered with something
they call “ feeling.” But unfortunately there are
artists and—painters. The artist, having ac-
quired technical skill, gives us art; while the
mechanical painter is the man gone mad on
technique, and wants to show us how clever he is.
He has no poetry in his soul, and would (as was
recently written) do more service to humanity if
he had chopped wood instead of trying to
be an artist. While on a sketching trip I
once suggested to one of these painters
that he should try to get expression in his figures
and faces. He said he would do so, and I found
him later with his model. She had her face up-
turned to the sun —which, of course, made her
screw it up very much; and when I protested,
saying he would blind the girl, he told me to dry
up, as he was painting “Expression.” Just so—
he simply acted as a camera in colour, having no
mind’s eye. He was a pure mechanic, and, in
fact, would have made a very clever carpenter or
engineer.
Sarasate once said regarding technique that
until possessed it was the one thing to be desired,
but when obtained, it was the thing to be least
thought of, as there were other things in Art of
greater importance. Black-and-white art is
affected in the same way, and both the artistic and
mechanical men have their imitators. We know
how Hopkins and Phil May appeal to all : their
work is past mere pen and ink, while the work
of Gibson's followers, though clever, to me
seems wooden and inartistic—showing the method
and having no expression—the figures are silent
models : in fact, they say with cocksureness that
the work must be good, as it is drawn from the
model. Exactly—and it never looks anything
else : but the artist gets ■ past that stage, and,
although using the model, he “gets away from it”
—a difficult thing to do.
What is really wanted from the local critic is
that he should try to feel what the artist felt—
what he intended to convey ; and I am sure, if it
is an artist who paints the picture or plays the in-
strument, there must be something felt and in-
tended. The critic should himself put more feel-
ing and thought into his work than the average
reporter who ‘ ‘ does an exhibition ” in an hour or
so, and comments in a large way on what has
taken the artist probably years of thought (not
necessarily work—he may have done the work
very rapidly, but none the less artistically).
Or we hear the critic say, “ We know what was
intended, but the artist has failed,” forgetting
that what is one critic’s food is another’s poison.
One of these gentry, describing a mob of cattle
drinking at sunset, wrote that “the water is too
yellow to be wholesome,” and drew a salary
from a local paper for writing such drivel; and
another wrote of a now well-known picture that
it was “the result of too much afternoon tea.”
Yet another will speak of a vulgar daub as a
masterpiece—mistaking impertinence for bold-
ness ; or if a face is stippled all over, and
left nice and smooth with no feeling
of bone under the skin (the kind we call tripe) he
will dub it wonderful, because of the amount of
work in it—the artistic side being totally ignored.
This critic mistakes work for art —the average
layman being deceived by the dots and touches of
the mechanic.
The critic who seems to understand the aims
and intentions of the artist, and who gets there, is
George Moore ; and his “ Modern Painters ”is to
the artist one of the treats on the critical menu
which are few and far between.
Critioism is not finding fault.
A. Henry Fullwood.
*>
J. Mather Tells How Criticism is Written.
HOLDING, as I do, that a painter’s business
is to paint, it is with many misgivings
that I send a few remarks on “local art
critics.” If they have pungency, it is the
spice of truth which gives it; and if they have
point, it is because the critics themselves have
barbed the bolt. . Presuming that the true office
of the critic is not merely to find fault, but to
guide public taste in the right direction, it becomes
necessary that he have some knowledge of the
principles of Art, and even the practice, where
methods are discussed, before his opinions can be
accepted as having any value whatever. _ How is
the ordinary journalistic art-critic trained and
equipped for this work? In the case of nine
out of ten, it is as follows (and I have
not yet met the exceptional tenth): One day he
does a column on a Dog Show, and, over and above
quotation from pads his notice in a way
that would make a mongrel smile. Next he writes
of A Daring Burglary (large type, please), full of
the most minute details, all supplied by the police.
Then there is a post-mortem at the morgue, &c. ;
and as the body is not likely to supply pipes and
whiskey, the critic’s victim may be favored with a
notice which is at least impartial. Having in this
manner imbibed the eternal, fundamental prin-
ciples of art and criticism, he is let loose on the
local Art Exhibitions. He is taugOt a few studio
terms, as a parrot might be, by the artists unfor-
tunate enough to value an advt. These terms
(such as “ tonality ”) he sprinkles in his notice like
plums in a work-house pudding. Then he pro-
ceeds to vague generalities, taking care, according
to his capacity, not to commit himself too far.
Then he brings in “ensemble,” or “motif”—
he likes a few French words in italics: adds
a puff to those whose whisky and tobacco he
has sampled and a snub for those who see a
little more into the secrets of Nature than he
does (thank God for it!) and try to paint them.
Then he quotes the catalogue numbers and tells
us, with the sublime innocence of a child of four,
that Brown’s picture is a landscape with two cows
in it; and Jones, in No. 25, shows a pleasing por-
trait of a well-known citizen, while Robinson
maintains the standard of his past years, and the
balance of the work is more or less meritorious.
The wife and children of the local “art critic”
may see some need for his existence ; but the
painters require further evidence before they can
refrain from asking the Lord to have mercy on his
soul.
J. Mather.
Tom Roberts Writes More in Sorrow
than in Anger.
I WISH we could get the gentlemen and ladies
who write about our works to be with us, to
feel how much they can be our helpers, and,
so to speak, fellow-workers.
I know the witty things said by the producers
about the critics —the gibe of “ the gelding,” that
chapter of Fielding, “The Gentle Art” —these
make critics neither fewer nor weaker; for they
exist and have, to my mind, a very important
function : true appreciation and interpretation of
all good work. But—the body of the critics! —they
have rarely helped a good man ; they have very
often embittered the finest intellects. Have they
ever stopped the reproduction of the rotter ?
I am sure the artistic movement in Australia
has the respect, and often the admiration, of the
writers. _ But, of the public ? The purchases at
the exhibitions (the artists’ market) including
those for the National Gallery have not reached
=£looo during any of the last ten years. Our
population is some 1,350,000; estimated wealth,
perhaps £300,000,000. How does that work out
in a community which sometimes claims to be
artistic ?
The truth is we live in a time when the faculty
of criticising—of finding out what you don’t like
—is much stronger than , any sense of beauty or
aptness to be receptive of what is fine. The first
remark we hear from a man looking at a work of
art is, possibly, “Fine !”—then comes the inevit-
able “ But I don’t quite like ” etc. Is not this
so ?
If by any chance this prevents people from ad-
miring the faulty, do you think, on the other hand,
the appreciation of (say) the finest pictures in the
National Gallery is nearly up to their deserts ?
instance the Luminais and the Greiffenhagen, the
Courtois. Quite another matter ’.
You critics, who really think that artists look to
you for guidance, ought to know that the judg-
ment of artists is the best on Art ; and long ex-
perience makes them submit their work to the
appreciation of their best fellow-workers. No one
claims this as infallible, but as the best dis-
covered.
If any outside man believes himself a better
judge than the artists, being an unbiassed critic,
would he ask us to accept also the opinion of all
or any of the other outsiders ? If so, of which of
them ? They differ; and each of us artists is
likely to take the favourable word, and think “He
is a man of discernment, sir !” But we know that
the choosing, the hanging of our works by our
brother artists, is the best contemporary placing
of our merits.
Always away from us, the workers, and the
writers, whom we claim to be on our side, is the
great mass of the public, who never hear artistic
opinion—ready to be in touch, very sensitive as to
their pockets, without the habit of acquiring
works of art, more ready to see fault than merit,
quite unable to sort the matured pot-boiler from
the work of talent.
Our mistress needs no defence. She has no
scorn for any of us who follow in her train, diffi-
cult always, never unkind, some she dowers with
success and honours; and if on the so-man she
places the badge of poverty, with it also is given
such compensation that we are still content to
follow. Do you help us.
Tom Roberts.
“ Big fleas have little fleas,
Who worry and who bite ’em;
And little fleas have lesser fleas
And so ad infinitum.”
Belated Similes.
From “Anon” —
Said Mark Twain, of a U.S. ambassador in black amid
diplomatists in gorgeous uniforms : “ He was like a mis-
laid Presbyterian in perdition.”
From “Alia”—
When the moon looks like a dose of castor-oil in a
glass of cider.— Haliburton's “ Old Judge.”
From C.E.M.—some Bible examples—
As cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a
far country.
Pleasant words are as honeycomb, sweet to the soul,
and health to the bones.
As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman
that is without discretion.
From P.A.
From W.G.W, —
When a shearer has a touch of toothache, or swollen
gums, “ he has a face on him like a poisoned pup.”
A shearer’s simile :—“ He’s as dried-up as two lamb-
skins.”
A favourite bush comparison :—“ As sure as God made
little apples.”
Of a down-hearted bushie :—“ He’s got a lip on him like
a motherless foal.”
I heard one describe his mate as “pouringbeer down
his throat like soap-suds running down a drain.”
From “Jimmy Woods ”
A Vic. school-boy, aged 10, when asked by his father
how he enjoyed his holiday (July 27, Referendum-day),
promptly replied : “Not much ; it was as slow as a hobbled
slug.”
From “M.S.” —
Hung-up suits of oilskins swung out and in, lively and
disquieting like reckless ghosts of decapitated seamen in
a tempest.
Thunder squalls hung in the horizon far off, and growl-
ing angrily, like a troop of wild beasts afraid to charge
home.
—Conrad’s “ Nigger of the Narcissus."
From “Mona”—
All about us
Kneeling, like hooded friars, the misty mountains
Receive the benediction of the sun.
Longfellow—The Spanish^Student.
J.K.B. writes :
Though the development of a simile for its own sake
temporarily distract the reader’s attention from the
action of a poem, may it not be contended that such a
digression is justified by its. independent beauty ? Few
admirers of Tennyson would be willing, I fancy, to sacri-
fice the following pictorial passage from the “ Last Tour-
nament ” merely because it momentarily leads them
away from the combatants
And Arthur deigned not use of word or sword,
But let the drunkard, as he stretch’d from horse
To strike him, overbalancing his bulk,
Down from the causeway heavily to the swamp
Fall, as the crest of some slow-arching wave,
Heard in dead night along that table-shore
Drops flat, and after the great waters break,
Whitening for half a league, and thin themselves,
Far over sands marbled with moon and cloud
From less and less to nothing.
The omission of such verses, though it would accelerate
the movement of incident and perhaps intensify the in-
terest, would surely diminish the sum total of beauty;
and beauty rather than interest is what one looks for in
poetry. ,
My cheek was wet
When slumber set
Its seal upon her oyster eye ;
For her sweet mouth
Ran east by south—
Like a crack in a kidney pie.


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wkea6e4.
s?leu) Wkeotiery
//• Jtt
cLigmoitiene.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURB
ECZEMA in all its forma.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ Woolloston House, Castleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO D
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says •
‘‘ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
~ , ~ „ Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat soeptioally your ointment Ligmolliene.
and after about two months* treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.0.5., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRy MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7a. 6d. Eacto..
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
■>
f*i ma l le T the P‘ an of the above, with a heavy
hnhlt f lr ° n - band ’ as you know if y° u have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
an irnn n hn hyoUa 6 ® cient
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated MagneUcElasui
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. 1 It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World! If ruptured
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list <fco ’
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage ’ ’
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRTKq
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, US A.-or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. *
■
't'
w*
o
OLD
RMs
SUN BU,
CP
HA
vP
y
Y
p *o
ORS
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER
JTOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: • 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
ASK FOR
D.C\^<
•FROM AIL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
THEBRAND
OF MERIT.
msm
BB
ASK FOB
d.c.l^ ,n
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
D.C.L.one quality only
THE BEST!ALWAYS THE SAME
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness
Brush’s Fair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Made with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Pads,
complete—No. 1, £5 10s.: No. 2,
£6 10s. ; No. 3, £7 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s.: No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I»— A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2.—A superior
Harness, better finished. Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, £4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3.—A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.-The “ Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Same Harness, from 70s.
We send, Free ot Charge, to any pore or railway station in New South Wales nil orders , i *
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies Ren.irrL.fL of , the y alue of 55/- up.
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps: 6d. to be added to count.-v 63 ca ? be sent b y cheque or
allowed if you send this advt. with order. countiy cheques for exchange. Extra 2i% dis.
PEIOE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Co.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 G-eorge-street, Sydney
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUABT & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
£BS FUNDEES ST., MELBOUENE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar.
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/H. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32, 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling* Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Gaps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
mm
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis*
° Id ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs*
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Egvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants <Ss Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
m
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from s/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS;
BtHn.' long, 6/0, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINQfI
worlted up, 2/6 per oz.
W« are the eheapeStin Aar
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair. r
W?HXwigz«ll;
William
corner of Pal mer-streeti
~i SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at. Door..
Send stamps for full Price List,
fruppt attention'given to Country Order*
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
GO3JJ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
I
HJCVH-CRAD
awiM
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
(Slco’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Falir
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Rud. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents
W. H. (aLEM & CO.,
359 Georg-e Street, Sydney.
2*72 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne,


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hoftart
Demonstration H. October 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address.
s
CAULFIELD C. October 21.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in the
— Cup.
Name
Address
c
:
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me - .shares in the above.
Name.
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
£
Address
3
8
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Jt
V
' "S
Caulfield G ... ... 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C 100,000 at 5
TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Shares
the Special .
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Famous Low Prices
FOR NEW SPRING GOODS
AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
Portfolio of Fashions for
Spring and Summer,
OVER 200 ILLUSTRATIONS.
sent Post Free to any address, an
application.
STATION SUPPLIES!
If YOU WOULD GET OUT of the
OLD FASHIONED RUT, and SAYB
MONEY, .
BOY FROM US.
Patterns and Price Lists free by return.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (only), Sydney.
a
PMR of
/By*.,.©!
(Q|Pj
op" -
Imitations
modern
Milling-
Machinery,
waff
\
\
K
\\
fiAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR qiw miro
WOODWORKING #ACHI N ER S # W MILLS '
™ as?- aastsa
sstessr b - v *«« E " si “™ s
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“ BOWKIDG E’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetla-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
A.nd GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Ehzabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
mg extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Alex. Forrest, Bigjohn’s little brother and
chief horn-blower, has been stumping the gold-
fields on the anti-Pederal ticket. One or two
gems from Alick’s speeches :
We have gold, coal and pastoral industries, and are wa
going to sell ou r magnificent country for a dish of
porridge ? (Alick was struggling in his own untutored
fashion after the scriptural phrase -“a mess of pottage,")
Federation. translt than We would ha ™ under
If we join this union God will curse our country.
Alick has evidently some idea, in his own dull
way, that the Federal Government is going to
spoil W. A s roads by dropping big boulders on
them or to hang on to the rear of the gradual
local train to keep it from getting up speed. And
think of Bigjohn s little brother knowing 1 what
God is going to do 11 Also, consider the awful
situation of W.A. if it should be cursed any more
than it is now ! ! J
o*£S£33SzS
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLANP for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Ilstegratl^” Stamps bou 8 ht > Price.
SPECIAL NOTICE
T" at lowVs? current Gaffes, FASEHo/d ottV a*xF?>d any amounts >
I FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED IInDS R ® AN PROPK ™ son
tog SriST*"* ** * **** t<!rm ’ ° r re P ayable by instalments of principal and interest
rate JSS °“ b 8 *“ *""
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale
,nlrais - * i »‘»
Form, of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Offloo, 87 Pitt-sfc, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 165., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 80/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£37" Send ior Price List.
H. HIIiLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send lor a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE Iso
buyers of Light Vehloles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIIiHER, 135 & 13.7 Sussex-strect.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of I.'ght Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return posi. carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
h irst-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
MELLin FOOD
For Infants and Invalids.
A Recent Testimonial.
[core.] Silver -street,
St. Peter’s, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mellin’s Pood Company for Australia
and New Zealand, Limited, London.
Lear Sirs.— Having used your Pood for about eighteen
months with the greatest success, I have much pleasure in
stating that I think it superior to all other Poods. I have
been using it for my little daughter, who was left mother
less when only twelve days old. After trying many reme-
dies, without success, I tried your Pood, and found it most
successful. My little daughter is now two years old, and
as well and as hearty as can be. Mellin’s Pood has done
it all.
You can make what use you like of this letter.
Yours truly,
W. BELGrPE.
Mellin’s Food may be obtained of all Dealers.
The Australian pours’ Fund ftfe Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
T H ?hKS’sped th * °“* l '* ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
k -—.««.
tt c, Board of Dirbctor* :
TT , „ Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWTOK, M.D., M.L.0.. Chairman*
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.G.
«—•* 300,000 Annual Into™ eace.cl, ASZM.OOO
Offices: 263 QEOBOE STREET, SYDNEY
Write for Special Prospectns.] „ ~r Tr>. T I ' „
GEO - F - MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TtIK
‘ Plum ’
n.e
THB
r»ium
Gr E S' E ™r™? i°"»™ h pt r . S“”‘ "fstisfaetory should give our celebrated Plum Rarer a
of years, can testify to their merit,. ° rZISJES-KS' 1 ™ 1,1
Price
Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. Pair, in beautiful.
Razor, m ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle*
morocco leather ease, 21a.
in beautiful case, 30s.
Solo
Agents
Please add' ° !^ ter J d^ nd Bent Post Free to any part 'of the wortl
*Vlr? 6 o on Collntr y and Is. or intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street), SYDNEY
3XT.S.-W- Carriage & Saddlerv isa : an f
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-sSeet,
Company,
SYDNEY
'Y!’ e ,n in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SADd7ft?v? GG tT’ WHEEL f> or an >' description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying 1 from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7:
3-Sprmg Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the- best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cripHon at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not bs
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for leas
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
I’f.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Archdeacon White, while at Mackinlay (Q.)
lately, was accosted in the street by a drunk with
the query, “ Are you the new policeman ?” “Why
do you ask, my good man?” enquired the Arch-
deacon. “’Cos, if you are,” was the answer,
“ we ’d go into a back-yard and have it out.
I always fight the new policeman ! ” The Arch-
deacon promptly disclaimed any title to the
privilege.
Body and Soul.
(The fleshly poet sings.)
We were not dowered with the gift
To supplicate and woo ;
We may not in proud metres lift
Our soaring souls like you ;
We do but garner fame by thrift—
Though we can languish too.
Ye favored and ye great who are
Sublime in cultured song,
Aloft ye sit in choral car,
To god-like roll along,
And bid us worship from afar,
Like spinsters waiting long.
Less lofty themes in sooth hare bound
Our dull, trochaic feet;
Some better paying line we’ve found,
Who fain would drink and eat;
Who durst not live, while overground,
On thin verse-neotars sweet.
And so vve sound a coarser lay,
Original and rude ;
Nor from our Muse’s garment may
A dainty foot protrude—
A common wench, who, day by day,
Toils for her bed and food.
But Nature, in her justice, she
Some compensation gives;
Ye have your “ high ideals,” We
Our low prerogatives :
His case who lives to eat, and he
Who rudely eats and lives.
Your silken Thais out doth roam
A dream of pink and pearls—
And ye, alas ! must sit at home,
Starved un-estated earls,
While, beery kings, in cash we come,
To banquet with the girls.
E.J.B.
The Evolution of God.
Pooh, do not whine! The law, the ironshod,
Cannot be altered by your vain regret.
God made you not —but you are making God.
Pray not to Sim. He has not come as yet.
Hark ! Do you hear the sobs, the anguished groans,
The frenzied shrieks of untold agony ;
Of gruesome hopelessness that pleads and moans
Through all creation—earth and air and sea ?
Hark ! Do you hear the everlasting wail,
The concert of despair and fear and crime ?
’Tis Mother Nature writhing in travail,
In labor since the very dawn of time 1
In hunger and in sadness and in pain
The universe, all things that live and feel,
Are cursed to suffer, and to voice in vain
Their cry for mercy, their last mute appeal.
The why—and whence—and whither? Oh, it seems
So senseless and so cruel, thus to kill;
A maddened riot of demoniao dreams,
To gratify some vile, destructive will ;
A world of torture, void of joy and peace ;
Without a purpose but to wound and slay ;
Without a hope but stinging Death’s release,
Inexorable still for aye and aye I
Life is a murderer, with blood besmirched;
Time but a count of beings tossed and wrecked;
And we, who gravely argued, probed and searched’
We fools mistook the cause and the effect!
That is the goal to which all instincts trend,
The secret of the womb, the seedling-pod ;
That is the why and wherefore, and the end :
All things that be, are but evolving God 1
Q-
VON KOTZE.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
“Donned,” London,
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Lonclon,
E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
3F* 3Et -A.3XTIS: JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
■
W. J. Adams, Manager.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
WILL FIND
Trmiai[’s<«
HOTELS
PITT STREET,
The grand eentre for business, comfort,
or pleasure.
Painless Dentistry,
THE .. ..
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
|EP“ Modern Dentistry in all its branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without' pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY-98 KING ST7, SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
Brisbane.
THE METROPOLITAN
EDWARD STREET,
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from (S'- per Day.
Telephone 784.
D. Swiss-Davibss, Prop.
(Member Com. Trav. Club.)
Greatest demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best.
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
a
a
m
mmK
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTIT€.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
a
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
Q"PfVRTTNG- BALIiISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ha„ in Ap.S M ““ 9 for oL £lOOO morethan any other powder.-F.tfe Fl.tP, J«»eM, »
PARVO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended tor Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
. Briscoe
Co. ; Queensland , Messrs. Brabant & Co.
AGBNTS: N.S.JV, Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs ,
PRICE LIST
Of P & B Ruberoid Roofing, delivered at the railway stations
named below in lots of 2800, 2400 and 2000 square feet including wire
netting, cement for seams, nails and as per method described.
Trainage Paid.
2-ply. ' 3-ply.
2400 ft. 2000 ft.
24 7 124 12
24 14 025 0
24 17 925 1
24 1 724 6
23 17 1124 2
24 1 224 5 6
24 16 1125 1 2
25 2 625 8 4
24 16 925 1 1
23 3 923 7 0
23 14 8,23 18 7
IMPORTjSLWT.
Box 22, G.P.0., Sydney, 18/S/'99.
Messrs. E. RICH <fc GO., Ltd., Sydney.
mnstruc ti on 0 f roofs when timber is costly I have with marked
success used wire netting as a foundation upon which to lay Ruberoia.
In the roof framing the rafters need not be less than 4ft- apart, ana
uvon these should be placed broad side up battens or purlins, say, 4 by
Znk flush with the face of the rafters spaced 2ft. Sin. apart from centre to
centre, and over the whole should be tightly stretched from eaves to ridge wire-
netting, say, 16 gauge by Sor 4in mesh firmly secured at the ends lie
width of the netting should be such that the edges can be nailed on to the centre
ea Overthetop of the wire-netting the sheets of Ruberoid should be placed,
commencing at the eaves batten on to which it should be tacked down per-
manently, the second sheet should then bcplaced so as to overUp
4in. (after using the usual paint, of course), and the bottom of this
top of the first sheet securely nailed to the second batten, and so on untit
comple^ e sfoyid a i so } >e nailed to the rafters for additional safety.
If ordinary care is used any handy man can in this way construct a neat,
serviceable, light, substantial and inexpensive roof.
Yours truly, C. M MAbl^n.
kilt
tRICHKO.O
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.— N0. 1022.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1899.
Price 6d.
Order of things at
Hl)(wr Ckjsmyou i Or mifc ? •
. -
/l l^ACAhlcyV
N-jS W
+ fJoa;e /) Si)TEK
■\jsftf if
rW''
j|lis 'fmnmSupply of f
[qclms and fislwsls hmikd and l ctuik jwrfo rtti tturucUs -ijzt.
£~t*jALL Bo y i N 15TAN£fT ~Pont he afwt.d
Of him Guvnor, 7ty a-coming tokieifrjjon'
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... Q
Half-yearly ... n a c
Quarterly...
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where ™T{ired
which you may pay try Post Office Or dei, Postal foie,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian P^vvnc -,e,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you eveiy
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed'to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to he addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, 01
any other part of the contents of this number, isheieby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
•Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable)
Paragraphs, 'Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable Afo. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Jc Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Suiter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetorvn ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralict and Alaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ~ N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
[is. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease offiin some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Ojjice, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tun Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1899.
To the People of Maoriland.
The tide of Federal sentiment is beginning
to rise in Maoriland, and already there are
hopes that the Commonwealth will begin its
existence as a union of seven provinces, in-
stead of only six. The surest sign that a
movement is setting in towards making
Maoriland part of the new nation is the
shrill anathema of a section of the press,
which has already decided to be the Paro-
chial element in the coming battle. It is
rising up with the good old homely curse to
the effect that the other provinces are bank-
rupt, and want Maoriland to join so that
they may live upon its wealth, just as the
Sydney parochialists cursed at Victoria, and
just as the cave-dwellers of Queensland and
Westralia have cursed since then atN.S.W.,
Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia im-
partially. In a general way the atti-
tude of the Separation party in every
province has been that its province is
the only wealthy province in the group,
and that all the others want to lay a
grasping, claw-like hand on the wealth in
question. And most of these papers (the
Auckland Observer is a notable case in
point) rise up to prove two separate things
in the same issue : (1) That the other pro-
vinces want Maoriland to join because it is
rich and they have a burglarious eye on the
riches ; and (2) that $ uniform tariff and
freetrade inside the Commonwealth will so
greatly reduce Maoriland’s revenue that she
will be stone-broke, and that the country is
too poor to stand it.
* * * *
If Maoriland joins the Federation it will,
in some respects, by reason of its isolation,
be less interfered with than any other
member of the union. It will get all the
defence that Australia can give it, and its
isolated state makes it more in need of
defence than the mainland provinces. It
will keep all its public lands for its own sole
use. It will keep its railways unless it
chooses to sell them to the Commonwealth
on terms agreeable to itself. It will re-
tain sole control of its rivers. In Aus-
tralia, where in several cases a river flows
through more than one State, difficulties
may arise which will require the intervention
of the Federal Government, but Maoriland’s
rivers all begin and end within its own
territory, and no such trouble can possibly
come about. It will run its own Public
Works policy as it pleases, except in the
matter of posts, telegraphs, lighthouses, and
defences, which will be under Federal con-
trol. So far as concerns roads, railways,
bridges, and all other undertakings it will be
as free as it is now. Its police will be its
own affair. So will its minerals, and its
State Land Bank, and its State Life Insur-
ance Department, and any other State in-
surance ventures which it may care to under-
take. The Interstate Commission, which is
to adjust commercial disputes, can hardly, by
any possibility, interfere with it, because its
borders touch no other State. The Federal
Government can’t interfere with its local
franchise, and it may re-arrange its local
Parliament and alter its local Consti-
tution as it pleases. The Federal Gov-
ernment can’t even interfere with its
franchise in the election of members to the
Federal Parliament except to make it more
liberal, for it is expressly stipulated in
clause 41 that every adult who has or ac-
quires a vote for the more numerous House
(i.e., the Lower House) of a State Parliament
shall have a vote for both Houses of the
Federal Parliament. Therefore, all the
Commonwealth Legislature can do, when it
makes a uniform Federal franchise, is to
make it as liberal as that of the most ad-
vanced State in the Commonwealth. It has
unlimited powers of liberalising the fran-
chise, but none at all of narrowing it.
• m • •
The Federal Parliament will take over,
and pay for, postal buildings, telegraphs and
telephones, and other transferred properties.
It will make uniform patent laws, so that a
patent taken out in Maoriland will be good
all over Australasia. It will make uniform
marriage, divorce, insolvency, and banking
laws—except that it doesn’t interfere with
State banking confined to the limits of one
State, therefore if Maoriland likes to defi-
nitely take over its Bank of N.Z. that
institution will be quite unaffected by any
Federal statutes. It will obviate many
small inconveniences by making the same
bank-notes, postal-notes and postage-stamps
good all over Australasia. And it will give
Maoriland a share in a Constitution several
times more liberal even than its own—one in
which both Houses are elected by the people
on the most liberal franchise on this earth.
* * * *
Moreover, the Commonwealth is empowered
to take over the debts of the States and con-
vert them into a uniform Federal stock. And
here Maoriland should be able to make a
saving, through joining the Commonwealth,
of something like £400,000 a year. That pro-
vince owes a lamentable bill of £47,000,000
and the interest thereon averages about
£3 18s. per cent, per annum. No
less than £21,000,000 of the country’s
4 per cent, debt has still 30 years
to run, and Maoriland by itself has
no chance to convert this into low-priced
stock for many years to come. To attempt
a conversion on its own account would
merely be to ask the creditor who has 4 per
cent, guaranteed to him for 30 years to take
3 per cent, with exactly .the same security—
and he naturally wouldn’t do it, or anything
even dimly resembling it. But if Maoriland
became part of the Commonwealth its situa-
tion would be wholly altered. Its own 4 per
cents, would be less valuable than they
are, for it would have given away the
power to fix its own customs and excise
duties, therefore the security behind a purely
local debt would be so much less, and the
holder would be so much the more ready to
make terms concerning it. And the Federal
3 per cent, stock which would be offered in
exchange, would be correspondingly so much
the more valuable. It would be backed by
the credit of all Australasia, and as
N.S.W., Victoria, and Tasmania are all
less heavily indebted than Maoriland
their collective guarantee would amount
to something. And it would be
backed by the customs and excise revenue of
all Australasia and by unlimited powers of
taxation in addition. Under the new condi-
tions it is certain that a large proportion of
the collective public creditor would take
Federal 3 per cent, securities as a fair ex-
change for provincial 4 per cents, and
thereby the big interest bill under which the
two islands now stigger would be greatly
decreased without any corresponding increase
in the principal of the debt.
* * * *
Against this saving there is an unavoid-
able contra—every province which joins the
Commonwealth must needs sacrifice the re-
venue now derived from duties on goods
imported from the other provinces. The
actual extra cost of the Federal Govern-
ment is only reckoned at some ‘2s. or
3s. per inhabitant per annum, and that
can be, to a great extent, saved by
reductions in purely local expenditure,
but the loss of interprovincial customs is
a problem which there is no avoiding. But
while Maoriland loses the revenue derived
from taxing the goods of the other provinces,
there will be a corresponding economy—her
own people will cease to have their goods
taxed by the other provinces. Abo Maori
land will retain the market o
which it would otherwise lose to a grea
extent when that province swore off h ree-
trade, and it will gain access to the markets
of Victoria, Tasmania, Queensland, and
S A., which are now practically closed
against it by heavy duties And whereas
now its fish, fruit, oats, timber .tweeds and
other produce, are only allowed into JN.b. w.
on the same terms as those of all the world
—then they would go in free, while those ot
all Europe, Asia, Africa and America were,
to a great extent, barred out 1^
Therefore, under Federation, the IN.b.W.
market would be worth probably a dozen
times more than it is now. Also, m all the
other provinces, Maoriland produce would
come in free, while that of all the four great
continents was, to a great degree shut out
as at present, therefore they would likewise
be markets of great value.. The Maonlanders
have the energy which is born of life in
a cool climate, and they ought to be able vO
rather more than hold their own m compe 1-
tion with the somewhat tired Australian. At
all events, Australia offers to open to them a
market containing 3,700,000 people, provided
they open one of 700,000 people in return,
and to chance the consequences.
* * * *
Premier Sebbon, who, so far, leans at a
dangerous angle towards the anti-Federal
cause, holds that his province can obtain all
the advantages of an open market without
joining the Commonwealth —that, when once
the Federation is launched, and has got its
big mainsail fairly hoisted, Maoriland can
arrange a reciprocity treaty with it, and
thereby, so far as trade advantages are con-
cerned, stand in the same position as if it
had become a federated State. In this
matter Sebbon jumps at various conclusions
which appear none too reliable. By urging
that Maoriland should negotiate a reci-
procity treaty with Australia he admits that
such reciprocity is desirable. And by urging
it to stand out of the Commonwealth he
advises it to reject the only certain mode of
obtaining this reciprocity. There is no
possible proof that Australia will want any
reciprocity at all, when once it> has taken
stock of its own resources. Queensland and
N.S.W. can produce all the beef that the
most carnivorous population will want to
eat. Tasmania and Victoria have abundance
of fruit—the same kind that Maoriland pro-
duces. Victoria and S.A. grow more oats
and wheat than they require* None of the
provinces need Maoriland s coal. Victoria,
N.S.W., and Queensland all have woollen
factories which they don’t desire to have
interfered with. All the provinces grow
barley, hay, and potatoes, and all will want
to protect their industries against outside
competition. Apart from a probable cheer-
ful readiness to reciprocate on kauri gum,
there is very little prospect of Sebbon’s
dream of a reciprocity treaty ever being
realised. And if it was realised, and
a free interchange of goods was ar-
ranged between Maoriland and federated
Australia, the former province would
thereby sacrifice its interprovincial customs
revenue just as much as if it had joined the
Commonwealth. It wouldn’t gain the ad-
vantage of Federal defence or of the great
saving to be effected by a consolidation of
the State debts, but it would stand the loss
of revenue just the same. The policy of
seizing the losses with both hands and re-
fusing" the gains looks one-sided somehow.
* * * *
It is also alleged by the Separatists in the
land of the late lamented moa that, in some
way or other, it would be politically un-
healthy for their province to be connected
with a capital 1600 miles away in N.S. W.
Yet in all probability that distant capital
would interfere with Maoriland very little
more than does its present boss capital
in London, 16,000'miles distant. Maoriland
now has an Imperial capital in London, which
looks after its external affairs, and a small
sub-capital in Wellington, where it decides
to borrow money, and attends to building
unpayable railways, and accuses Sebbon of
being once known as Bun Tuck. Under
Federation it would transfer a few of its re-
sponsibilities to a third capital in Australia,
but it would still borrow money, and build
railways, and accuse Sebdon of being Bun
Tuck at Wellington —if Sebbon was still
there. If he had left to try his hand at
being Premier of the Commonwealth, then
it could accuse someone else of being Bun
Tuck. Excepting that Maoriland would
have more trade outlets, and almost cer-
tainly a smaller interest bill to pay, Federa-
tion would probably make very little differ-
ence to the two lone islands.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Northern Domination.
The loudest and bitterest yell that went up in
Brisbane after Referendum Day was to the
effect that “ the South would not stand being
dominated by the North.” The shriek about
“Northern domination” shook every hotel in
the enraged city of Brisbane) and commercial
circles were “profoundly impressed by the
gravity of the situation.” It was found that
the South, apart from Brisbane, had no definite
opinion either way ; that the Centre was strongly
Federal, and the North was overwhelmingly so.
But Brisbane itself gave a large Parochial
maiority, and if the Northern vote was cut out
then Brisbane could “dominate” the Centre
and the Federalists of the South, and it could
drag the Centre out of the Commonwealth
against its will. And, according to the idea o
Brisbane, it is in the GoD-given order of things
that Brisbane should dominate the Centre and
the North too, and drag them into or out of
anything it darned well pleases. But when
for once the order was changed, and
the Northern Federal vote nullified Brisbane’s
Parochial vote, the rage of the Telegraph
push and the Brisbane commercial fossils was
appalling to witness. For the logic of the
Telegraph gang is built something after this
fashion :
(1) When the North and Centre asked tor separation
the Southern vote dominated the North and Centre and
refused it. Which was quite correct. The South has a
right to dominate every place.
(2) When it refused separation it thereby decided that
the North and Centre must remain integral parts of
Queensland and the whole province must be one for
voting purposes.
(3) And while the Southern vote bosses the North and
Centre, it is quite fair for the whole province to be one.
But when, for once, the North and Central vote bosses
the South the arrangement is fiendish beyond all human
expression.
(4) The majority must rule—so long as it rules the way
Brisbane wants. This time it ruled the way Brisbane
didn’t want, and language fails to express the utterly
blastiferous nature of the situation when the majority
isn’t a Brisbane majority.
(5) It is proposed by the Brisbane Telegram push to
get rid of the curse of “Northern domination” by firing
the North bodily out of Queensland and letting it form a
province by itself. Then the Brisbane Parochialist
majority will be able to vote down che Federal, majority
in the Central district—to dominate the Centre, in fact.
For though Northern domination of Brisbane is a sin too
awful to be painted in words, Brisbane domination of the
Centre is all right. .
(6) For Brisbane to be “ dragged into Federation by
the Northern vote ” is a crime something akin to the
walloping of a Pope by an altar-boy. But for the Central
district to be dragged out of Federation against its will
by the Brisbane vote is a perfectly pure and spotless
transaction. For the North to be dragged out of Federa-
tion against its will by the Brisbane vote would also be
perfectly correct—if it only could be done.
Taking things all round, there was a grievous
lack of dignity about the yell of “Northern
domination,” and Brisbane’s demand that the
laws of arithmetic should be set aside for its
benefit, and that the less should be more than
the greater, was a comical shriek of rage. All
democratic Government is the domination of
the majority over the minority—the only
alternative to that is the domination of the
minority over the majority. And the majority
must be mainly located somewhere—either in
the north, south, east, west, or middle; and
every time there is an election or a popular
vote on anything some part of the country
must supply the majority which dominates the
other part. Brisbane ran up against the ordin-
ary fate on Referendum Day. Ihe only differ-
ence between this and any other episode of the
kind was that the loud anti-Federal push took
its defeat weeping and howling, instead of
taking it with dignity.
The Triumphant Queensland Democracy.
The Queensland Federation vote is significant
of much. Firstly it emphatically disproves the
oft-repeated assertion that the movement for
union is a Fat Man movement. It was the Q.
democratic vote that made Federation pos-
sible ; it was the Fat vote of the metropolitan
constituencies that did its best to defeat the
movement. Outside Brisbane and Rockhampton
(two centres consumed with narrowness and
selfishness) there was not a single Labor con-
stituency that voted with the anti-Federal
party, and many of them voted Federal by
three and four to one, and in some cases by
eight and nine to one. The Central constitu-
encies (Rockhampton excepted) told their
Labor representatives (mostly anti-Federal) to
go hang, and went solid for nationhood. Ihe
Northern constituencies, in harmony with their
representatives, voted with joyful unanimity
for Federation. The anti-Federal section of the
Labor Press was ignored by the workers
who usually support it, the democratic centres
proving themselves politically leagues ahead of
many of their so-called leaders. Queensland
may thank the diggers, the Western men and
the Radicals of the sugar towns that she is to-
day pledged to the cause of Union. The atti-
tude of Brisbane was miserable in the extreme.
That city has ridden the North and the
Centre for years like an incubus, and now
the North and Centre have avenged them-
selves by forcing Brisbane into the Federa-
tion. Rockhampton, again, always asseverated
strenuously that the Bakblox Centralian con-
stituencies were entirely in sympathy with her
in her stand against the Federal movement.
The Bakblox constituencies have all gone ior
nationality, and poor Rockhampton is left to
bewail her vanishing provincial glory—for once,
at least, in harmony with accursed Brisbane.
And the poor, bewildered Telegraph comforts
itself by inventing a fresh variety of lie. That
ingenious organ proves that the Centre has
voted against Union by the simple device ot
adding Southern (including metropolitan) re-
sults to Centralian, thus obtaining an “ Anti-
Federal majority for South and Centre. it
that ingenious organ would only add the
Northern results to the Southern it could easily
prove that North and South had also voted
straight for Federation ! . . . The Telegraph,
however, is the worthy organ of the narrow
Brisbaneite, and, thank Heaven, whatever in-
fluence it may have in the metropolis it has not
a particle of weight beyond it. Queenslan
has achieved a double victory—a triumph on
the one hand for the cause of Unity—a triumph
on the other for the Democrats who saw in
nationhood the cause of Democracy.
A Compromise.
According to a telegram from the West, Perth
Morning Herald proposes, in a semi-oftciai
sort of way, that the anti-Federalists of vv .1 ■
may be willing to haul down their obstructive
banner and vote for joining the Common-
wealth if they see their way to three conces-
sions. These are—that W.A. shall be allowed
to keep its interproviucial customs duties vvhol y
undisturbed for five years; that the federal
Parliament shall have the right to construct a
trails Australian railway connecting Perth witu
the East; and that, instead of W.A. votl “g? s
one province at Senatorial elections, it shall be
divided into four electorates—the goldfields
returning two senators, Perth and some adjacen
districts another two, and the North and bout),
where the sand and sheep are, one senator each.
If the parties which are now chewing each
other’s ear in the West really want these


things, the chances are that the Federal
Legislature will grant them quite cheerfully.
The division of the province into senatorial
districts is mostly W.A.’s own affair. The
transcontinental railway will have to be made
sooner or later for defence as well as commer-
cial purposes, and being a large work it is more
than probable the Federal Government will
have to make it in any case. Also there is
every chance that it will be, in a few years, a
highly profitable undertaking, and the Federal
Government will be pleased to take any profits
that are going. Moreover, it is for the good of
Australia that the Commonwealth should own
all the railways of this continent, and if it be-
gins by owning one big line that will probably
lead to the gradual acquisition of others ad-
jacent to it—therefore it is advisable that
the Commonwealth should own the trans-
continental railway. And, as regards the
maintenance of W.A.’s entire border tariff for
five years, that province has already
been granted the privilege of retaining part
of its border customs for five years, and the
difference between the two proposals is hardly
worth mentioning. Besides, it is quite possible
that W.A. will itself grow tired of the arrange-
ment before the five years have expired. The
three concessions look like a rather foolish
game of grab, but the grab is hardly worth
serious opposition. They also suggest that the
anti-Federal party feels the ground caving
beneath its feet—that it begins to understand
it must retreat in any case, and wants to put
some small article in its pocket before it goes.
The N.S.W. tabor-party's Desertion.
The N.S.W.’s Labor-party’s abandonment of
Premier Reid was, in one respect, a rather
pitiful incident. Certainly no Premier ever
deserved to be abandoned more than shifty Yes-
No George, but the ostensible reason of the
desertion did very little credit to the Labor
members. When Reid threw the much-needed
Local Government Bill overboard because the
House objected to grant as many as 16 votes to
the Fat ratepayer, they didn’t object. They
never proposed to fire him out when his State
Bank proved to be only a sham and an advertis-
ing dodge; or when his Closer Settlement
scheme was abandoned ; or when his financial
dealings as Treasurer showed him to be the
worst political fraud in the country. They saw
the minimum wage principle started in Vic-
toria, but they didn’t kick Reid for not keeping
step. Nor did they object because he showed
no serious sign of getting the Old Age Pension
idea in motion, or because he dawdled far
behind Maoriland and S.A. and Victoria in the
matter of a State Land Bank. They didn’t
eject him for demanding, at the Federal Con-
vention, the insertion of various things in the
Constitution Bill, and then calling on N.S.W.
to reject the measure because the things he had
demanded should be put in it were in it. The
Labor representatives never rounded on Reid
for his Yes, or his No, or his Yes-No, or his
No-Yes, or any of his other Federal wriggles
and contortions. The failure of his blatant
promise to make the Cornstalk people Jolly
and Fat troubled them very little, and the fact
that the loan extravagance grew worse every
year under the rule of N.S.W.’s sham econo-
mist troubled them not at all; and when the
oft-promised Council Reform died the death of
all Reid’s democratic schemes they showed no
sign of grief. In fact, they condoned all the
great Tory sins of the Reid Government—and
then they fell away from it over a small, sinell-
ful personal shindy about ,£350, and shudder-
ingly washed their hands of the whole business.
Considering all the vastly larger things that
they had passed without protest, they“should
have been able to stand the Neild business
without turning a hair. And now the un-
charitable go about saying that the Labor-party
abandoned Reid because it looked eminently
probable that even its vote wouldn’t hold him
up—that if Lyne was going to win in any case
it didn’t seem advisable to let him see that he
could win independently of the Labor-party’s
vote and influence—in fact, that the fly hurried
to get on the chariot wheel because the chariot
had started.
O
Australia’s Birth-Rate.
Is a high, nervous activity incompatible with
the vigorous expansion of a race ? It seems
very like it. In Europe the nervous and intel-
lectual French are dropping hopelessly behind
in the population statistics, while the phleg-
matic German peasant and the stupid Russian
moujik are increasing their stolid kind by teem-
ing millions. The high-strung Yankees are
only preserved from decline and extinction by
the enormous immigration of this same surplus
of inert humanity. Irish, Germans, Bohemians,
Russians all go to give solid fuel to the throb-
bing) panting, shrieking machine of American
society. The audacious freedom with which
the American woman defies the conventions
is, to a large extent, due to the sexlessness, the
lack of feminine instinct, which accompanies
her excessive mentality. The Americans are too
clever to have children. Some have attributed
Yankee neurosis to the terrible alternations of
freezing winter and grilling summer. But a
moment’s reflection will dispose of this theory.
The French-Canadian multiplies in vigorous
increase alongside the sterile Yankee. Apropos
of all this, the dwindling birth-rate of Aus-
tralia gives food for thought. Is this in its
turn due to our climate, our feverish activity,
or the bank smashes ? Has the effect of uni-
versal education been to make our people too
clever to have children ? Is it a case of nerves
or dollars ? Has the young man lost his
virility, or is he looking for a better billet ?
Unless a satisfactory answer is found, and the
tide of infants begins again to rise, we shall,
probably, towards the end of next century be
restoring the exhausted vitality of our decadent
race by the State importation of Russian
peasants.
Small Settlers.
“ Cripps Clark ” writes to The Bulletin in
an angry spirit :
Mr. VV. E. Abbott has made the very excellent sug-frestion
that the whole of the land comprised in the N.S.W
Central Division leases falling-in for the next 12 or 1
months should be withdrawn from all the forms of pur
chase now existing-, and sold at a minimum rate of £2 per
acre. I think this the cleverest idea up to date to block
the “ gamblers ready to go in for the ballots and call
themselves settlers. ” Before this infamous’9s Act came
into force we could always find a loophole in the previous
Acts which enabled us to evade the absurd precautions
against the acquisition of large estates by means of
“friendly selectors” —which is a term that was first
publicly understood during the bother about the Merca-
dool eases. But these settlement and homestead leases
introduced by Lands Minister Carruthers, with their
ridiculous conditions of perpetual residence and the
scandalous regulations that stock depastured upon them
bearing other than the lessee’s brands and ear-marks
shall be taken as primd facie evidence of “ friendly
selecting”—or, as the Department harshly terms it
dummying, are, I maintain, aimed at the best interests of
the province. In the good old .days previous to ’B4 we
could get the pick of the country for 20s. per acre, and
naturally we secured all that we could. Then our runs
were divided, and the worst half was declared open for
selection at the same price. The littie good land in these
resumed areas we secured for ourselves ; the rest, being
of a heart-breaking character, was left for the ever-
increasing horde of “2000 sheepmen,” who strive to
compete with us. Most of them sold out to us on our
own terms. They had no show' from the first, and the
Lands Dept., recognising the fact, helped them on the
road to inevitable disaster by making them pay from six
to fourteen times the rent per acre that we were paying
before these land-grabbing gamblers wrested it from us.
Besides that thej- had to pay full price for any old
fencing of ours on the resumed areas, but for any new
fences they erected on our boundaries, the law, very pro-
perly, didn’t compel us to pay a cent. By these and
many similar methods of discouragement our interests
were safeguarded and we were protected in our
monopoly of wool - growing. The general public,
woefully ignorant of the land - question because
there are fortunately no disgusting selectors in Par-
liament, and few of the creatures can write to the
press—were quite satisfied with our assurance that
the staple industry of the province—wool-growing—is
entirely dependent upon us. We have always been care-
ful to ignore the fact that there are hundreds of small
wool-grow'ers occupying land fit for nothing else, and
making a very good living on it. I agree with Mr. Abbott
that this state of affairs is not to be tolerated. Mr.
Abbott’s suggestion offers a very good means of securing
the whole of the leases to their present holders. In the
old days, as I have pointed out, w'e could secure the best
land far below its real value, but now, thanks to Mr.
Oarrutiiers, it is very difficult to get at any price with-
out residence, so it is quite right now to point out the
fact that the land is going too cheaply. However, I
don’t quite agree with that gentleman’s regret
about the “gambling for land at the ballots,”
because that may draw the Minister’s attention
to the fact that the land is not being thrown open fast
enough, otherwise there would not be hundreds of these
wretched selectors balloting for one block of land on
which they have to live perpetually without any chance
of selling to us. Ho doubt Mr. Abbol’t means well, for if
his suggestion is acted upon all settlement will be blocked,
except for a few farmers w'ho w’ould pay £2 per acre for
small blocks of rich land near civilisation. But they'
wouldn’t harm us, for, as Mr. Abbott suggested some
time ago, farmers would perform a useful and profitable
duty by supplying large graziers with forage. The
struggling farmer is necessary to us, and we don't object
to him having a few acres on w'hich to grow forage torus.
What we do most strongly object to is the small
wool-grower. We have tried hard by our press-
agents and our deputations to Ministers to con-
firm the public idea that small holders and closer
settlement includes onlj' farmers poor, harmless
strugglers whom we can buy out or let live, just
as it suits us; but the independent, self-assertive
little wool-grower, who runs from 1000 to 5000
sheep under our very noses, is getting so numerous
that even the Minister for Lands begins to have an
inkling of his existence. Once let the people learn that
he is the man they must look to to keep the price of meat
dowm in drought-time, and we shall have as much chance
of still another renew'al of our leases as of a lease of the
moon. He is an active competitor, and we want him
suppressed. But he can’t pay £2 per acre for sheep
country any more than we can, however active he is, so
if Mr. Abbott’s suggestion is adopted that no land be
disposed of at less than £2 an acre, the small land
grabber will be justly and effectually abolished, and we
shall be able to buy up most of the country townships for
sheep runs. The price being prohibitive*, about fifteen
millions of acres would remain unsold. I presume Mr.
Abbott means the unsold remnant to be attached to our
leases, although he has apparently forgotten to mention
it.
Auckland Observer starts to disseminate
valuable ignorance about the evil consequences
of Federation in Maoriland :
Roughly speaking, it will cost annually a sum of
£1,700,000 to pay the expenses of a Federal Parliament
and administration, of which New Zealand’s share wpuld
be about £175,000. According to the plan agreed upon
as the basis of the federal tariff, we should require a total
Customs revenue of £700,000 a year to enable us to pay
our share of the expenses. Our Customs revenue at the
present time is nearly £2,000,000, and its reduction by
between 11,200,000 and £1,300,000 would mean that this
enormous amount of money would have to be made up in
some other way. A difference of 01 15s. per head would
have to be raised by some method of taxation, either by
land, incomes, or by some other direct means.
It would certainly be difficult to mix things up
much worse than that. According to the very
hostile financial committee which sat on the
matter, the extra cost of Federation is likely to
be <£500,000, and some violent persons have
put it as high as £700,000 —not <£1,700,000.
And it was proposed that the tariff should be
high enough to raise close on £2 per head—say
£7,000,000 without Maoriland, or <£8,400,000
with Maoriland. Therefore, Maoriland would
have about £1,400,000 per head, instead of
£700,000 —-the £700,000 idea is based on
the assumption that it is proposed the
tariff for Australia and Tasmania shall yield
£3,500,000 instead of £7,000,000. And the
M.L. paper further bases its calculations on
the theory that M.L. contains one-tenth of the
population of the Seven Provinces, instead of
one-sixth. The Federal question has brought
out scores of blind instructors just like this,
who cheerfully volunteer to show the one-eyed
man the way he ought to go so that he will
get lost and break his neck at the end of it.
♦
Braddon, of Tasmania, the man with the Great
Opportunity, proposes to prorogue Parliament
for a few days, then start a new session, pass
the Electoral Bill again through the Assembly,
and send it to the Council a second time. And
if the Council rejects it a second time, Braddon
will have to consider what he will do with his
opportunity, and whether he will make a fire
with it, or only a smudge. By that time the
existing Electoral Act will have died a natural
death on 30th Sept. The Parliament must die
a natural death on 28tli Jan. If a new Act is
not passed before then it will be impossible to
elect a new Parliament, and the machine of
Government will stop short. The whole concern
will go to pieces like a caterpillar on the Last
Day, and there will be Chaos, and, the oldest
inhabitant isn’t old enough to even guess what
will happen. To avert this calamity either the
Council must pass the most democratic Elec-
toral Bill the Assembly likes to send up, or the
Assembly must pass a conservative one that
will satisfy the Council. But the Assembly has
the best show ; it has the drafting of the Bill
and it passes the measure first, and then the
ghastly responsibility of rejection rests with
the Council. And the Assembly is younger, on
the average, and would get more fun "out of
Chaos than the Council would, and if it hasn’t
more pluck than the Council has then it ought
to be ashamed of itself. If Braddon likes to
send up a really liberal Electoral Bill, and
thereafter refuses to budge an inch, he will
carry his point right enough, and he has a
chance to get more real joy out of the business
than many Premiers get in a lifetime.
The Corio (Vic.) shire councillors have lodged
two objections against the Woman’s Suffrage
Bill. Firstly, “it would mean plural voting,
because families of grown-up daughters would
vote according to the direction of their father.”
Secondly, “ it would give the preponderance of
voting power to the towns and cities, because
in the country, where long distances had to be
travelled over bad roads, women would not
take the trouble to vote.” One theory swal-
lows up the other, seeing that women couldn’t
pluralise their father’s vote in districts where
they didn’t struggle to the poll. And, as for
the argument that the Bill would give a pre-
ponderance of power to fathers in towns and
cities, it is based on a sweet ignorance of Aus-
tralian female character. The “old man” is
usually the last person in the family circle to
get reverence for his political views, if he hap-
pens to have any. His wife doesn’t reckon
him infallible; his sons look down upon his
foolishness ; and his daughters take sides with
their mother, or with one or other of their
conflicting brethren, when they are not swayed
by the young man they walk out with,
or who walks out with sister Mary Jane.
And in several other ways the Corio councillors
have got things upside-down. All country
roads are not bad, for one thing. And the ex-
perience of Maori land and S.A. shows that the
country woman gets to the poll quite as well—
very often better—than the town one. And
according to all the logic of the dreadful old
mother-in-law joke, it is not the woman who
ought to be deprived of her vote because she
is under the domination of her pa, but the
married man who should be disfranchised
because he isn’t a free agent but only the serf
of his wife’s she-parent.
+
“Pestes” to The Bulletin:—
The plague-outbreak in the Mauritius has put Austra-
lian quarantine authorities on their guard. With the large
Asiatic population of N.Q., and the Eastern conditions of
life at Cairns and other tropical ports, it is probably only
a matter of time before the bacillus pestes puts in an ap-
pearance. Plague has some curious facts attending it.
Before and during its appearance among humans, but
especially before, it often attacks the rats of the threat-
ened locality. They die in enormous numbers—2o,ooo
were collected by a single scavenging' official before an
outbreak in a Chinese town. Rodents appear especially
susceptible, sheep and pigs, on the other hand, are strongly
resistant. Plague is not nearly as fatal to Europeans as
most people seem to believe, only' about 18 per cent, of
cases having a fatal termination. This is probably due
to superior nursing and cleanliness, the mortality
among the Chinese in the Canton and Hangkow epi-
demics averaging 94 per cent, of all cases. The mortality
varies at different times in the epidemics, being greatest
at the onset and height. It also varies in different epi-
demics, but in an Eastern population averages about 75
per cent, of all cases. Manson says that it is not as in-
fectious as small-pox or measles. Inhabiting dust and
filth it may be spread by means of water and food, but
the greater majority of cases are probably due to direct
inoculation, the bare feet and legs of native races render-
ing them specially liable. The unbroken skin is probably
capable of warding off the poison, but small scratches or
abrasions, or even the bites of flies will destroy the
barrier for the introduction of the infectious medium.
The suppuration of the lymphatic glands points
out this fact, the gland being choked with the poison
carried from its collecting ducts. A case showing sup-
purating groin-glands is probably due to an infection
through the foot or leg ; one with lesions in the arm-pit
to a similar process in the fingers or hand. Common
sense will do a creat deal towards warding off plague.
All food and drink should be carefully scrutinised as to
its source, &c., and not partaken of in plague-infected
rooms, especial attention should be paid to the hands,
&c., gloves of rubber being worn when it is necessary to
touch infected persons or articles ; abrasions, however
small, should be protected from the air. With strict
isolation and quarantine regulations, and the prompt
cremation of bodies, the danger will probably be satis-
factorily' met, but let it get beyond control and the
drainage-horrors will keep it endemic in a dozen Aus-
tralian towns.
♦
The N.S.W. community is hereby invited to
consider the awful statesmanship of alleged
Labor-leader McGowen, also John Haynes,
and the only O’Sullivan. Minister Cook
lately brought in a Bill to provide for the
maintenance of the widows and orphans of
miners killed by accident, and for the support
of miners themselves who were disabled while
following their occupation, and the crass
McGowen rose up and heaved bricks at it
because it provided for the mining section of
the community only. Haynes followed suit,
and the unspeakable O’Sullivan, practically
spoke against it because “ we are altogether too
prone to ignore women.” The yell of these
great men was that the Bill should be made to
provide for every man and woman who comes
to grief by no fault of his or her own while
following his or her occupation. Very laudable
yell. But there is an excellent practice known
as “ getting in the thin end of the wedge.” To
bring in a Bill to provide for the relief of the
persons and families of all workers would be
to invite rejection in the Council and to
thoroughly scare timid and Tory taxpayers
with a vision of huge expense. Minister
Cook’s modest little- Bill to provide for the
unfortunates in about the most dangerous
occupation we have would probably have gone
through the. Council without any serious
opposition. And when it became law and was
proved workable, McGowen and Haynes and
O’Sullivan could have reared up and pointed
out that it was a grievous anomaly that only
one section of the workers should be thus pro-
vided for. Then they could have brought sea-
men and others within the scope of the Act.
But they mostly preferred to do great evil if
they were deprived of the chance of doing
greater good. They were in the position of
men watching a shipload of perishing people,
who resolutely decline to rescue any because
they cannot rescue all, and hold that to save a
few would be favoritism, and gross injustice to
those that are lost.
Melb. Age is eagerly urging acceptance of the
Eastern Extension Co.’s proposal to lay a new
cable from South Africa to W.A., and reduce
. charges for English messages from 4s. 6d. to 4s.
per word, and later on to 2s. 6d. The only
concession the co. asks in return—and it looks
a very little concession to outsiders—is that the
co. shall have its own office for cabling, and
deal direct with customers. That is, it will
become a rival to the Govt. Telegraph Dept.,
and when the Pacific cable is laid it will do
competitive business and cut rates, if it
chooses, to an unDayable point; backed by tbe
big reserves it has accumulated while over-
charging in the past. Now, everybody knows
that a State monopoly has drawbacks—it is
slow to move and slow to improve ; but when
dealing with great popular necessities like rail-
way locomotion, or posts and telegraphs,
or water and light supply, and things
of that kind, its drawbacks are nothing
like those of the syndicates and rings of com-
merce, seeking dividends at all costs to the
consumer. Americans know that. The State
is content with .the smallest profit, and it
comes back to the people ; the syndicate takes
the largest profit it can squeeze and puts it in
its o.wn pocket. That is what the Eastern Ex-
tension Co. has done in the past, and is doing
now, charging thrice and ‘twice as much as
would have yielded a fair profit on its cables.
13ut as soon as there’s talk of State competi-
tion, the sv ml mate's claws are sheathed, and it
purrs big reductions, provided it can be allowed
to take business from the projected State line.
The answer to the syndicate’s proposal is, No.
Ihe bait is not good enough. The present reduc-
tion is hardly worth considering ; and by the
time the syndicate comes down to its minimum,
in 1903, the Pacific cable can be built, the
charge reduced independently of the Eastern
Extension Co., and the profits go to the people
of Australia, not to private shareholders in
London.
-♦
The principle of S.A. Premier Kingston’s ap-
pointment of a solicitor to guard the public
interests in insolvency matters might profitably
be extended to many of the proceedings in
the Coroner’s Court—in connection with
mining accidents, for instance. In nine cases
out of ten the mining co. is represented by a
lawyer ; the dead man and his relatives are not.
A mining inspector is sometimes present; but
his interest isn’t to prove that things were as
they oughtn’t to be, for in most cases that
would be a reflection on himself as inspector.
So either the dead man gets the blame or
nobody at all is blamable with dreadful per-
sistency.
There was much truth in Frank Cotton’s in-
terjection when, in the course of the NJS.W.
censure debate, O’Sullivan rated the Govt,
for failing to pass its now almost forgotton
Closer Settlement Bill. “It was a Banks-Relief
Bill,” cried Cotton. In many of the projected
instances the Bill would have been wrested to
the use Cotton indicated ; the State would
buy from mortgage banks, sell again to small
settlers, who, in the usual course of things,
would forfeit to the banks anew, and thus
leave the State to start on the circle again.
Every measure authorising the State to resume
land for closer settlement should have, as its
basis, the Maoriland idea under which every
land-holder values his own land for taxation
purposes, and if the State is not satisfied it
can buy the land at the owner’s valuation with
a percentage added as compensation for dis-
turbance. But three parties (not merely one)
shall hold the right of compulsory purchase—
the Govt., the municipal authorities, and the
tenants in active occupation. This theory gets
rid of a mass of difficulties. If the landlord
puts a fancy figure on his estate he will pay
taxes on that figure, and if he minimises its
value to lessen the tax he may be relieved of the
land at the inadequate figure he has himself
fixed.
4.
The history of the Transvaal is succinctly put
by an impartial English reference-book
Whitaker's Almanac:
The Transvaal or South African Republic was founded
in 1840 by Boers who, dissatisfied with British rule, had
migrated from Cape Colony, and its independence was
recognised by the British Crown in 1852. In 1877, when
Sekukuni had defeated the Boers, and it was feared that
the whole of South Africa might become involved in a
disastrous native war, Sir Theophilus Shepstone was
despatched to the Transvaal. He found the public
treasury empty, and the country in a state of anarchy ;
to save it from further disaster he proclaimed it British
territory. Protests against this usurpation were un-
heeded, and on Dec. 16, 1880, at Heidelberg, the flag of
the Republic was once more hoisted, and after the battle
of Majuba Hill (Feb. 27, 1881) Britain once more recog-
nised its independence. By the Convention of Feb. 27,
1884, Britain merely retains the power of vetoing any
treaty which the Republic may make with all foreign
powers, except the Orange Free State.
Here a representative English authority declares
that Britain in the Transvaal is a usurper.
The original Dutch settlers at the Cape had
emigrated to escape from the hated British rule
and to secure their independence. They dispos-
sessed the natives; but that gave Britain no
right to dispossess them. Britain had no
shadow of authority over the Transvaal when
Shepstone took it; she was playing the tyrant
over a State whose independence she had for-
mally recognised. “ The Transvaal,” as Glad-
stone said, “is a country where the English
have chosen most unwisely, I am tempted to
say insanely, to place themselves in the strange
predicament of the free subjects of a monarchy
going to coerce the free subjects of a republic,
and to compel them to accept a citizenship
which they decline and refuse.”
4.
A New York Judge stated recently from the
Bench that according tohisexperience womenare
such instinctive and congenital liars that not
one in a hundred can tell the truth if she tries.
The resultant hen-squawking may be ima-
gined, but, curiously enough, an almost iden-
tical opinion has since been voiced from the
Bench on this side of the world. “I find,”
said Vic. Judge a’Beckett, the other day,
“ that the wife often unhesitatingly goes into
the box and commits perjury in support of the
tale told to her proctor. The impunity with
which she ordinarily does this, however, she
shall not in this case enjoy. Unless this court
is to be degraded into an arena in which per-
jury is to be committed without restraint, I
must commit this woman for her reckless and
perfectly useless false swearing.” Apropos ,
The Bulletin wonders once again when similar
treatment will come to be meted out to the
prurient-minded female whom a jury’s verdict
so frequently declares, by implication, to have
committed perjury involving the possible hang-
ing of an innocent man. The impunity 4he has
hitherto enjoyed really does seem to point to
an underlying conviction in the male mind that
lovely woman simply can’t tell the truth.


Baker*Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
. . . THE CELEBRATED
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
375 George-street, Sydney.
9 '
The
JENNINGS patent
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
For TAILINGS, SUCTION DREDGING
ALLUVIAL MINING,
irrigating, &C. &c.
demonstrated
to hold
FIRST PLACE
for High
efficiency
and Remarkable
ECONOMY.
Sole Manufacturer*
for N.S.W.,
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
(Ltd.) GRANVILLE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Pygmalion and Galatea.”
Royal. “ The Village Priest.”
Lyceum .. “ Tommy Atkins."
Criterion “ The Indian Mutiny.”
Palace Rickards' Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Geisha.”
Theatre Royal “ A Soldier and a Man. '
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Athenasum Hall. German-Reed Entertainment
Town Hall Trebelli Song Recitals.
Town Hall gcherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
(Saturday Afternoon)
“Lord and Lady Algy,” revived by the
Broughs for five nights only, appears to take even
better than it did at its first appearance some
months ago. And Carton’s bright, artistic little
play deserves all the appreciation that is likely to
come in its road in this material world. It is a
finished play mainly because it has no weary end in
particular, neither has it any beginning in par-
ticular ; and all the same the only unfinished part
of it is the centre. It isn’t laboriously explained
at the opening of the show why Algy and his Mrs.
Algy had separated, though after that the play is
definite enough for a while. Algy’s elder brother,
the weak, weedy M.P. with the disproportionate
liver and the habit of feeling you all oyer while he
talks to you, uses Algy’s rooms in which to hold
meetings with the pretty wife of the great non-
conformist bone-boiler. He and circumstances
together persuade the upright boiling person that
it is Algy who is after his feather-headed little
woman, and Algy’s conduct when he is drinkyand
disguised as the Duke of Marlborough at a fancy-
dress ball lends color to the suspicion. But even
when the ladyis found on Lord Algy’s premises late
at night the author doesn’t drop into vulgar melo-
drama. She purposes eloping with the moral and
pawsome Elder Brother, but her infuriated bone-
boiler assumes that she is going away with Algy >
and Algy’s father, the deeply-religious duke,
thinks so, too, and the weedy Elder Brother tries
to save his character by professing to think like-
wise. And then Mrs. Algy, who is a woman of
the world and always bets on the right horse,
drops in and saves the situation by stating that
the feather-headed one is there to meet her,
because they were going out together by appoint-
ment, at a very late hour, to buy a hair-pin, or
something. Of course the dreadful Elder Brother
ought to be exposed, and kicked, and disinherited,
and rubbed on the floor, but Carton, being an
artist, does nothing in particular with him. The
bone-boiler’s wife, after tragically leaving home
never to return, comes back in quite an ordinary
way in a cab. The Elder Brother sidles off
with his spotless character unimpaired, and with
the continued approval of his father and the
missionaries. Nobody ever explains that the
feather-headed girl was going to elope. Algy
never gets credit for saving her, for it wasn t
known that she was lost. Nothing definite hap-
pens except that Mrs. Algy, having lost her train,
and having made enough money backing the right
horse' to give the household a start again, decides
to stay for the night, and the Algy family takes
up the thread of its joint existence once more.
* » * •
The only change of importance in the cast
is that Lovell takes Carne’s old part as the Elder
Brother, and the change is satisfactory. The
Elder Brother is a weak hypocrite, at an angle of
45 degrees to the horizon—a restless, hurried per-
son, who runs round his auditor and unconsciously
feels him all over right down to the feet in the
course of a brief conversation, and wipes his hot
hands on him, and looks down the back of his
neck while talking to him. That fevered, canter-
ing kind of person doesn’t come naturally to
Joseph Carne, but he suits Lovell to a hair
and the hair has been recently cut short, and
singed, too. Brough is admirable, except when
he is drunk; Brough, as a drunk, is inferior to
many actors of not a quarter his regular tonnage.
Mrs. Brough is admirable, with no reservations
whatever. Reginald Dartrey, Leslie Victor, Miss
Noble, and Miss Bessie Thompson, and a very
moderate bone-boiler (Rotherham) are the rest
—or most of the rest —of a commendable
show. Miss Thompson strikes a new character as
a terrible old woman who hadn’t had a dance all
the evening in the bone-boiler’s festive hall, and,
considering all things, this paper would like to
see her in some more spacious parts. A lady
of her capacity is wasted as an old woman in
shepherdess costume who hasn’t had a dance all
the evening.
* • * •
The good old “Village Priest” is to be
revived at the Royal on Saturday night, and then
the Brough lease of Sydney Royal is so near a
close that one could throw a water-melon from
there and hit the end of the season with it quite
easily.
“ Secret Service,” at Her Majesty's, will
last till Friday night, and after that date Wil-
liamson retires from the thankless task of convey-
ing valuable historical information to the Sydney
public. The grand old comedy, “ Pygmalion and
Galatea,” will be staged on Saturday with Thomas
Kingston as Pygmalion and Miss Henrietta Wat-
son as the statue which stepped down from its
pedestal to upset the sculptor’s domestic happiness.
** * *
All last week big brown man Glover
was pursuing -the unsatisfactory tenor of his
rebellion at Sydney Criterion. He proposes to
rebel all this week, and probably he will be throw-
ing off the British yoke next week also, or as much
of the yoke as can be thrown off in so small a
theatre without the end of it getting out into the
street. In the absence of any arrangement for the
complete re-writing of the “Indian Mutiny,” the
rising of the brown man is the same rather dis-
jointed episode as heretofore, but the large cannon
which is fired at Augustus is an energetic and
definite ironmongery which makes up for many
sins. The cannon is almost the only character in
the piece that doesn’t linger and hang fire, and if
some of the others would follow its example, and
give just one yell, and then go off, it might be all
the better for the drama, As ic is they loaf
round and strive to blow the serpent of dissension
into a flame, but owing to the dampness of the
serpent, or some other cause, it doesn’t blaze up as
it ought to do.
** * *
London will not Sleep at Sydney Lyceum
after Friday night. The large and patriotic spec-
tacle of “ Tommy Atkins ” is due on Saturday,
and if Paul Kruger has not backed down before
then, the chances are that Sydney will rise to a
dangerous pitch of excitement after seeing Lan-
deek and Shirley’s loud red play, and feel like
taking the field at once. Which reflection leads
to further quite irrelevant reflections about the
one-sidedness of that scrimmage if it comes off.
Britain is full—overcrowded, in fact —with patriotic
literature, and inflamed war-songs, and inspiriting
liquor, and huge military dramas full of glory, which
all help to work up the Briton to martial fever,
and make him feel that he can. die happily on the
battle-field. These are artificial aids to courage
and enthusiasm, and presumably they count for
something. And, on the other side, Uncle Paul,
aged nearly 70, probably never saw a drama nor
read a large, robust, blood-stirring romance in all
his life. Yet when trouble comes the old man
reads a cold, flat hymn through his big.spectacles,
and puts a large drink of cold tea on his stomach,
and goes forth with his gun as bravely as the best
hero of them all.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli Tom and Lillie English,
from Melb. Bijou, made their first appearance on
Saturday. Mrs. English is a chio little lady who
plays the cornet while Thomas, in sandy wig and
vermillion moustache, wallops his fiddle till it
shrieks the “Wearin’ o’ the Green” in agony.
Then they give an exhibition of trick music, and
on the first night the audience took it kindly and
demanded more. It kept on demanding, while
on the stage two heads bobbed up and down like
corks on an angry sea. Thomas shook his ver-
million moustache and held up his dumpy paw for
silence, got it, and thanked the people for r.heir kind
welcome —but they were used to that sort of recep-
tion, and they were tired out with the journey
from Melbourne, and the rehearsal, and the
matinee, and it was hot, and the grease paint was
uncomfortable, and he begged to be excused. G.
W. Hunter, the new raconteur, fresh from Eng-
land, then came on and talked. His talk seemed
to amuse the people, but the ancient gag about his
father dying in giving birth to him is worn out in
this tired land. As a conjuror, however, he has
some good points. These doings at the Tivoli,
however, are ancient history by now, for the
Tivoli is no more. It burned itself down in a
quiet sort of way on Monday night, and the co. ’s
present address is at the Palace.
** * *
■The Flying Jordans, also the grand New
York Circus and the great London Hippodrome,
open at Redfern (Sydney) on Saturday in a tent
whose dimensions are alleged to be beyond the
dreams of avarice. A tug-of-war and a bicycle
race are thrown in, and the management hopes,
by industry, civility, and strict attention to busi-
ness, to break the record, or at the very least to
damage it so badly that it will be of no use to the
next man who comes along.
* He- * *
“ The Geisha,” back again at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, is the same dubious story of a tea-house
that caught the town a few months ago. The
scenery is little the worse for wear, and tbe dresses
are still gorgeous, whilst the co. is about 80 per
cent, of it the same as ever, and the rest rather
more musical. A stronger co. on the feminine
side might have commended “The Geisha ” to the
warm approval of this family journal, and, con-
sidering that the ladies are only weak by
comparison with the singer and dancers of olden
days, Tiie Bulletin is glad to see them. At any
rate the jappy-jap-jappy revival is a glittering,
full-sized entertainment, instead of a feeble
American comedy. When the sun goes down on
the ruin of Wun Hi the effect is something to see ;
also, the ballet is good to look upon, and Lauri is
a droll, impossible Chinaman, and the music of the
principal songs is a sweet antidote to the words
thereof. Nonconformist consciences may com-
plain that “The Geisha” throws out numerous
wicked suggestions, but the consistent lunacy of
the narrative makes it quite respectable to all
intents and purposes. The people who fool around
in Japan have a better idea of wholesome fun than
the cocktail-drinking men and married female
“ good fellows ” who chase the phantom of dissi-
pation from one to another New York restaurant.
After taking two or three doses of divorced Amer-
ican woman the public find Molly Seamore a
fragrant sort of girl, and the first reappearance of
her white frock fetches them every time. “The
Geisha,” with Kenningham in young Bracy’s
small part, Miss Nina Osborne as the French
maid, and Miss Everett instead of perky Lily
Titheradge, will fill the bill for some nights to
come.
** * *
Bland Holt’s long and honorable campaign
at Melb. Royal is coming to a prosperous end this
week. The house has been crowded a hundred
times during the season, but the takings last
Saturday night were said to have beaten the record
owing to the Agricultural Show and the latest
news from South Africa. “ For England ”is a
drama in which the Boers get the worst of the
only battle that happens under the audience’s
observation. Walter Baker and others are con-
tinally getting trapped in tight places, where the
only thing left for them is to lay down their lives
for the dear old Flag, but this is previous to the
arrival of reinforcements. The moment the
British can put fifteen more men into the field
the valour of the bull-dog breed asserts itself,
and the Boers either drop dead on the spot or perish
miserably behind the scenes. “For England”
supplies a want just now, and the local military
forces may be seen standing round the back of the
d.o. clutching nervously at their sword-hilts. It
is a pity that the slaughter of Oom Paul’s army
can’t be carried on for another week, but already
Christie Simonsen, armed with private dispatches
and a presentation of sovereigns from the co., nas
sailed for Maoriland or somewhere to clear tne
wav for Bland Holt.
$
On Saturday the Charles Holloway co.
take up the running at the Royal. Holloway also
knows what is required in the melodrama line,
and this time becomes with new shows and new
faces in the leading parts. The drama for Satur-
day is “A Soldier and a Man,” which promises
to keop the war-spirit on the boil, and undertakes
to set forth a mob of auxiliaries on a scale ot
grandeur seldom equalled and never surpassed.
** * *
Business at the Bijou was booming last
week as a matter of course, neither is there any
probability of a slump in Rickards stock for the
present. Cinquevalli seems to be more spoken of
than ever, and if perchance a casual idiot breathes
aloud whilst that wonderful man is balancing a
bottle and a glass of wine on his curly head, the
alarmed audience whispers “ Hush ! with a re-
verence that paralyses the culprit, v irto, from
Sydney, was added to the Bijou programme on
Saturday, and the Valdares, who arrived a week
earlier, are biking strong.
* *- * #
To-night (Thursday), the fourth and final
Trebelli Song Recital will happen at Melbourne
Town Hall, but the charming artist is pretty cer-
tain to make one or two more appearances after
that. Melbourne is showing good taste in this
instance. The third recital, last Saturday, went
near to filling the big barn, and the audience gave
unmistakeable signs of being ‘ ‘ knocked. ’ Madame
Trebelli and John Prouse had already sung lb or
17 songs in all, when the lady arrived at the last
item on the list, after which, being called upon
for yet another encore, she gave them Auber s
Laughing Song, and the meeting disjiersed in a
state of wild enthusiasm at five minutes to 10.
The spectacle of two thousand smiling mortals
coming away from a Town Hall vocal concert is a
new experience.
*# # *
Two or three Melbourne shows have
passed away. “Faust ”is a weird memory of
misdirected ambition, and M‘Adoo’s Minstrels
have gone from St. George’s Hall to pastures new.
Also, the German Reed entertainment at St.
George’s Hall is closed for reconstruction. On
Saturday it will resume business with new musical
monologues and things, and hold the floor for
seven farewell nights. Also, Scherek’s Orchestra
will perforin again at the Town Hall next Satur-
day afternoon, and seeing that the time for
matinee concerts has almost expired and the
Scherekists will shortly disband, Melbourne had
better hang on to the Orchestra whilst it lasts.
** * *
Hear the disconcerted critic of Melb. Age
attempting to explain away his former idolatry of
the tin goddess :
“ If anyone who heard Miss Amy Castles for the first
time last night were to ask—‘ Where is the much-vaunted
beauty of tone and rich round voice winch marked
the girl out as par excellence the rising sun of Australian
singers?’ it would be hard indeed to give a reasonably
satisfactory answer. The sacl fact remains that these
qualities have disappeared so absolutely and completely
as to leave hardly a trace behind. In her lower register
she sings just about as well as some strolling minstrel of
the streets. It is positive pain to sit and listen to such
singing in cold blood. And even higher up the scale
there remains nothing—literally nothing—of the full to *J e
which at first sent a thrill through her hearers, and made
them feel what a God-sent gift this was which Amy
Castles possessed. Be it remembered, too, that Miss
Castles never had anything to recommend her save the
quality of her voice. All the thousand and one arts and
devices by which even a passing singer can still hope to
keep her place were conspicuously absent.”
This from the “critic” who spoke of narrow-
shouldered Amy as an infant Tietjens five
months ago ! He bewails the disappearance of
qualities which were mostly born in the imagina-
tion of a clique of musical enthusiasts and news-
paper puffmongers. When the Age man was
screaming his wild nonsense The Bulletin was
stating, as a cold matter of fact, that the
warbler from Bendigo had no power to thrill any-
body with her voice. She never excited genuine
enthusiasm. At her first Town Hall concert, not-
withstanding the attendance of a battalion of
hysterical girls, Amy’s “Hear ye, Israel fell
pretty flat on the general public. At the Lxiina-
tion Building, where she sang to 14,000 people,
the applause was a mere suggestion of what it
would have been if the public had discovered any
charm in her notes. Seventy-five per-cent, of the
multitude gave no sign of delight. I roin begin-
ning to end the Castles’ boom was an absurdity
created by a rush of circumstances which The
Bulletin hasn’t time to fully explain.
At Poverty Point.
At Charters Towers, against the fearful odds of 40,000
dervishes and a bad cold, Artist \illiers re-fought the
battle of “ Obdurbawd,” as he called it, and gave a lot
of information about the “ Bahdi’s Toob, and the
gall ad t ben who advadced id the hording udder the greed
badder.” Whereupon a reptile contemporary, which had
been overlooked in the advertising, remarked that he had
a “fruity” voice like one who has dined exclusively on
fat. Also that his trophies were unconvincing, consisting
as they did of some dirty night-shirts, the top of a tin
lamp, and a flag with dirty spots, looking as if he had
used it as a towel after a dust storm. Some of the
notices Villiers received on his last visit to Australia
would have made most men strike this tired continent off
their visiting lists, but “ our artist ” has a fighter s jaw
and would have made a better soldier than lecturer—but
there wouldn’t have been so much money in it. Despite
frequent statements that portions of the “ Bwitish anmy
fohrned into a squaw,” and were sometimes in echelon,
and at others perdu, he did good business for three nights,
takin" enough money to keep him in moustache-stiffen-
ing and knickerbockers for the rest of his gory career.
A late letter says that Florence Schmidt, the Queens-
land soprano, is living with the Sfceffanis in Russell
Square, London. She is studying languages hard and
goes to Milan shortly upon a good offer at La Scala.
In its amusing recantation of the Amy Castles booming,
the Age refers to the “ill-advised ” action of the young
lady in ruining her voice by frequent concerts. As a
matter of common sense, Miss Castles was very well-ad-
vised, indeed. £4OOO in the hand is worth a heap of
Melba-fees in the bush of five years hence, and it is not
even now asserted that the girl’s voice is more than tem-
porarily injured. Even had she known the concerts
meant its total destruction, the best thing, nevertheless,
was for her to go ahead and grab the shekels with both
hands while she might. Five years from now, vocalism
may be carried on by some labor-saving electrical
invention.
When it was announced that Miss Dolly Castles, sister
of Amy of that ilk, would debut at Miss Osmond’s com-
plimentary matinee it was carefully added that it was
not intended Dolly “ should as yet attempt to emulate
the boom of her now famous sister.” A clear case of
trying-it-on-the-dog, all the same.
The impersonator of President Kruger in Blandolt's
drama is nearly, if not quite, a foot shorter than the
Dutch original. And he doesn't have a pipe protruding
from the middle of his face. Old Paul Kruger is a big
fellow, with a large gruesome countenance and a chronic
pipe.
The recent libel-action against Sydney Catholic Press
is a fine sample of the trumpery grounds on which people
will “go for” a newspaper. The alleged libel consisted
merely in the statement-re the opening of a new enter-
tainment-hall in a N.S.W. country town that the old
hall (attached to plaintiff’s hotel) was far from being as
convenient as was desirable. Yet the man actually got a
jury to given him £5 damages. Certificate for costs,
though, was very properly refused.
Hobart can’t be poverty-stricken, after all. Eugene
McAdoo and his colored brudders and sisters softly “stole
away home” with £5OO as the wages of a weeks jubilee
son"-. Trebelli followed on ere the villagers had tune for a
sleep and, aided by baritone Prouse alone, lifted £2OO in
two Town Hall nights, also a gold star and laurel wreath
souvenir presented by local admirers at the hands of
Bishop Delaney. And Hobart now admits that Trebelli
is almost as good as Amy Sheryvin.
Leon Caron’s many friends in Australia will be sorry to
hear that the amiable musician lost his mother on July
22nd. Widow Caron had achieved the good old age of 77.
The trouble between Fritz Mueller’s benefit trustees
and Fritz’s high-born mamma was amicably settled,
and the little genius sailed away (per “ Karlsruhe ”) to
Vaterland on Tuesday. Melbourne’s German Club gave
him an enthusiastic farewell concert whereat Fritz figured
as an artist and composer, and the unanimous verdict of
the company was “ Mein Gott!” The boy is a [marvel,
without doubt.
The Age lately remarked that “ Madame Patti, after
vassinq the alloted span of life and burying two husbands,
took unto herself a third.” Well-informed paper, the
Age 1 Patti didn’t bury her first husband, for he divorced
her And she was about 10 years under the alloted span
when she made her third conjugal investment a few
months ago.
The Yank runs furiously to “booze” in his burlesques.
Every burlesque of American make that we have had in
Australia has resembled a footrace for cocktails. 1 China-
town ” and “ A Stranger in New York” are particular
outrages on the glorious and blessed cause of temperance,
and both fail to touch Australia on the spot. The aver-
aye Australian sees no fun in a man pouring drinks into
himself unless he is the man.
London Referee, a few weeks back, announced that
« Mi s s Pattie Browne, whose excellent work asa soubrette
(especially in ‘The White Heather’ and ‘Trelawney of
the Wells’) will he remembered by many London p ay-
goers has just returned after a most successful Australian
engagement.” Mention of poor Pattie s ‘ success with
“ Little Minister,” &c., reminds one that she 3'™ed at
the term “soubrette” when she was leading the Rickards
00. “My dear,” she said to a Sydney lady, lam not a
soubrette ; I am a comedienne.”
In future, Jawbone Neild will be known
as “ Jonah ” Neild.
Q. Labor-party is going to accept the
Federal vote. Even the anti -Federal Worker
admits that the majority must rule.
The disinterment of the bodies buried in
the ancient cemetery at Point Gillibrand, Wil-
liamstown, Vic.—the real convict settlement-baa
been watched daily by one interested witness, an
old woman who has been 50 years in the district.
She overlooked the operations of the workmen ah
dav during the tune it took to shift the bodies
with some vague idea of recognising the bones of
a relative of hers, buried in the old cemetery over
40 years ago.
Brisbane Telegraph continues to yelp
miserably to the effect that the Queensland Refer
endum didn’t show a real Federal majority after
all, and that the real, genuine, all-wool majority
is against Federation. And meanwhile, as out-
lying returns come in, the majority for Federation
/rows bigger. By last Saturday night almost the
last hope and joy vanished out of the lives of the
Parochial party, for the South (outside Brisbane)
went Federal, and therefore three of the fow
divisions were in favor of union, the figures
then were: Brisbane, Anti-Federal majoriy,
4091- South Q., Federal majority, 16; Central
Q., Federal majority, 1832 ; N.Q., * e d eral n ’ a .J.° h
ity, 8314 ; total Federal majority, 6071, winch
were cheerful figures for Brisbane to think over
on the long dreary Sunday.
An after-Referendum yell of execration
from Toowoomba Chronicle :
Here we have the closest settled portion of'the coony,
possessing the bulk of the population and the bu k
the settlement, contributing the bulk of tne reie ,
producing the bulk of our exports, and consunnngth
Sulk of our imports, and it, after weighing bob
the question, most emphatically says mostdetri-
monwealth Bill, which it believes wouWbe mostMein
i “ifi*->«>«> - “*
bidding of the North? . , ,-
Why didn’t all these wild-haired people explain
to the North in advance that its vote wouldnt
count unless it voted the way Brisbane wanted .
to? Curiously enough, by tl ,' e wa I f’ /’//vicLE
itself, the Southern town that the CHW)- .
raves in gave a decent-sized majority f( ;
tion. Which is rough on the alleged unammo
“ No ” of the South.


Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
The directors of the Long Tunnel gold-mine,
Walhalla, have placed an order with the Austral Otis Eng.
Co. for a new compound winding engine to be worked at
the 900 ft. level by compressed air, and probably tn argest
of its kind in Australia. When this is at work in about
three months the work of the mine will go on as usual, as
by that time the shaft that has been giving trouble wi 1
be thoroughly secured. The alterations in the surface
works will be undertaken gradually, and as a start tlu
new Wilfley Concentrators will be installed to take the
place of the old-fashioned buddies previously in use ; so
an increased return from the ores may be expected.*
We are requested to notify the successful flota-
tion of the Lyell Blocks Consols Company, the whole of
the 250 shares, offered at £2 10s. per share, having been
applied for.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., mining engineer, of 434
Collins-stveet, Melb., is about to visit Western Australia
to report on a newly-discovered copper property. While
there he is open to investigate other properties.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the holts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
A. E. 60LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Minin", Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-sfc., Sydney,
l.\
I
51
4wA
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.—Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
llPitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
CHILLAGOE UP-TO-DATE.
Head the Special Series in “ The
Critic ” every Friday.
These articles are from the pen of a Speoial Mining:
Commissioner NOW doing the N.Q. fields.
ALL AGENTS, SIXPENCE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J< Anxious ”: (1) The rent item in the balance-
sheet apparently means that the co. charges itself with
rent for the part of its own building which it occupies
itself, and puts a corresponding amount among the
receipts. It is a mere book entry. (2) The re-valuation
of properties simply means that the co. has got a valua-
tor (apparently a sanguine one) to inspect its proper-
ties, and he reports that they are worth so much more
than the co. valued them at. Then the extra amount is
put down as income. The property obligingly increased
in value just the amount which was required to cover
losses. (3) Don’t think there is any market for the shares
just now. (4) Vou ask, “Is the capital secure?” Well,
it may be, but it doesn’t look any too secure.
♦ * * *
For the first two months of the present financial
year Westralia’s revenue has been £407,014, and expendi-
ture £364,202, so Forrest has reduced his deficit by
£42,812.
* » * •
If the Federal Government decided to make
bank-notes a State monopoly and the private banks
started to call in their issues, there ought to be a real
good time for some of them. Until a bank starts to call
in its notes it has practically no means of knowing how
many of them have been burned, drowned, lost, buried,
rat-eaten, chewed by dogs, or otherwise made away with.
The oldest bank of the lot —theB.N.S.W. —has a note-
issue of £857,000. That is to say that £857,000 of the
notes it issued ha' ’t come back—having been out for
periods varying fro... one minute to 70 years or so. Sup-
posing the B.N.S.W. ceased issuing notes and called in its
issue, how many of them would never turn up ? Pro-
bably many thousand pounds’ worth—and that would be
all clear profit.
• • * *
Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co., which
is moaning on the bar a good deal about its inability to
reduce its men’s hours to the eight per diem which it
originally agreed upon, isn’t doing so badly in these hard
times. Its record for the past few years has been :
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1892 .. £82,672 15 per cent. =£72,000
„ 1893 .. 22,619 5 „ = 24,000
„ 1894 .. 19,682 5 „ = 24,000
„ 1895 .. 28,090 5 „ 24,000
1896 .. 26,581 5 „ = 24,000
„ 1897 .. 38,510 5 „ 24,000
„ 1898 .. 28,235 5 „ = 24,000
„ 1899 . 40,745 6 „ = 28,800
Of its £480,000 nominal paid-up capital, however, it is
only claimed that £400,000 was paid in cash by the share-
holders, so on this showing the dividends were 18 per cent,
in 1892, 6 per cent, in 1893-4-5-6-7-8, and £7 4s. per cent,
in 1899. Even on its own figures the co. isn’t doing
so badly. The profit each year is the amount left over
after paying interest and sinking fund to the Tramways
Trust on the cost of construction, and also after putting
a certain amount (£15,158 this year) to the co.’s renewal
reserve, which has increased from £109,497 in 1892 to
£225,577 in 1899. The co. has also, after paying its in-
creased dividend and writing £10,0(10 off the book value
of its properties, got £30,420 accumulated profit to carry
forward, and has £9425 dividend reserve. On present
appearances, and at the present rate of progress, it looks
as if Melbourne Tramway Co., when its lease expires in
1916 and it goes out of the business, might be able to
hand back to its shareholders their paid-up capital
nearly twice over. And meanwhile it has given
its shareholders a very good return for their money in the
worst times of the depression, while before the depression
came on the dividends were really magnificent, and
apparently, with the return of prosperity, there are some
more highly respectable dividends ahead. Altogether
the situation, though not nearly so glorious as it was in
’9l and ’92, isn’t by any means so pathetic as it is repre-
sented to be. Even after leaving out all doubtful assets
the co., according to its balance-sheet, appears to have
about £216,000 worth of assets over and above its liabi-
lities to shareholders and to the public, and that isn’t a
very bad position to be in.
» * * •
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency
Co. of Dunedin (Maoriland) shows a profit for the year
ended 30th April, 1899, of £1307. (The co. sets forth that
its profit is £lBO7, and that £5OO losses have to be de-
ducted therefrom, which is an upside-down way of putting
things). Also it pays its usual dividend of 12( percent.,
which, on its miscroscopic paid-up capital of £8125175. 6d.,
absorbs £lOl6. The remaining £291, with previous
balance, leaves £3977 at credit of profit and loss. The
Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency Co. has been 15
years in existence, but despite its handsome dividends it
hasn’t up to now made any pretence at starting a reserve
fund. Even its accumulated profit balance of £3977 isn’t
by any means what it seems, for the accounts are bal-
anced, on paper, by the purely paper asset, “Goodwill
£2831,” wffiich ought certainly to be written off.
If this was done it would leave the co. with a
real credit balance of only £1146. A trustee co.
is a concern with which absolute security is the first
essentia], and it, above all other companies, should have
a strong reserve, and no bogus, or even dubious, assets
in its balance-sheet. The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. also reckons as an asset “ License fees paid
in advance, £65,” which is another questionable item.
In a general way it appears to aim at large dividends
more than at anything else.
* * *
The Australian Brewery and Wine and Spirit
Co. (Sydney) is a rather luckless concern which is always
making large profits on paper, and then writing most of
them off again to provide for losses and depreciation, so
that the alleged profits seem hardly to be profits at all in
any reasonable sense of the term. Its doings of late
years have been as follow’s :
Gross Profits. Written Off. Dividends.
1893 .. £14,067 £13,000 Nil.
1894 .. 14,568 14,600 Nil.
1895 .. 13,234 12,600 2$ per cent. = £2400
1896 .. 13,798 10,100 5 „ |= 4800
1897 .. 9,587 7,100 2£ „ = 2400
1898 .. 7,643 6,100 Nil.
1899 .. 7,472 6,000 Nil.
The co. is a large concern, with £96,000 paid-up capital,
£24,500 of reserves to cover depreciation and bad debts,
and £6835 profit balance. But, judging by the above
record, it would appear that its long list of freehold and
leasehold hotels and other assets require a great deal of
writing-down, and, until things are straightened, there
seems to be very small prospects for shareholders.
* * • *
Balmain New Ferry Co. calculates that it has
made a profit of £1355 for the half-year to 30th June,
1899, and pays a 10 per cent, dividend, equal to £647 10s.
It also adds £2OO to insurance reserve, and including
balance from last year, this leaves £2408 to carry forward.
The total reserves are now £5OO. Previous half-year’s
return was £1371, so there is a slight falling away.
m * * *
To the painful and hopeless memory of the
Victorian Estates Co., Ltd., Melb., this paragraph is de-
dicated. Born in 1884, in the odour of sanctity and in
the beginning of the land-boom, the infant co. raised a
capital of 167,000, or thereabouts, borrowed £50,000 from
the A.M.P., and therewith erected the gorgeous pile
known as St- James’ Buildings, William-street, Melb., on
land leased for 50 years from St. James’ Church. When
the boom fell through it found itself with £2610 of
ground-rent, and £2875 of interest on mortgage to pay ;
also city rates, sewage rates, repairs, and sundries, and
when the rental fell to £7OOO it wasn’t equal to the strain.
At the beginning of Aug-ust the mortgagee foreclosed
and entered into possession, and the £50,000 having gone
there was practically, nothing of the co. left, So the
other day it shook hands and separated for good.
* * * *
S. Australian railways last 12 months (to June
30) carried 1,403,727 tons ; of this the Broken Hill traffic
amounted to 632,610 tons, or 44 per cent. The total
receipts were £1,058,397, of which £422,496 was in respect
of Broken Hill trade. S.A. has some of the most utterly
dead-horse lines on the continent; the 145 miles in the
Northern Territory were worked at an actual loss of £l7
per mile, to say nothing of interest, and the upper
section of the Great Northern line made a loss of £BO,OOO
in a recent year. Still, thanks to the silver cow over the
N.S.W. border, the railways, as a w'hole, returned 3'42
per cent, on capital cost. But this is exclusive of the
Northern Territory elephant.
* * * *
Holders of Silverton Tram shares were lately a
little uneasy about the apparently-earnest agitation for a
competing Govt, line to connect Broken Hill with the
S. Aus. system at Cockburn ; but they are breathing all
right again. Reid did nothing, and Lyne will do the same;
also the Railway Commissioners are dead against disturb-
ing the co. The Govt, lately took over the Tarrawingee
Flux and Tram Co.’s line, and it was thought that
that might be the beginning of State railway enterprise
in the way-out West. But now an arrangement has been
made with the Silverton Co. to work the newly-bought
line for five years. The Tarrawingee line is an extension
of the Silverton Co.’s line ; so if Govt, has made up ivhat
mind it has to leave the co.’s 45 per cent, dividends undis-
turbed, probably the best thing has been done. All the
same, one can well understand why chairman Mcßryde at
the Silverton Co.’s meeting should have explained that,
though they would not make anything out of the arrange-
ment with the Govt., they were glad to make it, “ because
it keeps the field to ourselves.” At least one can under-
stand the directors feeling like that; probably the admis-
sion of it was rather a mistake.
* » * •
“Dog-Spike”: Vic. Railway Department is
short of sleepers, and will be so until it abandons the cut-
throat contract system and offers better rates to hewers.
Meanwhile Melb. firms are raking in red-gum, grey-box,
and ironbark logs, and don’t complain of any shortage in
supplies.
* * * *
Concerning boilers-inspection. Under N.S.W.
Mining Regulations boilers on mines have to be tested.
But as not a word is said as to the nature of the test, it
is, like most of the mining regulations, absolutely value-
less.
• * * *
Since the beginning of last year one man of
every 190 employed at the Broken Hill mines has been
killed through accident. This is the startling local answer
to Labor-leader M’Gowen’s comment on the Miners’ Pen-
sion Fund Bill that mining isn’t more dangerous than
other callings.
* * • •
Though B.H. Block 10 shows good faces of ore
in the upper levels, the lode at the deepest (815 ft.) level
and in the shaft sunk below that is poor both in character
and quality.
* * * *
N.S.W. Govt, keeps standing a rpward of <£looo
for the discovery of payable quartz or alluvial at a depth
of 300 ft., and £3OOO for such a discovery of 2000 ft. So
far no claimants.
* * * *
The report of the meeting of the N.S. Wales
National Shipwreck Society reminds The Bulletin that it
has not seen the society’s balance-sheet for a long time ;
and it would like to see" one. By outsiders the society is
supposed to sit as guardian of a large amount of locked-
up money, which it doles out as niggardly as it can. Is it,
or is it not a fact, that the society’s comfortable salaries
and office expenses for last year amounted to as much, or
nearly as much, as the whole sum given in relief?
• • • *
Compare, at recent quotations, Associated,
£6,500,000, and Baker’s Creek (one of N.S.W.’s most con-
sistent gold-mines), £37,500 ; Horseshoe, £5,250,000, and
Garden Gully (Bendigo’s best), £124,938; Ivanhoe,
£3,400,000, and Long Tunnel (Victoria’s best), £lBO,OOO ;
Gt. Boulder, £3,325,000, and Gt. Cobar, £300,000. Other
Australian mine share-values —Mt. Morgan, £5,250,000 ;
8.11. Prop., £2,160,000; and Bischoff, £480,000 ; and the
Towers’ big-un, Brilliant and St. George United, £465,000.
* * * *
If “ Gnome ” sticks to fact in the subjoined
letter, he and his fellow-workers have a substantial
grievance:—“ All employes of Webb’s mine, near Ernma-
ville, are compelled to pay into the medical fund, Is, per
week for adults, and 6d. for boys (stopped out of the
cheque every month). There is no provision for sick-pay
or refund in any shape, and as Webb’s is a healthy place,
19-20ths of the "men never require the doctor, and a. goodly
number of the men wouldn’t even know their paid
medico if they met him. And as this mine sometimes
employs from 80 to 100 hands, what sort of a soft thing
has the doctor got on ? Now don’t you think that when
a man compulsorily pays at the rate of £2 12s. per annum
into a medical fund there should be some provision for
sick pay or accident money ? Or, without such, shouldn’t
6d. a week be sufficient ? ”
* * * •
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assays alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not only give a statement of metallic contents, but
owners also will be advised by an experienced, practical
metallurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in
bulk, whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation,
smelting, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should
not be less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin. —Be Overflow Co., which it is
proposed to reconstruct at last by the issue of 20,000 pre-
ferential shares at ss. each. Tell me—what is £5OOO
going to do for a mine like the Overflow? The new-share
issue"should be five times as big, and if it so happened
that the co. got through with £5OOO, the balance could be
left uncalled.— Shareholder.
• * * *
The prospectus of the Dottswood Freehold
Mining Co. appears in this issue. It is being formed to
work a 60-acre property near Ravenswood, N.Q., reported
to contain most valuable deposits of gold, silver, and
copper. Mr. Reginald Murray, late Vic. Govt, geologist,
has issued a very favorable estimate of the property, and
other authorities regard it with a sanguine eye. Vendor
shows his confidence in the venture by taking all his pay-
ment in shares. Certainly, however, he takes a good
many of them; out of the entire 200,000, he gets 125,000
fully-paid.
Rumored from Cloncurry that, after all, the
lower levels of the Hampden Copper Mines Co. are not
barren enough to justify Mr. Schlapp’s gloomy report
which shelved the field in Melbourne. What a lark if the
35 per cent, stuff be found below ! By the way, an old
Vic. National school geography 20 years ago referred to
Cloncuriy as the centre of Australian copper-mining 11
* * • *
Mt. Morgan pays usual 7d. div. ; buyer, =£s ss.
Gympie : S. Glanmire and Monkland, 954 lons, 9470 z. ;6d.
div. 2S. G. Eastern, 2s. 6d. div,, shares 625. Scottish,
Gympie, 2nd div. of 4s. Columbia Smithfleld, 580 tons for
4390 z.
* * * *
Charters Towers: Brilliant and St. George,
1382 tons, 15610 z. ; bay Dawn, 6d. div. ; Kelly’s Blocks,
1391 tons, 1898 oz. (3 crushings), 6d. div., shares somewhat
slack ; Band of Hope, 560 tons, 6170 z., 6d. div.; Brilliant,
1051 tons, 10470 z., 3d. div.; Victoria G.M.Co., 272 tons,
3450 z., shares slightly firmer. Towers Aug. results—
-70,000 tons, 40,7000 z.; divs., £23,550 ; calls, £2416.
Cyanide for Aug. returns, 50,000 tons for 2000 oz.
* * + *
The Insurance News, London, writes: “The
whole position of the Colonial Mutual, as revealed by the
latest report, is calculated to give the utmost satisfaction
and confidence to the members.*
* * * *
Queensland Mining and Prospecting Co., Melb.,
owns some 40 or 50 leases in the Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet
country. Much gambling has been done in these shares
on the strength of Skertchley’s report—a very unconvinc-
ing document, by the way ; also on the fact that an
agent had gone to London to float it. Meanwhile the
mines have been working principally under exemption,
and shares have been fluctuating from 10s. to 30s. accord-
ing to the latest news from London. The very latest is
very sick indeed. Boucher, representative of the United
Australia Corporation, went up some weeks ago to report,
and the agent cabled from London that Boucher’s report
is unfavorable, that the terms of the option cannot be
exercised, but that a new r proposal will be submitted this
month. Which is depressing for the “ crowd,” which ex-
pected to make a heap of cash out of the scheme.
The Bulletin lets this letter go for what it may
be worth :—“ Editor, Bulletin,— The authorities of the
South German, Maldon, convey to the public the impres-
sion that that mine is looking as well as ever, yet they
and the local shareholders ought to well know that it. is
almost done for. As a matter of fact, shares aren’t worth
30s. unless something is discovered. As a miner of 34
years experience, I cannot see that even so much as that
can be given in dividends. The mine’s reserves are all
gone. Two years ago they had 12 months’ supply of
quartz broken, now they cannot keep their battery
going ; also they are within 6ft. of their northern bound-
ary, and about 2ft. 6in. of their eastern boundary. Fur-
ther there is a great floor dipping north one foot in ten,
which should cross the quartz about 40ft. under the bot-
tom of present 1600 ft. or bottom level. Such a floor as
this has never been known to pass through a lode in Mal-
don without carrying it away. From the shaft which is
just down they have to drive 1000 ft. before striking the
run of quartz, and that will put them close to their
boundary north, within 50ft. of it. anyhow, so what hope
have they, even if the lode never underlaid east —yet it
does one in six, and dips north one in one. Still people
are constantly told that the mine is as good as ever 1 ”
Bendigo’s once-famous Lazarus is now groping
about at a depth of just upon two-thirds of a mile. Its
shaft is down 3392 ft., with the miners still in the bottom.
And badly it wants another reef ; in the half-year just
finished it crushed on its own account only 83 loads of
stuff, and the yield was 3Soz. Tributors did very little
better —218 oz. from 643 loads. Still, the shares are as
well held as any in Bendigo, so calls are promptly met.
* * * *
That great and splendidly-consistent producer,
the Long Tunnel, Vic., has been passing through a period
of great tribulation ; opportunity is being taken to over-
haul the mine and plant generally. The Long Tunnel has
so far turned out 679,3370z5. gold, valued at 2£ millions,
—all obtained from Cohen’s reef. How few people in the
world know that 1 In fact, this scribe is sometimes in-
clined to attribute the recent tottering of this great mine
to the fact that the secret recently crept out and was
published in the Argus and other respectable papers. No
lode can stand the name of “ Cohen” or even “Marks.”
Jews are great financiers, but in the main terribly unlucky
gold-miners.
• * * *
A useful summary of the Law of Mining in
Victoria was recently prepared by solicitor Joseph Woolf,
of Melbourne, who has been advised to publish it in pam-
phlet form for the information of mining men (i.e., first-
robbers) and shareholders in general. More than fifty
statutes have been booked at one time or other, also 1500
judicial findings on points of Victorian mining law and
practice, and the Woolfian summary is the result of
much hard, dry, researchful labor.
« * * *
Vic. Miners’ Gen. Sec. Praed, who was a mem-
ber of the Vic. Ventilation Board, gives a striking illustra-
tion of the effect of good air on miners’ working powers.
Men breaking ground at 2500 ft. in a Ballarat mine 600 ft.
from the shaft could, with the admittedly deficient air
supplied, fill five trucks where, with a better system ex-
perimented with, they could fill 15. And whereas in the
one case it took 20min. after firing for the air to be clear
enough for men to work in it with reasonable safety and
comfort, in the other it took from 40min. to an hour.
« * • *
~Peak Hill, Westralia: “ Moses Moss,” of
Truth (London), still barracks for this show ; in fact,
never lets an issue pass without saying something “nice”
about it. “It has again been attacked by the ‘ bears.’ I
hear, however, that all the adverse rumors are absolutely
false. There is a considerable surplus in hand for the
payment of a further dividend. ... It is within my
knowledge that those connected with the co. have of late
been buying considerable blocks of shares 1 Here is an
opportunity for acquiring shares in one of the richest
properties in West Australia at a comparatively moderate
price. I trust that my readers will not wait until the
prices jump to £9.” Moses also apologises for having
made a slight error in stating the value of gold produced
by the mine. It should have been £62,328, and not
£162,328 ; but a mistake of £lOO,OOO doesn’t count, any-
how. It is a fact that the Peak Hill mine, although pro-
ducing for over two years, has a higher market-value
than any other mine in Westralia, based on dividends
paid. Its market-value is nearly two millions, and the
divs. paid do not represent 2(4 per cent, of that amount.
It has no certain prospect of increasing divs., no matter
how much plant it puts up, for it cannot keep its present
plant running. Level-headed mining men who have seen
it declare that it is working a Will-o’-the-wisp formation ;
the mine is being gutted for all it is worth. The shares
went to £9 because they are in a close pool. If they were
liberated and the so-called “ bears ” could have “ carried ”
the shares forward they would be oversold in tens of
thousands, and it would not be long ere they got their
real market-value, which is not more than par. By the
way, what has become of Schlapp’s report? He went
there accompanied by Gov. Jerry Smith, no doubt at the
expense of the Peak Hill Co. Moses Moss himself fore-
shadow r ed that the report was a good one because of the
good things said about the mine by the Governor, who
must have got his cue from Schlapp; but that report
itself has been kept remarkably dark, and knowing
Schlapp’s respect for the cold, though cruel, truth, this
scribe will bet that the report is distinctly unfavorable.
Golden Horseshoe, Hannan’s : Last month s
output—94oBoz. The mine is one of the best-equipped on
the field, but it is held by a very close corporation, and
the public are keeping off the shares because they never
know where they are.
The force of that sensational, well-written, and
much-reprinted, leading article in London Financial
News setting out the glory of the Lake View Consols is
somewhat discounted by the quacky statement that
“ many experts look upon the L.V.C. as containing the
primary and original source of the wonderful wealth of
Hannan’s goldfield.” Which is very weak —in other words,
the yarn is a bit too strong, though it may go down with
the rank-and-file of English investors. The Financial
News article makes most picturesque reading,
and is calculated to deeply impress the average reader,
but it carefully overlooks one or two very important
points. At the 300 ft. level the Lake View is a marvel of
richness, at 400 ft. it isn’t —proving beyond doubt that its
famous bonanzas are not made up in defined shoots or
pipes, but are flat, poor ore being under very rich and
vice-versa. There is more anxiety surrounding the deve-
lopment of the 500 ft. and 600 ft. levels of the L.V. mine,
than the F. News seems to be aware of, and the paper
appears to be also quite ignorant of the 400 ft. level dis-
appointment.
The Lady Shenton clean-up for the four weeks
ending 19th Aug. gave 1805 oz. smelted gold from 1210
tons ore. In addition 15Soz. lOdwt. gold was obtained
from a test crushing of 240 tons surface ore. Mining and
milling costs per ton, 13s. 3d. and 17s. 4d. respectively.
Total output of mine to date, 61,0410 z. 14dwt. 3gr.
smelted gold from 23,353 tons ore, exclusive of gold from
tailings and concentrates. Total divs. to date, £BB,OOO,
free of income-tax.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
Published, but since denied, that the W.A.
Premier favors an export-duty on gold. Bigjohn has
evidently been putting out another feeler, for the writer
happens to know that he submitted, the idea to several
people five years ago, arguing that it wa3 shameful that
strangers should come into the country and take away
gold without paying anything to the State for it.
Last month’s Mt. Lyell output, taking copper
at £75 per ton, and silver and gold at 2s. 3d. and £4
respectively, represents £78,929.
** * • •
Lyell Tharsis, a mine that is sending its ore to
the Mt. Lyell smelters, is estimated to have 80,000 tons of
ore in sight, out of which, at present price of copper, 30s.
per ton should be made. It has also a big body of low-
grade ore, but that is a matter for future consideration.
& * * * •
The North Mt. Lyell directors contemplate
despatching to the Mt. Lyell smelters 50 tons of ore daily.
Estimated to give a net profit of £5OO a day. To do this,
it will have to be about 20 per cent. ore. The circum-
stance indicates the octopus grip which the parent mine
has on all the others of the group.
» * » *
Tas. battery returns for Aug. :— Tasmania, 1870
tons for 25000 z. "(including chlorine) £9636 ; New Golden
Gate, 1550 tons for 10210 z., worth £4084. Pi vs. : Bis-
choff, 12s. 6d., £7500; Lyell Tharsis, Is., £6150; Briseis,
Is., £3000; Tasmania, Is., £3000; New Golden Gate,
Is. 6d., £2400 ; Oonah, 3d., £1325.
* * • •
The S.A. Lands Commissioner lately told an
Adelaide deputation that if his Govt, got enough en-
couragement it would erect public smelters at Port
Augusta, and would only charge for treatment whatever
smelting cost. Tub Bulletin has for years advocated the
establishment of national smelting works in N.S.W. with
no result but the establishment of the Govt. Metallur-
gical Works at Clyde, which are a burlesque. Why not
make this a Federal undertaking ? There is no need to
have smelting works scattered all over Australia. All
over the world it has been found better to take ore to the
coal than coal to the ore. Newcastle or the deep waters
of Port Jackson should be the site. Private smelting
works are everlastingly the cause of dissatisfaction, par-
ticularly in the treatment of Hannan's rich sulphides—
which, "no doubt, accounts for this deputation.
* * * *’
George Brookman, the Great Boulderair-e, is
sinking thousands in the attempt to develop one or two
big copper-shows in S.A. North-eastern country.
J. Bull’s boomsters are giving Klondyke a rest
this season, and are devoting some of their best efforts to
new copper regions. Most of these (Chillagoe included)
have the copper-plant growing profusely ; but in one the
metal is so all-pervading that many of the local people’s
hair is bluish - green! And an English educational
magazine prints it as a sober, interesting fact!
On one day last month, in the height of the
Westralian flutter, 1605 cables and other messages went
out of Kalgoorlie office —the province’s 24-hours’ record.


A NEW DEPARTURE
f|n Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of tho REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
t-iT We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
The Pleasures of Spring-time
and
Watching Nature’s Awakening
is enhanced by
PHOTOGRAPHY!
NOW is the time to commence this MOST IN-
TERESTING and FASHIONABLE PASTIME.
We can supply you with everything to ensure your
becoming a successful photographer, and will a<ln>>
what to buy and how to work to secure the hr, i
results.
Write or call for our Illustrated Catalogue, in
which is particulars of everything necessary.
Complete Outfits from ss. upwards.
Harrington Qo. [td.,
Photo ff raphio
Merchants,
66 King Street, Sydney.
Agents in all the colonies.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
34-plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Brisbane Branch : 34 QUEEN STREET.
Melbourne Agents : CRAVEN & CO., 179
COLLINS STREET.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
The conventional morality of N.S.W. isn’t
Improving as time goes on. In 1898 there were
36,222 births—lo2s less than in 1897. There were
33,711 legitimate births—loB4 less than in 1897.
Also, there were 2511 illegitimate births—s 9 more
than in 1897. In 1898, 693 out of every 10,000
births (practically 7 per cent.} were illegitimate,
whereas in ’97 the illegitimates were only 6 >8 out
of each 10,000. Also, 1898 showed fthe largest
proportion of illegitimate births in N.S.W. record.
It showed the smallest number of births since
1880, and this despite a great increase of popula-
tion. It showed only 27 births for every 1000 of
population, whereas in 1890 there were over 35.
Further, in 1898, there were more deaths than in
any previous year, and the increase of population
by excess of births over deaths was less than in
any year since 1883.
* • • •
N.S.W. Registrar-General's volume of
“ Vital Statistics ” for ’9B contains many interest-
ing facts. For instance, apropos of the “ age of
consent” question, last year in N.S.W. two
married ladies aged 14 years presented their lords
SPOILING TRAGEDY.
1ST PRO.: “Is it true the new stage-manager's
getting the stick?”
2ND DITTO : “ Oh, yes. Had a row with the boss.
He wouldn't rehearse ‘ Romeo and Juliet ’ unless
the principals took emetics, so as to have a happy
ending to the play.”
with tokens of affection, while 13 aged 15, and 49
aged 16 did likewise ; of the youngest unmarried
mothers the numbers were respectively—l 4 years
old, 18 ; 15 years, 25 ; and 16 years, 79. Also one
fortunate individual was testimonialized with
triplets by his blushing bride the very day after
they were married !! Which recalls that some
years ago in a northern N.S.W. town theC.P.S.
was asked by a couple to marry them just as the
Police Court was about to open. He told them
they must wait in his office until the Court rose ;
on returning in half-an-hour he found that two
tiny babies had arrived meanwhile.
But to return to the “statistics.” One young
gentleman of 22 wedded a buxom maiden of 40 ;
another giddy youth of 81 married a damsel of 23.
The oldest husband presented by his wife with
twins during 1898 was aged 63, and the oldest
married man to acquire a single child was 78.
Ihe statistician discreetly heads this column,
Age of husband at date of child’s birth.”
• * * *
The ladies’ gallery in N.S.W. Assembly is
evidently a pleasant sleeping cabin to many.
When the first row of seats is filled those sitting
behind are shut out from a view of the floor of the
House. G. H. Reid’s voice, strange to say, in-
duces sleep more than any other member’s.
“ Wake me, dear, when Crick speaks,” is an oft-
whispered request, and then the sweet dear
slumbers peacefully. One night a young lady,
unattended, was noticed at the end of the front
row long after midnight during a very late sitting.
For over an hour she sat motionless and solitary.
As she looked pretty—and lonely—(an ugly old
lady would not have evoked such sympathy) a
gallant member, urged by his fellows, went off
into the gallery to invite her to a cup of tea or
coffee. “Pardon me, young lady, but may I offer
you some refreshment?” he said at her shoulder.
Not a move. He spoke louder, and the fair one
was startled. Wiping her eyes, she looked at the
clock. “Good gracious,” she said, “ how I must
have slept!” The member spoke again. “No
thank you, I must hurry home,” and away she fled.
* • * *'
Brisbane shopkeepers have lately been
stirred to their very depths by the great adultera-
tion question. Man after man has been sum-
moned and fined. Consequently aforesaid shop-
keepers awaited on Minister Foxton lately, and
wanted him to fix a standard up to which adulter-
ation might be practised with impunity—but all
in vain. Vinegar was one of the articles adultera-
ted. Adulterator’s counsel defended the sophis-
ticated article on the ground that it was “ poor
but honest.”
“ Raspberry ” : Years ago,
in a certain Australian city,
there was a hot-bath establish-
ment, presided over by lvdies.
Writer was in the habit of per-
forming his ablutions there until
something happened. On one
or two occasions he noticed that
when all the tubs were occupied
and a customer enquired for a
room, one of the lydy attendants
would assure him that “Number
4 was nearly finished ; ” or that
“Number 9 has just got out of
the bath.” One morning writer
was reclining luxuriantly in the
tub when his eye was arrested
by a multi-facea globe arrange-
ment in the ceiling, wherein
his form was picturesquely re-
flected about fourteen times.
This scribe made it his busi-
ness on gaining the corridor
to glance through the open
fan-light over each door, when
the mystery was solved. Num-
bers of very tony people
patronised that, building.
Wonder if anyone else noticed
the reflector ?
• •
“Boori”: Once attended
a spook-stance in company
with a nice girl, towards whom
I felt “ neighborly,” and after
several awe • stricken women
had received (per ghost) sun-
dry messages from dear little
dead brothers and other de-
parteds, an imposing male spook
appeared in the shape and color of a
chutney-vendor. When it came to
the nice girl’s turn (the men were in “ balk ”
all through the game) to ask questions, she in-
quired, “ Are you for me, friend ? ” The Indian
apparition bowed a polite affirmative. “ Did
you know iny father in Madras?” Another
bow. “Were you with him on the ship when
all were lost ?’ ’ Emphatio and repeated bows.
“Ah, well—my father never was in Madras.
Also, he’s alive and well at present, thank you 1 ”
• • • •
The other day, a nasty case was to be
heard in Hobart police-court, and Mr. Bernard
Shaw, P.M., ordered the place to be “cleared.”
The Tas. native reporters meekly walked out with
the crowd, but a Melb. man (on the evening paper)
stuck to his seat. The P.M. ordered him to go,
whereupon the pressman rose in his box and
lodged a protest against the public’s representa-
tive not being allowed to see what took place.
But he was nevertheless thrust out. Tasmania is
the only Australasian province where such a thing
is possible. The island settlement is also the only
place in the Australian group where the old
“ general sessions ” is still in vogue. This musty
tribunal is a public meeting of J’s.P. where every-
thing is put to the vote.
AUSTRALIAN WORSHIP OF BEAUTY.
BRIDE (recently arrived in backblocks, who has been trying to make her black lady-help work by
giving her everything she asks for) : “ Well, Maria, what is it now I Surely you
don’t want anything else? ”
MARIA : “ S’pose you gib it pair stays make me budgeree bingey all same belongah you — then me
scrub first-rate!”
Rev. English-footballer Mullineux, who is
High Church, and is accustomed to seeiqg the
Cross on the altar, when at Sydney accepted an
invitation to preach in St. Andrew’s Cathedral —-
Low Church. But he evidently forgot where he
was, or else he never expected to be in such a
sanctuary. His sermon was based on the Cross.
The Cross, he pointed out, was, at the time of
Christ, the symbol of degradation and of every-
thing ignoble and debused, but the Cross to-day
reminded Christians only of the beautiful and the
noble. “The Cross was exalted,” he went on, in
the country from which he came—“ it surmounted
the dome of St. Paul’s—the highest point in
London ; in solid gold, it shone from the height of
St. Joseph's Retreat, at Highgate. Wherever
you went, whatever church you entered, there
was the Cross ; sometimes over the screen at the
entrance to the chancel, and ever on the altar ” (and
the preacher, with a half-turn, pointed to the
altar of the Cathedral), “thereto remind us of the
sufferings of the Saviour.” The congregation
looked towards the altar, but no Cross was visible,
and there was a look of confusion on many faces.
The preacher did not discover his mistake until
the sermon was over.
» * * •
It is to be hoped thatwhenthemuch-talked-
of Early Closing Bill is submitted to N.S.W. Par-
liament it will contain a clause making its pro-
visions apply to the whole province instead of to
the larger towns only, as is the case in some of the
other Australias. In most towns of any preten-
sions a weekly half-holiday already exists, and
stores close at 6 p.m., except on Saturday nights.
But in smaller towns, where some of the
businesses are carried on as family concerns,
there are abominably lengthy hours—in many
instances from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily, and up to
11 p.m. on Saturdays. The larger stores, which
employ assistants, are often willing to adopt
humane hours, but as the aforesaid family con-
cern refuses to fall in line with any such proposal,
the rival place will not close, and so employes
become mere slaves. This is where the law should
step in.
• • * »
A Melbourne firm is flooding Australasia
with a circular announcing its readiness to spud,
for <£l, a useful volume containing recipes for the
manufacture of bogus whisky, gin, brandy, rum,
cordials, bitters, &c., and all necessary instructions
for swindling the public therewith. There is sup-
posed to be a law against adulteration, and any
sensible adulteration-law should oertainly be com-
prehensive enough to land this firm for 18 months
in gaol. There it would be fed on genuine hominy,
and get unadulterated water fresh from the tap,
and sleep on a perfectly unadulterated plank in a
bona fide cell, which could defy the n.ost rigid
analysis, and in between times it would have exer-
cise in a reliable and absolutely pure yard in which
there was no foreign ingredient whatever. By
these means the punishment would be made to tit
the case to perfection, and when the maker of
crooked liquor retired at night to his perfectly
straight plank the difference in the two things
would strike him all the more forcibly.
* • • •
The breakdown of poor Barrister Gregory,
now for three years detained in a lunatic asylum,
was a sad sensation. He is being further exam-
ined before Judge Hodges, and Melb. Herald
publishes the only reports of the case. (By the
way, not a syllable appeared in the Melb. daily
press about this important and interesting matter
until letters in The Bulletin forced it upon pub-
lic attention.) At this latest hearing all had gone
apparently well for the liberty claimed by Gregory
until a mine was sprung beneath him by the
counsel (Coldham) who assisted the Judge in the
examination. When asked “did you write this
letter to your wife on July 13 ? ” Gregory could but
reply “yes.” And you wrote to the Attorney-
General to the same effect ? To this query and to
the further one that he had written to Messrs.
Brown & Smith, solicitors, he answered simi-
larly. It then came out that all these three
letters related to an advt. of a day or two
previous to date of letters, which had appeared
in the Argus “ Missing Friend ” column. It was
a plain enquiry for the whereabouts of one Clapp,
a native of Devon, who had reached Australia m
the Fifties and about whom information was
desired by his friends’ solicitors. Nothing could
have been plainer to the general reader. But
Gregory had seen in. it a concealed meaning, or
“ cryptogram ” as he called it, that bespoke the
existence of a secret society and its evil intentions
to his wife among others. Over the explanation
he tried to give of this strange matter the poor
man showed the weakness of his case and saw also
that the Judge took the like view of it. The
hearing was adjourned for a week to permit of a
medioal examination of the alleged lunatic.
• * * »
The Sydney police pistoleer has again dis-
tinguished himself by shooting in the leg an un-
armed, unresisting man who was simply running
away to escape arrest. As it happens, the shot did
Baa, baa, Beauchamp
Have you any tickets ?
Yes sir ; yes, ma’am ;
Show them at the wickets.
White for the nasty,
Blue for the Naice ;
Sheep here; goats there; what’s your social price?


One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this aucoess, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney—who own the Willson patents for
Australasia —are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. Thisco. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direot to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
The demand for news of Reid’s intentions
and Kruger’s movements is nothing in comparison
with the supply and demand of Zetz Spa Water,
which, like Tennyson’s brook, goes on for ever.
Ask for Zetz.*
Sore Throat.
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
Co.Nors Fluid.
CONDY & M4TCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
CoNDY’S Fluid’'can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
WM Oil Cake
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £0 Ids. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free ft// post throng Itout
A Hstralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
In order to introduce our GOLD-WIRE JEWELLERY
to the Australian public, we have decided to OFFER one
of the greatest BARGAINS ever seen in the jewellery
trade viz., the above handsome BROOCH (any name o'r
3 initials), made of extra quality gold-filled wire, with
bell or heart, pendant; guaranteed 9 carat solid gold.
Complete, sent post free on receipt 1’.0.0. or M. 0., 6
Agents wanted to take orders. Illustrated catalogue
sent free. It. SIMS, Manufacturing Gold-wire Jeweller
Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
HALF-SICK Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
65 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
Senior’s
Famous Pharmacy
All Business Communications to bo
Addressed
FRANK SENIOR,
Chemist, 246 George Street, Sydney.
not stop the fugitive, and he had to be run down.
He was carrying the proceeds of a small burglary,
but the constable didn’t know that—didn’t know
any burglary had been committed. He saw a man
with a big parcel—called on him to stop and be
overhauled —man ran away—pistoleer fired some
shots, apparently without effect—then gave chase
and caught him. “Mr. Isaacs, S.M., thought it
was due to the officer’s fleetness of foot that the
capture was made.” If Mr. Isaacs, S.M., thought
so it'was his clear duty to order the officer into
custody for unlawfully wounding, because (Ist)
he did not wound the prisoner in self-defence;
(2nd) he had not used every other means to capture
the fleeing man before firing on him.
• • * •
Another Vic. woman went to gaol the
other day for the crime of poverty—this time at
Bendigo. She had been fined for neglecting to send
her youngster to school, and being unable to raise
or beg the amount, she had to go in and take her
3-year old infant with her. The local bobby
explains that the warrant would not have been
enforced if he had not thought she had quite a'
pound’s worth of furniture. The surprising thing
is that a woman suspected of being such a bloated
capitalist as that didn’t get more tender treat-
ment.
* * • *
Talk about absence of mind ! The wife of
a Gippsland farmer went to the pig-pen, leant
over for a moment, and, seeing her child’s shoe in
the trough, uttered a shriek, and started running
towards her husband, working in a paddock about
300 yards off. The husband, hearing her cries,
made haste to meet her, and found her exhausted
and unable to articulate. He caught her in his
arms, and held her whilst she ejaculated some-
thing about the baby. At length she made her-
self understood, gasping: “Baby—baby; the pigs.
The pigs have got baby ! ” The woman’s horror
was shocking to see, and yet all the time she held
her child uninjured clasped tightly to her breast!
• • * *
Concerning recent comments on lovely
woman’s predilection for a gallery seat in the
Divorce Court. Apart from conventional precon-
ceptions, surely it is rather the male person who
ought to bashfully retire when the evidence
begins to get warm. Woman is naturally more
familiar with the inner workings of sex-
relationship, and therefore her sensibilities in that
direction are far more blunted than in the mere
man. Woman preeminently has to face the seamy
side of matrimony, which the husband, if he has
been lucky in the choice of his partner, will always
be spared. And when he does see them he con-
siders marriage a fraud. But the untidy bedroom,
the greasy crockery, the washing-day linen, have
case-hardened woman ; she has grown accustomed
to sordid details the familiarity of which would
shock and disgust the average man, to whom any
kind of deshabille, from his best girl’s head in curl-
papers to the disclosures of the divorce court, come
as a horrifying revelation of the brutality of it all.
He can afford to remain artistically aloof; and
what is to him an abomination, seems to woman,
matter-of-fact woman, but a remarkable circum-
stance.
* • * *
Writes “ P.A.” on “ Mighty jSrin ”
Some time ago The Bulletin remarked that, at a cer-
tain murder-trial, the victim, the murderer, the bludger
as well as Judge, barristers, solicitors, warders and
policemen, had all Irish names. Sale to bet the jury
was similarly constituted. In passing, one may notice
that the Daleys, Bradys, Kellys, Quinns, Mahonys
and McCooeys make most noise in Tub Bulletin.
I was born of poor but
Irish parents myself,
and look upon it as
another “ injustice ”
that I am not
mous in its paces.
Now;, come . two
troops of sunburnt
Americans, ami w ho
is on top? Why—
Hoijan, McClain and
McAdoo. Kerry Mills
wrote “ Kasius on
Parade ” and all the
famous “rap-time
hoe-downs,” and Ho-
pan invented the
“ Pas 111 a la,” which is
a cross between an
African “ come-all-ye ”
and an Irish cake-walk.
1 firmly believe that
Slatin Pasha’s real
name was Slavin, and
that Rougeniont is one
of the Galway Green’s.
From Mike McCool and
Ned O’Baldwin to Sulli-
van and Foley, our coun
try men knock the
face off allcreation.
Wel.ington licked
France, MacMahon
ruled itand Dennis
Mooney and Hen.
nessey made it drunk with French brandy. Ned
Kelly defied the telegraph, police and Gatling; guns
for two years and only fell when betrayed—by
an Irishman, He was easily champion bushranger
and shot w hole stacks of Irish policemen. Slattery
and O’Gorman are champion “ escaped nuns,” and
Parnell is a unique figure of the century as King of
Ireland and the seducer of his fripnd’s wife. Talk about
the Afro-Americans overrunning the U.S. If they do,
Pat will overrun the niggers, aiid 1 have every hope—if I
can stay the distance—of seeing Tub Bulmstin in a green
cover, an Irish Pope, McGinnis on the throne of France,
and a black man named O Hooligan emperor ot America
in libit)—for, God knows, there are enough Kings of
Ireland, and their descendants, to rule the whole earth.
* * * *
“ Bubonic plague is raging in Amoy,”
writes a correspondent to The "Bulletin from
China. “ Last week 150 deaths were recorded.
In one tea-warehouse some 150 cases were being
packed for an Australian port, and only on the
previous day five coolies died of plague while
roasting the leaves. Temperature in drying-
rooms is very high, and to see the perspiration
rolling from the coolies on to the curling leaves is
sufficient to make a beholder swear off the
beverage for ever, apart from the danger from
plague. They are stopping tea from Chinese
infected ports in America. Will Australia follow
suit ? ”
The Education Board of the small town
of Nelson (M.L.), famous for hop gardens and
pretty girls, is fogged over a complicated ques-
tion raised by one of its country committees.
The committee had elected Sandy chairman,
and his first action was to declare that Tonald
was ineligible to sit as a member of the
“ com-my-tee,” being an undischarged bank-
rupt. Shortly afterwards Sandy moved his
residence, and Tonald got his discharge
and returned to his seat on the com-
mittee. The legal-minded Sandy was
absent when ex bankrupt Tonald made
his re appearance, and Tonald alleged
that the said Sandy was now living out-
side the committee district, and was in-
eligible himself. The committee then
joyfully elected Tonald chairman. At
next meeting Tonald was a “wee bit”
late, and found Sandy in the chair. He
protested, he raged, he earnestly abjured
Sandy to come outside and decide the
matter per trial by combat. But Sandy
refused to go outside, and contented him-
self by saying he had investigated the
boundaries of the district and found he
was still living two yards inside them,
and therefore his disqualification and
Tonald’s election to the chair were both
null and void. Meanwhile, the com-
mittee has suspended itself till the
Board decides under which king it
shall proceed on the even tenor of
its way. And the Board dunno
where it are.
* * *
Certain Queensland hos-
pitals lately received this in-
teresting missive:—
At the request of niy guides, I write
to you to use natural and curative agencies
in your hospitals. . . . All operations, poison-
ous drugs, impure food and drink (flesh, fowl,
fish, and alcohol) are forbidden in the Spirit
World, and are therefore against God’s laws and
the health of soul and body. Most diseases are due to
dirt and vaccine,” &e.
A spiritual signature closes this ethereal epistle.
* * • *
Can it be really true that the fact of a man
being a notorious usurer is in N.S.W. no bar to
his holding a commission in a volunteer regiment?
* * * *
Stop, thief ! Director Maiden, of Sydney
Botanic Garden, tells the press that “some
cunning robberies of caladium tubers from th(
Garden hot-houses took place last year, and a
theft of similar plants occurred on a recent Satur-
day afternoon, the miscreant watering the soil
from one of the hot-house tanks to hide the dis-
turbance of the soil. The result of this grossly
selfish act is that the show of caladiums will be
greatly diminished in value this year. Caladiums
are, of course, only of value to persons possessing
LUCIDITY IN EXCELSIS.
CABBY (after unsuccessful effort to
obtain a drink on credit): “ Seems to me [?]’s
more trouble about one thing and another, than
there is about anything else.”
glasshouses, and perhaps some of your readers
may be able to help me with confidential infor-
mation.”
» * • •
Sydney’s Mayor is bumptiously opposed to
the provision by the City Council of tank-baths
for the ratepayers, on the ground that the
wretched creatures would ultimately want them
free.
“THE MIGHTY MEN OF OLD!”
GRANDPA : “In my day, the girls were all married
at seventeen :”
GRANDGIRL : “But look what a fine set of men
they had to marry!"
The murder case reported from Welling-
ton, M.L., throws some light upon the existence
of siumdom, even in that much-favored region.
The murdered man, Farqnhar, along witli a chum
known as “ Sharkey,” and a negro bearing the
appropriate name of Tarr, lived With a married
couple in a four-roomed Wooden box in one of the
little cul-de-sac streets so common in the self-styled
Empire City. Poverty, drink, and filth could not
—black trinity as they are—shut out the inevit-
able romance or tragedy that follows when four
men and one woman live beneath one roof.
♦ * * *
Following closely on Chief Justice Mad-
den’s lachrymose sentence on the well-connected
lawyer, M‘lntyre, comes a strange story of that
gentleman’s adventures in gaoh MTntyre was
transferred to Pentridge within a few days after
his sentence, and was promptly removed to the
prison hospital as a patient. The ordinary regu-
lations permit a confinee to write a letter once a
month, and receive visitors once a quarter, yet
M‘in tyre’s influential pals have interviewed him
no less than five times since his admission to
Pentridge. The final straw came in the shape of
a request that the prisoner might he permitted to
entertain a “few friends” on the anniversary of
his birthday, which would happen in a week or
so. That suggestion was too strong for the Penal
Department, and MTntyre’s visiting-list was
closed by order. While MTntyre remains in the
hospital he loses all chance of the good marks
that lead to a remission of sentence, but it will
nevertheless be interesting to watch the progress
of the sassiety barrister, and to notice the date on
which he is released from gaol.
* * » »
That long-expected rumpus on Vic. Full
Court Bench nearly oarne off, the other day, when
the Court gave judgment in the Armstrong grand-
jury case, and the whole question turned upon
the interpretation of the words, “ It shall be law-
ful for a Full Court.” Madden, C.J., supported
by a majority of the seven Judges, said the words
were mandatory, not permissive, and were so
interpreted by the English Courts. Judge Hodges,
who shrieks for temperance and the Church of
England at every chanc •, was one of the minority
of two, and thus gently delivered himself: “I
do not agree with the learned Chief-Justice
that the words ‘shall be lawful’ are usually read
by the Courts as mandatory. If I may say so,
without arrogance, it appears to me that until a
man has, by reading or rather misreading cases,
become utterly unable to understand the meaning
of plain English, it is impossible for him to say
that ‘shall be lawful' means an imperative
‘shall.’” And this in the tone and manner of
a cleric denouncing vile heresy. Apart from
the semi-ecclesiastical antics of Hodges, there is
the long-standing feud between Williams and
Madden. It is notorious that whenever there is
the slightest chance of slating the Chief, Williams
invariably seizes it with two big, eager hands,
and in matters which Madden refers to the Full
Court and r garding which he is privileged to sit
as one of said F.C., Williams goes out of his way
to “poke it” at him. Some day the Madden
worm will turn.
* • * •
In a N.S.W. trial for a capital assault, the
other day, counsel for the defence hesitated to
call evidence, owing to the weakness of the Crown
case. There was a hurried conference among the
jurymen. Eleven were for immediate acquittal,
the other had not made up his mind. The result
was signalled to prisoner’s counsel who oalled
evidence. In five minutes the 'jury agreed to
acquit. The juror who “had not made up his
mind ” confessed that he wished to hear the case
out as the evidence was spicy and he had no press-
ing engagement. And wretches squirm that jury-
men may gloat over “ spicy ” evidence !
» * • *
The Queensland official criminal photos,
exhibit a growing type that is apparently absent
from the “ rogues’ gallery ” of every other Aus-
tralian province, a big proportion of the pictures
being those of youths and young men of heavy,
vacuous, animal faces, destitute of the slightest
indications of moral or mental strength. In the
last lot of Q. gaol-pictures forwarded to the other
police departments the proportion of these
simise is unusually large—contrasting strongly
in this respect with the criminal-photo, collections
of the southern provinces, whose offenders exhibit
no marked external difference from the ordinary
type of “ straight ” citizen. Is the grim solitude
of Mongrelia’s back-country producing a type of
white Australian little higher than the ape ?
A little romance of the Gr.P.O. down
South runs thusly. Ten years ago a shy young
man sent by post a marriage proposal to his
best girl. No answer. Result- estrange-
ment. Just recently some G.P.O. bags
were being destroyed and the letter was
found and sent on to the lady. Ex-
planation followed, and, of course
(says the story).a wedding. . . .
What utter bunkum ! Why, as a
matter of fact, in far less than
ten years the average young man
learns either to forget his re-
jection, rejoice at it, or solace
himself with some other girl.
And just fancy the nerve of a
girl who could write: —“Dear
Jim. I have much pleasure in
accepting your proposal of ten
years ago, and remain, yours thank-
fully, Mary Jane.”
“Scribe”: On reading in Bulletin Secre-
tary Teeee’s denial that the Batman tablet had
been removed from the facade of the A.M.P.’s
Melb. office, I strolled up to that building and
carefully examined the extern il walls. The co.’s
advertising medallion was there right enough, but
if the Batman plate, formerly on the Collins-
street fa§at}e, is still about the building, it must
be hidden under several inches of basalt. Will
Mr. Teece kindly name its exact location?
Farmer Glen, of Gembrook (Vic.), told a
queer tale in Melb. Divorce Court concerning his
wife’s salvation by Christadelphian “ grace.”
They lived together happily enough for eight
years, what time there was “no place of worship
in the district.” Then the Christadelphians came
along, and Mrs. Glen joined them, wherefore she
awoke to the blessed fact that her “ old man ” was
bound for hell eternal. Meanwhile, however, he
went for a trip to Ireland, and on his return
found that the whole family had been dipped in
the waters of their new Terewth. Shortly after-
wards, on New Year’s Day, 1896, the maternal
convert locked herself in a spare room, and there
she stayed for 10 months, probably engaged in
silent prayer when she wasn’t exhorting
the partner of her joys (through the key-
hole) to go away and get saved. At the
end of the tenth month farmer Glen burst open
the door of his wife’s earthly paradise and was
welcomed with a water-jug at his head, after
which she surreptitiously shifted herself and family
into a Christadelphian sphere, leaving Glen to
pursue his lonely way to perdition. Strange to
say, Judge a’Beckett, in defiance of the famous
“Jackson case,” granted a decree nisi against
Mrs. G. on the ground of desertion. The progeny
are to be divided as equally as possible—there are
five of them—between the two parents, and his
Honor hopes that they will all live happily to-
gether some day. The Psalmist was quite right
in remarking that Religion is the root of all evil.
WHY I AM RICH.
I have no goods, no credit, and no cash,
And scarce a change of clothing. What care I ?
The treasure of the multitudinous sky,
W T hen from far depths of Night the Pleiades flash
Their greeting forth, is mine. Amid the dash
Of human storm and stress, my fortunes lie
Secure for time —aye, and eternity.
I covet no man’s blood-encrusted trash I
.All Nature’s wealth is mine, all Art’s. I.have
A proper share of all delicious things—
A sovereign solace for all crowding, cares :
One woman’s love. No lesser food I crave,
Who drink of life at all the clearest springs.
Kind Heaven pity needy millionaires !
Vic.
FRANK MORTON.


Many of the exquisite costumes seen at
the Randwick races, recently, came from the
well-known dressing establishment of Hordern
Brothers, Pitt-street, Sydney.*
It is encouraging to notice in a recent number
of Pearson’s Weekly that the public in England were
appreciating the South Australian invention, the “ Alba-
tross Lamp Wick.” They endorse all that is claimed for
it, viz., “ that it requires no trimming,” saves oil, gives
better light, and is far safer.*
SpriQg BCidS BOrSt
at
MARK FOY’S!
A Riot of LoVIiQcSS.
mgm
QOgs
m
All Drapers Everywhere.
Ren>cn)ber! .
THAT TOD WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEF
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies' and Children's Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have w 0 Eq " al
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 12, 1899.
My Dear Myee,—
Evidently, the national peace-cry, “ Let 'Em All
Come,” has never reached our youthful Governor’s
ears.' Why doesn’t some Spring poet set the
immortal words to music., and sing unto His
Ex. a new song that shall be drummed into his
ears instead of tneold “ Gor Save,” and do a little
saving of this city thereby? “Let ’Em All
Come,” said the wily Carington, throwing open
Govt. House gates and the door of his own popu-
larity. In pairs, in herds, in multitudes they
poured in in those good old days. Nobody drafted
’em. That was left to their own instincts. Wisely!
For the spice of life is to do one’s own looking-
down. A Gov. can look down on anyone, but
Kr little Mrs. de Jones has a limited field and
s to choose from the people she sees every day.
That may be why the blue-ticketed guests are
grumbling as hard as the blank white outer circles.
Anyway, blue blood and white all fizzled on
Thursday night when Lord Beauchamp’s first ball
came off, and those things happened of which
everybody has been talking ever since.
People with blue tickets were asked for a
quarter to nine; people with white, for nine.
Somehow, this colored question didn’t leak out to
any extent before the ball. At any rate, all the
white tickets said afterwards they heard nothing
of it before or they would have been far, far away
that night. The blue bloods were welcomed to
the hall by His Ex. and Lady Mary, hand-shaken,
and expected to get out of the V.R. presence
backwards. While the welcoming was still going
on, white folk began to arrive. But there was no
collision. A line of flunkeys formed itself across
the hall. On one side of that line all was blue,
On the other—well, strangely enough, all was
blue there also.
The only consolation the white men could take
to their aching breasts was that they had received
no instructions about not turning their backs.
After that, a hushed air pervaded the hall. For
one thing, there were fewer people than anyone
remembered seeing at Govt. House. The floor
was unstrewn with chiffon corpses. Only one
room was danced in. Everybody went about in a
whisper. Lady Mary and His Ex. and the aides
and private secretary worked hard to make things
jolly, but that ball had made up its mind that it
would not gyrate wildly. It moved along slowly,
with big pauses, when innumerable old ladies in
caps could be heard mistakenly recognising people
they didn’t know. And even the family portraits,
and daggers and snuff-boxes scattered generously
for blue and white eyes alike about the red draw-
ing-room, could not make the ball the brilliant
success you would expect to see it in the Herald
next day. ....
And there, another surprise. Thursday’s shock
was redoubled on Friday when people opened
their wet sheets and found the Herald heaving
veiled satires at Govt. House. “ About 450 of the
invited guests construed the invitations that had
b?en sent to them as equivalent to commands and
accordingly were present.” (I don’t know that I
need underline accordingly : it seems ro be a place
where you know what the Herald means).
Another observation, so courageous as to border
on blasphemy: “ In every respect the gathering
differed from everything ever held at Govt.
House," also “The political situation may have
accounted for the absence of members of the
Government.” Is it possible our Mister James is
suffering from white tickets? For the D.T. took
the public gruel without comment.
A very big house-party included Lord and Lady
Tennyson, and the evergreen Wallington.
“Wally ” spent his time disengaging his coat-tails
from dear friends who wanted to get his opinion
on the ticket question. “ If you had been here”
.... but Wally only smiled. He knows
the difference between Tennyson and Byron.
Fancy lead ing the Isles of Greece by the nose !
Lady Mary was in white satin with a sea-green
chiffon sash over her shoulders, and the famous
shamrock tiara. The Tennysons turned out to be
a quiet-looking couple with the faculty of putting
themselves out of the way. Lady T. was in white,
and the poet’s son wore a turn-down collar. Mrs.
Darley —who is—er—credited, but no matter--
looked as majestic as ever in steel and black.
After black, blue was roost worn. Mrs. Harry
Osborne was in sky-colored brocade under a
guipure lace polonaise, with black velvet shoulder-
straps reaching to the knees, and chiffon flounces.
A dewy-looking Madden sister was in white lace
polonaise over white silk and wore the latest coif ■
Jure, a scrolly arrangement of the hair behind a
very high top-knot. Miss Kitty Smart aired a
white brocade princess robe and white shoes.
Polonaises were everywhere except on the floor,
chiffon flounces ditto. Mrs. Cruickshank wore a
dream of a dress in mauve chiffon, gathered at
wide intervals round and round from the neck
to the bottom of the skirt. Sprays of lilac were
arranged easily down one side of this charming
frock that ended in übiquitous chiffon flounces.
One could not but miss—that is to say, notice the
absence of —most of the smart women usually seen
at V.R. balls. Considering that scarcely any of
our special frockists were there the ball-room made
a good show of chiffons. Mrs. Rennie Wore a
beautiful cherry-colored frock which has been ad-
mired before. Mrs. Chirnside was in a daring
pink that was as nearly red as possible. Mrs.
Lovely was also in a pink costume made en prin-
ce sse and opened up the front over hundreds of
tiny frills ; and among others, I noticed Mrs.
Fairfax and Miss Fairfax, and Mr. and Mrs. J. O.
Fairfax, and Mr. and Mrs. Geoff. Fairfax, so that
absence of family could have had nothing to do
with the Herald’s unseemly, red-republican out-
break.
Still, nothing could have been more harmless
than the intentions with which those cards were
sent out. His Ex. (I have it on good authority)
had no idea of social distinctions. The difference
in the cards was purely official. Blue cards were
entree cards and went to those who have the
recognised entree at levees. The Governor’s error
was in making no distinction between levees and
balls; also, in trying too hard to please everybody.
He thought he was doing the correct thing in thus
perpetuating the entree to those of his guests who
hold the right of it by virtue of tiine-honored
custom. But an invitation ball and a levee to
which anyone with a flap of pastoboard can go,
are remotely different matters. Anyway, Sydney
Society is not used to entrees at balls, and any-
thing Sydney Society is not used to is as difficult
a lesson for Potts Point to learn as the column of
diphthong-spelling to the little boy who has just
done spelling “dog.”
The Y.R. Garden Party had lovely weather on
Monday, and every guest was gratified by being
welcomed separately by His Ex. in a pale grey
suit. A marvellous number of men turned up.
Artists, Clergy, politicians, Johnnies, editors, un-
discovered Creatures. It was the manliest Garden
Party ever seen in Sydney. Reason alleged that
men were afraid they wouldn’t be asked again if
they didn’t turn up, so the Gov. has done one good
thing for feminine folk. Troops of beautifully-
dressed women, too, of course. Where were now
the injured ones who would never put their feet
inside the V.R. gates ? They were all there,
even that much-discussed Society woman who has
been alternately invited and excluded from Govt.
House on everybody’s tongue seven days a week,
12 hours a day since the new regime set in. She
was there, smiling, calm and lovely and “ all in
it,” in vivid blue, and people said the only thing
left then, “We knew all along she had been
asked.”
One was so taken up in admiring the men and
their brave demeanours under garden-party
auspices that frocks went for nothing, except
Mrs. Percy Chirnside’s white crepe polonaise over
accordeon flounces of turquoise blue, worn with a
little blue tulle toque. Editors Curnow and
Brient fought political battles with groups of top
hats under the magnolias alongside the forget-me-
nots. The fallen Archangels, Reid and John
Hughes and others, ate ices as if there had never
been a chill lately. The little President of the
Junior Art Society blossomed out in a top hat and
frock coat, and crush-hat artists were not to be
seen anywhere. As a garden party the function
was a glorious success. Wherever you looked you
saw a man, and if he happened to look like a
martyr, a woman felt that was the time for her to
rejoice.
Frocks, frocks, frocks all over Derby Day. It
was the most exquisitely-dressed race meeting
many people can remember. Such dreams of
color: violet, primrose, and forget-me-not lead-
ing. Such lovely arrangements for showing-off
light, fleecy materials. And a warm day without
any wind thrown in. The lawn was swept all the
afternoon with long trains and flounces. Lady
Mary Lvgon wore tne grey silk that opened the
Fancy Fair, and a black and white toque with
wings across the front. Miss Violet Somerset
wore white tulle strings to a white and black hat,
and Lady Bertha was in white cloth trimmed
with black lace insertion. Lady Tennyson escaped
notice in dark-grey silk. Miss Darley warmed the
box with a pink and white foulard with a lot of
train, while Miss Sylvia Darley aired a pale
blue twin. Mrs. Willie Mitchell’s frock was a
thing apart, of thick yellow lace over yellow silk.
The lace was shai>ea in a long slim polonaise,
flecked all over with pale pink silk. The bottom
of the skirt broke out into yellow silk flounces that
turned over to show pink ruched linings. With
this went a toque built entirely of pink roses, and
shaded with a pink and white striped parasol.
Mrs. Thorne wore a divinely cool creation of blue
voile, with transparent cream lace sleeves and
yoke, and a mauve and blue tulle toque. Of
course the perishable tulle toque was indispen-
sable. Mrs. Dicken wore a cherry-colored one
effectively with a navy and white foulard gown.
The absence of white muslin was something to be
thankful for at a time when Bkirts are cut so
absolutely flat as at present.
In the midst of the gaieties, two weddings
managed to come off quietly last week. Miss Jane
Foss Russell was married to Mr. Harry Registrar
Barff last Wednesday at Miller’s Point Church,
with a church-load of University people looking
on. Bride and bridegroom are both popular in
Uni. circles. Miss Russell was one time in charge
of the Women’s Common-room, and Mr. Harry
Barff’s Registrarship is a matter of many years.
Among the culchawed set this wedding is kindly
spoken of as “so suitable.”
The other wedding came off at “ Little Dingo.”
I wasn’t there myself, but the papers say it was a
“ pretty wedding,” with a “sumptuous wedding
breakfast,” and the “ bridegroom’s presents to the
bridesmaids were brooches.” So they have pretty
weddings even at Little Dingo ! Also, sumptuous
wedding breakfasts. Also, the bridegroom makes
presents to the bridesmaids at Little Dingo. It s
nice to know all that in case you ever become a
Little Dingo.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The last concert of little Amy (in a new and
quite womanly frock) will be to memory dear,
said one of the men who lined up beside the
‘ heroine ’ on the platform, for the purpose of
adding another watch and chain, bracelet, or
something to her golden store. He should have
said dear at the price. The Castles farewell pro-
gramme began, at the top of course, with a young
man named Alfred Bottoms. Alfred sang ihe
Desert ” in a baritone which sot one envying the
Arabs who can silently steal away. Miss Wellle
Saunders, the next item, was only a slight im-
provement on Mr. B. After her came a very oidi-
nary pianoforte solo by Miss Dagmar Barnett, from
Sydney, followed by Robert Kennedy and Annie
Laurie. But there was worse to come. Amy
Castles, assisted by Mr. Bindley and a chorus
in the ‘ Miserere ’ from ‘ Trovatore, gave a
shocking example of bad value for ones
money. When the outrage had been parti-
ally repeated, the two uncalled-for presentation-
ists brought Amy back to the platform like a
prisoner, and fired off a few foolish remarks ere
parting with their respective valuables. Amy
stood as quiet as a wax-works show, accepted the
offerings without a sign of emotion, and walked
off between the two warders. The rest of the con-
cert included two interesting ‘ turns.’ Little 1' ntz
Mueller gave some Mendelssohn fireworks with
wonderful effect, considering his age and fingers,
and Miss Madge Beurle came to the front of the
platform and flung Tennyson’s ‘ The Revenge ’
right in the teeth of poor dear Archbishop Carr.
By this time Miss Beurle is probably conscious
of her mistake. Here was a gathering for the
benefit of an R. C. choir fund; nearly all the tickets
had been sold among the Faithful by agents of
their own religious persuasion; and the recitress
had grabbed the opportunity to talk about Sir
Richard Grenville—how he “fought for Queen
and faith” against “the children of the devil,”
and took care of sundry wounded British sailors
who “ blest him in their pain that they were not
let to Spain, to the thumbscrew and the stake for
the glory of the Lord.” Miss B.’s moderately all-
right recitation in the wrong place cast a gloom
over the end of the proceedings, and a feeble at-
tempt to raise a demonstration after Amy had
sung “ ’Ome, Sweetome ” (no encore) was sup-
pressed by the tread of many feet making for the
doors. For the next week or two Melbourne will
hang its head and blush when the name of Amy
Castles is mentioned. In a month the mention
will have ceased —probably for ever.
“The Age critic conspicuously backs-down on
Amy Castles, in his notice of her farewell, in a
half-column of lamentation, mingled with ‘I told
you so. ’ Compares her to a street-singer, says an
‘appalling catastrophe * has occurred in the pool-
scooping vocalist’s loss of tone, and prophesies
that, when they hear her on the other side, they’ll
think Australia’s ‘stark, staring mad.’ So we
are, or were, to start the Castles boom at all.
Fact is, Amy hasn’t changed much from the
‘ phenomenal soprano ’ of her first concert. But
—a very big but — Akgus man, Age man, Herald
man, and divers amateur critics, have heard
Trebelli between whiles, and the Castles-Trebelli
sandwich has given them all indigestion. Tre-
belli isn’t a very front-row angel, but she is close up.
Consider how long it is since a star sang in this Mel-
bourne ! When Amy first warbled hearers thought of
Albani’s worn-out vocal chords and thrilled to hear
the fresh young voice. They had been told Albani
was a number one top-side cnantress, ‘ one of the
best, and the Bendigo girl is better.’ That’s logic,
and set toughest pens rapturising. They also
thought of Alva, whose voice runs into you like a
hat-pin; likewise of Maggie Sterling and her
church-choir ladyisms. (The church-choir acts on
the Australian voice as the Australian sun on the
Australian complexion. It bleaches all color out
of it.) They have never heard Florence Schmidt
(nor the revised edition of Hetty Holroyd), so up
Amy went like a rocket. Then came along some-
body who can sing, and down goes Amy like the
stick.
“ Melbourne is suffering an epidemio of L. L.
Lewis nowadays. At the Castles farewell basso
Barker introduced a dirgey ditty labelled L.L.L.,
and having a ‘ Coo-e-e ’ refrain, which is not an
original idea, by the way. Also Miss Amy herself
gave ‘As a Bird from its Nest ’ (by L. L. Lewis)
out of compliment to the much-moustached dilet-
tante who took her first benefit concert in hand.
If Mr. Lewis’s services as an honorary secretary
are to be paid for in this way the publio will begin
to wish he would work on salary or commission
and spare them his songs.
11 Women come away from the Trebelli concerts
declaring that if they were men they would be
madly in love with the charming singer. Cer-
tainly if gracious dignity, a sweet smile, expres-
sive eyes, general winsomeness and perfect frock-
ing constitute an enchantress, Mdlle. Trebelli
would be a queen of hearts apart from her singing
altogether. At her third recital the artistic
gowner wore brocade in soft lines of dove-color
and rose, veiled her plump arms in lace sleeves,
and sparkled to the extent of diamond ear-studs,
a shimmering necklet and lover’s knot.
“ A reception that fell through has been agitat-
ing certain musico-sassiety folk here. Harry
Thompson, who is running Trebelli, announced
with much flourish a reception of the songstress’s
admirers at Menzies’ on such anc’ such a date.
‘No invitations, but any lady on showing her
card,’ &o. Two or three gushful damsels, on
reading the ad., armed themselves with beautiful
spring bokays, and in their best frocks sailed into
that fashionable caravanserai. Handed up paste-
boards. ‘Mme. Trebelli isn’t staying here.’
Waiter knew no thing of a reception. ‘ Dozens of
ladies have boon here asking the same thing,’ re-
marked the bewildered man in claw-hammers.
‘Try the Grand.’ ‘Mme. staying here?’ they
asked at the other end of the city section. ‘Yes,
but she's out shopping.’ ‘No reception? ’ ‘ Not
that wo know of. Strange, but many ladies have
been here asking the same thing ’ —and hall-
{ sorter points out a whole bezique-pack of paste*
wards left by would-be receptioners. Girls in
despair leave their violets and ’dillies with cards
attached and seek out that reception no more.
“Though a hater of ugly and unattractive
women, Melbourne’s noisiest musician can play
the ladies’ man when it suits him. Lately, on
Madame Wiedermann’s birthday, Conservatorium
pupils, “commandeered ” by the director, gathered
after dark on the Pinschof lawn for a surprise
serenade. Later, when invited indoors, all non-
vocalists contributed instrumental selections while
the Prof, unbent to the extent of attempting a
soprano solo. A birthday treat indeed for a toiler
who teaches singing week in, week out, and at
evening concerts usually comports herself like
Gov. Brassey, as if her very flesh cried out for
Blanket Bay.
“The Austral Salon, whatever its faults, is
keeping up the procession, therefore the member-
ship roll is “swelling wisibly.” Bendigo genius
and hot tea are turned on every Monday after-
noon to a crowded house. And for seeing the
Spring styles there’s no place better. Mrs. Hon.
Sec. Saddler had a great party, Monday 4th.
Amy Castles farewelled her first Melb. aumirers,
Alice Crawford recited “Widow O’Brien” with
a sense of humor but no brogue ; two men reciters
did well; a child pianist, little Madge Downe,
played with expression; another Bendigo girl
warbled, but, thank goodness, she had long skirts
and her hair up; Mons. Boffard sang; Mr.
Deegan read a piece, and the hostess had posies
for all. Mrs. Bland Holt wore a green silk ridgy
with little tucks. Mrs. Johnnie Sandes was all
the color of a cornflower.
“ Governor Brassey has been sailing close to the
wind in political matters lately. The other day
in a speech he touched upon the tariff question,
and indicated what he thinks ought to be the
Commonwealth policy ; not that anyone is likely
to take any notice of what Jie thinks or doesn’t
think. By the way, His Ex. has been falling off
some more. It is not certain whether he fell off
his horse or his bicycle again, but he certainly fell
off one or the other, for the newspaper offices were
rushed with messages from Government House
‘ with Lord Brassey's compliments and would the
editor kindly omit to mention his lordship’s slight
accident to-day, don’t you know.’ It’s almost a
pity ‘ hsexshellency ’ can’t be tempted to go near
the rim [of the earth when there would be some
chance of his falling off the universe altogether.
“Hon. Tom Brassey, who lately went with his
wife, Lady Idina, to South Africa, the place where
the war-scares come from, has decided not to visit
his father in Melbourne until next year.
“At the recent annual meeting of E. Melb.
Hebrew congregation much indignation was ex-
pressed at the admission of so many women to
Judaism, and chairman Davis observed that
although Israel has a mission to gather in all the
nations of the earth, the time had not yet
come for such wholesale proselytism. Other and
more candid speakers, however, voiced the real
trouble the lessening of the Jewish young
woman’s marriage-chances. ‘And by the daugh-
ters of the stranger shall ye be undone ! ’
A very funny incident happened in-the course
of the Women’s Franchise Debate aforesaid. Dr.
Embling, who is a C. of E. man, had incidentally
said that “marriage was once a sacrament, but
now it is regarded as a limited liability co.”
Thereupon Elder Balfour (Presbyterian) said that
marriage was never regarded as a sacrament by the
Protestant churches. Harwood (C. of E.) who
followed, declared that he had been brought up to
believe that marriage was one of the minor sacra-
ments. Elder Balfour was unable to reply, having
once spoken, but as Godfrey (who is a Jew) was
about to speak, he handed him a C. of E. prayer-
book wherein the notion that marriage is a sacra-
ment is denounced as an awful heresy, and desired
him to read it. Godfrey did ; but the fun came
when someone called out: “What book are you
quoting from?” The Hebrew hadn’t the least
idea. It was something gilt-edged, and he fumbled
for the title-page, but couldn’t find it. His em-
barrassment caused roars of laughter. Finally he
made a guess at it and said, “the book is one
containing church services.” But if Godfrey
wants his revenge he should some night hand a
member a Hebrew service book and request him to
read something from that.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£208,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia :
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent;,
or at least to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa plays an important
part, acting solely as a first-class nourishing food
—it strengthens the system to resist, oppose, and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, “ So-and-so has a strong constitu-
tion ” ; follow that up, and you’ll find that So-and-
so follows the golden rule of being temperate in
all things, and pays attention to diet and exercise.
Does he or she keep up this strong constitution by
taking medicine or swallowing pills? No, indeed.
They have discovered that prevention is better
than cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a means
in the hands of everyone to build up and main-
tain a sound constitution, which enables its pos-
sessor to travel his life’s journey without the aches
and pains whioh are in many oases preventible.
Thus we come round again to sound common-
sense based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 2G9 George-street, Sydney.
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.*
Our boys returning with records, only to
find that the output for the month of August is
the record for Zetz Spa Water. Insist on having
Zetz. Kept by all first-class hotels and clubs. A
cool and refreshing drink is Zetz Spa.*
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers. Wavkrley Works, Edinburgh.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
Dottles Is. everywhere.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTf.E & SONS, Sole Manufacture)*
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND. .'*•
SEND
YOUR
ORDERS
to
Punctuality
and
Exckllknce.
Tel. 2288.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
82 King Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Gov. Beauchamp, N.S.W. discovers, is
“ more that seven ” —but not much more than 27.
Turner is the first Australian native to be-
come Premier of Victoria. Dibbs and Farnell,
who attained the N.S.W. Premiership, were both
natives of the province. And N.S.W. Premier
Martin was all-but a native, arriving here at 3
years ; also Reid raced about Woolloomooloo at 7.
Geologist Jack lately accepted a position
in China worth <£3ooo per annum in exchange for
his Queensland billet of £3lOOO and £3600 expenses.
Hard to blame him, of course, but considering
that Jack went home on Queensland business at
Queensland Govt.’s expense, the proceeding seems
a bit rough on Bananaland.
THE LYDY'S REBUKE.
HE: “I won't give you a farthing. You've been
drinking—your breath smells horribly.”
SHE: “ That don't matter to you. I haven't arst
you to kiss me.”
From 1841 to 1899 the S.M. Herald has
had only four editors —Mansfield, West, Garran
and Curnow, all ex-parsons. . Gullett (but for
whom it is quite doubtful whether the Herald
would have stuck to its guns over Federation)
aoted as editor for less than a year—the only lay-
man and trained journalist who has run the
l»per.
The venerable father of N.S.W. Opposi-
tion-leader Lyne cabled from Tasmania his con-
gratulations on the “ breaking of the Reid.” But'
the old gentleman is anticipating. The Reid is
bent, not broken. During the want-of-confidence
debate it became more plain than ever that, as a
fighting debater, Georgey-Porgey is unmatched in
N.S.W. Legislature.
Though, as printed lately. Geo. Lansell,
the Vic. deep-sinking mine owner, is, at 76, still
active on his feet and in his office, he is now so
deaf that I. E. Dyason, long his confidential
acoountant, represents his interests on most of the
boards of the mining co.’s in which he has a hold-
ing. For it was always Lansell’s way never to
have a holding without using it.
Ebenezer Ward, in S.A. Leg. Council,
aimed a hideously cumbrous jibe at the Kingston
Ministry when he referred to “the music of the
Ministerial members on the lightning-stricken
harp.” It must be 25 years at least since the
bones nigger said to the interlocutor: “ Mr.
Johnsing, why are you like a harp struck by
lightning? Because you’re a blasted lyre.”
Re Prior Vaughan’s having “buried the
vinegar bottle.” After “ Father ” Maturin “ went
over ” the other day and became a real “ Father,”
he was interviewed by a representative of a R.C.
paper, but he wouldn’t “perform.” Said contro-
versy was useless, and that if a man earnestly and
impartially sought the truth, and did himself and
everybody else justice in his investigations, he
would come out all right.
Australasia has contributed a pair of Chief
Justices to the dusky provinces of the Pacific. In
’72 Charles St. Julian, a reporter on S.M. Herald,
was made Chief Justice of Fiji, and the other
day Major Mair, of Maoriland, was appointed
Chief Justice of Samoa. Mair fought with
Cameron through the Maori war. And Attorney-
General Lyttleton Bayley left Sydney in 1859 for
the Supreme Court Bench in Bombay.
Mayor Harris, of Sydney, last week re-
ceived his “letters patent ”of knighthood. The
Bulletin doesn’t know whether the Mayor
has adopted a family motto as an adjunct to his
new gew-gaw, but should he be in want of such
an article this paper respectfully suggests the
adoption of a memorable pronouncement made by
an illustrious member of his family : “ Every-
body knows the ’Arrises, but nobody knows the
’Arveys.”
Quaker William Jones, whose death at 74
is reported from London, was the cause during his
tour in Australia some years ago of starting a
strong wave of sentiment in favor of disarma-
ment and universal peace. Sam Griffith, Q.’s
Chief-Justice, and the late Parkes were caught by
Jones, the former writing some of his best articles
in support of the thesis. Jones had been through
the Franco-Prussian war, not as a combatant, but
as distributor of money and food to those whom the
war distressed. He went through Bulgaria in the
atrocity time on a like mission. He was secretary
of the Peace Society for the last 16 years.
Solomon Levy, whose scholarship award
Sydney University Senate last week reduced from
.£4O to .£3O a year, was the first to make a be
quest to that institution. He donated £5OO,
originally for the education of orphans, in the
year 1853, but the money was afterwards applied
to reward proficiency in natural science. The
reduction from £lO to «£3O is in consequence of
money yielding less interest now than in the days
of the bequest.
H. E. Kenny, the Westralian M.P. who
died the other day, was another of the backblocks
victims of only half-suspected internal cancer.
Mr. Kenny was as a politician enthusiastic rather
than strong; and though a Groper by birth he
was thoroughly agin the Govt. — probably because
Ms name was Kenny. A storekeeper by trade, he
later on settled into country journalism, and made
his Geraldton paper, at one time at least, as lively
as any in the sad West.
Part of the true inwardness of Chief
Justice Madden’s recent public attack on The
Bulletin is probably to be found in the fondness
of the well-beloved Williams J. for this disreputable
organ. While the C.J. professes the greatest
contempt for the paper (he carefully reads it, all
the same) Judge Williams “makes no bones”
about his liking for it and on publishing days
strolls from the Law Courts with the red-cover
shining from his pocket.
A Tas. paper says that “ H. H. Schlapp,
the eminent metallurgist, has three kinds of
answers to questions. Thus : ‘ Did you see
Jones’ show ? ’ Schlapp : * Hum ’ (deep bass,
Yankee twang). ‘ls it any good?’ Schlapp:
‘Hum’ (higher key). ‘Do you think it’s any
good buying shares in it?’ Schlapp: ‘Hum’
(still higher key). And then the questioner goes
away, buys shares, and curses Schlapp wholesale
if he is left to mind the baby.’’
There comes to The Bulletin a clip from
an old back-number of a country paper containing
an In Memoriam “ pome ” in celebration of the
decease of a certain Australian Judge who used
to adjudicate chiefly in the Criminal and Divorce-
courts. The last verse reads :
One of the few men who has made money
out of politics is an ex-Minister who entered
Parliament as a manual worker and got a portfolio
which he stuck to for years, drawing considerably
over .£lOOO per year. • He lived on about .£2OO and
is now independent apart from his salary as an
ordinary member. Another ex-Minister, when in
office for several years, lived at a very cheap
boarding-house and made a prisonerof every penny
of his salary, barring about 30s. a week. He also
is independent.
A certain Australian pug, whose long and
successful career has been marred by no in-
stance of cowardice, turned up at a metropolitan
hospital the other night with an injured arm. As
the surgeon felt it for broken bones he groaned
and blasphemed wildly, and when it was an-
nounced that one of the veins would have to be
cut, he shrieked “My oath, yer won’t!” and,
WANTED—A HEAVENLY TAILOR.
LITTLE CECIL (to Mother Gussie, who has just
given him a new pair of pants): “ But, mother,
dear, who makes God’s trousers?”
never troubling about hat or coat, fled terror-
stricken down the front steps into the street
How many-sided is courage !
The Comte de Courte, now on a visit to
his cousin, Lord Lamington, at Brisbane, is French
Consul for Maoriland. His relationship to Gov.
Lamington is through a Scottish grandmother.
The Caledonian strain, it is hinted in M.L., is
accountable for the Count’s frequent disputes
with his servants on the subject of wages. It was
while conducting the case of a female Swiss
domestic in the Count’s employ that lawyer Jelli-
coe made the attack on Judge Edwards that
earned him three months’ suspension.
Old Dunedin (M.L.) gaol, just demolished,
was an odd structure, which consisted largely of
galvanised iron. On one occasion, R. !S. Smythe
was walking past the gaol and was curious to
know what the building was. The man he asked
was a stalwart, official-looking personage. “ lhat
building, sir,” pompously replied the interrogated,
“That’s her Majesty’s prison, sir.” “Good
Lord!’’ ejaculated the Most-Travelled, “the
prisoners ought to be well-searched to see that
they have no tin-openers about them.”
A certain long-haired gentleman from
Australia who is “ walking round the world for a
wager,’’ was recently lecturing in Wairarapa
(M.L.) district, and alter speaking awhile began
sketching on a blackboard. The audience, how-
ever, grew weary of the silence, and up jumped a
leading solicitor to move “ that the Professor get
his hair cut.” Whereupon he was promptly fol-
lowed by the bank-manager with an amendment
“ that the Prof, get his throat cut! ’’ Carried by
acclamation. Curtain dropped, and exit Prof,
from town same night.
Baron Grant (his title was German) the
Hooley of 25 years ago, who spent a few thousands
on the restoration of London’s dilapidated
Leicester Square, has gone to “ that bourne.’’ At
the height of his financial success Grant was pro-
foundly disrespected,'just like Hooley. Everyone
has heard of the lines written on a piece of paper
pasted on a notice-board in London Stock Ex-
change :
“ Titles Kings can give,
Honour give they can’t;
A Title without Honour
Is a barren grant.”
The hotel cook whom ex-Gov. Hampden
dug out of the happiness of obscurity in a tour
from Grafton to Glen Innes has at last determined
to return to early scenes. This is the “Count
Carlo,” of Dalmorton Hotel, who made such
exquisite omelettes for the touring-party that the
pensive Gov. had him called forth for an inter-
view. His Ex.’s narrative is that he knew well
the cook’s brother, Prince Bathyany, in London,
and that the cook’s full name was no less than
Count Dios Carlo Cassimer Vladislaus Bathyany.
But appreciative connoisseurs don’t visit Dal-
morton often enough, so the old eccentric bids
Australia farewell.
Apropos of Kitchener’s head-hunting pro-
clivities, whoever saw a worse type of face
than his ? The square jaw, the low forehead,
the pig-eyes, and the high cheek-bones, all
show the man to be what he is. A physiognomist’s
assay of Kitchener’s face would return 20cwt. of
pluck and determination to the ton, some
brains, but few colors of moral sentiment, and no
indication of heart or feeling in his composition.
Lombroso’s definition of the true criminal is lie
who cares nothing either for others or for himself
—and it fits Kitchener like the skin of a fat
nigger. What a glorious garrotter was lost to the
world when he became a soldier !
Moss Davis, the wealthy Auckland
brewer whose daughter was the other day married
with so much ceremony to Mr. “Bob” Moss, made
his first big “ rise ” at Nelson (M.L.) in the early
eighties. Having got information that the Eng-
lish hop-crop had partially failed, he foresaw a
sharp rise in the Nelson article, and, financing
skilfully, pre-secured it at prices which, it was
stated at the time, netted him a profit of i 140,000
in a very few months. He then bought Han-
cock’s brewery, Auckland, a concern which, a
couple of years ago,owned 63 pubs. Davis is an un-
Jewish-looking man—still on the right side of 50
—and possessed of a sany-froid that would make
the fortune of a poker-player.
A man of many parts is Yic. Chief Justice
Madden. Hunting, boxing, racing, rowing, law,
flowery oratory, and creaseless trousers are all bis
special studios ; but he has recently surprised even
the friends of his youth by stating that he was on
the point of forsaking law for medicine in his
student days. He had completed two years of his
course, when the medical enthusiasm seized him,
and he spent more time in the dissecting-room
than in the law-lecture hall. The craving at
last became so strong that he announced his in-
tention of changing his vocation, and it was only
when his mother interposed with the rolling-stone
proverb that ho reluctantly went on with the work
which has landed him in the highest legal posi-
tion in Victoria.
Many a fine thing has been written lashing
the Empire for allowing its Victoria Cross war-
heroes to die in the workhouse, or worse. But,
after all, the V.C. heroes of industry don’t get
treatment that we can afford to be particularly
proud of. Twelve or fourteen years ago there was
a fall of earth in the Peg Leg, outside Bendigo, and
a couple of men were entombed. Rescue party
was soon at work ; and for his heroism there
William Groombridge got the Humane Society’s
medal. Old, destitute, and broken in health, he
begged admission to Bendigo hospital lately (he
had been living miserably on private charity for
several months), and he died there, leaving one
suit of rags, no known relatives, and the “bravery”
medal and parchment.
There are three ex-Town Clerks of Sydney
still living, one *>f them being the first appointed
.—in 1842—John Rae, now aged 85. There are 15
Mayors still alive, commencing with Thomas
Broughton, who filled the civic chair in 1847, and
ending with knight Harris, ex and present
Mayor. There have in late years been heart-burn-
ings over the city chair. C. J. Roberts expected
knighthood for Exhibition-year (1879), and only
got a paltry C.M.G.-ship; A. J. Riley was cock-
sure of a handle to his name in Jubilee-year (’B7),
and he was left in the soup. In Centennial-year
(’88), John Harris had his little disappointment,
and in the Diamond Jubilee-year Ives missed fire.
It looks, then, as if a silent vote to a Freetrade
Government was more likely to lead to knight-
hood than loyal service to the city.
Maori “King” Mahutu, who, it was
rumored, was likely to be appointed, by the
Seddon Govt., to the Upper House (he didn’t get
there, however), would have been a pleasing
person for the press to meet, if he had taken to
politics and settled down in Wellington. Press-
men who have met Mahutu speak of him as a
perfect brown gentleman, who knows how to
treat the Archimedean lever properly—especially
when the lever is dry. The first time he is known
to have run against a newspaper-man was at a
great Maori gathering at Taupiri, a long while ago.
The writing-man was introduced to Mahutu, who
looked at him curiously and asked his occupation.
Being informed, he rose to the situation at once.
“ The whisky,” he said, “is in that tent.” How
few people can recognise so promptly what the
press wants !
Locke Richardson, one of the most fascinat-
ing monologue entertainers who ever visited Aus-
tralia, died recently at the house of the American
Minister in Berlin. Peace to his ashes ! —his
body was cremated in accordance with his par-
fcicular wish. He brought the book of Shake-
speare to this country in his head, some dozen
years ago, and to hear him speak a play from *-he
platform was to believe that the late W. Shake-
speare had found a suitable interpreter at last.
Without attempting to be a brilliant actor,
Richardson contrived to put the various characters
before his audience in all the important parts of
the tragedy, or comedy. When he came to a dull
bit he dropped it out, and substituted a few words
of explanatory narrative. It was Shakespeare
made easy and interesting. And so with Sheri-
dan’s “ School for Scandal,” or a Dickens story.
The graceful, unaffected gentleman in the dress-
suit had the power to make his hearers follow the
working of his mind upon the subject he was
treating. They saw what he intended them to
see, and heard as he wished them to hear, and
they felt all the time as though Locke Richardson
were doing it to the glory of true art and culcliaw,
and not for the sake of the money paid at the door.
His death is a loss to Australia, for lie had pro-
mised his old friend and agent, J. L. Lohr, that he
would surely come again. Alas !
When Premier Reid was touring north
with Perry, M.P., they were on a steam-launch,
and the Premier announced that as they would
not get to Casino for an hour or so he’d have a
snooze. Perry remonstrated —said he was slight-
ing the electorate, and that he (P.) wanted to
point out its marvellous resources, the size of its
pumpkins, and the strangeness of the oaths of its
semi-amphibious inhabitants ; but the somnolent
one nodded with both eyes shut, said he’d noticed
it all, and, tottering down the four steps to the
miniature cabin, tumbled on to the locker dead
asleep. A few minutes later a deck-hand rushed
up with “Eh ! Mr. Reid’s got a fit, what’ll we
do? Quick!” Perry strolled over and looked
down the hatchway critically at George Houston,
who was emitting a long-drawn series of blood-
curdling snorts and gurgles. This was nothing
new to Perry, who turned to the hand and said in
a calm, cold-blooded way, “Yes, it looks like
apoplexy.” Then, allowing a gleam of joy to
light his face, “ he might be dead before we get to
Casino.” “I’ll get some water, Mr. Perry.”
AN OVERWORKED THIRST.
At the bar, 2 a.m. Constables O’Hooligan and
Raffardi drinking pints.
CONSTABLE O’H.: “Shure, it’s yerself that’s not
lookin’ over-well, Raffardi.”
CONSTABLE R.: “By me soul, it’s no wonder.
There’s fourteen pubs on me bate—and they take
a power of lookin’ after.”
“ No you won’t —why, man, if he dies it will be
the best thing: can happen to this district; he’s
going to monkey with the sugar-duties and that
will ruin the place.” “Oh ! don’t talk like that,
Mr. Perry, We can’t stand by and see a man die
before our eyes, even if we don’t believe in him.”
And off he rushed for some water —with which he
was just going to souse the champion snorer, when
Perry gave the unconscious one a shake and said
they were near Casino. Then the Premier rolled
off the locker and climbed the stairs as fresh as a
daisy, and the deck-hand watched him with an
awesome look as if gazing on one arisen from the
dead.
He’s gone. Alas ! to either sex
He gave not much enjoyment:
For mending hearts and breaking necks
Was mainly his employment.


WOLFES
CHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
A
Superlative
Diuretic
ANTIDYSPEPTIC
AND
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
tdctft/uifTbtya
NEW YORK.*
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
Tor
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
“(SLENPOUR”
Fiijest Old
Higblaod Whisky.
SWIFT & COMPANY, Agents,
7 Spring-street, Sydney.
JOHN SOMERVILLE & CO. Ltd., Distillers,
LEITH, SCOTLAND.
SOLD AT ALL
FIRST-CLASS HOTELS.
Kiippers Elberfeld La
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
<.r £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel for Ladies and
Families is “ The Australia.”
Tt gives every facility for a
most enjoyable stay in Sydney
at a very reasonable cost. This
hotel is absolutely fire-proof.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
A newly-appointed Out-Back J.P.’a first
case was a “ drunk and language.” The language
was language, and J.P. promptly adjudged “14
days.” The “officer in charge,” however, reminded
him that as prisoners’meals had tobeobtained from
the pub. the sentence would entail too much out-
lay. “Oh!” said his worship, “24 hours, and,”
tossing silver on table, “ here’s the spon’s for his
tucker.” Later on, the same Solon found an old
before him on a similar charge, and
regretfully exclaimed, “Dear, dear! this is a
blanky pity ! Let’s talk it over ! ” Then, by-
and-by : “ Just the place to ‘ recover’ in, this hot
weather—nice and cool. We’ll say a week, and
I’ll tell the pub.-people to keep the broth up to
you. Broth and plenty of Worcestershire. So
long ! ”
• • * •
“ Camiro ” : Re draught-uses of horse’s
tail (“O.P.,’’ 8., 5/8/’99). A horse can pull a
heavier load with his tail than he can otherwise.
I have seen a light hack thus drag a dead draught
horse off the road a weight he couldn’t have
moved in collar, except upon a vehicle. At Too-
long mines there used to be an old scrubber with
little or no tail left; he had been dragging timber
for years by his stump, the country being too
rough for harness. Only wish I had a sov. for
every beast dragged out of “ bog ” in Australia at
end of a horse’s tail!
"A PROSPECTOR"—CITY VARIETY.
“S. Von K.” : The dog-tooth swindle in
the Island-curio trade (“Yang,” B. 22/7/’99) re-
calls a nice little job that went wrong with the
Papuan Chartered Co. The New Britain natives,
though most atrocious cannibals, possess compara-
tively high-class land laws, and mostly refuse to
sell their heritage, save at exorbitant prices, to be
Srid in fathoms of cowrie-shell. So the Chartered
o. endeavored to swamp the local money-markfcb
with imitation shells in porcelain, but the differ-
ence in weight gave the show away. And though,
if a man uttered a European counterfeit coin in
German Papua, he’d be speedily dogged, not even
the missionaries up thero saw any harm in thus
swindling our black brother wholesale.
* • • *
The black man’s l'evenge. Water had
failed at the head station, and they started to cart
from nearest tank. Man returning with first load
reported lot of blacks camped at tank. Boss sent
them word to “clear.” They wouldn’t, so same
night boss had poison laid for their dogs. Next
day, oamp deserted. Two dry months later, when
water in tank had much receded, some 20 canine
carcases were found tethered to heavy stones in
the centre.
• • * *
At a Maoriland meeting during the big
strike a bulky capitalist expressed his utter want
of sympathy with the working-man. The work-
ing-man was lazy ; it was his own fault if he re-
mained a working-man. When he (the fat gentle-
man) came to the country he humped his swag
through the length and breadth of it, and worked
at anything he could get, although he was a
gentleman born (snigger from the audience). He
worked for 6s. a day, and now he had thousands a
year and 50,000 acres of the best land in Hawkes
Bay. “ Yes,” yelled a small, tired-looking clerk
at the other end of the room, “Yes, but we can’t
all marry a fat old Maori woman with fish-oil on
her headland 50,000 acres of land, can we, Mister
“ Abo ” : Stated that during recent rough
weather horses ferried across from Fort Mac-
quarie to Milson’s Point (Sydney) have been sea-
sick. Always believed a horse could not be sea-
sick. Perhaps some Bulletin reader has had
experience with horses at sea.
* • » a
Dear Bulletin. — The yoke may break
Australian cattle (B. 18/2/’99) from using horns,
but it certainly isn’t so* with either the Indian
draught bullock or the Chinese water-buffalo.
Have been chivvied by both, and horned by one
of the latter after a smart go-as-you-please.
Indian cattle can also kick like mules. — Cecil F.
* * * *
W.S.W. : Three decades ago, the “ Wall-
aby ” was not the starvation tramp it now is.
When squatters lived on their stations in Riverina,
suppers and breakfasts were given to “travel-
lers,'’ or else plenty of cooked tucker to be
taken away, or, failing these, a full ration of
flour, meat, tea, sugar, and salt, with some-
times also a tin of baking-powder and a fig
of tobacco from a new-chum storekeeper.
Old hands always had two sets of ration-
bags. A wide-mouthed flour-bag was pre-
sented where the scoop was used, and a
narrower one where a pannikin of dust was
given. Have seen held up to receive flour
an old coat-sleeve sewn-up at the bot-
tom ; a trouser-leg’, ditto; the body of
an old shirt tacked together; an
empty pillow-case (a chuck-in), etc.,
etc., and I once saw a “tenderfoot”
with no ration bags “bash” in the
crown of his felt hat and tell the
storekeeper to “ dab it in there.” But
the “ old dog for the hard road ” has
now to take in many a hole of his
waist - belt since the stations are
managed by bank under-strappers.
“F.R. Travelling once in the Big
Scrub, put up for a night at cookie’s, and when
just goipg to turn in, heard an-awful smashing of
crockery in the kitchen. Went to investigate,
and found carpet-snake struggling to extricate
himself from handle of dipper. Killed and dis-
sected him, and found that he had swallowed two
hen’s eggs, then crawled through dipper handle
and swallowed two more, and, finding himself
between the two bulges, had played up with the
breakables.
Deadhorse, way-back, is ministered to,
medically, by a “card,” who, so rumor hath it,
lost his diploma overboard on the voyage out
from ’Ome. A travelling “ duly-qualified ” struck
Deadhorse, heard of the rumor, and thought he
was putting it nicely when he asked him, “Where
did you get your experience, doctor?” But he
wasn’t prepared for the* answer. “Experience?
I got my experience, sir, at the siege of Paris,
where there were better blanky men than you
swabbing up blood from the operating-tables, and
where a like you would only get in as a
corpse ! ”
* • * *
The Australian poet knocked at Heaven’s
gate. “Enter, my son,” said St. Peter; “you
may be an Australian, or again you may not; but
you’re a poet, anyhow. Choir-stalls, third row on
the right. I’m an unpoetieal beggar myself,” he
added, hastily, as the new angel produced a large-
paper copy of his poems. “ Weloome, brother ! ”
said the white-robed choristers, making room for
the new-comer. The new-comer made an indis-
tinct remark about being dry, but his fellows
thought he said “shy,” and did their best to put
him at his ease. “ Welcome, brother ! ” said
Gabriel, the choirmaster, who was distributing
copies of an anthem for practice. “ Let thy voice
blend sweetly in the great chorus of praise and
thanksgiving.” He stepped down to the centre
of the choir, and raised his baton. Then the Aus-
tralian poet lifted up his voice—he had been
glancing through the anthem, and was puzzled.
He said, “ Where the is my blanky solo?”
* * • •
“J.D.”: To all sane philosophers Sunday
in an Australian city is a sad, sad circumstance.
The philosophers are those who know something
about the awfulness of Sunday in one-horse Aus-
tralian villages. In a small Tas. agricultural
hamlet t’other Sabbath a systematic and success-
ful attempt to break the dull monotony was made
by some 20 of the local youths. They rented a
paddock for 10s. from an obliging farmer for the
whole of Sunday, and decided to have a good
rousing scrap. At daylight three pairs started the
mill, “just to oblige the company,” but by the
time the little cracked church-bell began to ring
for 11 o’clock service down in the township the
spirit had moved the bucolic bruisers to such tune
that seven fights were in progress at once. By
noon everybody was fighting and by half-past one
sticks and stones were pressed into the fray and
skin and hair and strange language filled the air
and overflowed into the next allotment. By
two o’clock the battle fizzled out from sheer
exhaustion of the combatants and the inability
of any of the 20 to see any antagonist. Then friends
came and carried the bruised gladiators off the
field. It was a day never to be forgotten.
“ 6.Y.H.” : Re leeches (“ Yang Anyut,”
B. 8/7/’99). After rain in N.Q. they are pretty
bad. Have seen them under eyelid. Best method
of getting one off is to split small twig halfway
down, catch end of leech in cleft, and twist care-
fully about.
♦ * * •
“Dodo” : Re sea-horse (“Hun,” B.
24/6/’99.) A fine specimen, lately caught alive at
Byron Bay, N.S.W., was B|in. long, and was
promptly “ pickled ”by a local publican. He re-
jected suggestion to forward to Sydney museum,
as he is a staunch opponent of centralisation, and
is keeping specimen for Lismore museum —to be
established—when ?
DAZZLED BY HIS OWN BRILLIANCY.
ISAACS: “ Ah! Mr. Rosierg, you don’t recognise
your old friends since you’ve made a sudden
rise in the world.”
MR. R.: “ Veil, veil, Isaacs, my boy, I don’t re-
cognise myself yet.”
“ H. Stockdale ” : Re “ H.V.H.’s ” query
(8., 24/6/’99). Aboriginal burial customs vary
much. Occasionally a body was bound with bark
cords, the knees being drawn up to the chest and
then placed between sheets of bark and buried
with feet always to the west. Sometimes a man’s
weapons and belongings were interred with him.
The bodies of married women were burned and
the ashes carried about by the husband. The
bodies of young children were rolled in bark,
placed in hollow trees, and after considerable
time taken out and burned. Piccaninnies killed
on account of tribal custom were either eaten or
burnt at once. Sometimes on the death of a chief
or great warrior, the bones of lower-leg and fore-
arm were taken out, the knees drawn up to the
face, and the whole securely bound with strong
vines or bark ; body was then well smoked, dried,
and constantly watched by relatives. After body
was dried, the friends and relatives assembled to
the burning thereof and the ashes were placed in
a dilly-bag, which was worn by the principal
widow or first wife. She also bore about with her
some of the bones extracted from the body prior
to burning, the rest of these being preserved by
deceased’s mother or his sister. For about a year
after death widow had periodically to crop her
hair and severely burn her thighs. At some
obsequies the near relatives ate a small portion of
the remains (roasted), but ceremonially, not diete-
tioally. The flesh of a healthy young woman was
considered the best, the palms of the hands being
the choice portions. Another curious burial cus-
tom was that the nearest relative used chest of
dead man for a pillow during the first night after
decease. Sometimes the body was placed on a
bier of boughs and slowly roasted, the female re-
latives taking turns to weep over the corpse and
gash themselves with sharp stones. When
“cooked,” the body was skinned, rubbed with
grease and red ochre, and pegged out in a mia-
mia with arms and legs extended. The mouruers
besmeared themselves with melted fat from the
body, then rubbed on charcoal dust. After dry-
ing, the remains were wrapped in bark and pre-
served by relatives; and finally after some months
the body was consumed outright by fire.
* • * •
Quaint, authentic love-letter recently
picked up in a Vic. country district :
My dearest allis i be in good helth only dyin to see you
and i thank God and i hope you are the same, dearest
allis i be sory you dont like the place you are in but never
mind i hope you will soon have a house of your own, and
be your own missus, dearest allis i am almost always
thinking of you and have no more nuse to tell excep that
my sister has got a baby girl and i will not be hapv till
we hav a deer litel one to. sometimes i think our not
will never be tide and i fele sik and despairin like I am
going to tomorrow to get the ring and you mus
mete me at bill noonans and dont ferget the sise of your
Anger and bring it with you. dearest allis i have sa\ed
nerly 5 ponds to by things and i hav got a good lot of
possums skins and a few bandy koots scalps i nerly got a
dingo on satday wat is worth 5 shilins i hav got the house
papud if you can send me any war cries or snap shots
papers to' do the pasich wit i wil be glad our ole sow eot
yung uns on Sunday nite derest allis no more at prisint
from your futur lovin husbin P.S. i wild like the wedin
to be on queus burth day becus i have a
day orf but i mus be bak to to milkin i
dont care wot parson you hav, but get the chepist
as i dont no wot muny i will have lef out of the
6 ponds after i get the ring and things. P.S. dont let
them neuse papar chaps no notin or they wil put us in
the say. P.S. l only snared 6 posums last nite but 3 was
rumpers i fancy John blips and tomm simsun mus hav
been ere or them posum pirits wot the cromcul got on
to. i sen you lot of kisus but their ary on papur xxxxxx
* • * •
A “ guessing-match ” at the recent Manil-
dra (N.S.W.) agricultural show resulted in a tie ;
SHEPHERDS’ CROOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Land of Aready
Strephon, sighing, took
Chaste Matilda in his arms,
And her shepherd’s crook.
Now, but not in Aready,
Strephon goes to shear
With “ Matilda” on his batik ;
His ambition—beer.
Also in the shearing-sheds
(Strephon he will rook)
Comes the “gun ” with loaded “tats”
He’s the “ shepherd’s crook.”
J.A.P.
Strong in Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An island in the Southern seas,
Blue sky and hill and balmy breeze,
And such rare atmosphere and trees
As you desire.
The islanders, a thankless lot,
Owed such religion as they’d got
To their good pastor in the pot
Above the fire!
His visage glowed amongst the steam,
’Twas hot, but he contrived to beam
With holiness and joy supreme.
“ And now,” he cried,
“ Before the cook the dinner brings
And knife upon the platter slings,
Oh, thank the Giver of good things,
Both boiled and fried.
“ Beloved brethren of this place,
Lift up your voices for a space ! ”
He spoke the customary grace,
And then he died.
SUKAS SNELL.


i.
CHARMS
Have been worn in all ages, and ever will be. The latest is the
“ Lucky Rusty Iron Horse Shoe” in miniature, set with the gem
of the month of birth. We have just opened a shipment of these,
which range in price from Bs. 6d. to 215., according to the gen»
chosen.
Fairfax Roberts, Art Jewellers, 23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W. A.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ASK AND YE SHALL RECEIVE.”
The best is worth asking for: “D.C.L.”
Whisky is the best that Scotland produces, and
you are not likely to get it unless you specially
ask for it. “ D.C.L.” Whisky, please.*
LIFE—
Assurance Co., Ltd.
Head Offices: Or. Moore and Castlereagh Sts,, Sydney.
Directors :
JOHN SEE, Esq., M.P., Chairman.
W. J. LYNE, Esq., M.P.
J. J. POWER, Esq., M.B.
F. B. FREEHILL, Esq., M.A.
JOHN J. GARVAN, Esq., F.S.S., Managing
Director.
SIR W. P. MANNING, Knt.
F. COFFEE, Esq.
Actuary: W. R. DOVEY, F.F.A. General Secretary: ARTHUR M. EEDY.
Resident Secretary: P. J. O’DRISCOLL.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
two of the competitors hitting within half-a-pound
the weight b.) of the cow dealt with.
• * • •
Among The Bulletin mail :
Telegram from South Broken Hill station, addressed to
the Sydney Bulletin, Sj’dney. “My letter is coming.”—
The Poet of the North, o/o Hegarty’s Hotel.
And “you are requested to give no fee or gratuity
to the messenger ” of tidings like this 1
• • • •
“J.D.”: Concerning those bush - poets
who cut verses on trees (recent Bulletin). They
probably do it to dodge the hungry w.p.b., and
ensure publication. Was recently travelling
through a Tas. forest, far from the tracks of the
regular globe-trotter, and dropped across this, cut
on the smooth bark of a white-gum tree :
Dear Bulletin. —lf, as “V.” says (B.
29/7/’99), “ the sun has nothing to do with the
‘ lean ’ of trees,” how does lie account for the lean
of 90 per cent, of Australian pine-trees towards
sunrise ? Bathurst.
* * • •
A bad knock for The Bulletin. Letter
to a Central Q. bookseller, showing what the
bushman reads, also what he expects for the large
sum of Bs. :
Mr. ,
Bookseller.
Dear Sir i want you to send me some books i want the
second part of Martin Chuzzllewit in sixpence novels one
Bow Bells, and as many 2 penny Books as the money will
run i am inclosing cheque for eaight Bob here the name
of Books i have not read—
The Feret Afloat.
An ideal Love.
A Terrible Secret.
Captain freelance the Buccaneer.
Montezuma the Merciless.
The three frigates and phearless Privateer.
The Pirate Chief.
The Wolf Demon.
Black Plume the Demon of the sea.
fighting Tom the Terror of the toughs.
red lightning the man of chance.
Five feather the Buccaneer King.
If there is any money over that you can send Back
numbers of Sydney Bulleteen as many as money will run
yours faithfully .
Pay postage as no station here.
* * * *
“ W.0.D.” ; Travelling once with cattle
from Bourke to Orange was awakened one night
in camp by a tremendous bellowing. Went out
and found the cook up a tiee calling out to take
the meat out of the fire. Was informed tli.it bul-
locks will get frantic if they smell blood m the
fire.
According to Abdul Wade,
manager of Bourke Carrying
Co. (ever in trouble with its
colored employes), the only
white men who would do the
co.’B work are not to be trusted
near a pub., and camels cannot,
like horses, be kept standing
around to await the finish of a
symposium. The white man
also, he says, never really take
to the camel. He might have
added that the camel never
takes to the white man either.
* m *
“Scotty”: “0.P.” (B.
5/8/’»9) has probably lived
only on the very worst stations.
The syndicate, reconstruct<-d-
-bank, or limited-owned hold-
ings certainly do send up won-
derful managers, and compel
them to deal entirely with the
metropolis. Then, doubtless,
sugar is muck, the tea shop-
sweepings, and the flour “ best
thirds ” ; but (in the Riverina,
at least) the hut-tucker is
sound and good where the cook
is good. All stations, except
the tied ones, allow plums,
currants, and potatoes and
onions. With good meat and
a good cook these make first-
class food. When, however,
some pimp (who listens to
yarns from the hut and holds
nis billet simply because he is
the refuse of some big financ-
ing firm) is in charge, the men
become of the same sort, and
will eat dirt, morally and
physically, to keep in the good
graces of the so-called mana-
ger. That kind of manager
visits the neighboring town
daily if within range, and
roses as a sheep or cattle king.
saw one of that sort send his
groom for his “private ac-
count ”at a store. The answer
was : “ Tell Mr. Bounder that
he has no private account—he just owes me 4/3
for a hat.”
* * * •
“Retsbew”: Eddington Station (N.Q.)
has improved vastly on the old-style shearers’ and
rouseabouts’ huts. Two long huts are divided into
rooms, each containing four beds with wire mat-
trasses ; and the living huts contain dining-room,
kitchen (with stove), cook’s bedroom and store-
room. There is also a large bath-room-cwm-Java-
tory with four “showers” and 16 wash-basins.
Water laid on from bore and the buildings are
arranged in a quadrangle. Not a rum-inspired
fairy-tale, either. Solid fact!
So appalling is the drought far out in
N.S.W. that in Oobar district a sheep, killed
lately with thousands of others for its fleece, was
found with its paunch stuffed with wool. The
poor beast had apparently nibbled “ dead ” wool
in order to ease its hunger. And Sydney people
are quite sure the drought has broken up because
it has rained in Sydney—if they haven’t forgotten
there ever was a drought.
• • • •
“J. 8.5.”: Re burning of aboriginal in-
fants’ bodies (“ H. V. W., ” 24/6/’99). I have often
seen this done. When an infant dies, the body is
at once dissected, and all the fat removed and
rubbed upon the heads of the chief mourners
(women), who must not cut or wash their hair
until the “ burning of bones ” ceremony takes
Elace. The body is then dried and bound up, and
ecomes mummified. The parents take charge of
it, carrying it about with them in a “dilly-bag”
wherever they go, and keeping strict guard over it
at night, for fear the “devil-devil” should steal
it. After about six months, the tribe assembles
some distance from the main camp, and the
mourners have their hair cut off and burnt with
the child’s remains. This “bone-burning” is to
ensure safety from the “ wild men,” who are sup-
posed to be always on the look-out for stray
infants’ spirits, and the rubbing of the heads with
the fat is to confer a certain charm, which will
protect the spirit until the “ burning ” takes
place. Writer does not give locality.
There are none so blind as those who won’t
hear.” — Scobie McKenzie, in M.L. Lower House.
The Bulletin backs “ Steele Rudd’s” big
book, “On Our Selection,” as the jolliest yet
issued in Australia. Ready next month; with
about 80 illustrations by Vincent, Mahony, Lam-
bert, Fischer, Fullwood, Leist, and a frontispiece
by “ Hop.” Weight, two pounds or thereabouts.
Price, 6s. post-free. Book orders with The
Bulletin at once for immediate despatch; send
stamps (of any Australasian province), postal
notes, or P. 0.0. Christmas is coming; and a
word to the wise Australian is heaps.
The unspeakably wearying Dr. Ross, of
N.S.W. Assembly, has spent most of his spare
time for the last three years in rising to ask the
Government if it will ask astronomer Russell to
kindly state whether there is anything very un-
usual about this kind of weather, and whether we
ever, in the last 34| years, had any weather just
like this before. The vote of censure broke in on
Ross’s meteorological drivel just when he had got
this on the notice paper :
Will he, for the information of the public, obtain from
the Govt. Astronomer a return showing when and where
in previous years the same unsettled weather and amount
of rainfall occurred within the same limited period of
three months, and the same number of wet days in the
same months of June, July, and August?
About the only question Dr. Ross hasn’t asked,
so far, is how many days and a-lialf it would havt
to rain, at how many inches and a-quarter pei
day, before it would be compelled to leave oft
raining for want of any more moisture in the
atmosphere to rain with.
“MANY A TRUE WORD,” &c.
BLACKANWHITE : “ Suppose we judge the pictures of the other
society, and they judge ours next year—what'll be the
result?”
PURPLANKED: “Blank walls!"
“V.” : The native bear doesn't get due
credit for his intelligence. Commence to chop at
a tree in which he is, and he shows first curiosity,
then close attention, and, finally, apprehension.
Given a chance, he’ll come down, but no feint will
fool him. Once shook hands with one. He'd
fallen into a river, and was floating down stream
when I threw a fishing-line and hauled him in.
He looked up so innocently that I made to stroke
his head, but he gripped" the extended hand
hard. 1 shook—enthusiastically, and made re-
marks, but though I had the horny hand of a
navvy, the impress of that shake is with me yet.
ROMANCE IS BEAD.
AUCTIONEER : “ Splendid mare, gentlemen. Why, her breeding alone should sell her —and is she
going for eleven shillings?”
BUYER: “ Don’t you talk ’bout breedin’ these times. I’m reckonin’ on 'er ’ide, ’air, ’oofs, and
bones. Start ’er over again, and I’ll give yer a twopenny stamp.”
(Mare drops dead.)
SPRING.
My sweetheart can never grow old !
While Memory’s doors are a-swinging
Thy beauty, short-skirted in green and in gold,
My sweetheart, can never grow old.
You whisper ’mid wattles and blossoms unfold ;
Your laugh sets the Universe singing,
My sweetheart can never grow old
While Memory’s doors are a-swinging.
I have every reason to believe this triolet original,
for I wrote it myself a couple of springs ago !
Answers to Correspondents.
Mu notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no ease will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Charlecot: Weak little essay on how a little
tired woman on a long hot road saw some savages playing
football... Gobung : Every stereotyped hash-hohse story
has a landlady who jias seen better days, also two
boarders called Perkins and Simpkins City Mutual :
You send a most serious complainti yet you Vive no
name, address, date of episode, or figures to enable us to
decide whether you have any real grievance Imperial-
ist: “A” bet it would be carried by 1000; “B” that it
would be defeated by 100. If it is carried by -100, then
neither wins and the bet, as you describe it, is off. But
if it was agreed that the one whose guess was nearest
takes the money, “B ” wins. He is 200 out; “A ” is 800
out. Toris : Czar-of-Russia-draft is as new as Leviticus.
The Oracle : Eel yarn is moderately good moral in
morally bad verse. Narranghi Boori : Ballad of the
bloke as was copped wants a better singer.
C.A.E. : Why these puerile untruths? Aren’t you the
man who once assured us that Melbourne women were
dyeing their poodles' tails all the colors of the rainbow ?
lleimsdal: When you’ve learnt to put a page into a
line you can write again X.X. : Sydney Victoria Mar-
kets dome is boarded under; but they haven’t yet
boarded the dome of St. Peter’s. For the outside, take
our cook’s criticism : “ A big plum-duff with a lot of
blong-mongshes round it—so pretty!” J.P.R. :As
you’ve absolutely no humor, go and write an Australian
manager’s pantomime .... E.llae. : “ Insanity amongst
barbarians is in inverse ratio to the same amongst
civilised peoples.” Give your authority. Mental aberra-
tion is less clearly recognised amongst uncivilised peoples
than amongst civilised A.D.E Long : You propose to
diminish the “social evil” by abolishing the woman’s
claim for maintenance of her illegitimate child. But
hadn't the unlawful mite itself any say in the
matter? Where will it be if it has no claim on
anybody in particular for its boots and vittles?
J.D. : Tillett's deliverance is a flux of worthless words
R.I.P. : “Invite” as a noun is still unauthorised...
Civilisation Up-to-Date : The writer who begins, “Per-
haps, dear reader,” is Doomed with a D as big as the
Town Hall. .E.P.A. : The banking legislation that
“ saved N.S.W.” in ’93 was drafted by Barton and R. E.
O’Connor—whose names, by the way, were never men-
tioned when eulogies were mouthed in many places,
chiefly at banquets Perce : “Sons of the Sea” makes
excellent reading, but it is too sweeping, and would pro-
bably get us kicked .. Machaon : Version already printed
is the best translation we have ever read .. Glasgow:
Then fell us, please, what is the connecting - link
between ostentatious teetotalism and wholesale em-
bezzlement Jim Pan : The loquacity of the average barber
is a mere legend so far as this scribe’s experience goes
Censor : Get bigger points : we can’t waste a dinner
appetite on the tail of a herring J.D. (Tas.) : Must
walk more gingerly on such a subject 0.8. : When
parson Dill Macky demands that N.S. W. public-house law
shall be brought into accord with English law so that
strangers found on licensed premises on Sundays shall be
prima facie guilty of offence, he wants one end of the
English public-house stick without the other end. The
other end of English public-house law provides that pub-
lic-houses may be open during certain hours on Sun-
days J.A. : The fashion in humor changes every 20
years, or thereabouts. H. J. Byron was a humorist of
the time when ingenious puns were considered excruciat-
ingly funny F.W.F. :Maydo Cantab : Rather dull
practical joke .... The Pipe : Nothing in it save ashes
H.V.G. : A lot of it quite illegible. You should almost
print names in MS. “There is no oontext to a name.”
Medical : Well, as you ask for our personal opinion,
we don’t believe in it. If you send stamped addressed
envelope will recommend you to skilful and reliable
man . .. Lando : Hideous copy—and your style is far too
off-hand for us. “Easy writing is d—d hard reading.”
Bro : It’s no story ; and you couldn’t tell it if it were
E.F.F. : Your soul needs a thorough whitewashing...
Fed.: That sun-moon yarn is “very old Scotch.”
D.M'D. : Received J.S.G. : Ditto Eller: Can you
give name of station ? (emu-story) J.G. : Your ex-
amples to the contrary only strengthen “ B.E.’s ” case.
It takes a humorous person to appreciate the un-humor-
ous N.C.VV. : A gentle little nothing E.P. : No
kernel in it—and not much of a shell, either. .. Scire F. :
Both well-worded, and that’s all ... Alone 14 : Labored
and awkward J.B.D. : “ Poppy,” beneath contempt;
“Dawn” not beneath contempt! .. . .C.M.A. : Sunday-
school item—“welly ni ” for a “tract.” R.J.M. :
Rather clever, but too didactic. Will consider Winda :
“ Hair,” may use Bunting : Good yarn in its way, but
marred by improbabilities of detail and conventionalities
of expression Yang A. : “ Padusi,’’ too matter-of-fact.
...Valhalla : Very ordinary incident, fairly well-dressed in
words . R.P. : “ Understudy,” humorous, but too slight
T.E.K.: Write to Rigby, bookseller, Adelaide VV.R.T.:
A Wairarapa poem at this day ! Stan W. : Good point
badly treat ed... .Gemma: No capacity whatever... E. B. M. :
Reasonably weak A.J.D. : Not skill enough ..Auntie:
Would do tor one hole in a cane chair Steel Pen : Your
“ last attempt” 1 Best congratulations Magnus : In-
gersoll died suddenly and painlessly of apoplexy E. H.
Haw. : We don’t care for didactic verse F.M. : “ Noc-
turne” neat; not point enough .... Clark A. : They’re
clever; but neither style nor interest quite up Larry
(Paraguay): History too ancient Jessie (Fremantle) :
Too weak and wordy P.E. : Flat A. : Limp echo.
S.A.M. : Has real pathos; may use Omen: Too
oonfused and jerky in present form. Might be usable, if
clarified A.G.W. : “Investment” has comedy in it;
will consifler A.M.C.MoC. : Feebly amateurish
Vinegar : Somewhat lacking in firmness of touch. Will
weigh Graham Kent: “ Verdicts ” well handled ; may
print. Don’t remember items referred to Rally : Dog-
reminiscences out of B.’B line. You can’t know much
about canines, anyhow, when you write of a “ pure-bred
beagle ”as being a terror to everybody. The beagle is an
inoffensive little beast that could be kicked over a three-
wire fence Xerxes: “ Maroogaline ” is now under-
stood to be emperor of all the Far Northern niggers
Ali Singh: Yes, it has been printed in Bulletin Arch.
D. : Glad to hear from you Yokel : Thanks. Memt
posted .... The Pipe : “Ride On” has merit, but is too
crude. Verse metrically hopeless ; betting-sketch hardly
up. . Porero: No, Tiie Bulletin does not exact
coupons .... J. Mitchell: “ Craig's Revenge” rather poor
melodrama Cigarette : Grievous want of proportion
about your story. Does any ordinary clerk usually have
the run of “society” like that?. Clish Clash Club :
Not in Bulletin’s vein Pagan :To keep young people
off the streets, open the parks Victim : Encore .
Xanda : Not point, enough ; and the specimen yarn is
Mark Twain’s W.G.W. : Will consider Eiffa : Some
good color and character; but not skill enough E.J.K.:
Tame . E.Z.S. : Some promise ; too long and wordy
Helen B. : Not bad; unsuitable F.W.T. : You must
make your points brightly Alone: Not up H.M. :
Too long and flat Over the Traces : Not skill enough.
R.O. : None usable Snooks : Loose emotion
Leonidas : Weak D.F. : Add the dashes, and pass on.
Caro: Your “ sea is endways ” —and your poem


This is the best time of the year in Syd-
ney—the time when the sea is bluer and the air
'fresher than at any other season, and when the
breeze that idles between the two great Heads is
the voice of the balmy Pacific calling on the tired
Sydney man to come away from his narrow alleys,
and his shabby brown city, and his howling street
locomotives, and be at peace. And he generally
comes. He is a tired-looking, old-looking man
with no particular complexion, and with little bags
under his eyes and .the-feet of the hurrying crow
on his eye-corners, but when he gets on the Mar/ly
boat at Circular Quay, and sees the greeny water,
and the great schnapps-advertisement staring at
him from the wall, he begins to look younger.
And when the big black boat gets out abreast of
the large soap advt. he looks younger still.
Then it swings round out of Circular Quay, and
he sees the everlasting hills with the advt. of the
thirteen-and-sixpenhy pants on them, and a frag-
rant zephyr rises from behind the board that
urges him to buy somebody’s self-raising hat, and
even if he is the worst kind of a Philistine he feels
soothing influences in the creamy foam, and the
dancing waters and tho shadows of the great
brown rocks which call to him to buy his boots at
Anthony Foy Tart's. gets bluer and the
whisky-placard more deafening as he proceeds,
and the water is dotted over with “ white wings,”
and in the glassy deeps alongside the cliffs a re-
flection bids him to forget all his troubles and
drink somebody’s stone-gin. The big board which
advises him to wear Smith’s undershirt casts a
longer shadow on the hillside. Tho sun begins
to go down behind the notioe about something that
cures biliousness. Then the boat makes its last turn
into Manly Bay, whore the 50-yard-long blue board
says that anyone who drinks a oortain brand of
whisky will never nse any other, and, ahead, he
can dimly descry the pleasant little village, and
the tree-lined Corso, and the notice on the wharf
that if you fall down dead moro than three times
you should immediately take So-and-So’s Under-
mining Bitters. Then the sun Anally goes down,
and the stars oorae out,*and the night is full of a
great peace and a long row of advertisements to
ihe effect that Smith’s tin-opener is good for
corns. Also, the first glint of tho rising moon
shines on the ocean where it breaks on tho back
beach, and a soft wind that last saw land when it
, quitted Valparaiso rustles the trees, and the leaves
fall softly from their branches, and as your eye
lazily traces their falling, it reads in big letters
that Bruggina’s ointment is good for the pit of
the stomach. And then you probably sit down
and say all the swears you know 18 times over.
ToR | H A l
try A&ttIIOZONE
A SUMMER DAY ON SYDNEY HARBOR.


fyf) •
~^p/
KU On
&SH
V R>df
<Thj 5 ,s
> orX
7 0r s c
fghfg
jl>o^
J 'ecb
e /
A (*$ W*
G^P
i Moar
I J fyoiz
" wUMe '}<**■
‘ yJ*'-'
A
/^raT^roa 9 A
Ms K
JjS
r °T r ,
xA*?°^ Y
TW
s,
'Kf7r
ft*,.
w.*/
'ffey.
%
t N
Ko^s
Country i
Fi 7c /Sfi
-^° r ' f
'ltfeyVe SKfJj.’j
r
3
\k or^i|\j/
“’"Kj
sfel,
JSsl'
/J~
/and C*r e 7£r
°rf'ciKte
x? fX l^r,->-^ y J rice
&
S&sfe t *f
~ •'->v v
MELBOURNIANA.


Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery fo r IllgddillQ
Saunders’ Stock is Bright; Effective, and Reliable.
Blindly send your orders to us —we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Eure Silver-plated, £> 17s 6d.
Others charire you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 80s. Chased
Silver back, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 15a.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s. Similar styles, 21s,
258. Silver-plated, 18s 6d. Mirror, 20s.
■
8? -
-
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled cases),
£2 10s, five years’ guar.
antee, extra quality;
£4 4b, 15 years' truar-
antee; ditto, 14c, Gold,
patent cases, £6 6s, 20
year*' guarantee, “the
lame strength as a £2O
watch.” Ladies', beau-
tifully ornamented, same price. Mind, “ the above watches are guaran-
teed with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
uphold it." Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watohes.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A- Saunders*
HANDSOME ami bbKt'UL PRESENTS.
Pare Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 103, £5 5s
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. S luaders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 15s,
strong and pretty. Silver, 6s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders'
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 8 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 7e 6d ;
with cover, 8s 6d.
1
A. Saunders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 16s 6d ; Fluted Bands,
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-botile Cruet, 80s;
similar styles, 21s, 255, 35s ;
6-bottle, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-
glass Puff Boxes, 16s 6d,
very cheap.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar Scuttle,
168 6d, 20s, 268.
18c. Gold, pure Double
Cut Diamond, £6 6s;
Larger, £6 os, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
180. Gold, 5 pure Dia -
monds, £4 10s and £6-
8 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£3lOB. Send for book.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Large Diamonds, £3
15c. Gold, 20s, 255, and 30s.
180. Gold Band, Pure Diamonds.
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
r
V_J
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Tonsrs, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, without case. ss, 7s 6d half-dozen.
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255; with
Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Biscuit), £3,
£3 10s, £4 ; handsome present.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 16c. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3. Any Name or
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8s 6d ;
Larger, 10s.
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free,
(nearly opp Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.
Fixed Price, large Bottle, 56; small, 3/6; One Doz. large Bottles, 60/-.
Head Quarters
. . Institute
45-47 BoCirke Strsst, Mslbo(iroe-
A REMEDY THAT CURES.
cr
. *<»
Mi;’;
Miss CL Alt A E. ELLIOTT.
August 15, 1898.
Zeehan, Tasmania.
Mr. W. WEBBER.—
* r , , I ? wir Sir.- Sorry I had not written before to tell vou of the (rood VTT AD A ttya a , . T .
for I feel better now than I have done for a long long time. B 1 All ° has doi,e me ; bufc 1 was on] y wa ' fcin * for a while so that I could be sure it was lasting, and I think I can say it is
» week I suffer more than I can telh
CLARA E. ELLIOTT.
VITADATIO.
ing
are suffer-
Braocb iDStitOtes at Adelaide, Pcrtl), Brisbane ai)d Wdliogtoi), N.Z.
Depots in all Principal Cities and Towns, and from
Chemists and Grocers EVERYWHERE.
S. A. PALM Eli,
Agent-General for
Australasia.
Sydney Institute
- - - 184 PITT STREET.


FOREIGUV STAMPS
'postage:
I mmAh
'AUSTRALIA'
Seta 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, la6d; 16 Rournania, 6d;
8 Bootiia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 16 Heligoland, la;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, la 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
6d; 50, la; 100,256 d; 150, 6a. Re-
mit by P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 340 Little Collius-street, MELBOURNE.
Tb« B. ai>d N.Trcatnjeot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tiomxl, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
ma ;ist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Pi Lee, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
iELBOUKNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
A FEW “POINTS”
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT,
AND
Soothes the Aching Part,
and wherever pain Is present Homocea or
Homocea Embrocation should be used.
Sold, by all Storekeepers, General Dealers, and Chemists.
Dear Sir. —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Beat Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
' £1 Saved ia equivalent
to £5 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Arnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
NOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whoopingcough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.— Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold's Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
H
SR
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 10s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
0d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Fauut-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4/6,
6/6, 10/6, 12,6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
• ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
The Life of the System.
Important to Parties Furnishing:!
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers . . .
KST Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL’S give Value for Value— 2os. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Publio to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate cr Assigned Estates.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
Publications.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
or RARE, CURIOUS,
AND laughable books.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
A MUSICAL EDUCATION FREE.
A Complete Self-Instructor, enabling any one to play
Piano or OaoAN at SIGHT, and without ditticulty brilliant
aco>rii|)anim<'iits to any song ever written. Pratt’s Chart or
Chorus lor Piano or O gun embraces nearly every major and
minor Chord ued in music, a dis ajahortcuttoharrmny It
18 THE MOST COJIPIU HENSIVE YE'J SIMPLEST CHART EVER pur-
ltshed. Endorsed by teachers and musicians everywhere.
FREE
The price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to in-
tronuce it into every home, we will send free the
Giant Album of 184 .-tongs, words and music, containing many
old and new favorites, together with the Chart for ONLY
2/6, posted 2/8, stamps 2d. extra. Address: Anglo-American
Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers,Sydney, N>.W. Men-
tion this paper when writing. AGiSNTa WANIED
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beanty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Money Order. Beware poor imitations
ol my High-class Art.
B. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCK
VAITJABLE BOOKS
Written by leading
practitioners.
No. l.—Man, Know Thyself.
No. 2.— Woman, Know Thyself.
No. 3.—Boyhood and Youth; Its Snares and
V>itfalls. The simple truth.
No. 4.—Nature’s Mysteries.
Cheap edition of any one of the above valuable books
posted for 6d. in stamps of any colony. Write for
particulars and catalogue post free.
W. H. JENKINS, 41 Stephen-st., Melbourne.
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, £5, for £1 ss; The Home Physician,
£2 10s, for 20s; Universal Instructor, £1 15s, for 15s;
Webster’s Household Dictionary, 255, for 10s. I have the
Largest Stock of Second-hand Books in New South Wales.
Write for Catalogues. I have also Three Choice Books,
Is 6d each, or three for 4s (can only be procured by post).
The History of Australian Bushraneing, by White, Is 3d.
All books sent post free. Telephone 3043.
Second-hand \
Book Arcade, /
R. W. Skinner
J 105 Castlereagh-
\ street, Sydney.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
-—SAUCE.
THt
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice.. •
o
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Sest
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy “ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins."
9
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AMD OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
itis Cure.
- - - THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR - - -
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA ANP CONSUMPTION.
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in Australia-
THOSE who have taken this Medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, 1 ain or Soreness in the Chest,
experience delightful and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation mMe throat,
and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where Coughs have been
properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete oure is certain.
Prepared Only and Sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small Size, 2/6; Large, 4/6, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address, when not Obtainable locally.
kemp’s Patent Sb?ep-Brai)dii)g Liq Cid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear Lasting 1 Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure tlie Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade <fc Go*,
MELBOURNE. ’
agbms-E. KIOH &CO. LTD-
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black., Rod, and Bine. 3s 6d per gall, in Melb and Sydney; 3s Od per gall. In Brisbane.


SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
11 rrt a, and Jb' oc3La,ll.
Most popular TEAS of the age.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDENIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow!
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW’S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMKENDADOS PORT WINE.
JAMES INO LIS & CO.’S SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc., Colonial and Imported.
JAMES ING-LIS & CO., Millers,
Manofacturkrs and Importers,
DEANS PLACE, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
COLEMANE Afib SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
tHC ONLY PURLIN THE WGRLO.
ASK
FOR
A**“"
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
All Nourishment Disagreed.
INDIGESTION CAUSED MANY SLEEP-
LESS NIGHTS.
“Suffering for some considerable time with indi-
gestion, causing me to have many sleepless nights,
I consulted several medical men, and paid well for
advice and medicine, getting no relief. I was
advised to give Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills
a trial, and am pleased to say that my trouble
gradually but surely left me. I took six bottles of
Warner’s Safe Cure, and now sleep well, and
enjoy my meals with comfort.” —M. R. FRENLY,
North Terrace, Adelaide.*
Arthur Russell, A merican dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations,*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Goorgo Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Bleetro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Iggr- Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Tbe Perfeot Slieep-Marlter.
In Three Colors —BLACK, BED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL- MAR KING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. . KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Transvaal’s reply to Chamberlain (pal
of Raider Jamieson) is described as “imperti-
nent.” So was the lamb’s reply to the wolf.
G. H. Reid proposes, if out of office at the
time, to stump all Australia in the interests of
Freetrade for the Federation —Freetrade at home
and abroad.
The “straight griffin ” from S.A. Premier
Kingston at Adelaide Eight Hour Day: “The
way to get into the Legislative Council is to be
kicked out of the House of Assembly.”
Toowoomba (S.Q.) where old Father
Groom’s Chronicle howled something terrible
about the horrors of Federation, gave a Federal
majority of 56—“ Yes,” 822 ; “No,” 766.
A prominent S.A. politician offers to bet
that, if they stand, neither Bonython nor Sow-
den, the rival Adelaide editors, will be elected to
the Federal Senate. Bonython has long aspired
to represent E. Adelaide in the Assembly, but
the fear that a defeat would bring loss of prestige
to his paper, always kept him back.
Several of Premier Kingston’s erstwhile
supporters are in danger of u ratting ” over
Household Suffrage. They favor a .£l5 qualifica-
tion as a “ compromise,” The danger of losing his
great scheme when ju9t on the eve of a victory is
exceedingly annoying to Kingston, whose only
chance at the polls is to have a united party at his
back.
Teetotal crank Isitt has been requested, to
stand for Masterton, M.L., at next election and
has asked “ the party ” to say if he can do more
good for it inside than outside the House. Cer-
tainly he cannot do it much more harm inside
than his reckless and offensive bigotry and con-
stant falling-away from the solemn truth have
done it outside.
Significant telegi'Sm from Perth (W.A.)
last week :
The Select'Federal Committee originally intended to
report to Parliament to day but has now derided to call
witnesses tn faoor'of' Federation. The editors of the
leading papers at Kalgoorlie, Coolirardie, Albany,
Qeraldton—all Federalists— will be examined.
Obviously the original idea was only to call
witnesses who were not favorable to Federation.
Although the number of votes polled in
Queensland (some 67,000 in all) was 35,000 short of
the possible total, it was still high enough to gratify
the most ardent Anti-Federalist. It had been
proposed in Parliament to fix 50,000 or 35,000
votes as a minimum, but both these figures were
left far behind. Consequently it becomes the
losing party to take its licking with a good grace
—for, by its own confession, the vote polled was
perfectly satisfactory.
The Argus bluntly says that Lyne, Federal
enemy and reviler of the sister States, will not do
as Commonwealth Premier. “ Possibly there is
an unwritten compact that Mr. Lyne is to lead
in the local House, and that, as regards the
Premiership, he will stand aside for Mr. Barton ;
but if neither Mr. Reid nor Mr. Barton is avail-
able, the call ought to go to the Premier of one of
the other federating colonies. Premier Turner’s
chances are looking up.”
Significant that Venn, M.P., appointed
chairman of the Westralian Select Committee to
‘‘inquire into” the Commonwealth Bill as it
affects the Forrest province, represents the Collie
coal district —of all Westralian country districts
the most blindly hostile to the Bill. “ What
will happen if the Bill passes ? ” Bigjohn asked one
Collie witness. “Well, for one thing Mr. Venn
will lose his seat if he talks Federation,” was the
probably unexpected answer.
The monopolist cable .syndicates inter-
viewed Hicks-Beaoh and Chamberlain in London
last week, and got little for their pains. They
opposed the idea that the British Govt, should
aid the construction of the Pacific cable on the
ground that it was an unjustifiable interference
with private enterprise—in other words, with the
fat monopoly which has enabled them to pile up a
fighting reserve fund of six millions—largely by
over-charging Australian cables. And, finally, if
Govt, is determined to have the cable, the syndi-
cates want to build it themselves. But, if there’s
money in it for the syndicates, with stronger
reason there’s money in it for Australia, Canada
and Britain.
The Australian Agricul-
tural Co. paid £2OOO land-tax on
its N.S.W. properties in the
year 1898. Still its net profits for
that year were £57,554. Before
it lost the Newcastle coal-mono-
poly in 1847 its revenues were
treble what they are now. This
co. is a standing text for the
necessity of a graduated land and
absentee tax. Its more than a
million acres stunt the develop-
ment of three N.S.W. centres.
It owns 464,640 acres in the
Newcastle district, 314,000 in the
Tamworth, and 250,000 in Gun-
nedah district. It has held these
areas for 76 years, for over 70
of which it paid neither land nor
income tax. Even the present
small Id. land-tax would have in
that time given N.S.W. back
over £150,000. In Tamworth an
agitation goes on toget the Govt,
to resume for settlement some of
the co.’s land. In other quar-
ters similar demands are sure to
be made. But the experiment
of a graduated land-tax merits
a trial first.
Fifty-two members of Maori-
land House of Representatives have
been sounded by some more or less
unauthorised person as to their Federal
leanings. Of these 27 are said to lean towards
Federation; 17 to lean away from it; and eight
have no visible lean either way. Also mentioned
that the Bootmakers’ Union at windy little Inver-
cargill has decided against union with Australia.
The bootmakers of Perth and Brisbane are, to a
great extent, on the same side, and the boot-
makers of Sydney were also largely disunionist.
Apparently the pallid, bowed man, whose whole
life is spent stooping over boots, becomes unfit to
take a wide view of thing.
The late Charles Lilley was well known as
a staunch Democrat. He was, moreover, a firm
believer in the theory that Australia’s destiny,
sooner or later, was to become an independent
nation. Consequently Lilley was bitterly opposed
to Imperial Federation. It will scarcely be
believed that a prominent Brisbane Anti-Federal
organ had the meanness to pass off portions of
Lilley’s attack on Imperial Federation as invec-
tives burled against the cause of Australian
unity.
Although Victorian M.’sP. are provided
with free postage for all letters mailed at Parlia-
ment House, some members decline to avail them-
selves of the privilege. Wrixon has always done
so. He may often be seen writing a letter at the
table of the Leg. Council, but he invariably takes
a stamp from his pocket-book and sticks it on the
envelope. Squatter Staughton, in the Assembly,
does ditto, and he also declines to draw his salary
of £3OO a year. Yet both these members—very
rich men, by the way—wear free railway passes
on their watch-chains, and presumably use them.
Why strain at a postage-stamp (value at most £5O
a year) ? Apropos, from remarks made last week
in N.S.W. Assembly, it would seem that the
N.S. W. Labor-party hesitates to accept free
postage.
SHAKE!
“In this dispute England has exerted herself to the utmost to avert hostilities.” —Daily paper.
CHAMBERLAIN : “ Come, Kruger, lam sure this matter can be settled amicably. Give us your Band.”
“Premier Turner, questioned in re sending
home a representative politician to be present
whilst the Commonwealth Bill is being dealt with
by the Imperial Parliament, does not think such a
course necessary. The Agents-General and the
cable will do all that is wanted.” Thus are
several personages deprived of a free trip to Eng-
land, a gorgeous time at the Hotel Cecil, much
public-banquet grease, and the chance of ad-
ditional titles —by a soulless attorney who, instead
of sending an embassy to England, sends merely a
cheap envelope,
Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords
rejected Woman Suffrage by 27 votes against 17.
A year or two ago it would probably have pro-
tested by 40 votes to four against any such shock-
ing attempt to move it out of its ancient rut. The
acceptance of the Federal Constitution, and the
practical necessity thereby created for passing
One-man-one-vot-e have shaken up the 48 Pro-
prietors a gi od d *al, and the time will probably
come in a year or two when a proposal to reform
Council itself will only be thrown out by 38 to 2,
or thereabouts —the other eight members being
“ MEASURE FOR MEASURE."
(At a Hielan' gatherin’.)
M‘NAB : “ Eh, Sondy, mon, but A’am sair grieved
t ’ see ye drinkin’ sic wash as beer on siccan a
day.”
M’DROUTH : “ Hoots, mon, A’am seemply makin
up in beer what Aa promised my Janet Aa
wadna tak’ in whusky.”
laid up with rush of blood to the head through
rage at the sacrilege of the thing.
“Z.” writes: “Eight N.S.W. Ministers
voted confidence in themselves at the close of the
censure debate. This, though no more in the Reid
crowd than in its predecessors, is a piece of political
effrontery which should receive a speedy quietus.
In a close division such a practice enables a Govt,
to retain power purely by its own faith in itself.
J. C. Neild also voted against Lyne’s motion as
amended by Fegan. The spirit of wholesome
Parliamentary practice is that no member shall
cast his vote on a subject which directly and im-
mediately affects his own special interests, senti-
mental or financial. Where do.the eight Min-
isters and J. C. Neild stand in view of that prin-
ciple ? Arraigned.” [But, then, Lyne and O’Sul-
livan, and every other man who had reasonable
hope of a salary when Reid was thrown out,
shouldn’t have voted either. Reid, who had
,£lB2O a-year to gain by having confidence in
Reid, wasn’t a fair judge re Reid’s deservingness
of confidence. And Lyne, with £lB2O a-year to
gain by not having confidence in Reid, was no
better a judge.— Ed. £.]
It was averred during the N.S.W. want-
of-confidence debate that the direct reason why
Premier Reid paid the expenses incurred by Jaw-
bone Neild in compiling his Old-Age-Pension
report, despite the understanding that no expense
whatever was to be incurred, was that Neild was
at the moment so necessitous as to be in danger of
losing his life-assurance policy. Which, if true,
sheds another side-light on the financial mirk of
Australian politiciandom.
Weary, dreary, old W. H. Groom did hi*
level best to sweep back the Federation flood.
The chief objection to Union urged by W.H.G*
was the precarious tenure of life among Darling
Downs potatoes and turnips at the first breath of
Southern competition. Toowoomba brags that it
is surrounded by the finest agricultural country in
all Australia, and yet it fears competition from
the distant Victorians. The squatters in the old
days alleged that the Downs would “ nevergrowa
cabbage,” but the cabbage-intellect (to judge by
the number of Groom’s followers) flourishes there
in great profusion.
On Monday (Sept. 4) Brisbane Telegraph
told the last great lie of its Parochialist campaign.
It headed its leading article in big letters:
“Victory for ‘No.’” And then it cheerfully
advertised itself as an Ananias and an a§s in its
first two sentences :
Although the returns of Saturday’s pollings are not yet
complete—will not, indeed, be so for some days to come
■ —enough is known of the results to enable us to form a
fairly accurate idea as to the will of the electors on the
subject which was submitted to them. Put in brief, the
figures show that of the votes, ’hich were cast there was
a majority of about four thousand seven hundred in
favor of the Convention Bill.
Westralian Govt, is resolved to make its
big land monopolists spend some money on their
property. All land is to be fenced, and, in addi-
tion, there must be improvements to the value of
3s. per acre on first-class, 2s. per acre on second-
class, and Is. per acre on third-class lands. If
this matter is not attended to by .1902 there is to
be a fine of Id. in the £ up to 5000 acres and
in the £ after that. So the small offender with
500 acres will be fined Id. in the £, and for the
large one with 55,000 acres the fine will average a
shade over In some countries they would
make the fine heavier the larger the offence, but
they don’t do things like that in Groperland.
The last war-shriek of Brisbane 'Tele-
graph before Referendum day :
Queenslanders, as we know you, as we have depicted
you, the question to-day is if you are going to insult
Providence and Queen Victoria by bartering this mag-
nificent possession for vaporous sentiment, for the cant
about a “ larger life,” a “ higher plane,” “ nationhood,”
“ brotherly spirit,” and such like patter of empty heads
which mistake the sound in them for sense. You have
made a gallant stand, and gained a moral victory ; if you
go down, it will be with colors nailed to the mast. The
people of Queensland do not know a bugle-call of retreat.
If we sink it will be with the ringing cry, “ Queensland
por Queenslanders.”
To insult Providence is rough, but to insult Pro*
videnc6 and Queen Victoria is simply awful.
Crowder, Westralian M.L.C. and member
of the select committee which is keeping the Bill
from the people, has decided agin it. The subjeott
of specked oranges, or something of the sort, was
racking the committee’s brain. Somebody sug-
gested that, under this odious Bill, they couldn’t
keep specked oranges out—Sydney might hire the
fleets of the world and fill ’em with specked
oranges, and dump the lot at Fremantle. It was
pointed out that the province could have its own
inspection laws.
Sir John Forrest: Yes ; but “ any such inspection laws
may be annulled by the Parliament of the Common-
wealth."
Hon. F. T. Crowder : The power of the Commonwealth
would not prevent us from prohibiting diseased fruit
from coming in.
Sir John Forrest: Yes.
Hon. F. T. Crowder : Then I am against that game.
Under the Commonwealth there will be two
Governments to keep specked oranges out of
Westralia instead of only one, as at present —but
Crowder couldn’t see that.
“Tui Tea”: The Federal ball is rolling
in Maoriland. A newspaper plebiscite of mem-
bers of the House of Representatives shows a
majority in favor of Maoriland entering the Com-
monwealth. The wily Premier declines, how-
ever, to let the House debate the question this
session. Like Reid, he takes a Yes-No attitude
until he learns how the electoral cat is going to
jump. The commercial community to a man
favours M.L. casting in her lot with the Common-
wealth. As regards the rest of the public, it
would seem that Federation will be helped by
“ faddy”ration. All the peculiar people—the
Freetraders, the Single-Taxers, the Anglo-Israel-
ites —swear by the Commonwealth. Even piety
is pressed into the service in a rather nauseating
fashion. The president of the Auckland Federa-
tion League, a Wesleyan lawyer, has circularised
the parsons to pray “ that the people may be led
and guided by Almighty God in this important
matter.” This is the result of the Almighty
clause in the preamble to the Federal Constitu-
tion. It looks bad for Seddon, all the same. An
Opposition led by the Almighty will be a different
thing from the shilly-shallying leadership of
“ Captain ” Russell.
THE BRADDON BLOT.
A workman, in an idle, drowsy hour,
Let fall his brush, and lo 1 a wondrous flower
Appeared to glorify its maker’s name;
The workman, grinning, 'neath it scrawled his name.
Tas.
J.D.


Way bask io tb« early Fifties—
In fact In *53-
CALL or
WRITE for
CATALOGUES
They’re FREE .
PALING’S
PIANO aod ORGAN
BUSINESS WAS
ESTABLISHED and it’s BIS Now.
We have steadily grown to be
TN€ • LARSCST • MUSIC • STORE »IN» AUSTRALASIA.
You are not limited to PIANOS and OR6ANS only,
You can purchase as well Cheaper and Better,
Eygry Kpowp Musical IpStrCirpcpt.
PALIN (a’S Tinjg Paynjcpt Systgip makes buying Easy. All Goods (aQaraptgcd and
Sold at LowgStPricgS.
W. H. PALING aC° L TC 338
6EORGE STREET,
SyPNEY
Brisbane
Mewcastl
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG'S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists and
and Stores.
LOZENGES.
Legal Notice.
"N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
Mr. Justice Real.
1890—No. 106.
In the matter of the Estate of THOMAS
HENDERSON ANNETTlateof George-
street Brisbane in the colony of Queens-
land Civil Engineer deceased intestate
Between
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES Limited
Plaintiffs and RICHARD CHARLES
FRANCIS ANNETT Defendant.
WHEREAS by a Judgment of our Supreme
Court the following inquiries were directed to be
taken : (1) An inquiry as to who were the next of
kin of the abovenatned intestate living at his death
and whether any of them have since died and if so
who are their respective legal personal representa-
tives. (2) An inquiry whether JAMES JOHN
ANNETT the lawful brother of the said intestate
is living or dead and if dead when he died and
whether he left any and what will and whether he
was ever married and if so when and to whom and
whether there were any children of the
said marriage and who are his legal personal
representatives. And by a further order
of the said Court the said inquiries were
directed to be taken by advertisement. This
is to Notify JAMES JOHN ANNEIT if
alive or any persons claiming to be interested in
the abuvementioned estate through the said James
John Annett if dead or any other person claiming
to be the next of kin of the said THOMAS HEN-
DERSON ANNETT deceased that they are on
or before MONDAY the thirtieth day of OCTO-
BER 1899 to come in and prove their claims at my
Chambers Supreme Court Brisbane or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Judgment. Any person or
persons who can supply any information concern-
ing the said JAMES JOHN ANNETT or in any-
wise relating to the inquiries above referred to are
requested to communicate with me before the date
abovementioned. FRIDAY the third day of
NOVEMBER 1899 at eleven o’clook in the fore-
noon at my said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this twenty-sixth day of August A.n. 1899.
(Stamp) J. BLOOD SMYTH
Registrar.
W. H. Wilson and Hemming
Selborne Chambers
Adelaide-street Brisbane
{Solicitors for the Plaintiff*.
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
VV FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
O* E P*O P * E O* E D*S * N Y.~]
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Wesleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 29/4/’99.
Dear Sir.—l beg to acknowledge receipt of Watch and
Chain, and am pleased to state that both are very
satisfactory. Yours truly, M. COCK.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 lOs.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. 1 make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
ot Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE
a rtTfTc I a l teeth.
FULL SETS, £3 10 s.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
V HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Thorough Mastication and beautiful Natural Appearance
guaranteed; also, Painless Extractions and Stoppings,
otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
oVt
ot|W 10
*t, '° r
~o . oS
ts&S^
d-
•jjL.oa-'
A**®*
e»
g* 1
n v^'
Mee 1
A io *
-got 6 * 0.
,os*>
e^ et
ft VcvQ e *
fu 6
fbe Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Australasia [td.
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
||)ont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
# SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department enhance.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
! MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street o acin ‘ rßrid ? e - at ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. ICmp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Mkkks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. 11. Pkachkt, L. A. Jkssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clvnk ; Brisbane. J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
A Good Spec. 60s each.
Allotments, 50 x 150.
Adjoining Bishop Gibney’s Estate, Perth,
West Australia. Easy Terms. Torrens’
Title. A Genuine Investment.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoo A Laoca&bir*
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
ltranch :
}
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
\nthoriaed Capital, £600,000. Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of tbe Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKKNNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
Sydney Office
Manager— I
LIMITED.
16 Bridge Street.
! Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarkb* (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPtiAL £700.00J
Capital Paid-up- . ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share n , rn
holders 260,000 ... £350,000
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Jbe TrOstccs, €*€cGtor&,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaijy Lirgited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. -..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital . . £3,123,555 15 0
Directors;
Robert ■ Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
. Esq., J.P. ; Hon. \V. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopagate Street Within 1
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765- assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,143,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
TBLIC
INTERCOLONIAL-^-^
Mines Purchase Option
AyD
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
\\7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
’ ’ Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of -Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, llarvky Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200,000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
•William Alfred Cottke, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackbllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office -Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects £pr
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH & COB 3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LINS.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.ui.
Sept. 22
October 13
November 3
All the above have splendid accommodation and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the lied Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-elass passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, 3 Bent Street, SYDNEY.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL.
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 16, 12 Noon.
-Konoowarra, Tues., Sept. 19, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 23, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO.
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., October 3, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., October 3, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Sat., September 16,12 Noon.
Buninyonjr, Tues., Sept. 19, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 23, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 16, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 23, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carpo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, arid Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
jjniuiraith.lD'Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND • ... .... . .
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'.lwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Gollins-street.
Business Announcements.
OTTO HERZ & COL’S SHOES
are celebrated for their quality.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
are well known for their elegance.
OTTO HERZ & Co.’S SHOES
never lose their shape.
OTTO HERZ & CO SHOES
fit the foot to perfection.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
have a 40 years’ reputation.
OTTO HERZ & GO'S SHOES
form the most comfortable footwear.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
are sold by all of
JOHN HUNTER & SON’S (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(U MIT 151>.
Express Passenger Service to and from West. Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POBT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Pi Ibarra, Friday, Sept. 15.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, Sept. 23.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Tran shipping at Freman tie
to
VASSE, DONGAItRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday,
Sept. 15.
S.S. Marlioo, Saturday,
September 23.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
September 15.
Best it■ Cheapest Jtoufe to Ooldftehls.
Passage tickets are interchangeable! with the A. U.S.N.
Oompany at all ports.
G. S. YUILL ami CO., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYD.NEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, ) 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELA WNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
fjuddart, Parker £ (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines. A*
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COOHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin,
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co ~ Managing Agents,
87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
German
m.
wy
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons’ cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South A merica, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Ll
°yd
A- U- S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maekav,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN— Every 3 Weeks, via Ibis
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attend"nee and
Culsineun rivalled.
Full Particulars, from the Agents:; .
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE - A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Gtirrie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH D^HamiltOn.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


National Cash Registers.
HOTELKEEPERS*
SPECIAL BAR jVJACNINC. ~ ~
47 E.B.
Saves
Time,
31oney
vS
--
»■
a ; »
-
mk
m
■■■-
gKI3?VHWn3
iNnowy
=srs<c»?ivv
Prevents
Q
Mistakes,
e
Dishonesty
9
j ßankruptcy.
€XP€RI€NTIA POC6T.
“ I have used 23 of your NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS. Now I would not
conduct my business without them.
“J. J. POWER,
“ Hotel Victoria.
“Sydney, N.S.W.”
“No hotelkeeper (even where his
own family are the only cash receivers)
should be without one.
“C. J. HUGHES,
“ Unicorn Hotel.
“ Ballarat, Yic.
BNatioijal Casb Register
COMPANY.
Full particulars, prices, etc., on application to
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE:
303 &EOR.GE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
%
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address —9O King Street, Sydney.
r-r
D P
Solid Gold Extra Strong
Japanese Good Luck, 20,-
Solid Gold and Real Opal, 17 (>
With Rub}' or Sapphire, 20/-
9c., 17/6,20/-; 15c., 35/-, 40/-
With Monogram, 2/6 extra.
9c., 20/-; 160., 37/6;
Silver, 4/6 pair.
Gold Boomerang; and
Real Opal Heart, 40,'-
pair.
Federation Shield, Solid
Gold, 13/6; Plain, 11 6.
9c., 10/6, 12/6;
16c., 25/- pair.
9c., 19/-; 15c., 35/-;
Silver, 4/- pair.
Real Amethyst or Topaz
Links, Extra Strong,
6/6 pair.
9ct. Gold, 14 - pair.
With any Monogram.
9c., 11/6, 12,6; 15c., 25/-
9c., 20/-; 15c., 87/6;
Silver, 4/6 pair.
Good Fortune and Enamelled
Chrysanthemum, 27/6 pair.
9c., 13/6; 15c., 25/-;
Silver, 3/- pair.
9c., 17/6; 150., 85/- pair.
9c., 19/-; 16c., 35/-;
Silver, 4/- pair.
n
TTTF. ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS, 9c. Gold, 12/0; 150. Gold, 25.'-; Silver, 2/6 pair.
9c., 22/6; 160., 37/6
Silver, 4/6 pair.
9c., 22/6 ; 15c., 40/-
Silver, 4/6 pair.
9c., 21/-; 160., 35/-;
Silver, 4/- pair.
a
Wild Boar’s Tusk, Gold
Mtd., 10/6 ; Silver, 4.6.
All Articles sent Post Free to any address.
Please send for our Illustrated Slips of
Latest Novelties.
THE OWL
CUT RATE
Consulting and
31
fp
K
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, .£1; Cut Prioe, 18a. 6d.
Dk. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
A Concentrated, VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT : a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonio for the NERVES
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
READ Til USE FACTS.—Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REIN VIGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
vicor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON'S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLACY.—PeopIe run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR.
£loo.— We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 78. fid. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Eleotric Belts. No more COLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFICALLY MADE. -This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanio current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH AND LIVER.-The remedy moat re-
quired to afford speedy and effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Elect ro Rand. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—ln fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BELTS.—Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Postpone old age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. HUGHES'S FITSEPILEP.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of theatre.
So successful has it proved In these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PYRAMID PILE CURE.
This is the latest speeifio (or CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character of
INWARD or OUTWARD I’ll,KS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE
On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 2o per cent. Reduction.
Address s
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDER RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
PLEASURE in your Bicycle riding depends on
the Bicycle. There never has been any question
about the EASY RUNNING MASSEY - HARRIS.
It has always given satisfaction.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sidney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free en application.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them," by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the dep6t, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Everybody will be interested in the letter
from the pen of Mr. G. M‘Master, which is repro-
duced on page 4of this issue. Mr. M‘Master was
for many years Chairman of the Land Board a.t
Moree, N.S.W., and now occupies a similar posi-
tion at the Lands Office, Sydney. His practical
experience and marked success in the use of 1 Ply
P & B Ruberoid in the manner described entitles
his words to serious consideration, as they demon-
strate a method of using P & B Ruberoid which
furnishes a “neat, serviceable, light, substantial ’
roof at less cost fixed, than iron.*
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
QjLa
'kW
4iCWi ; -*» c & u
Zj/\JC QLriAAAA*”''-
9
( fr U , -£uLCUX
;
z*XaJ£ jwC
Q^-m***-
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Preveuts
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 2/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS C 0„ LTD,,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
' vr"
v
tv
%
%
*
THAT CRIMSON WHEEL IS EITHER A
RCP BIRP!
or else ib is endeavoring to sleigh-ride on RED BIRD reputation. Don’t be deceived
into buying a bicycle “as good as,” and refuse any but the real thing. There
are many who purchase the products of repair shops and plough factories through
the influence of a friend (?), who (jets a commission.
Experienced cyclists buy RED BIRDS, the wheels of known quality.
CALL AND LEARN ALL ABOUT THEM.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY LIMITED.
Australasian Branches
Factories—
Brantford, Canada.
f 64 King-street, Sydney (Head Office)
I 261 Collms-street, Melbourne, Vio.;
-{ Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.;
I Kundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.;
V Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A. J.O. Spring meeting opening day at Rand-
wick, Saturday, was bad for punters; the two biggest
set-backs they got were provided through the downfall
of Gauleon and Bobadil—each running third in their
respective races, and, strangely enough, the winners
turning up in 7 to 1 (starting price) chances. People
fairly fell over each other in trying to get on to
Gauleon at 6to 4 and Bobadil at sto 4. Fact of former
being so heavily backed by the right people for Caulfield
Cup made backers think his chance rosy, but if fit now
he’d surely be stale a month hence. “ Bobby ” ran as if
more work would do him good, and the brother of The
Grafter and Gaulus seemed susceptible of much improve-
ment. The pair may do much better ere the meeting
closes.
* • • •
Though Cocos downed Bobadil in the Spring
Stakes, on Saturday, the Abereorn colt will have to do
his best to come out on top at the end of the season. The
dandy little brown has grown into a very handsome oolt,
and, though far from well, ran a really good race in above
event, as he got aw'aylast, had a bad run, and then,
though dead-beat at the Leger, battled it out well, and
was only a length off at the finish. He is as game as a
bull-ant. Though Dewey beat both cracks he is not in
their class, his condition and a fair slice of luck alone
pulling him through. A nag doesn’t want to be much
wrong in the matter of condition to wm a 1$ mile race
run in 2.36.
• • • •
N.S.W. Derby winner, Cranberry, is by that
erstwhile giant of the Australian turf, Cranbrook, out of
Tiwoona. His breeder, Mr. H. C. White, parted with
him as a yearling for 330gns. The time (2.44) was
not fast—nine others did better during the past 15 years,
while the record standing to Trident’s credit and accom-
plished in ’B6 is 2min. 38sec. Had the race been solidly
run, Cranberry would certainly have done better.
Kalingo, who faced the barrier in splendid condition and
was the outsider of the lot, ran second, after giving
punters a big scare opposite the Leger where he drew up
to Cranberry’s girth ; but it was only on sufferance, as
the latter, 'when shaken up a bit, went away easily-
Those behind (Reviver, Parthian, and Promontory) lacked
preparation, the last-named particularly. Previously,
Cranberry had run seven times, winning once and being
placed on another occasion. Owner Sam Fielder annexed
his first Derby, and thinks the winner the best animal he
ever possessed, which issaying agreatdeal, thought it may
be well endorsed later on, as the colt is engaged in the two
Cups and V.R.C. Derby. Cranberry is a big, solid-look-
ing, even-tempered horse, rather inclined to be lazy, and
i 3 as quiet at the post as a ’bus-horse. When galloping
his action is perfect, and, unlike most descendants of
Cranbrook, he is a natural stayer.
• • • •
According to the law of coincidence, the number
nines should have scooped the pool, at Rand wick, on
Saturday, with the date 9 9/’99, and the return-fare to
the oourse 9d. In race No. 2, nine started, and Aus-
tralian Star (No. 18) won, and the next race went to
Cranberry, the only nag with nine letters in his name,
but after this the mystic letters were all astray. Ikey
Mo dearly loveth the coincidence backer.
* * • •
It didn’t take backers long tc sort out Waiter, a
lanky bay gelding from the Kelso stable, as the nag to
carry their coin in the first hurdles at Randwick on Satur-
day, and he started at “ twos,” with the country moke
Orlando, at “ fours,” and Myrmidon, who just missed the
Caulfield G.N., at “ fives,” whilst odd “crowns ” went on
Honeydew, Dacre, and Her Highness. The race was
somewhat of a novelty for Sydney, as up to two miles
everything jumped well and stood up. Here, however,
the “ weeds ” fell out and Waiter, going on, won without
being shoved from Orlando and Myrmidon. The lengthy
bay had a lot in hand and ought to gather in the second
hurdles to-day (Thursday).
• * • •
Ex-pony Djin-Djin sprang a big surprise upon
turfites by winning (8.9 up) the Epsom at Randwick on
Saturday‘inside record, putting up Im. 3s)Jsec. A quar-
ter-sec. more has stood as the Australian best for years ;
Bungebah, Boolka, Paris, Kingflsh, Delaware, Daredevil,
and Bobadil sharing the honors. Djin-Djin (5 years) is
by Forest King—Cumino, and was bred by Mr. W. Kite,
of Bathurst. Prior to Saturday she had been more or
less a disappointment. No animal engaged underwent a
better preparation for the race, and though the mare did
nothing in the watch-breaking line, all her gallops were
done under thumping weights; hence she had a good
following, going out at 16 to 1. AUsop’s gelding Severity
was second favorite (5 to 1), but ’cute people calculated
that wherever the unsexed one finished, Djin-Djin would
be in front—this on the strength of a finish between the
same couple a few weeks since. World’s record for the
mile (1.35J4) is held by Yankee nag .
The two fastest sprinters now running in Aus-
tralia—Djin Djin, winner of A.J.C. Epsom in the fastest
time recorded; and Forest, winner of last Newmarket
Handicap—are by the “ unfashionable ’’ stallion, Forest
King.
b v • * *
An application of the time-test, taking a line
from Djin Djin's record mile in the Epsom, at Randwick,
last Saturday, would seem to indicate that the A.J.C.
Derby horses were a very so-so lot. A Derby that takes
1.44$ to negotiate on a course, which later in the day
witnessed the clipping of a fraction off the Australian
mile record, is as slow as a cake-walk.
• » * *
Re Djin Djin’s appropriation of Sydney Epsom
Saturday last. “Mick" Kinnane long owned her, but
though very speedy she almost invariably showed herself
a non-stayer. Present owner (Cooper) raced Djin Djin
among the ponies with mixed success, and then when
the A. J.C. gave the little nags a chance to come back to
the fold, Djin Djin was among the lot to accept the
invitation. Growing older and stronger, and still retain-
ing her pace, she has improved in staying and weight-
carrying capabilities with the result evidenced. Djin
Djin’s dam, Cumino, and the wonderfully successful
Australian sire, Gozo, are related on the maternal side—
both being from Maltese Cross.
• » * •
Common property at Sydney Tatt’s that a well-
known and much-advertised cure-all pill-vendor and big
punter won £5OOO first day of A.J.C. Spring meeting ;
three-fifths of this was gathered in over Djin-Djin’s
Epsom. “ Wait till we get him owning nags,” said an
irate Ikey in writer’s hearing; “ he’ll have to make up
for the outgoings by putting three pills less in each box.”
• » * *
Recently a Kogarah (Sydney) owner got away
with three wins in one day at Warwick Farm; but
Quinn’s stable on concluding day (Saturday last) of
S.A.J.C.’s meeting went better bv appropriating Hurdles,
Spring Handicap, and Richmond Stakes with Ebb, Good-
will and Nita Carl.von'respectively. Same trainer also
notched two seconds that day.
* * * *
The new Tote Bill, passed the other day in Tas.
Assembly, confines the privilege of using the machine to
horse-racing. Proposals to include the Axemen’s Associ-
ation and athletic clubs generally were indignantly re-
jected. Held that racing “ improves the breed of
horses,” and therefore the betting machine is justified ;
the breed of men might stand improving also, but allow-
ing gambling privileges to athletic sports would wreck
the moral stamina of the community, &0., &c. O isle of
rags and Tat ters-all!
Cabled that the Duke of Westminster’s Flying
Fox won the last of the English “classic” events—the
St. Leger. Flying Fox's sire, Orine, by Ormonde—
Angelica, is very much on top of the winning-list this
season. On July 4, after annexing the 10,000 sovs., less
deductions, for Prince of Wales' Stakes, and before he
got away with Eclipse Stakes of similar value, Flying Fox
was responsible for winning the major portion of £20,220
standing opposite Orme’s name. With his St. Leger vic-
tory the Duke of Westminster’s great colt ranks along-
side the other heroes of the “ triple crown ” —Two Thou-
sand Guineas, Derby, and St. Leger. West Australian,
Gladiateur, Lord Lyon, Ormonde, Common, Isinglass,
and Galtee More were previous scorers.
* • » *
Australians are arguing whether the team in
England has a better record than any previous team.
This scribe reckons it has. The 'BO team lost but two
matches, but it only played 11, and the 'B2 team lost four,
winning 23. Whilst the present team only won 16, losing
three, it must be remembered that more than half its
matches were against strong combined teams; five of
them were All England teams. The 'B2 eleven played a
great number of weak matches, but it was a fine com-
bination, all the same.
Five batsmen in the present Australian team
have secured higher averages than any previous batsmen
in England. They are—Darling, 41"29; Hill, 39’95 ;
Noble, 37'39; Worrall, 35'35 ; and Trumper, 34‘57. More-
over, Darling, the top-notcher, has broken two other
records ; he has a higher aggregate (1941) than Murdoch’s
record of 1711, and has made five centuries, against Ire-
dale’s previous record of four for the ’96 team. Again,
ten members of the present “combine” have made cen-
turies, showing its great strength as a batting side.
• • * •
The bowling figures of the tour suffer by com-
parison with those of previous tours, and a new
bowler in the team was badly wanted. The good season
in England, coupled with the fact that the county batting
has greatly improved, served to spoil the averages.
Trumble’s figures, 142 wickets, average 18.43, do not com-
pare with Turner’s 314 at 11, 215 at 12, and 149 at 14, in
*BB, ’9O, and ’93. It is to improved batting that the
team owes its success, 6 members having an average of
over 30, and three, Darling, Noble, and Trumper, exceed-
ing 1555 runs, which was the aggregate of Darling’s last
trip.
• • • •
M‘Leod is comparatively the failure of the
Xl.'s tour, yet he finished up with a tolerable bowling
record and saved his side in the last test by his batting.
Johns was made little use of, so little that next trip a
second wicket-keeper who can bat or bowl will be looked
for to replace him. Iredale and Gregory have been dis-
appointing. Few expected Iredale to be beaten by
Laver, and Gregory by Trumble on the batting-list.
* • • •
Interesting to know J. T. Hearne’s batting
average against the Australians. l£ runs, probably.
Billowell, the rank outsider of the Australian team, is a
brilliant bat compared with some of the English bowlers.
• * * *
Probably there will shortly be warfare between
three provinces over cricket “gates.” S.A. has for years
agitated for fairer division of profits from interprovincial
matches. Victoria inclines to fall in with S.A., but
N.S.W. has all along firmly refused. This year
S.A. Cricket Association is advocating a proportionate
pool, and if N.S.W. objects again there may be no
matches between the two provinces. The younger Asso-
ciation has made a loss out of the matches latterly.
* * * •
It has not yet been mentioned anywhere that
Ernest ltenshaw, champion tennis-player of England,
whose death was announced by cable last week, is a
brother of Mr. Renshaw, supt. Sydney Y.M.C.A. gymna-
sium, one of the cleverest athletes ever seen in Sydney,
and an ex-champion gymnast of England.
• • » •
“Old Timer” : Sweltered with over 700 others
at Golden Gate Club (Sydney), Saturday night last, and
saw some red-hot fighting in seven bouts constituting
initial round of so-called 9st. novice tourney; but lost,
predominated. There’s one good man among ’em (Nixon)
who’ll shape in much better company next time. Others
were rough ’uns of the roughest, and all shapes and
styles. Most discarded footwear altogether, while a few
went so far as socks; and what socks 1 not to speak of
the legs above them 1 Referee explained why and where-
fore of middleweights being among “ feathers.’’ “Gen’l-
men, they all agreed to it—l bunged some 12-stoners
out.” One man was introduced as “of the Convalescent
Home,” “Which wing ? ” queried the wit of the crowd.
• • • •
See by Bulletin, 9/9/’99 (note the figures), that
Albury Clifford, the Tas. pug., begs to differ from Tim
Murphy, of Via, re that knockout. Albury says they
never fought, but “ simply boxed three exhibition
rounds.” Writer interviewed Tim, who got rid of the
following with much emphasis : “ Him be d d; I let
the beggar down light when I said 3J rounds. Why, he
was on his back, beyond all hope, inside li rounds; I’ll
wager he’s not looking very eagerly for any more of me.”
• * • •
Transpires that “ Otto Cribb,” the wild and
woolly bruiser from M.L. who has been fairly mowing
down the second-raters of Sydney light and middle-
weight division, was known in Maoriland as Simpson, but
his right name is Mike Sullivan —probably (like “ Lost
Chord ” Sullivan’s) a corruption of Solomon —for if he’s
not one of the Chosen this scribe is very much abroad.
Also, known to a few that “ Simpson ” got away with two
or three slashing bare-knuckle goes under P.R. rules 6re
making for these parls. Friday last he was matched
against “The Poet”—fight to come off two weeks hence.
’Twill be a battle worth travelling far to see, and there’ll
be a great deal too much reality about it for the literary
genius of the ring who, it might be remarked, is not by
any means the mild-mannered sort of person his appella-
tion would indicate. Writer, who quite fancies himself
as a judge in these matters, has an idea that the Maori-
lander will be high among the top-notchers ere long.
• • • •
Sydney has a dozen tug-of-war teams in constant
practice. Foley tried his best to get them together, but
they couldn’t agree about rules. Some wanted to pull
on a floor with cleats and a half-hour limit; others de-
clared for smooth boards without aids for feet; a third
section said “give us the turf with footholds”; “no,”
replied another couple of skippers, “ let’s have the turf
without.” “We won’t enter unless spikes are allowed,"
came from one quarter. And so the project fell through.
No three teams could agree, and none would budge an
inch to meet the others. Said that winners of last St.
Patrick’s Day sports tug wore special boots with
“ spikes ” that were really small spades.
• • * •
Every evening, in Elizabeth-street (Sydney), a
crowd of newsboys congregate and gamble on the trams
as they turn round from Hunter-street. One youth
makes a book and calls the odds, “Two to one bar
Coogee ” or “ Four to one bar three,” and the others
plank newspapers or pennies on their fancy. The tram
that is next due is favorite, but, as they don’t run very
regularly after 8 p.ui., there is no certainty about it, and
occasionally an outsider gets home on a motor only, or a
lot of “empties,” and the “ book” rejoices. The average
Australian, if he wants to gamble, doesn’t mind much
what he does it on, and the reformers who want to stop
him doing so have taken on a big contract.
* • * *
Cabled that millionaire tea-speculator Lipton,
offered £50,000 for Muokross estate, containing the Lakes
of Killarney, with the object of presenting it to the
Irish people. Lipton owns the America Cup challenger,
Shamrock, specially built to tackle the Columbia. The
Shamrock’s crew is the best that Great Britain could pro-
duce. Everv man has a fine record, and each is to get £1
a week for life if the English yacht wins. The race comes
off next month.
• • • *
Printed that billiard-champion Roberts is within
measurable distanceof dropping out of the game. Failing
eyesight is the trouble. Specialists lay responsibility at
the door of increasing age, and not organic disease.
This notwithstanding, the champion offers Dawson 5,600
in 21,000 for a “ monkey ” a side. The recent match be-
tween the same pair has had Its sequel in the Lnjflisn
Bankruptcy Court. Roberts’ creditors want the proceeds.
English long-distance cyclist Hale started, July
81. to ride 100 miles each day for one year (Sundays
excepied). Condi ins exact that the hundred, no more
nor no less, must be done each day; 120 to-day does not
mean 80 to-morrow. Gales, snowstorms, &c., have to be
reckoned with. The undertaking seems to have no chance
of success. Same thing was tried in Yankeeland a while
back and cracked up early.
* m • •
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Boer scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sydney Safe Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable scrip either in office
safes or private residences, and there have been large
numbers of visitors to view the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street (back of Paling and Co’s), off George-street.*
B. R. Wise’s “Epitaph” on the Reid
exit:—
They die with all their imperfections on their heads
Unhousl’d, disappointed, v/nannealed. — Hamlet.
After appeal to the Full Court Premier
Kingston has succeeded in getting his costs in the
Harrold insolvency case, up to July, ’9B. Counsel
on the other side were paid their costs up to the
end of the trial, amounting, it is said, to over
.£5OOO. For sticking to Harrold, once his deadliest
political enemy, Kingston is greatly out of pocket.
On examination in a Sydney dock, it was
resolved that the much-discussed ship Republic
was sound in the main; having been repaired
she will now be allowed to go to sea. Since her
detention by the N.S.W. authorities she has
changed hands: and it would appear that her
new owner has secured some sort of a bargain.
The Victorian Freetrade dinner was a
dismal concern from every point of view. The
speeches were about on a par with the abject meal.
From the remarks that fell from the various Free-
trade bosses it would seem that the Australian
Commonwealth is doomed to disaster unless a
Freetrade policy is adopted right off. On the
other hand, to quote a phrase from the speech of
Charleston, M.L.C. (S.A.), “If we can only get
Freetrade, fellow-workers, for the future Com-
monwealth, we can make this Australian people
one of the grandest, noblest, most glorious people
under the earth ” Wild applause.
Freetrade makes strange banquet-fellows.
At the annual meeting of the Melb. Freetrade
Association, last week, there was a queer collec-
tion. Men as different in sentiment and politics
as the poles, paid their 3s. 6d., or managed to get
presented with a ticket. Cheek-by-jowl with
Murray Smith, the Vic. squatters’ advocate, sat
Max Hirsch, w ho hasover and over again stated that
ownership in land is only another form of slavery;
and alongside of them sat Fleming and Walker,
the Yarra Bank socialists. Also, two members of
the S.A. Legislature were there and made
speeches, nine-tenths of which Murray Smith (the
chairman) would repudiate any day of his life.
The Reid Government of N.S.W. helped
to complete an interesting bit of history before it
fell. Last week N.S.W., Westralia, S.A., Vic-
toria, Queensland, Maoriland and Tasmania—all
Seven Provinces, in fact —were bossed by the
longest-lived Ministries in their respective histories
(the Dickson Cabinet in Queensland is practically
the same old Continuous Ministry which has held
office under five different heads ever since 1890).
It is a wildly novel thing for seven record Minis-
tries to be ip office at once, but if Reid had fallen
a very few weeks earlier the great event wouldn’t
have come off. He held office just long enough to
let Braddon and Turner get past the winning-
Sost, and thus make the seven records complete.
Iraddon only put up his record a week ago, so it
was a close thing.
The recent report of Sydney Metrop.
Transit-Commission’s Chief Inspector—besides
making abundantly manifest the utter uselessness
of that body—is apparently intended as a counter-
blast to the municipal reform-proposals, and
points out, as a “fatal defect” m the scheme,
that —
It proposes to leave the Government without repre
sentation on the board ; and “ without police assistance,
which could hardly be counted upon unless the chief of
the police had a voice in the management, the board
would be practically impotent.’’
But Inspector-General Fosbery has far too many
irons in the fire already, and his titular-office
ought to provide quite enough work for one man.
“ One-man-one-billet ” is a safe rule for all parties
—including the man himself.
During the recent Censure debate in
N.S.W: Assembly, both Government and Oppo-
sition fought hard to secure the vote of the
gilded Terry, an absurd person who suffers from
the delusion that he is the leader of a large inde-
pendent party in the House. Terry let it be
known that he intended to vote with the majority
of his party, so immediately all hands rushed to
join said party, and ere long Terry had a following
of close on 80, including two Ministers. Each
side got every available member to join the alleged
Independent party, but the Opposition lasted
longest and carried the vote in favour of the
motion, securing Terry’s vote. The heavy Terry
made public his decision on the morning that the
Labor party turned, and he now walks firmly
convinced that it was he who influenced them,
and reckons that he is a certainty for a portfolio.
The Reid Ministry fell the day Sydney
Tivoli Theatre was burned down. Two variety
shows homeless together!
“I shall watch with benevolent interest
Mr. Lyne’s adventures in search of a popular
Cabinet.” — Ex-Premier lieid.
Of the 40 members who voted for the Reid
Govt. 24, or three-fifths, represented Sydney and
suburbs and four of the country men were re-
turned as anti-Reidites.
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., on the
various sections into which N.S.W. Assembly is
now divided: “We have the Reid Party, the
Lyno Party, the Stiletto Party, the Barton Party,
the Labor or 4 Solidarity ’ Party, and (with his
eye on Terry from Ryde) the Independent or
4 Liquidarity ’ Party.’’
A feature of the N.S.W. censure debate
was the way it centred on the Premier and the
Premier alone. The doings of the remainder of
the Ministry seemed to concern nobody, and be-
yond a passing reference to Minister Joe Cook by
Reid himself their very existence was ignored by
speaker after speaker. Not one even spoke except
Treasurer Carruthers, and for all the assist-
ance they were to the Premier in his extremity
they might have been a collection of tailors’
dummies. A one-man Ministry is all very well
for the one man in the days of his prosperity, but
in adversity the one man is heavily handicapped
if he has no strong colleagues.
In Perth (W.A.) last week the mysterious
gentlemen who go round surreptitiously in the
dead waste and middle of the night went on
strike. The reason was beautifully suggestive of
Perth ways. In really decent cities the ghoul
of night doesn’t exist at all, but in moder-
ately decent ones he exists only in the most silent
hours and has vanished again before ordinary
citizens are about. But Perth City Council w r as
economising, and it reduced its staff so low that
they couldn’t cover all the ground by night, so
they had to drive their fragrant van round in
broad day as well. And this meant not only
excessively long hours, but obloquy thrown in.
The driver of the midnight chariot doesn’t want
to pursue his avocation by day and be recognised ;
for his calling ranks to some extent with that of
the hangman and the gaol-flogger and the chucker-
out. His wife generally calls him a night-watch-
man or a detective or an editor or an astronomer
to account for his nocturnal habits, and his small
boy doesn’t want to be spoken of as the son of
the Evening Nobleman, and if he is known his
church never makes him a deacon or a church-
warden. So when the cart took to going round in
broad day trouble naturally followed —especially
as no overtime was paid. The seventeen astrono-
mers of Perth refused to take the cart out any
more, and there was a deadlock.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Missing Friends.
AF. D. G. New Zealand. Write Willie
• or Mother.
T'YLER, ELIZA MARTHA (daughter of John and
Mary Tyler and grand-daughter of Janies Joyce),
who was livim: with her sister, Mrs. Copeland, in
England, in 1857, but afterwards came to the Colonies,
will hear of something to her advantage by communi-
cating with the undersigned. Any information in
reference to the said Eliza Martha, or other children
of the said Mary Tyler, will be gladly received.
LAW and WESTON, Solicitors,
Launceston, Tasmania.
PHILIP LEVI (son of the late James F.
Levi, and grandson of the late Philip Levi,
of P. Levi and Co., Adelaide. Left Adelaide in
1894 for Roseberth Station, Queensland, with
Harry Dennett, last heard of at Bourke in 189 E
with drover James Kenny. Any information
thankfully received by Mrs. M. H. Levi, Lower
Mitcham, or A. T. Saunders, Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
COLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
iljvirrril
fTIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
. ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
’‘Elis' King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
(N G. lIATTE, of Newtown, invites the atten-
J • tion of gentlemen to his newly-imported
stock of Spring clothing. It has been carefully
selected by bis Home buyers, and comprises the
newest and most fashionable material, just adapted
for the present season, and in quality and work-
manship surpasses anything of the kind ever
before offered, whilst the prices are lower than
ever. You will get every kind of garment at
Hatte's, whose stock is so largo and varied that
you may depend upon obtaining any article you
require. His two-guinea suits to measure (with
extra pair of trousers) continue to be all the rage,
no such value being given at any other establish-
ment. You can select from the most comprehen-
sive assortment of the best material, and the style,
cut, and finish leave nothing to be desjred. Thou-
sands of these suits have been sold and have given
the utmost satisfaction. Write for patterns and
self-measurement forms and you will be as satis-
fied as though you made a personal visit. Hatte’s
Spring and fashion book is just issued, and will be
sent to any address post free. Carriage paid by
rail or boat to any part of the colony on parcels of
£1 and over.
AIDS TO BEAUTY.— Dr. Hardy’s Face Bleach
(removes all skin blemishes), 3 6 ; Freckle Lotion, 3/6;
Astringent Lotion (removes wrinkles and closes open
pores), 3 6; Acne and Blackheads Lotion, 3 6; Blackheads
Cream, 2 6; Hypatia Cream (skin food for beautifying the
skin), 2/-; Dipilatory for removing superfluous hair, 2/6.
ENGLISH FACE MASSAGE SALON, 72 Strand, Sydney.
Government Notices.
■p ÜBL I O SERVICE BOAR D.
60 Young-street, Svdney.
23rd May, 1899.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of Candidates
(male and female) for ADMISSION to the CLERICAL
DIVISION of the PUBLIC SERVICE of the COLONY
will be held in Sydney, and at various country centres,
on the 18th December next and four following days.
Candidates will he allowed to attend who are not less
than 16 years of age on the first day of examination, or
not more than 21 years of age on the 31st July, 1899.
Persons already employed in the General Division
of the Public Service will, however, be admitted
to the examination provided their age does not
exceed thirty years. Application to attend the
examination must reach the undersigned not later
than the 20th November. The signatures of persons
willing to superintend the examination held in centres
outside the Sydney radius should be forwarded to the
Secretary of the Board of Examiners, 7, Richmond Ter-
race, Domain, Svdney (from whom forms for the purpose
may he obtained), not later than 20th November, 1899.
Further particulars respecting the examination, rates
of pay, &e., may be obtained on application to the office
of the Public Service Board.
The regulations regarding the examination, and copies
of the papers set on the last occasion, can be obtained at
the Government Printing Office and the principal book-
sellers.
By order of the Board,
(9a 96) J- W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
Amusoments.
■p-XIIIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
TILE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10—5. Daily.
Admission —ONE SHILLING 1 Children—SIXPENCE.
FiQdoi) Harriers’ N&i)t ClCib
Races,
To be held on the MOONEE VALLEY
RACECOURSE,
Saturday, 23rd September, 1899.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency the Governor and Lady
Brassey.
Hurdle Race Steeplechase
Ladies’ Bracelet Pindon Harriers’ Cup
And Other Events.
505 SOVS. IN STAKES.
R. M. CuTHLiEHTSON, Hon. Association Secretary.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
LAST ELEVEN NIGHTS OF
the Bro Ggb Con}gdy Co.
Thursday and Friday, LORD AND LADY ALGY.
Saturday, September 10, for Positively Six Nights Only,
A VILLAGE PRIEST.
PRICES—6s., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
gYDNEY TOWN HALL 1/- “POPS.”
SATURDAY EVENING at 8 o’clock.
| NEWBURY-SPADA X/- “POPS.” |
Third Appearance of the Maori Chief, RANGIUTA,
Who appears in Maori fighting dress and plays original
selections on the pianoforte and guitar.
Wiegand, Vollmar, Perry, and the Musical Elit6 of
Sydney. Reserved seats at Nicholson’s.
HE FLYTNG JORDANS’ CIRCUS.
Redfern Station, Sydney.
Saturday Evening, September 16th.
GREAT LONDON HIPPODROME.
IAA STAR ARENIC and AERIAL ARTISTS IAA
iyy All in Friendly Rivalry, IUU
Forming the Greatest Amusement Enterprise
of Modern Times,
And Absolutely UNSURPASSED in the Southern
Hemisphere.
83gr PEOPLE’S POPULAR PRICES.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
SECRET SERVICE.
A Drama of Absorbing Interest, written by William
Gillette.
Saturday, Sept. 16, PYGMALION AND GALATEA.
Plan, Nicholson’s. I-Sr" PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
fNRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
The Great Military Spectacular Drama, in Five Acts,
Tbs iQdiai) MCitioy-
THE VERDICT UNANIMOUS.
S3F“ A GREAT DRAMATIC SUCCESS !
Prices: 35., 25., Is. Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55.
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.45.
YCEUM TH EAT RE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
WbeQ Losjdoi) Sleeps.
Presented with Graphic Illustrations of Scenic Splendor
by Messrs. Holloway & Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co.
SATURDAY, Sept. 16th—TOMMY ATKINS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
mOffN HALL, SYDNEY.
Tuesday, 10th October.
(Under Distinguished Patronage.)
Miss FANNY DAUCR
(The Brilliant Young Sydney Soprano)
WILL GIVE HER FIRST CONCERT
Assisted by Sydney’s Leading Artists.
Box Plan at Paling’s. JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
■O ALA C E THEAT It K. SYI)N E Y.
* Mr. Harry Rickards Tivoli Coy.
First Appearance in Australia of the Great Comedian,
Mr. 6. W. HUNTER.
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, Paul Pelham, George C. Dean,
Florrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard Chambers,
Neva Carr Glynn, Jas. Mooney,
CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU 'l’l l HATH E, MEL 1)0U RN E.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
FAREWELL SEASON OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQU EVALLI.
Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
HOWARD and ST. GLAIR, VIRTO and IRENE,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Hamilton Hill, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, and all our
Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
ITJIOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Mdllc. Trebelli
f'idllc. Trebelli
THE
WORLD-FAMED
SOPRANO.
FOURTH SONG RECITAL,
THURSDAY, 14th SEPTEMBER.
—Supported by-
Mr. John Prouse, baritone.
Miss FLORENCE HARDING, ACCOMPANIST.
Prices— Reserved Seats, 4s. Unreserved, 35.,
25., Is. Plan and tickets at Allan’s.
Fifth Recital, Saturday Next, Sept. 16.
F. YERT.
DANTE THE GREAT.
Victorian Provincial Tour.
CROWDED HOUSES EVERYWHERE.
DIMBOOLA, Saturday, 16th ; MORTON, Monday, 18th ;
HOPETOUN, Tuesday, 19th ;
WARRN AM BOOL, Wednesday, 20th;
STAWELL, Thursday, 21st; ARARAT, Friday, 22nd.
Maryborough, Castlemaine, Bendigo to Follow.
Manager L. J. LOUR.
UEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16th,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Company in Benjamin
Landeck’s Latest London Success,
“A Soldier and a Man.”
Prices—3s., 25., Is. od., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan's
It IN CESS THKAT R K, MELBOUKN E.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musqrovk.
THURSDAY, Sept. 14, and for a Limited Season Only.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
The Most Popular Comic Opera of the Present Day,
“THE 6EISHA.”
Written by Owen Hall; Music by Sydney Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
OWN HALL. MELBOURN E.
EVERY SATURDAY ABTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Scbsrek’s Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 46 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCIIEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES-2s. and ONE SHILLING, y
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
FAITH
WHO PUT THEIR MONEY AND THEIR
in a “ PERFECT ” Bicycle
WILL NEVER BE BETRAYED.
Buyers of the t£ DOMIHIOH 5J
MAY SAFELY REST IN
HOPE
CHARITY
OF ENTIRE SATISFACTION, and devote
the £6 saved to that
which begins at home, and stays there
The “ PERFECT ” and “ DOMINION ” Bicycles may
any Dealer or Agent who is free to handle the best.
be obtained through
FRANK GRIMLEY
{
263 4. 265 CLARENCE STREET,
. . SYDNEY • •
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
OF
Bicycle Goods, Carriageware, Saddlery and Harness.
P**- ''» - ■ ggaMMMBMB—MMI —aOMi BCHMi • «MP .I ~ -in x. ■—- - *-* n -* J * /r ‘ ~ y
The Latest Wonder 1
W W W W ■— w ■— ww
THE • *
“ PEAAT-lisr-THE-SLOT ”
GRAM-O-PHONE
The Horn, Sound Box, Travelling Arm, and Discs are JUST AS auuIS-
SIBLE as in the ordinary well-known type of Motor, and anyone desirous of adjust-
ing the machine or CHANGING THE DISC before starting it, may do so with
perfect ease. Before the winding mechanism can be released, it is n< c \ssary to put
a penny in the slot provided for the purpose, when the machine ma\ b ; wound and
started, after which it will run for ONE TUNE ONLY, and then automatically
lock itself. The person using the machine may then change the needle and replace
the record at will, and on placing a SECON D penny in the slot the machine may
be re-wound. This operation may be repeated any number of times.
I need hardly point out the great advantages of an automatic machine in which
the RECORDS or TUNES can be FREELY CHANGED with absolutely NO
TROUBLE or SUPERVISION.
Price
£l2 325.
9. i. S9KES,
Music . . .
Warehouse,
227 Little Collins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
The earning capacity of a good penny-in-the-slot device is so well known that
I need hardly say anything on this head. That the Automatic Gramophone will
prove a remunerative source of income I have not the slightest doubt, and from the
startling variety of the records which can be supplied, and their absolute novelty, it
opens up a field which no other Automatic Musical device can in any way rival.
Orders will be executed strictly in rotation as received.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the- nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The put rid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Hon)* Catarrb CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
tjfe
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist. Cheltenham,
England.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(I’HH GO-MGIITt.Y KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab
lished. Wheels iitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNIO
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow!
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MABKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
S - MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE t..
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK tt CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENC V
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHOOMBE, CARSON & CO.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. O. YOUNG It CO.


Do you want
Consumption ?
We are sure you do not. Nobody wants
it. But it comes to many thousands every
year. It comes to those who have had
coughs and colds until the throat is raw, and
the lining membrane of the lungs is in-
flamed. Stop your cough when it first ap-
pears, and you remove the great danger of
future trouble.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral
stops coughs of all kinds. It does so because
it is a soothing and healing remedy of great
power. This makes it the greatest preven-
tive to consumption. It is not a question of
many bottles and large doses. A few drops
will often make a complete cure. Don’t neg-
lect your cough: you cannot afford to run the
risk. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral will soothe your
raw throat and quiet your inflamed lungs.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the name
Ayer's Cherrv Pectoral, is blown in the glass of
each bottle. l*ut up in large and small bottles.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
BRA VAIS' IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAYAIS
FER BRAYAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin- constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOU) BY CHEMISTS AI.T. THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
‘Harlene
FOR
THE
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full deso ip tion and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
fj m * 2/6,and (triple a/6 size) 4-/6 per
Bottle from Drug-gists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Hoiborn, London, Eng.
“Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow up?
" Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards’ ‘ Harlene.'"
BLAKE STEAM PUMPS,
Por EVERY PUMPING
. . PURPOSE KNOWN.
SB!
.
a
SOLE AGENTS IN
AUSTRALASIA
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney and Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Date*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
<J<3
no
;TTEIR.
—London Medical Record.
THE THIRD inthe
BaJluinßUßrs’ Fooos^^j
xsr Thi. '£**
Food.ttoifh P"™ y found to
«od Vaunr C !' ,Mr *" , |^ 1 “d notriunut
U» A*** .j
Allen & M anbury* L™»
"S-a^ats
PM»W^ : w -
NEW STYLE.
‘Allcnburgs Foods.
A Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards.
Tib® “Alleijbusys F©©4 N©* E
Tib® 48 A!Ieii|buFys f? F@@d H©o 2
Tbe“Al!er?burys” A\alted Food N 0.3
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing the
addition of hot
water only.
hitherto known as “Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.
(1/1 Ml TED),
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
OAF’-L'O (Lalvo Illawarra), near svnATwy.
V,: •;
I
S&HSrS*I
- , 5 - - •>•
r-'. -. r'
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ IIiLAWARRA’
..BHAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULT TOW
HIGHEST PKICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
lor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbickg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized"
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of till Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
the aged.
Tour “Bulletin” Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The delicate sonnets you soulfully sing,
The stories you trenchantly tell,
The clear, pithy pars, that you pointedly fling,
May all satisfy you quite well ;
But print has no splendour of fame to reveal,
Can waken no heart-stirring thrill,
To match with the joy and elation you feel
When you make up your Bulletin Bill.
Your hatreds of editors soften and melt
As over the paper you peer ;
Ah ! gone like a dream is the anger you felt,
When they set all your pars, in brevier ;
With “leads” through your verses to lighten your
heart,
With “stars” all your stories to fill—
There are many glad items to find, when you start
To get ready your Bulletin Bill.
There’s true sporting instinct in stalking your
stuff
And prospecting for pars, ’midst the ads. ;
Though seldom it seems that you’ve scissored
enough
To feed your finances and fads.
Like filigree-work that’s been worried by rats,
You leave every issue a wreck ;
There’s but one thing that can beat the sensation
—and that’s—
Receiving your Bulletin cheque !
Y.
McG.
Heard on a Govt, job near Melbourne.
Man standing by to man on the job. “ You dog,
you done me out of my billet ! What am I goin’
to do for my wite an’ kids ? ” Man on the job :
11 1 dunno. S’pose if I can get a job you can.”
About 1828 a Yankee printing-press,
which wasn’t quite new even then, was brought to
Sydney, and used to print off Government pro-
clamations, and rules for the efficient flogging of
convicts, and other literature of the day. The
S.M. Herald was printed with it in ’3l. It
somehow got across to Maoriland after that, and
worked, with a clatter like many jam-tins fighting,
in the office of the Wellington Independent,
when the first issue came out in ’45. The relic
moved to the South Island after a while, and the
Ross Advocate was produced on it, and produced
very badly, in ’65. It got lower down as years
went on, and the precarious sheets of a number of
little alluvial townships were printed on the wan-
dering implement at various times. It led a dis-
honored existence in the office of the Opunake
Courier (Taranaki—it had got back to the North
Island again) till ’B3, and a small job printer
made a precarious existence with it in ’B4 and
some succeeding years. And the other day it was
sold for scrap iron and broken up. So the curio
has gone to its well-earned rest, after seeing many
printers into the beery grave.


Ns" RaSSnjtiSSci/S Malisjc Herbal RcnjcdicS.
More marvellously Successful EffectuaJ. than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A. Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALKALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALKALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I.have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Hirr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oeneflt as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
J TOM, ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmusskn, Sydney.—Dear Sir,— Having just
Jnished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver anu Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering .in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, vou are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
notei' 1 the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully TIIOS. KING. Witness— Frank Oribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
!
£ r
OP'PI
KiiiniiHHniiHfinili
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A lfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long* standing’. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d , posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A LF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any' Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6cL
ALP ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons o f Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautionedagainst
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassm us-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false , as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his ~Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALE COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials.
Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSeiL
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hrrr Rass-
mussk.n’s Purrly Hkrbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMIS MUDIMAN-
CHARLES COLLINS, Justt e of the Peace-
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for < oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s-
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
•palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Bolts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr ffassmiissen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., S9DIE9,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
150 Bourke-st. (°pp. East. Markets)
154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N Z . WELLINGTON ... ~ 91 Lambton Quay
FERTH, W.A. £1 ay-street (next Koyal Theatre)
COOLGAKDIE Bailey-et. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindelTs, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-stieet (opposite PO )
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street*


rospectus
Dottswood Freehold Mining Company.
Limited, *
(TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE LIMITED LIABILITY ACT.)
Capital, £200,000, in 200,000 Shares of £1 each.
125,000 Paid-up to be issued to the Vendors as full payment for the property. 75,000 to be contributing.
Present Issue :
25,000 Shares—Payable ss. on application; ss. on allotment; and balance, if required, in calls of 2s. 6d., at intervals of
not less than one month.
The remaining 50,000 will be reserved for the benefit of the Company, to be issued at the discretion of the registered holders, who will have first option in proportion to
he Shares held by them.
NO CASH TO BE PAID TO THE VENDORS, the whole of the proceeds to be placed to the credit of the Company, less brokerage flotation expenses.
Dividends to be paid on all Shares alike.
Hon. J. H. WANT.
Directors :
Hon. A. J. GOULD.
R anlters :
UNION BANK OB AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Solicitors :
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON & CO.
E. A. HEAD, Esq.
Brokers :
T. B. BEARUP, Stock Exchange, Sydney.
W. C. BURY, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
I. LISSNER, Stock Exchange, Brisbane.
J. N. PARKES, Townsville.
rfIHIS Company is formed for the purpose of working the Freehold Property known as the Dotts-
I wood Copper, Gold and Silver Mine, 60 acres, being portion of Mineral Selections Nos. 77 and
37, Parish of Dalrymple, Northern Queensland, and the adjoining 80 acres Leasehold, making in all
140 acres, situated 50 miles from the port of Townsville, and only about 28 miles from Ravenswood
Junction Railway Station (on the Northern Railway).
The mine was inspected by Mr. Reginald Murray (late Government Geologist for Victoria), and
his report is attached hereto. Reports from experts of high repute can also be seen at the offices of
the Brokers.
The following is an extract from Mr. Murray’s report :
The 17-feet Shaft.
“Oneof the shafts known as the 17ft. shaft, near the outcrop in Block 37, and which could not
be examined at my first visit, I was able to descend on the recent occasion, and found there that the
copper-bearing rock is 6 feet thick, if not more, the richer portions occurring in several small bands.”
The 75-feet Shaft.
The principal shaft, known as the 75-feet shaft, was afterwards sunk a short distance north of the
Copper Creek.
The following is an extract from Mr. Murray’s report in reference to this shaft :
“ This shaft is in excellent order, having been lined with concrete inside, the timber down to
50-feet, so as to exclude the water, which is only troublesome above that level, and from it a large
extent of the vein can at once be worked, both along the strike up along the underlay towards tlie
other workings, and also down the underlay.
“ I may here state that the limits of the vein have not been proved either way in the strike, and
that the shaft is rather westward of what appears to be the best portion of the shoot, but taking only
proved limits, and allowing for the worked shallower portions of the ground, I consider that there is in
actual sight, available from the shaft as it now stands, an area of not less than 1500 square fathoms of
the rein.”
Mr. Murray, on his second visit to the mine, further reported in reference to this shaft as follows :
“ The excavation from the Shaft on the northerly dip of the layer between 50 and 64 feet had
been enlarged, and showed that instead of only one to three feet, there is a thickness of 10 to Ilf feet of
rock densely impregnated with metallic copper and in fact all workable ore. A number of drill holes had
been bored into the layer, and in every case rich prospects of copper were washed from the drillings for the
entire depth of the holes.
“ I had three of these holes at the top, middle, and lower portions of the layer respectively drilled
to a further distance, in my presence, and took the drillings away with me for test.
“ The results of the assays were of a most satisfactory character, the returns being 13'95, 18'14, and
20'57 per cent, of metallic copper for which they were only tested.
“ The extent in either direction has not been proved from the Shaft, but, judging by what has
been found on the surface (referred to in my previous report), there can be no doubt as to the immense
quantity of good Copper-bearing Bock immediately available, and also as to its downward extension in
underlay. Generally I can state that the recent developments show the existence of a far greater
quantity of Ore than was visible at the time of my first visit with respect to the Main or 75-feet Shaft,
and this justifies a higher estimate as regards the ground between that Siaft and the outcrop, so that the
amount of Metal obtainable from Ore in actual sight is far greater than the 1500 fathoms, as was first
supposed. ”
Since Mr. Murray’s visit to the Mine rich Gold has been discovered on the hanging wall of the
Copper formation in the drive of the 75-feet Shaft, and a number of drill-holes have been bored, with
the result shown in the reports and assays by Mr. W. F. Roberts, A.5.M.8., attached hereto.
Eleven assays have been made of these drillings from the various bores, the average being 18ozs.
3dwts. 4grs. Gold per ton.
It will lie seen that the property, judging from the reports and assays, promises to be one of the
richest, both in Gold and Copper, in Australia, and when worked on a large and comprehensive scale,
to surpass in richness some of the great dividend-paying Mines, whose Shares are now at immense
premiums.
As will also be seen from Mr. Murray’s report, the Mine is so situated that its workings can be
easily carried out, and there is in the neighborhood, and on the property, a never-failing supply of
water, and of timber for mining purposes and fuel. The cost of carriage from the Mine to shipboard
isat present only about 30s. per ton.
The property on which the Mine and workings are situated is 60 acres in extent, is all freehold,
and therefore free from the harrassing and dangerous conditions that usually attend mining ventures,
on which the plant, consisting of water pumps, machinery, and buildings, are now placed, and all
additional plant, etc., will be erected on this portion of the Mine, the ground being admirably adapted
for the same.
It is intended, as soon as the Company is formed, to start work immediately getting out the ore
which carries Gold, Copper, and Silver, and to purchase and erect Plant and Machinery necessary to
treat the same:
The Queensland Government some time ago ordered a flying survey for a branch line of Railway
from the Ravenswood Junction Railway to Argentine, which, when completed, will passthrough, or
very close to, the property, giving a direct communication with the seaport of Townsville, at a cost of
about Bs. per ton.
COPY OF MR. REGINALD A. F. MURRAY’S REPORT.
“ Melbourne, January 2nd, 1899.
“E. A. Head, 10 Otis Chambers, Sydney,
“Sir, —
“ I compliance with your request I again visited the Dottswood Copper Mine, and examined
the developments effected since the date of my last report.
“In that report, under date July Bth, 1897, I gave particulars as to situation, area, tenure,
physical and geological character of the property, and the general features of the workings, which it is
unnecessary to repeat here, save that with respect to the main shaft I quoted the ■ len observable
thickness of the Copper-bearing layer at from one to three feet where struck at a da h of 50 feet in
the Shaft, and showed the evident continuity of the layer as revealed in a short < ive under it at
64 feet.
“ Subsequent exploration has shown the thickness of the cupriferous layer to be r greater than
was apparent at the time of my first visit.
“•Theexcavation from the Shaft on the Northerly dip of the layer between I tad 64 feet has
been enlarged, and now shows that instead of only one to three feet there is a thi<. /ness of 10 to 14
feet 'of rock densely impregnated with metallic Copper, and, in fact, all workable ore.
“ A number of drill-holes have been bored into the layer, and in every case rich prospects of
Copper were washed from the drillings for the entire depth of the holes.
“I had three of these holes, at the top, middle, and lower portions of the layer respectively,
drilled to a further distance in my presence, and took the drillings away with me for test.
“ I submitted them for assay by Mr. Frederick Dunn, City Analyst, Melbourne.
“ The results of the assay were of a most satisfactory character, the returns being—
-131)5 per cent d
18‘14 ~ „ l- of Metallic Copper.
20-57 „ „ J
“ Mr. Dunn remarks that 1 the samples contained native Copper, and are therefore likely to give
varying percentages,’ but the test furnished good evidence as to the strong impregnation of the rook
wit h Cupper for a thickness of at least 10 feet, but there are indications of the metal extending deeper,
that is, below the 64-feet level, so that it is ciuite probable that on opening up the mine it will be found
that there is even a greater thickness than tnat above-mentioned of the cupriferous layer.
“The extent in either direction has not been proved from the Shaft, but judging by what has
b > 'i» found on the surface (referred to in my previous report) there can be no doubt as to the immense
.quantityjq£ good Copper-bearing rock immediately available, and also as to its downward extension in
I can state that the recent developments show the existence of far greater quantity of
ore than was visible at the time of my first visit with reapeot to the main or 75-feet Shaft, and this
justifies a higher estimate as regards the ground between that Shaft and the outcrop so that the amount
of metal obtainable from ore in actual sight as far greater than was first supposed.
“ Only a small amount of work has been done near the surface since my last visit, but that tends to
justify the higher estimate now formed.
“One of the shafts known as the 17 feet Shaft near the outcrop in block 37 and which could not
be examined at my first visit, I was able to descend on the recent occasion, and found there that the
Copper-bearing rock is six feet thicker, if not more, the richer portions occurring in several smaller
bands.
“ On the Eastern boundary of the 40-acre block forming the central part of lot 77 a surface outcrop
of richly cupriferous rock has been found at surface and a quantity of good ore collected, but so-far
nothing is known definitely as to its course and underlie. The occurrence, however, greatly enhances
the value of this and the adjacent block.
“In conclusion, I can say that, though in my first report on the then visible evidence, I felt justified
in expressing a good opinion as to value and prospects of the Mine, the further developments warrant a
much more favorable and confident opinion now. ...
“In view of the immense quantity of workable ore now in sight there is no ground for hesitation
in providing the necessary capital and proceeding vigorously to develop and work the Mine on a proper
scale.
“The facilities of access, &c., were all stated in my first report, but with respect to treatment I
would suggest experiment as to the most suitable means before erecting a costly plant.
“ The occurrence of the Copper principally in metallic form throughout the rock suggests that
battery crushing, the saving of the larger pieces of metal by gravitation and the use of concentrators
for the finer portions would be the treatment preliminary to smelting.
“Modifications on gold-saving appliances would, of course, be necessary on account of the larger
bulk of metal to be recovered, but the suggestion appears feasible, and could be experimented on in
the first place at a small cost.
“I am, &c., &c., _
“(Signed) REGINALD A. F. MURRAY.”
Extracts from Mr. Murray’s report referred to :
TRACTABILITY OF ORE.
“The ore being in the condition of either native Copper or Oxide, with no sulphides, its reduc-
tion to smelted Copper should present no difficulties.
ACCESSIBILITY.
“The Mine is distant from Townsville direct about 50 miles, but the present means of access is by
a good road 28 miles to Ravenswood Junction Railway Station, and thence by train to the port of
Townsville.
“ I learned that carriage by the road is about £1 per ton and by rail ss. per ton, so that allowing
for incidentals the carriage of the metal from Mine to ship board would be under 30s. per ton. There
is, of course, the same facility for the conveyance of plant, stores, &0., to the mine.
TIMBER.
“ The surrounding district affords an abundant supply of excellent timber.
WATER.
“Though, owing to unprecedented drought, the Plum Tree and Copper Creeks contained little
water at the time of my first visit, there is a never-failing supply at the Keelbottoni Creek, and good
facilities for storage near the Mine. Water of good quality is also to be obtained from wells.
CLIMATE.
“The climate is hot but salubrious, presenting no unhealthy conditions.
LABOR.
“Owing to the proximity of Townsville in one direction, and the great mining centre of Charters
Towers in another, there will be no difficulty in obtaining all necessary descriptions of labor at current
CONCLUDING REMARKS.
“ I feel justified in expressing the strong opinion that the property is a mast valuable one, and offers a
sound promising Mining investment, attended with every prospect of rich returns.
MR. E. BLIGH’S REPORT.
Gentlemen, — Dottswood Copper Mine, July, 1899.
“ I beg to report that I have made what I consider a most valuable discovery, namely, whilst put-
ting in a drill-hole just below the hanging wall of the Copper formation in the 75-feet Shaft, at a dis-
tance in of about 2 feet, I tested the drillings in the dish, and found that it contained free Gold, as
well as metallic Copper. I then had this hole drilled to a further depth, making it 3 feet 6 inches
deep, all of which showed Gold as it was taken out in the bulk from the solid rock. I then decided to
make further tests to prove the continuance of the Gold-bearing strata, and had drill-holes put in along
the face of the Lode for a distance of 9 feet, as per sketch sent you, which are marked as follows:
K, A No. 2, M, N, O, P, F, G, H; every one of these holes are put in 3 feet 6 inches except two—*
and H, which are 2 feet 6 inches deep. The whole of the various drillings show free Gold, besides the
usual metallic Copper. All these samples are being sent to you for assay. You can safely rely upon
every sample sent to you as being genuine, as they were taken out of the solid rock formation in my
presence, and under my own personal supervision. The layer of Gold-bearing rock is lying on the top
of the Copper deposit, and adjacent to the hanging wall, as shown on the_ accompanying sketch. All
the drill-holes are put in at an angle of lin 3, the same incline as the cupriferous layers. In conclusion,
I may state that your property is without any doubt an exceedingly rich and valuable one.
“ I remain, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, „ „
“(Signed) E. BLIGH.”
Results of Assays of Drilling's from Bores.
Ozs. Dwts. Grs.
The only Contract is that between Vendors of the one part, Sydney Rundle Walford, a trustee
or the proposed Company of the other part. , „
The above is the only Contract intended to be binding upon the Company, and Applicants snal
ie deemed to wave the publication, in accordance with Section 69 of the Company s Act, or any
urther particulars. .... , . • .. „
Applicants for Shares will be deemed to have made same subject to. the Articles of Association,
have been prepared, and may be inspected at the Office of the Solicitors to the Com pany.
Where no allotment made, deposit will be returned in full. , ...
If smaller number of Shares than applied for be allotted, the balance of the deposit lodged witn
he application will be applied towards payment of the amount due on allotment.
Prospectuses and Forms of Application for Shares may be obtained from the broker, I . B. Bearup,
lydney Stook Exchange, Martin Plaoe.


D.S.MAIR
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
English Mainsprimrs, first quality, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Rotherham English Lever Watches,
capped and jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated,
Guaranteed 5 years, 35 -
D. S. Mair for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Rings. Bess
quality Opal. Solid Gold, IP/8. „ , . . _
D. S. Mair for Heavy Soli 1 Silver Pocket to Pocket
Alberts, English Hall Marked, 10/6, 12/6. . „
Note address— 6B4 George Street, Syaney.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phono g&ph
(Albbrt & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents) Co.
"PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
x (lard. Best Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT & SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30 h each. English HAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 Ty“ bSt ”
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
THE ACME of Media
nlcal Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “Home, Sweet
,Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and otherup-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/- ; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2 extra,
any other Colony, 22. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, money refunded.
‘H. POTIER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
— y . f*
Bishop’s
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
Magnesia
cdrnitattcnA
Obfoirvotble at"all Ckemi4>hk
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
nunecessa-v “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent, in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
v '.m'ss— L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance) agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box 160, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but lias nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have’tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OlNTMENTcuresalleye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
(g
GL
a*
•w.'
The Best Player
will occasionally miss
a very simple shot.
Not so the remedy that
has become a symbol
of prompt, effective
action.
Allcocli’s
Porous Plaster
is sure, speedy, safe. You can bank on it every time.
all sorts of pains that can be reached by an external remed}
—and they are more numerous than many suppose it is
thoroughly reliable. Stiffness of the joints or muscles, lame
back, cold in the chest, sore throat, weakness and soreness in
the liver or kidneys, it relieves and cures at once.
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
Allcockts PIASTER
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S.
The London & American Supply Stores
Bfemmig
m
MlHiMili
1151
UPPLYIWMSTORES
LONDON & AMERICAN
. . FOR . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. a. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
POPULAR, MEDICAL, and SOCIAL SCIENCE.
PLAIN HOME TALK.
10 Plates. 30 Chromos. 200 Illustrations.
A Sensible Book for Sensible People-
By the Most Celebrated
Medical Author,
Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
IDen m Women
Married^-
AND
UNMARRIED
Are tempted to ask thousands of questions of their physi-
cians, but are deferred from so doing by the expense.
This’ work answers just such questions so fully and
clearly as to leave no one in doubt. Remember, it contains
nearly 1000 pages and 200 illustrations. A well-made, clearly
nrinted finely illustrated and substantial cloth-bound book of
inestimable value. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Com-
plete, unabridged, cloth-covered edition of this great work,
Plain Home Talk, for only 7s. 6d., post Free.
l
PMMON
Fool?
m
R«H
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
SYDNEY.
16
PARK ST.,
tffiffl WILL
ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
84 IMPORTER
20P 0 [2OT
CHEAP BOOKS
warn
PLAIN HOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
L/itest and Beat Edition, ZOO Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, Howto Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 16. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6;
post, 3s. Australian Heady Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 Rems ; post la 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., la.
Out List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILI. A.KTDR.ADE,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
omSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor-
GENTLEMEN,sSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.’
Our Electric I> Its will
•lire all Nervous and
■tli <• r Diseases in nil
s ajres, l.oVvever caused,
uid rest oi l' 11io ivcarer to
IK)BUST UKAl.'l 11.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts (five a steady, soot It-
n«f current ilia can lie felt
l.y the wearer ilirouuh
il weak parts. KIIMIIM-
HER, we (five a wri'teti
guarantee with eac h K ee-
rie Belt that it ail per-
manently cure you. Ii it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
pa*d. We mean evaetly
what we say. and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free) 'rivmg illustrations of different appliances :or BO I’ll
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the mosC
sceptical.
Address
(JERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE ASEN.Y,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Something is After You.
Far away, in the Jungle of Central India, a
village lies asleep. Only a solitary human figure
can be seen, following the winding jungle path in
the moonlight. It is early night, and the native
who comes has been delayed on his way home.
But what is that dark shadow that crosses the
path behind him ? Quite oblivious, the man
marches on. He looks neither to right nor left
nor behind him, where crouches that dark shadow.
A few yards more and he will be out of the jungle.
A few minutes more, and he thinks he will be
sleeping in the bosom of his family . But see, the
Shadow moves ! With two noiseless bounds like
a giant cat the tigress is upon him. One despair-
ing scream and all is quiet. Bitten through the
head, the victim is snatched up and carried by the
grim man-eater to her lair in the hills. Meanwhile
the village slumbers peacefully on.
Was it the man’s fault’ Yes, I think it was.
Had he not lingered, he would not have been
caught. The tigress would not have attacked him
in broad daylight. But he was no worse I think
than those in this country who are to-day doing
the very same thing. Thousands and thousands
of English men and women have a shadow in their
path. It is after them. The time will come, if
they do not take heed, when they will feel, like
Mrs Lydia Golding, “as if something had over-
taken” them. Here is a letter from her in which
she tells her experience:—
“All my life I had been a strong healthy woman,
and up to the autumn of 1891 I never ailed any-
thing. At this time I began to feel weak, weary,
and tired, and as if something had overtaken me. I
had a foul taste in the mouth, my tongue being
furred, and a sour fluid would rise into my mouth.
I had no appetite to speak of, and the little food I
i took gave me no strength. After eating I had a
heavy weight and pain across my chest, and a
gnawing feeling in my stomach. I belched up a
deal of frothy fluid, and in the night I awoke with
a suffocating feeling. Cold clammy sweats broke
over me, and what with loss of appetite, and not
being able to sleep at night I soon got so weak
that I found it hard work to get about.
“•On December, 23, 1892 (one Sunday morning),
whilst preparing breakfast for my husband, I was
suddenly seized with paralysis, which affected the
whole of my right side. I had no use of my hand
or leg on that side, and a numbness took me on
both left and right sides. My husband got me tc
bed, and fetclted a doctor from Northfleet, who gave
me medicines. After this I lost my strength
rapidly, and what I suffered I cannot tell.
“I could not rest night or day and I was in and
out of bed every now and again. I got little sleep,
only dozing off for a short time and. then starting
up. I was afraid to be left alone, and often in the
night I have been so nervous and frightened I
could scarcely bear it. I took medicines of all
kinds, but was little better for anything until one
day in August, 1893, n y husband read in the paper
“Weekly People, ” of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup, and got me a bottle from Perry and Son,
Chemists, High Street, Gravesend. After taking
it a short time, I began to gain strength, and got
stronger, and stronger until I was free from the
effects of the seizure. I now keep in good health.
You can publish this statement if you wish. ”
Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. Lydia Golding, 12,
Carter’s Road, Perry Street,Gravesend, May 14th,
1896.
What was this shadow that had crossed Mrs.
Golding’s path? What was it that “overtook”
her and laid her helpless and suffering upon a bed
of sickness? Surely you can recognise the mon-
ster that sprang upon her as the dreaded disorder
Dyspepsia, which attacks you when you are most
defenceless and weakest. Paralysis; yes, Mrs.
Golding had it, and could feel it, but what she
could not feel was what it was that had so acted
upon her nerves and muscles as to cause them to
become so helpless. Nor could she, I suppose,
understand how Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup
cured her so quickly, though we know now that it
was because the dyspepsia was got rid of.
But, as the native was never heard of more, so
there are some who cannot get out of the clutches
of Dyspepsia, even with such help as Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup, if the help comes too
late. Hence the best way of all, say I, is to keep
out of the jungle after dark ; and if you must go
walk quickly.
r'IIVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
V* GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design,
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduce
DR. VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One trial
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d, for which we
will forward you post free one box (three tablets) of DR
VON MULLER S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap 1 to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved on
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb-
-f*- inp interest to every MAN.
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.1’.0., SYDNEY.


D. Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SPRING SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - -
TAILORING
AT REFORM
PRICES
experienced
CUTTERS
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
‘‘'ole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and IOUNG. •w
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Seven Different Artidw
comprising- One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
r ish (giv es the definition of your character, very superior
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
chantred as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HCTCHINSON, Manager.
Ti
dKr. -7 .
5
the
rrano
RAIHERVEY.
171 CLARENCES! -
CALVERT'S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgio
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. lV£d. each.
(English Rato.)
At Chemists, Stores, eta
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
USE
Spooocr’s
ROVAL NAVY DRESSJHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS it SHOES
' OF AIL DESCRIPIIDNS
; DIRECIIONS FOR USE
i
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaninir and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
fTHEI
DEAF
iIEAEI
“Common Sense
« « Ear Drums ”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO Arent,
C lALMERS, 229 CollinsSt Melbourne
THE ORUM
IN POSITION j
(INVISIBLE) l
Mention “The Bulletin" when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCRASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURF AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be (riven in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou , uetec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS: THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
The Thermal Springs District.
—WONDERLAND
THE
grand Hotel, ROTORUA.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
In New Zealand.
H. V. Gardner (late of the P. &O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
i t ~ . , , Travelling Public of
nf U tiff that he ha *„ teken over the management
visitors wni V fi e nS- gniflCent establish ™“t> "here
L Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
*• A cu <sine that places it In line with the
flrst London clubs.
8. A Position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” » Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed
will receive prompt attention.
"Manager”
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation-all prices—ss. to 12s
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
"i’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under corer)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’rlce, I Os. (id.
Sole Agents :
&
The Result.
Craig & Aitkon,6Bo-632 Goorge-st# # Sydnoy
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The .4 ustralian Gaslight Company by payment
°f £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed/or Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Cramps}
i Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup , \
> Coughs,\
i Tooth- \
\ ache,
I
51 \
rns, i
Cuts,
Burns,
Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"Pain-Killer
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
I Cure Fits.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whither my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send for*a FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIQH ODNS.,IONOON,ENQ.
RECORDS IN QUEENSLAND.
A Brisbane Lady
SICK UNTO DEATH.
CURED VERY EASILY.
The Case of
MRS. R. A. GORMAN.
(by our reporter.)
We who live in these enlightened days
2an hardly estimate the inestimable advan-
tages conferred upon us by the public press.
of the newspaper in the cause
of civilization oan hardly be gauged, but we
might safely give it a place before that
other mighty factor, the steam engine.
Nothing of any interest to the public can
now remain long hidden, but must, like
everything else, in due course become the
subject of the notes of the ever übiquitous
and the not to be denied and enterprising
newspaper reporter. The following is a
case in point. Mrs. Rose Ann Gorman, of
Savernake Cottage, Princess Street, Petrie
Terrace, Brisbane, was once sick unto
death, but suddenly recovered in such a
remarkable manner that the matter coming
to the ears of our reporter he deemed it his
duty to make a searching investigation, and
with that end in view called upon Airs.
Gorman, who received him most graciously,
giving answers to any question the press’
man thought fit to ask.
Reporter: “What was the nature of
your illness ? ”
Mrs. Gorman: *• It was some strange
nerve makdy and a thorough break up of
the system. A dull and languid feeling
first took possession of me. I lost my
appetite by degrees, and my food disagreed
with me. A strange pallor crept over my
face, and 1 looked so wan and worn that
people thought I was going into a con-
sumption. My nervous system was entirely
out of gear and I was oppressed by a
continual headache and a dull pain in
the back of the neck. My appetite grew
worse and worse. Sometimes, it is true,
I fancied I could eat something, and I took
at times all sorts of notions for various foods,
but when they were placed before me I
couldn’t touch them.”
The reporter: “In what way were your
nerves affected ? ”
Mrs. Gorman: “In everyway, I think.
My hands continually trembled so that I
couldn’t hold anything without dropping
it. _ Sometimes I would get trembling fits
and shake all over like an aspen leaf. If
anyone camo to the door and knocked I
was forced to wait a little while before I
had recovered sufficiently from the shock to
opeu the door, and then I shouldn’t be
able to speak for a minute or so.”
The reporter: “Perhaps you drank too
much tea ! ”
Mrs. Gorman : “If I had drunk gallons
of tea a day that couldn’t have produced
that terrible nervous malady which had got
hold of me. But, as a matter of fact, I never
touched a drop of tea. I couldn’t bear the
thought of that refreshing beverage, and if
I touched it it made me deadly sick;
though now I am well I am very fond of a
cup of tea occasionally.”
The reporter: “ Yes, Mrs. Gorman; but
please tell me further about your malady.”
Mrs. Gorman: “ Well, it gradually got
worse, and in the end it looked like a settled
thing. I was frightened, and, to tell the
truth, I was often frightened at nothing. I
daren’t go upstairs even in the middle of
the day. I was terrified that there would
be something dreadful there. I jumped in my
sleep—that is, when I did sleep, which was
seldom. Often whole nights I would lie
awake, and I would be obliged to get out of
bed and walk about the room longiug for
daylight, whilst the slow hours of night
dragged painfully away. In the .morning
after a night such as this I would tumble
on the bed again, thoroughly exhausted, but
still unable to get that repose which is as
necessary for life as food is. Then I began
to worry myself very much over the state I
was in. Melancholy feelings crept over me.
I was very low and depressed in spirits, and
I was always frightened something terrible
was going to happen to me. If I dropped
off for a doze when I was fairly worn out
for want of sleep, I frequently woke up
from a hideous nightmare. Cold sweats
would run down my face and arms and I
should quiver all over, and I was rubbed
hard with a towel on these occasions to try
and brighten up my failing vitality. I
wished to go to my mother in Victoria, bub
when I thought over the length of the
journey I came to the conclusion that I
would never reach there alive, so I was
reluctantly forced to abandon the idea.”
The reporter : “I presume you didn’t go
all this time withoub obtaining medical
advice ? ”
Mrs. Gormtfn: “ I should say not. Of
course I had a doctor, but his medicines
didn’t seem to do me much good, though I
gave them every trial. In addition I tried
various other things. An electric brush
was brought to me in the hope that
the passing of it through my hair would
ease my headache. But this was quite
ineffectual and of no more use than any
other brush, lam sure. Well, then I read
several advertisemrnt3 that spoke of
medicines that would cure any sort of
disease. I tried these things, but one and
all they were equally useless, and I found
out I had only been throwing my money
away on rubbish.”
The reporter: “ You must have been in
a very low state ? ”
Mrs. Gorman : “I was, most certainly. I
had reached a most critical stage of my
illness, I had grown exceedingly thin and
weak, and was now but a mere shadow of
my former self. I became more low spirited
than ever, and the horrible low sensations
and the distressing quaking of the nerves
was on the increase.”
The reporter : “ You didn’t tell me what
the doctor said.”
Mrs. Gorman; “He said I was suffering
from great nervous weakness. I had now
reached a stage when I felt certain I should
never get better. Indeed, I had given up
hope. Then, all of a sudden, a great change
came over me for the better, and I began
making rapid strides towards health
Everyone around was much astonished.”
The reporter: “How did you manage
this?” 6
Mrs. Gorman: “I was just going to tell
you, but give me time, please. I got over
my illness very easily. It is very simple
when you know how, but I didn’t know it
till I was told. I wasn’t aware that there
was Clements Tonic, which would have put
me on my feet again in no time, and if it
hadn’t been for my mother-in-law, who lives
at a distance, but who heard about my
illness and recommended me to take
Clements Tonic, I don’t know what would
have happened to me. Now, my mother-in
law always keeps Clements Tonic in her
house and knows all about the wonderful
restorative value of that remedy. I took
her advice and obtained some, and when I
saw my doctor I told him what I had done
He said it was a very good thing, and thal
he wouldn’t be a bit surprised if it cured me
It was just a fight now between Clements
Tonic and the disease from which I suffered
and I was not the only one who anxioush
waited to see which would conquer.”
The reporter: “ What was the effe-'
upon your nerves?”
Mrs. Gorman : That medicine seemed l-
brace me up, as it were, and it also quieted
my trembling nerves and gave me a pleasant,
restful feeling. At nights now I slept
quite soundly and woke up in the morning
feeling refreshed. My disordered stomach
took on tone, and for the first time for long
enough I was able to eat and enjoy my food.
I was rejoiced that I had at length found
out something to relieve my sufferings. My
spirits rose wonderfully. Indeed those
dreadfully low feelings had gone altogether
Day by day I progressed, and not the leas',
oppressive of the symptoms which troubled
me was entirely removed by Clements
Tonic. I speak of that headache and
dullness, which now had cleared off entirely,
together with the pain in the back of
the neck which had accompanied it.”
The reporter: “You must have felt
quite happy and bright at the prospect of
health again after such a long illness.
Mrs. Gorman: “You are right. As 1
could feel Clements Tonic driving away all
tho ill humours of my blood, and bracing
up my worn-out nervous system, I began
to feel quite happy and light hearted.
Daily I increased in weight and strength.
I put aside the doctors’ medicines
altogether when I started on Clements
Tonic (I forgot to tell you before I had been
attended by more than one doctor), and I
kept to that remedy entirely. Soon there
was nothing the matter with me except a
little weakness, which is to be expected
after a long and wearying illness. But
Clements Tonic soon made me strong, I car
tell you. What a medicine it is, to be sure
to improve the appetite and promote
digestion. I could eat splendidly now, and
in a very short time was permanently cured,
and was able to leave off taking Clement;
Tonic altogether.” &
The reporter : “It seems you got hold o:
the right thing just in time ?”
Mrs. Gorman : “Yes, and if you liked to
wait, I could tell you of a fine set-up man
now in Government service who suffered
nearly as badly as I did. Insomnia was his
chief trouble. His netves, too, were in a
shockingly bad state. He couldn’t remain
in bed at nights, but frequently would go
out of the house at midnight and would
walk about till morning. He was cured by
Clements Tonic in even a shorter time than
I was, and I know at the time his sudden
reappearance in health was a subject of
great surprise in the neighbourhood.”
The reporter : “Thank you, Mrs. Gorman,
but I must hasten back to the office with
such news as I have already obtained ; but
first let me ask your permission to publish
the tale you have told to me ? ”
“You are heartily welcome to publish
every word. I should indeed be ungrateful
if I failed to speak well of the bridge that
carried me over. May others travel in the
same path towards health.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Ross Ann Gorman, of Savernake Cottage,
Princess Street, Petrie Terrace, Brisbane, in the
Colony of Queensland, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of six folios and
consecutively numbered from one to six, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the same
in any way ; and th it I do not receive any payment
for the same; and I make this solemn declaration
voluntarily,consci ntiously believing thes<meto be
true, and by virtue oi the provisions of "The Oalht
Act. 18(57."
Declared at Brisbane, this Ist day of August, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me.
HERBERT SHKARD, J.P.


NICHOLSON* Co.’s PIANOS.
RONISCH PIANOS
WONDERFUL INSTRUMENTS OF
WORLD-WIDE FAME.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
The GREATEST Achievement of
Modern Times. Superb Pianos.
MIGNON PIANOS
AT THE PRICE, this INSTRUMENT
IS WITHOUT A RIVAL.
NANO* PIANOS.
FOR X 35 CASH. THE CHEAPEST
PIANO ever Made Anywhere.
WE STOCK only THE BEST MAKES of PIANOS. Every Instrument Guaranteed for
Seven Yean. LOW PRICES for Caih, or on EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SITUKTEY. BRISBAJXTE. PERTH.
DODD’S KIDNEY PILLS.
rrr:
Ki
e *EO TRADE.
The ONLY CERTAIN
cure for
Rheumatism,
Brights
Disease,
Diabetes,
AND ALL IMPURITIES OF THE BLOOD.
TESTIMONIALS have been received from ALL PARTS
of the WORLD.
Price, 2/9. -
Fop sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Or will be sent (post paid) on receipt of price by
The Dodds Medicine Co., 17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
m
V/d
"-S
kv
k.-
VRAH^A
| A.& F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
Lilian.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was absolutely bad, I think — that is, absolutely
bad for a woman ; had she been a man she would
have been one of the best of fellows. We all loved
her, and I think, in our overbearing, cubbish way,
we imagined we were rather good to her. Looking
back, I see that we were insolent puppies, and I
think she must have smiled very cynically now and
then as we clattered down-stairs and left her in
the luxurious little room, littered with cigar ends,
broken flowers and empty glasses. She must have
laughed with amusement and bitterness, and while
we exchanged good stories, compared notes, and
pretended to favours, I am sure her thoughts would
have astonished us somewhat, for she was too
clever not to know us all thoroughly.
Joe is dead. Walker is a judge, and a very
domestio person. Hanberg has turned religious,
and fears his wife. I wonder if either of them
ever go back over those old days as I do? I
wonder if they remember one night when Joe came
reeling into the room ? We thought at first that
he was drunk, but he was sober enough.
“She’s chucked me over,” he said, “she’s the
best girl in the,world, and I believe she loves me;
but she’s heard about you, Lilian ” —and he
slumped into a chair.
Lilian coloured; the speech contained the
elements of a compliment, but the sting was there.
She was wearing a bangle Joe had given her, she
glanced at it, then at us, and smiled. “ Women
are fools, aren’t they ? ” she remarked. “ Did you
tell her the usual story, that I had entangled you—
that the other men led you astray—that you never
wanted to see my face again, but that I wrote
imploring letters ”
“I’m not a cad ! ” returned Joe in a dull voice.
Joe was one of those delightful harum-scarum,
handsome lads whom all women love, and Lilian’s
eyes were bright as she stood up, her hand on my
shoulder. Such a dear little white hand it was,
and such an arm. Is there another in the world
like it? A wonderful, beautiful, warm thing,
with its marvellous curves, its delicious fall to the
delicate wrist, its shortness to the round elbow. I
loved Lilian’s arms ; she had owned to me once
that she kissed them herself sometimes.
“I am glad you said none of these things,
though I would not have blamed you if you had.
Most men tell such tales to their wives and sweet-
hearts, and wives and sweethearts sometimes
I relieve them. I think your girl will come round,
Joe ;if she is worth having she will. ” Then she
made Walker and Hanberg take Joe home, and
what a happy evening we had ! In those days I
persuaded myself that she loved me, now I know
she loved Joe. There were red flowers in her
black hair, white teeth that gleamed behind her
red lips, and her eyes, the wickedest, darkest eyes.
The room seemed full of glitter and color, but it
was only her lips and her eyes and her arms and
the red flowers in her dark hair that I saw. She
talked delicious wild nonsense, and if I shut my
eyes I can recall the soft touch of her fingers in my
hair.
“ Did God or the Devil make love, Hugh ? ”
“ God; but the Devil teaches women how to use
it.”
“ Is it the best thing in the world ? ”
“ How can I tell, when I am enraptured and
fascinated by your eyes—they make the world.”
“You make love well.”
“Dear heart, what man would not make love
well to you ? ”
“ Exactly, but ”
“ But what ? ”
“ I was going to mention a fact, and talk shop,
but that is bad taste. We were talking of love and
that is shop—but ”
* * * *
Are there women like you nowadays, Lilian—
as bad, and as brave, as hard and as soft ?
Joe married his girl next month, because Lilian
went to see her and ‘ explained things ’. What
she explained Heaven only knows, but she was
clever enough to explain anything.
I don’t think she ever saw Joe again ; she was
not a woman to do things by halves. Walker and
Hanberg each secretly believed that it was he she
loved. I wonder if, like myself, they ever go back
over the old days, and realise that she valued none
of us as she valued the lightest wish or word of
Joe’s?
Via
POTTS.
Formerly!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He looked at the notice again. Yes; it was
plain enough: “Frederick Johnston to Alicia,
eldest daughter of,” &c. So Alicia was married.
And to Johnston. He didn’t expect that. He
remembered when he himself was her lover. It
was thought it would end in a marriage— but it
didn’t. There was some verse he had given her
when they parted. He wondered if she had kept
it. Some fragmentary lines came to his memory :
Into my gaze each instant
Sweetly thy vision comes. . . .
It was poor doggerel enough, but she had seemed
pleased with it, and had kissed him tearfully.
And he had said that he would return and claim
his bride.
He wondered if but, no, there could not
have been, or else Johnston would not have
married her. Still, Johnston might have
Yes, it was possible he had.
Anyway, he was glad she was married, although
he was rather sorry for Johnston.
Meanwhile, it was about time he took a drink.
J.C.G.
“ Histrius ” tells of a Portuguese joke :
Dear Bulletin. —When I was, a few years ago, at
Delagoa Bay, of which we are hearing so much at present,
people were dying of fever so fast that a cart, or
float, was kept always on the move, collecting the bodies.
Dozens of graves were kept ready-dug, and, as the soil is
swampy, there was always two or three feet of water at
the bottom of these. The mode of burial was simply
backing the cart over the grave, drawing a bolt and
letting the body fall through a trap-bottom into the hole.
A bluejacket from a British war-ship having got very
drunk, wandered out of town and fell asleep in a retired
spot, and when the dead-cart happened along, the
attendants picked up what they supposed was a “ stiff,”
carted it to the cemetery, backed over one of the open
graves, and let Jack down “ plunk 1” into 3ft. of
water. The shock woke him up, and, scrambling out
with much “language,” he scared the ghouls into pre-
cipitate flight. Presently, however, they returned with
reinforcements, and dragged off the moist and cursing
Jack to chokey, whence he was next morning brought
before the beak and actually fined 1000 reis on the charge
of “ creating a disturbance at a funeral ! ”
Cave Canem!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The “ Battler’s ” faoe <vas a study of mingled
despair and disgust. His mate, “ The New-
Chum,” had returned with the empty “ nosebag,”
and the greater part of the heel of one of his boots
torn off. “Catch me goin’ near a house again
when I see a notice like that,” he gasped, jerking
a dirty thumb in the direction of a board nailed to
a sapling within the fenoe, upon which was
daubed in characters more conspicuous than orna-
mental “ Bewair of the dogg.”
It was some minutes before the Battler
could speak. . . . “Do you mean to tell me,” he
said, at length, with deliberation and emphasis,
“ that you allowed a blasted dawg to beat yer ? ”
“ Look at that,” said the New-Chum, pointing
to what remained of the heel of his left boot, which
he had taken off to examine, “and tell me what
you would have done ?”
“Like to see the da wg that’d beat me,” sneered
the Battler, rising and loosening the tucker-
bag that was fastened to the swag, whioh he had
been using as a seat. “You jus’ see if / come
back with an empty bag,” he continued, with
calm confidence.
“ I’ll go on ahead, and wait fer you in the sorub
behind the house,” said the New-Chum quickly,
lacing his boot.
“ If you wasn’t quite so scared you could come
with me and learn a point or two,” insinuated the
warrior of the track, but his guileless mate had
shouldered swag and was making ahead with
rapid strides.
It was a narrow escape. The terrified Battler
scrambled down from the tree that he had scaled
in escape from the infuriated mastiff, ripping his
clothes in several places as he did so. He had
been savagely pursued from within a few yards of
the house back to the bush near the fence, and it
was with intense relief that he saw the frothing
brute at last dragged away from the butt of the
tree by the selector’s wife, who had taken a frantic
part in the chase, followed by the howling young-
sters. “ Can you spare me a bit of something to
eat, m’am?” he shouted after her, tremulously, and
keeping close to the blue-gum.
But the woman was too excited, and too busy
tugging at the collar of her canine protector.
* • « •
“Well, where’s all the tucker?” queried the
New-Chum, with unmistakable sarcasm, when
the Battler at length put in an appearance.
“Where do you think?” snorted the latter,
throwing down his swag with a vioious jerk of the
shoulders.
“ Thought you were going to show me a point,”
said the New-Chum, calmly. “ However, you
may as well carry this leg of mutton that I pulled
out of the pot whilst the old woman and the dog
were chasing you. I’ve got a couple of loaves of
bread here as well, and enough tea and sugar to
last us a fortnight.”
“ Think we’d better move on a bit,” said the
Battler, gazing abstractedly over the gum-trees.
J. M. DEEGAN.
The Biter Bitten.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dad had just taken a candle and gone to bed.
Alter smoking for a time, during which a strange
discord, evidently caused. by the tobacco-smoke,
sounded from a hornet’s nest in the rafters, he put
out the light.
Presently Mickey stole quietly into the room,
but, as he reached his bunk, he made a clatter.
*• What’s that ? ” asked Dad.
“ Nuthin’,’ 1 growled Mickey.
“ Don’t do it agen.”
A short silence followed. Suddenly Dad asked,
just as Mickey was dropping off to sleep :
“ Put goats into tli’ paddock ? ”
“No, Dad.”
“Then do it, or those young cabbages ’ull go.”
Mickey, growling and swearing, rose from his
bed and turned the goats (two) into the paddock.
“ Lock door as you came in ? ”
“No.”
When Mickey was in bed the old man asked,
not unkindly
“ Decent chap, Yorkey ? ”
“Yes, Dad, an’ ’onest.”
“Now, look ’ere, Mickey,” said Dad severely ;
“he said that you ‘duffed’ a horse of his over’n
the ranges ’bout a week ago. Did you ? ”
“So’elpme, I .”
“ Don’t tell me a lie—did you ? ”
“ Yes ! ”
“ Then get out of this house!” roared the old
man. Mickey dressed and scooted outside, but
when all was quiet he sneaked back to bed.
He was up and out riding early next morning.
At dinner-time he returned, and Dad said to him :
“Now, look ’ere ; I mean t’ put down this
‘ eattle-duffin.’ As Mayor of this town, I’ll see
that justice is done. I sold Yorkey’s horse this
mornin’ for two quid, just t’ teach you a less’n.”
Same afternoon a traveller called for his horse,
which Mickey had kindly stabled for him.
Mickey could not be found, neither could they
find the horse.
“ Branded ? ” asked Dad.
“ Yes, A on the left ear.”
“Good God!” muttered Justice under its
breath, “ that must be the horse I sold ! ” Then
aloud :
“ Bay, you say ? Well, p’r’aps Mickey has
taken a fancy to him. What did you value him
at? ”
“Ten pounds.”
Dad paid the money gladly.
Up in the ranges the traveller met Mickey and
bought Yorkey’s horse from him with the JBIO.
THE PIPE.
Yangan : “ F.P.” (B. 26/8/’99) is as much
out as “0.Y.H.” unless that Australian “tired
feeling ’’ has attacked the imported Hindoo.
Ram-Jain-Sammee can do his 4 miles an hour, and
doesn’t pull-up at every pub. for a reviver either.
I have known many Hindoos who’d walk 10 miles
on the off-chance of a day’s work.
Inspecting Supt. O’Callaghan is now giv-
ing a series of lectures to Melb. policeman on the
proper manner of giving evidence in court :
Hitherto, it seems to us,
Although we hate confessing it,
They’ve sought but for perfection in
The manner of suppressing it.


Every lady should call or write for one of
our new Fashion Sheets of Spring Goods. Thirty-
four pictures. Posted free anywhere. Ladies,
you will miss a good thing if you don’t get one
of these; given away free by Hordern
Brothers, No. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street, Sydney. The fashionable drapers.*
LUNG AND CHEST TROUBLES.
NO ailments are more dangerous or insidious than Lung and Chest troubles. The unsettled weather of the past has made
these complaints particularly prevalent. A cold in the head, feverishness, cough, pain or tickling and oppression on the
cnest in dicatebronch.tis. A persistent cough, spitting of phlegm or blood (haemoptysis), shortness of breath, pains in the chest or
shoulders, loss of Hesli or stiength indicate consumption. If you experience any of these symptoms, or are afflicted with any
lung or chest disorder, no remedy is as good as
2>r. Williams ' pink pill s
for Pale people.
Read What One-Time Sufferers Say:
Consumption and Asthma.
Mr. F. H. Thomas is the respected manager of the leading store in Queanbeyan, N.S. W., and his in-
tegrity as a business man is well-known. He says:—“Some timeago I becamoa victim to consumption,
and was in a bad way, a persistent dry cough, shortness of breath, and pains in the chest and shoulders
were symptoms of my ailment. Then asthma made its appearance, and sometimes I would wake up
at night gasping for breath. A clever physician did all he could to save me, but my ailments did not
diminish perceptibly. At last I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and even three boxes benefited me. I
used 8 boxes altogether, but these 8 boxes effectually cured me of all symptoms of consumption and
asthma. I have been a strong, healthy man ever since.”
Pnemonia Cured.
Miss Maud Christie, of Truro, N.S.W., says “ I suffered intensely from pneumonia, which set
in as the result of a severe cold, which I could not throw off. Whenever I coughed I strained myself
all over, and the racking pain was fearful. For two months I was in bed, attended constantly by a
skilful physician, but I grew gradually worse. The doctor said I was in consumption as well, and that
nothing would save me. I was in despair. A paper was shown me in which appeared the case of a
young lady who had been cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Six boxes were bought for me, and I
began their use. Gradually I regained strength and was able to eat ; later on the cough and feverish-
ness left me, although it was some weeks before I was cured. As this was four years ago, and I have
been well ever since, my cure is undoubtedly permanent.”
A Consumptive Made Strong.
Mr. William Eastwood, of Stanley-street, South Brisbane, says that eight years ago the first signs
of consumption became apparent. Acute darting pains were felt in his right breast, and they in-
creased whenever he lay down, particularly when he lay on his right side. The pain afterwards
spread to other parts of his body, until his neck and right shoulder were affected. He became so ill
that he could not perform his daily work. Then a cough came, and his worst fears were realised when
the doctor said his complaint was the first stage of consumption. The patient tried every means he
could to find a cure, but failed. Two years passed away, and he was then told to try Dr. Williatns’
Fink Pills. He did so, and even two boxes relieved him. He continued with them, and soon began
to get stronger. Now he is in perfect health, and has been so ever since the pills cured him. He
strongly recommends consumptives to use Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Bronchitis and Asthma.
Mrs. J. S. Francis, of Viotoria Orescent, Box Hill, Melbourne, suffered for nearly 16 years before
being cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Great debility and weakness first set in, then the symptoms
of bronchitis and asthma manifested themselves. She had fits of feverishness, pain and oppression on
the chest, a constant hacking cough, and at night she would sometimes lay prone on the floor
struggling for breath. A medical man told her there was no hope of a cure, but Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills cured her. It took seven boxes to effect the cure, but her present good health more than repays
her for her perseverance. *
Facsimile of only Genuine
Package. Name in red
on white outside wrapper.
D? WILLIAMS’
P
INK
ILLS
r or
ALE,
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers;
2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d.,
post free from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
Dr. Will iains’ Pink Pills cure Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, Fevers, Eczema,
All Ladies Ailments, Paralysis, Scrofula, St. Vitus’ Dance, Influenza, Measles, Rickets,
Insomnia, Indigestion, Loss of Vital Strength, etc.
Carmen Darwinense.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was nothing but a pendulous baboon,
And he nightly made grimaces at the moon ;
He’d a breadth of jaw gigantic,
And he cut a curious antic,
And his cradle was the tree-top where his mother
used to croon.
There was next to half of nothing in his brain,
And the very thought of thinking gave him pain;
And his face was wild and hairy,
And his speech was somewhat chary,
And his morals were so meagre that they never
got a strain.
In a promise of the mighty things to be
He would trick the other monkeys on the tree;
O the gay baboon and careless !
Could a brainy race, and hairless,
Only find its staunch progenitor in such an ape as
thee ?
Yet the Manifold, the Maker, clearly saw
The miser-clutch of Man within the claw ;
Saw the simian gripe extended
Till in Human Grab it ended ;
Saw the juggling legislator in the jabbering of the
jaw.
There was promise, when he plundered and he
stole,
Of the gentle kingly art of tax and toll;
In his pilferings substantial
There was hint of ways financial ;
And his villainy’s extension gave some token of a
soul.
And he held that “ All is fair in love and war ! ”
{’Twas a motto ev’ry monkey held before);
And the saying still we treasure,
And we prize it as a measure
Of the wisdom that was garnered by the peerless
men of yore.
He was weak at times, and therefore drew the
line,
.For he never drank him drunken with the swine;
And his germ of budding Reason
Never fancied for a season
That the Joy of Happy Creatures was accursed of
One Divine.
He was al ways somewhat keener than his kin ;
So he led them all in frolic and in sin ;
And he showed his near relation
To our human generation
When he greeted their misfortunes with a broad
and happy grin.
We have shaven him—the mighty shaggy loon ;
We have penned him down in hat and cloak and
shoon ;
But at times, in fierce derision
Lo ! he grins across our vision—
And we wonder —Isit Human? Is it Hybrid or
Baboon ?
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
A Matter of Color.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in Torres Straits, a name suggestive of
something more than warm, and sticky, and lan-
guid ; the place where the north-west monsoon
blows in summer with a vigor worthy of a better
cause, and shrivels up with utter callousness the
skins which have expanded with untold joy dur-
ing the winter months to the life-giving freshness
of its south-east confrere.
We were only a little party engaged in the
quiet, mostly unprofitable, and obscure occupa-
tion of raking the bottom of the ocean in searoh of
shell, and always with the silent and lingering
hope of striking a patoh in the shape of a big
pearl. Only a little two-ton lugger it was, with a
commonplace diving-dress and an old-fashioned,
though reliable, pump ; enough scanty provisions
for three weeks on the ground, and a crew of four.
Hold your breath, O, labor-leaders, and cry
“shame!” on the “ soab,” and “blackleg,” and
“ nigger-driver ” —one of the same oolor as your-
selves—who had allied himself with a little brown
Jap, and was in very truth his full partner.
We had been in partnership, Katermatza and I,
for a twelvemonth, more or less, and the amicable
relations between us may be judged by the fact
that the trustful little Jap took no part whatever
in our financial arrangements. The only concern
he had in the business was bringing to the surface
whatever of value he could lay hands on, while I
handled the pump, sailed the boat (with the
assistance of an active, ever-smiling, ever-ready
little lady, Rater’s wife, Kue by name), bought
the stores, sold the shell, traded off surreptitiously
whatever chance pearls we might find, without
the aid of a licensed buyer; and, most important
of all, divided the profits.
The fourth and last member of the crew was a
little, restless, noisy, happy cuss, aged three, the
everlasting pride of Kater, occupying every
minute of his spare time, on whom he lavished
an affection worthy of the very tenderest woman
that ever lived. It was Kater who dressed him,
Kater who fed him on the tit-bits, Kater who
bound up his little scratches, Kater who patted
him off to sleep, when the noisy wind and bois-
terous weather kept him in a state of wakefulness.
Kater was his mother and father combined, and
Kue, recognising the hopelessness of gaining any
of the little chap’s affections when she had to
compete with such extravagant amour, was simply
content to act as Kater’s wjfe and a useful member
of the crew.
We were approaching the end of our three
weeks’ cruise, and were beginning to think of the
necessity of running into the island to replenish
stores and await a certain domestio event, which
had some interest for Kue. Our last day on the
ground had arrived, and the indefatigable Kater
was donning his diving-suit, preparatory to having
one more try. The old pump started work, my
faithful partner disappeared from view, and I,
lines in hand and sending down mechanically an
occasional draft of fresh air to my deep-sea friend,
whistled idly, and thought of everything but
Kater, Kue, and the kid.
A sudden jerk told me that Kater had had
enough; two more, and I began to wind him
up, oursing in the ordinary, everyday style, and
assuming the ordinary, everyday luck.
Slowly he came on deck ; with more than ordi-
nary deliberateness assisted in divesting himself
of his covering ; surveyed with a languid air the
nine or ten shell he had brought to the surface,
and then exclaimed —
“ Where Bee-Bee? ”
I jerked over my shoulder an indication of the
whereabouts of his sleeping brown brat, whom he
patted affeotionately on the face, and then, squat-
ting down aft, proceeded to explore the inside of
his “ catch.”
He had opened one shell, when a wheezy,
squeaky, unfamiliar sound startled us both.
“Where Kue?” he exclaimed, jumping to his
feet.
A superfluous question of this kind, asked twice
within five minutes, did nob seem to call for an
answer. Both his Kue and his Bee-Bee were
either on the two-ton lugger, which could be ex-
plored from end to end in three.seconds, or else
they were at the bottom of the deep blue sea.
He dropped himself into the miniature fo’c’s’le,
and did not emerge for a quarter of an hour or
more. Then he resumed his work of opening
shell with a stolid surliness which was quite
foreign to his usual friendlv lane-hintr chaffing
iorei Q n to ms usual inencny, laugtnng, chatting
manner. . .
I started to nil a pipe and patiently await the
return of his amiability, and when just in the act
of lighting-up, something in the nature of a
demoniacal screech rent the air, and Katermatza
stood in front of me in a snecies of trenwv
8 «. * m OI me ln a B P ecies OI irenzy.
Anything the matter, Kater ? ” I inquired,
assuming for the moment a very collected air,
though visions of a powerful little Jap running
Wer “ Cal<!Ul ‘‘ ted
e B equilibrium. , , , .
What color you tink 5 what color you tink?
“ Why, you don’t say you’ve got a good one at
last, Kater?”
“ What color you tink 9 ”
« wl . g ? “nyttiing good—show me !
color you tink .
Oh, half white, half brown, I’ll bet. The day
we get a real good lift with a decent pearl will be
when we help ourselves out of the shop-window
Showme” F
tt„ rim -rr . j , ~ ,
lie aid show me. He stood a yard off, and
holding out his hand with lightning rapidity he
displayed in the palm thereof a pearl that I swear
to this day he sold for three hundred pounds. He
gave me time to have a real good look, and then
SfiauriS?? - n A” re t he
pearl into his pocket and beckoned me to follow
him to Kue s quarters.
We crammed ourselves in somehow—those
quarters were certainly not built for three—and
ttoroGn v„ , „ -j l
rn-f 6 v- n 16 f J u n C Kue, and beside her another
little lyue, or her own sex this time.
An involuntary whistle, ever so low, escaped
me, and as for Katermatza—whv, he might have
been dumb! * 8
Not a word was said for a minute or two, but
rv.™ t „V,tarK‘h, t p a 4^ss r : in,ra
Then with a savage screech there came that
Bft “ Sk H ? ” faithfUl Partner ~
Katermatza was evidently not very well.
I went on deck, hoisted sail, and steered a course
for the island, being presently assisted by Kater,
who preserved an ominous silence during the five
hours run in.
We reached our destination, and Kater, contrary
to all custom, stepped straight ashore.
“ Where you going, Kater ? ”
“ Dam where I go !”
“ Where’s that pearl ? ”
Then came his silly old query—“ What color
you tink ? ” and after a pause—“ Yes, yes, I
know—half white, half brown.”
He held out the palm of his right hand, display-
ing once more that priceless pearl.
. " Dis one my share,” he explained, and, point-
ing to Kue’s quarters—“ Datone yours.”
* * * *
I shortly afterwards lost sight of Katerinatza and
his brood. The ownership of that pearl was only
disputed with him once—when we met after dark
in a by-street on Thursday Island —but the
ferocity of his manner, his tragic attitudes and a
glistening sheath-knife which he drew from his
belt and held with uplifted hand, suggested to me
that it would be unwise to carry the argument
further.
QUEENSLANDER.
A Bulletin correspondent writes re the
dismissal of Vic. detective Guthrie:—
, Whatever may be thought of the recent Meib. detec-
tive scandal, the force loses by Guthrie's dismissal one of
its few shrewd and capable men. Guthrie was the cen-
tral figure of the most dramatic story of detective work
in latter-day Australia, for he it was who joined the
famous “Plum” gang of coiners and burglars, and
learned the whole of its inner working before his col-
leagues closed on the crowd. The leader of the gang was
“Plum” Williams, now in Pentridge, a criminal in a
thousand—smart, intelligent, fearless, and well-edu-
cated—and Guthrie was at that time a lean youth who
had not long been a mounted trooper. Knowing what
was wanted of him, he put on flash clothes, hung round
Bourke-street all day, frequented billiard-rooms popular
with high-class criminals, and gave every outward indi-
cation of being “ cronk.” When approached as a
“likely” lad he was taciturn and volunteered little
information, but on his confidences being gained he
informed his acquaintances that he was a “good man”
and that he had just done four in Goulburn. Shop-
breaking was his speciality, but he would take on any-
thing that showed prospective profit. This satisfied the
outposts of the “Plum” gang, and under the style of
“ Dick the Needle,” Guthrie became duly qualified. He
never went near the detective office, learned with inter-
est the names of the detectives pointed out to him, and
made mental notes of all the “sweet things” sug-
gested. Supt. Kennedy, head of the Victorian de-
tectives, was in a fever, for every morning he
expected to hear that Guthrie had been murdered.
But Guthrie was never even suspected, and after a few
weeks two foreigners—hangers-on of the Plum gang—
were grabbed in the very act of “ amateur ” minting.
Guthrie was in the house a few minutes previously and
was congratulated upon his good luck in escaping, and as
a member of the Plum gang he went through his part
until the time came when he was to participate in a big
store robbery. This was a bit beyond him, and after
worming the final strands of the net out of the burglars,
the word was given and they were taken without a blow
being struck. Butt, the C3’ding safe-breaker, now
“doing time," turned informer, and the rest of the
gang got long terms. The inner history of the Plum
gang—containing, as it does, a thrilling sub-story of love
and revenge—would make a splendid detective-yarn.


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out Impurities from the blood, brines back an
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves,
gives energy and power.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
f
i
-N.
X
Mrs. L. Kenmngton, of Station St., Petersham, New South Wales, sends us
tne above portrait of herself, with the following letter:
. I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative.
i ‘‘Sometime ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of rheumatism fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible pains, could not eat or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid.
obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for ‘Sarsa-
parilla. My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.”
These remarkable results are not due alone to the sarsaparilla in Ayer’s
bars a p ari ll a . They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. No
contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like Ayer’s.” This is why the people call it
"The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Ayer’s ” cures. You know this. You have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that.
. , removing impurities from the blood, for making thin blood become
ricn and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for building up the
nervous system, there is but one medicine t
AYER'S
It Removes Depression,
Ayer’s Pills Act on the Liver, more Bile Is Secreted*
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing-
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Dungs
when you ask eor
'jjmglomc
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
-Ac Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Preparsd by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. Ik/., 2s. M.., 4s. (V/ ,
and 11by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors,
Wholesale of ail London and
Colonial Houses,
COFY&ISBT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
BEAM’S
P Giddiness Fulness and «. UCh A ,f s . Wlad and Pain in the Stomach, .Sick Headache,
inirs of Heat T««« \f ’ eilmg after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
turbed Sleep and nil PP e lte Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WILL TIIE FIKST DOSE
SIMST* to"WoalH A
promptly reniove anv ken directed - wi, l quickly restore females to complete health. They
prompuy remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
MuscSarSvSte^ieXriSt^ 0 ! 868 ™° rk I wonders a POn the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
arousing with the Robe nun* t°hS^'vv 16^ brm^n & b ack the keen edge of appetite, and
are “facts” nrimittna i +v he Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
Nervouf and Deb r’ aU . class , es ? f society ’ and one of the best guarantees to the
he world. Full dkl-c tK>i s * W Large * ° f any Palent Medieine m
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9*d, Is D 2 d, and 2s 9d each.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
W_ c. IEIIIIDIRXIDG-IE &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOliK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
„There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA &
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Observe the
Signature
s A
MwfD
Blue Ink
& Sc/, °ss the Outside
9fi Per of eYer y Bot tle ‘
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
AGENTS; Messrs, VTRGOE, SON, and -CHAPMAN,
AND DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
SEN
> ■,
-v.-. m
f FARRINGDON AM E NBE\
l LONDON. \
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS X SPEAKERS
vet
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
\ ■
THE MARVELLOUS CURE FOR
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
INFLUENZA.


SOME POINTS —.
ABOUT ODB
Ulaterproof Costs.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUTELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-CUT and SILK-STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AlR> . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
nxammatfs
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MAfl K«
QDOOQQ
«08U
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Abbot
<£>HE
WWW
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ the bx.ocb:, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The Host powerful Driving Belt in the DJorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, cmd in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may-
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers —
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
MOPfITEOT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents t siW>
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
o the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
rioneers 01 of Butter-making’ (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Comi
SUPPLY
op sy m
Sells only the Very Bef
3 aii the Principal
Best Articles.
PLACES
with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Managbr.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY
PARKE
HOUSE
IN THE
WORLD
LACY
wag
W
GATES’ JiOCKBEEAKER
Company Limited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
A T.T. TSLTJSTJZ>& OF 1 MODEFUV IVEAOI3LI3NrE!I=tY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES,
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, U.S.A.
60 CLARENCE STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS LANE,
Loudon, EC.
“Tbe R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
VJI IN CLARET BOTTLES.
m oo c3L, Sole Proprietors.
street The Trustees offer to the Puhtw, toCLEAR the BAnAm e.
OF THE STOCK -—l4 I>.B. Breech-loading Guns, best uvisl, bar
rels. wiinut. stock, double grip, b,.v spring best stoe
ticks, with cartridge machine* and cleaners conn I •■ ; > * ( , uns anap action, walnut stoett, very Dest nam-w,
>3, reduced £2 17s each. complete ; JJM ~L»leU\ Usual price 'TO 10s, reduced £8 17s 6d each,
■hoke bore, steel locks, wit h cartridge lnaclnn.s xten9 j Oß r jh, reboundiiur' locks, snap act-ton, left-stand
•omplete; 17 D.B, Breeoh loading Guns, m, a h , t improvements, with cartridge machines
narn-l full choke bore, right hand bar.se mod ledchoke, w™ “| \\ D . B . Sreech-loadth* Guns, special quality,
and cleaners complete. tJsual prtoe £l4, Movements „ n e<|ual for quality, with cartridge machines and
solid bar action, highly finished, with all . Cartridges can be supplied for the Breeoh*
cleaners complete. Usual price t2l, reduced j j )t .*n V cr«4l Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
loading Otrns at Os 6d per 100 in any siise shot All <Orders DC 11 r Po#k office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
Australasian colonics. A kair Trial given wtn eterj guu. " . ,
made payaltfe to WKAIKtN, IlloM AS k
B.S.A.
date, U 7.
TRADE HU
a.. a daba ret MPANY7 137 ELIZABETH STREE
THE LONDON SMALL , AR a ii^forlilOYOLES, B.S.A. SETS, DARTS an
I MELBOURNE, Absolute > _ capes n pony’s; 3/6 gross), Nipplefg, 2 9 gross. Sfce
CYCLE ACCESSORIES. valves (JO/* do*.)/ Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outsit
Balls (1/6 «>;<>»»). »»«« Tubes 36, llrookc’s Saddjes 6/6, Blenmel Cork Hamße-fci,
Coyer* (D.uilop pnnc pie, 12/6), Inside Tubes JO, b(lttcrt Spokes, plated all over, Ptfry
(fi ll dozen pairs), Oe'**' n *L Y £»*,’t,r ithTRATEU PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 5
b/r- cJss* jsr .-nm™*™.™ m OTOUB . » P .
pt rIX 111-. 1 r 19! months. ... . Am.mn unm
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Solo Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . ,
