

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
USE
GITA.RA.IffT'EEr} FXJRE COCOA. AKTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—run —
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS AIWAYS AVAILABLE.
iiiiiiiisi
llilSllilllffillllSfll
f wlmmKKnltmmm
Over 2200 rtydro-iiixtract rs ooid. and at work
CIGARS
mem/Kum: fim
■SMOKZ
:M.RUTnr%C?SyPNtY
©I? 8
F©SL |s.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 pm street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADB ENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS'
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars. 1
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
[ilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilniipster for the last,
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS .
isr
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite Sfc,
K Ida Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest IJote*
A icommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient (jotel.
cull
60
%
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AMD THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Leit oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICf Sc SOM, LTD.,
117 Y orlt Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Idlest Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
msm
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch >
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
\ oi 20. —iSo. 1014 ]
[Saturday, July 22, lf>99.
postered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure.
m
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
B. A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Sjx akers.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered)
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. or from th • .Propi-ionr « ihtsok. Cl list, ip-wiel
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province;. SYDNEY AGENT S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Quo. n s Place.
UNDER THE GUMTREE
Master of His Fate.
HIS friends say John Fer-
guson N isbet walked to
death by the road of over-
work—a sacrifice to fero-
cious Journalism, who devours
her own children. It is likely
enough ; for he was a man of
many tasks, and did them all
doggedly. The persistence is in
his portrait-face—-not aggres-
sively Scottish, though IN'isbet
was Scottish ; but stern and
squared in the battle of life—the
face of a man who didn’t enjoy
his dinner. He seems rarely to
have relaxed his mood, never his
character; so that influenza
found him tense, without any
saving elasticities, and shattered
him for a grave in what should have been his
prime. He is decidedly a man to regret: for
himself, he regretted nothing. A Covenanting
thiuker, he made no sentimental compromises.
He has praised Calvinism as the most logical
creed ; and some hereditary germ in him wel-
comed the Calvinism of science—the predestined
lot, the inevitable destiny, of individual and race.
Deliberately he built a wall of reason which shut
out the religionist’s rosy eternities, and died with
his back to the wall.
I fear that Nisbet’s two books are little known
in Australia : they are certainly less known than
they deserve to be. “The Human Machine,”
indeed, is a posthumous publication, and has not
had time to obtain a wide audience. The publisher
should include it in his “colonial library,” and
should arrange to re-issue Nisbet’s earlier book,
“ The Insanity of Genius,” in a cheaper form.
Both books are worth their weight in silver to a
thoughtful reader. Their doctrines and lessons
are often hinted elsewhere, but nowhere are they
put so completely and compactly for the average
man. Nisbet assimilated many scientific hints
and treatises ; and he had the generalising mind
which concentrates and expands, rejecting the
unessential, firmly gripping the significant, aiid
always endeavoring to refer facts to a principle,
experiences to their,Jaw. It is a rare type of
mind, and valuable : ‘for most men are mentally
near-sighted, and need to be forcibly dragged from
the domination of details.
Nisbet was fortunate in that he early found his
characteristic theory, and never lost it. As a
journalist he wrote of many things—he was for
17 years dramatic critic of the Times, and he re-
viewed literature from the ordinary external stand-
point, ,as was desired of him ; but his main idea
was the idea of the physical basis of psychology.
That is a nevv idea for most people to-day :
twenty years ago, when Nisbet grasped it, it was
an explorer’s dream. He pressed it insistently ;
fitting it to fresh discoveries, to old history, to the
news of the daily press—not in any Procrustean
way, but by arguing down objections and arguing
up to truth. He has been one of the most strenu-
ous pioneers of the not-completed revolution in
modern thought which has superseded meta-
physics, or, rather, which has swallowed up meta-
physics in physics.
“The Insanity of Genius” develops a single
phase of Nisbet’s idea. To some extent the
title is misleading, for it is the non-sanity,
the unsoundness, of genius which Nisbet affirms ;
and though he has included evidence which is
doubtful as well as evidence which is clear, his
case is straitly proven for unprejudiced people.
Sanity—peifect health of body and brain —is
associated with the human norm from generation
to generation : the special cerebral development
which genius implies is a departure from the
norm, and in-sane in proportion to the extent of
its departure. Genius possesses in excess a single
faculty or group of faculties, and pays for its
possession by a corresponding deficiency in some
other faculty or group of faculties. Or, in physi-
cal terms, genius is hypertrophy of one particular
area of the brain, compensated by atrophy
or lesser development of the remaining areas.
To buttress this truth Nisbet brings in-
numerable facts and deductions, testifying to
solid industry and wide reading. Lombroso gained
similar facts at first-hand, and Nordau advocated
similar deductions more rhetorically, but neither
“The Man of Genius ” nor “Degeneration” is as
convincing or as valuable as Nisbet’s earlier book.
“ The Human Machine,” as the publisher omits
to say, is compiled from Nisbet’s contributions to
“The Handbook ” in London Referee; and it wants
the continuity of “The Insanity of Genius.”
It ranges in many mental fields, and reaches
no particular climax. It shows, too, the
effect of stress on the writer’s mind : it is not
always closely argued; the statements are some-
times vague or fallacious; there is a want of
adaptation to recent ideas, as if Nisbet’s brain had
lost some power of receiving new impressions ;
and it does not seem to have had the benefit of
final revision. On page 238, for example, there
is a repetition of the note upon page 215, which
remarks woman’s comparative deficiency in honour
or business principle. Nisbet might have said
why —because the sense of honour and business
principle are recent acquirements in the pro-
cess of evolution, and woman, busy in pre-
serving the human type, has lagged behind
evolutionally, and has not been able to embody all
the male variations from the aboriginal character.
By a whole range of theories, of the kind of which
Havelock Ellis is the most popular exponent,
Nisbet appears unimpressed. “ The Human
Machine ” is in no sense novel, as “The Insanity
of Genius ” was. It seems rather an additional
commentary on the author’s ideas of ten years ago
than a statement of fresh ideas—as if his mind had
yetritied towards his death. He expounds Weis-
maan theories which Weismann himself has modi-
fied. In view of the nervous changes caused by
abuse of alcohol, which probably react on
every function of the body, it is not correct
to say (p. 201) that “ The children of Philip
drunk inherit exactly the same qualities and
defects as those of Philip sober.” Even the doc-
trine of the permanence of the germ-plasm does
•lot declare that it goes unaffected by revolutions
in the nervous system. The germ-plasm may not
be affected by the loss of a tooth or of an arm;
but it is not walled off from the rest of the body;
it is subjected to constant change ; and it must be
influenced by any vital alteration of the state of
the organism. At p. 20G Nisbet goes so far as to
say that “It does not appear that the age of the
parents exercises any effect upon the robust-
ness of the offspring ” —which is almost ludi-
crously opposed to common sense and common
science. The sounder doctrine is contained in the
Sentence with which Ellis closes “The Criminal ”
Every falling away from health, every new strain and
stress, in man or woman, may lay an additional burden
on a man or woman yet unborn, and perhaps wreck a life
or a succession of lives.
I “The Human Machine,”' then, is not always
; but it is eminently suggestive. Though it
Surveys knowledge from Shakespeare to musical
glasses, it is in sum a series of re-statements of
jNisbet’s main idea—a series of references of con-
cepts and emotions to physical standards. It is
astonishingly pithy. The author packs in a page
thought-food which many men would spread over
a book. He is very shrewd, though not always
[impartial, and while he makes his points bril-
liantly he does not always state the objections—
(sometimes he does not seem to perceive them.
That he is solid, and lucid, and strong, is shown
by the first sentences in “ The Human Machine ”
i Broadly speaking, all manifestations of human activity,
physical, moral, and intellectual, have their seat in the
brain and nervous system. The living man is in some
sort an automaton, acted upon by influences or stimuli
derived from the outer world, through the channels of
his senses, and whether he is long-lived or short-lived,
healthy or ailing, a genius or a fool—in a word, sound or
unsound according to the standard of his species—de-
pends upon the relative efficiency of the cerebro-spinal
mechanism with which he has been endowed at birth, or
rather at conception.
And his constitutional pessimism, his scientific
position, are indicated in the last sentences
The most probable end of the world, as far as the
human race is concerned, is that in process of time the
earth, like the moon, will become unfit to support life.
It will be a very slow process, we may be sure—a process
extending over hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions,
of years; and as intelligence will probably,decay as life
becomes more and more reduced, the end will be un-
noticed. Nature, as a rule,* not violent in her methods ;
and it is extremely likely that that will be her method
with us, so closing an experiment the most obvious lesson
of which is that the individual counts for nothing in the
history of the race, the race for nothing in the life of the
planet, and the planet for nothing in the duration of the
universe.
Some belated similes. From E.C. (good ex-
amples of the simile’s popularity, with the ver-
nacular force of proverbs)—
From A.J.P.—
Didst never fear
That on my poor deserts thy love would sit
Like a great diamond on a threadbare robe ?
Alexander Smith —“ A Life-Drama."
The murmuring dying notes
That fall as soft as snow on the sea.
Beatrice Harraden—“ln Varying Moods."
From S. McA. —
“ Mulga Bill’s ” definition of awkwardness as applied to
his long-limbed, loose-jointed Cornstalk mate :—“ He’s
as awk’ard as a one-armed Myall black sewing up a soo-
gee bag ; or an elderly maiden emu negoshiatinga rabbit-
fence.”
From “Semaphore”—
Thy teeth are like a flock of sheep that are even shorn.
Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins,
which feed among the lilies.
His eyes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers of waters,
washed with milk and fitly set.
Solomon’s Song.
As clean as a bridal bodice.
London Sporting Times.
An’ he's as haughty about it as a new man on an ice-
wagon.
I ... an’starved an’starved till his heart was shrivelled
up like a washerwoman’s hand; but he made money.
Joyce has made ye’er face look like th’ back dure-step
iv a German resthrant.
I’m that low in me mind I feel like a bunch iv laths.
“We have,” he says, “ in our mist th’ Hon’rable
Lafayette Hadley, whose notes,” he says, “ falls as sweetly
oh th’ ear,” he says, “ as th’ plunk iv hivin’s rain in a
bar’l,” he says. ,
ißut, whin his face flames an’ his neck swells an’ his
eyes look like a couple iv ilicthric lamps again a cyclone
sky, he’d lead a forlorn hope across th’ battlements iv
hell.
Mr. Dooley in Peace and in War.
From “ Kurrajong ”
“ Her dress fitted her like a skin fits a sausage.”
From J.W.R. —
He had never before seen a woman’s lips and teeth
which forced upon his mind with such persistent iteration
the’old Elizabethan simile of roses filled with snow.
Hardy—'Less of the D’ Urbervilles.
If she wasn’t standing right there, just inside the door,
looking as sweet and contented as an angel half-full of
pie, I wish I may never !
Mark Twain—Huckleberry Finn.
William Watson lias written what an admirer
calls some “ fine verses ” for the anti-vivisection-
ists, commencing with an invocation of—
Wild nature not by kindness won, because
So seldom wooed that way ; rapt melodist,
Victorious singer of the eternal songs.
That, changeless through the ages, conquerest Time \
Shy, antlered, forest lord ; nor ye alone,
The eminent and splendid ones of Earth,
But creatures more familiar to Man's walk ;
Thou timorous fugitive, obscurely housed
In populous labyrinth under hillock and helm
and so on, with great parade of ponderous verbi-
age. Mr. Watson, like some of his Australian
imitators, is never satisfied till he has obscured one
little meaning with nine long words. What is
that “ timorous fugitive ” ? “ Hillock ” seems to
suggest something which scratches ; helm
something which is scratched. But they are
“ fine verses ” against vivisectionists : Bunny wins.
American Speaker Reed is as apt at retort as
the local Reid, and has far more Attic salt. It
was Reed who defined a statesman as. a successful
politician who is dead. It was Reed in his maiden
speech who finished an attack on an opponent
with
And now, having embalmed that fly in the liquid
amber of my remarks, I will proceed.
Of another opponent he said that “ he never opens
his mouth without subtracting from the sum of
human knowledge. ” And this was keen :
So far as I know, I have but two enemies in the State
of Maine. One of them President Harrison appointed
Collector at Portland ; the other he pardoned out of the
penitentiary.
Which recalls Heine’s comment upon a professor
at the obnoxious university of Gottingen who
wrote furious pamphlets against Napoleon. “It
is curious,” said Heine, “ the three greatest adver-
saries of Napoleon have all ended miserably.
Castlereagh cut his own throat; Louis the
Eighteenth rotted upon his throne ; and Prolessor
Saalfeld is still a,professor at Gottingen.”
The Australian Magazine misses a number and
reduces its price to fid. No. 4is better edited, and
made more generally interesting. There is still
plenty of room for improvement; but the maga.
is honestly earning support, and is very good value
for an Australian sixpence. Ohris. Brennan’s
“other side” of Stephen Phillips is as excellent
as Phillips’s other side of Brennan would be. The
art is reasonably good ; the fiction tolerable ; and
there are these charming verses by Roderic Quinn —
The complaint that Mu. Dooley, in Peace and
War was too American for the general has been
blunted by the inclusion of five new papers in the
second edition. Best, and one of the best in the
series, is that which does justice to Kipling’s men-
tal agility and alacrity—
What I like about Kipling is that his pomes is r-right
off th’ bat, like me eon-versations with you, me boy. He’s
a minyit-man, a r-ready pote that sleeps like th’ dhriver
iv truck 9, with his poetic pants in his boots beside his
bed, an’ he is ready to jump out an’ slide down th’ pole
th’ ininyit th’ alarm sounds. ... Do ye hear iv a man-
hole cover bein’ blown up ? Roodyard is there with his
r-ready pen. “’T is written iv Cashum-Cadi an’ th’ book
iv th’ gr-great Gazelle that a manhole cover in anger is
tin degrees worse than hell.” No col’ storage pothry f’r
Kipling. Iverything f’fresh an’ up to date. All lays laid
this mornin’.
Kipling’s suit against American-publishers Put-
nams (=£sooo damages claimed) is the more in-
teresting because the Putnams have always posed
as Particularly Proper Publishers. One of the
members of N.S.W. Assembly wears his conscience
at his buttonhole, and irritates antagonists by
lofty invitations to admire its quality and size.
G. P. Putnam, in his book of “Author and Pub-
lisher,” leaves a similar irritation : you see
clearly what a great flea the publisher is,
and what a deplorable parasite the author.
Kipling justly considers the firm’s conduct
something more than a pious impertinence, and is
in the right not to be placated by the shocked
remonstrance that “We” could not possibly do
anything unfair —seeing “We” did it. Kipling
has one authorised American edition—“ The Out-
ward Bound,” which Scribners issue. The Put-
nams bought loose sheets of Kipling’s books;
bound them uniformly; and announced a rival
“Brushwood Edition,” in various, ways suggesting
that the edition had Kipling’s approval. Yet it
included matter which he disowned ; he was con-
sulted neither as to contents nor arrangement,
and an editor’s essay, “The Ken of Kipling,”
patted approval to unwilling Rudyard. Comes to
this : Is an author to settle the fashion in which
his copyright books are to be published—and in
what order, with what additions and omissions—
or is he not '!
&
W. B. Yeats’s play, “The Countess Cathleen,”
which opened the new Irish Literary Theatre, was'
hissed by some students and condemned by some
ecclesiastics, and as warmly approved by other
critics not too Catholic.to be catholic. “ The idea
of the play is the redeeming of the souls of starv-
ing peasants who have sold their religious convic-
tions for gold, by the sacrifice of Countess
Cathleen’s‘ own soul.” Opponents say this is un-
Catholic, and therefore un-Irish. But the terms
are not mutually exclusive. What is Irish pre-
ceded and swallowed what is Catholic. The R.C.
religion in Ireland is embroidered on a cloth of
Celtic superstition; and, though the embroidery is
abundant, the cloth is always visible.
&
Lawson’s star is waxing : his famous soul-un-
burdening on this page has unlocked critics’hearts
and publishers purses. Which shows that fame
is synonymous with advertisement; since his
recent work is no better than that of live years
ago : it is only better known. A new volume of
ins prose, and another of verse, are preparing for
publication ; and a selection from the inass is to
appear in Jingland, where it will be warmly wel-
coined, apart from, merits. Then the author may
go and .be an Antipodean lion—for a little while :
fancy him with frock coat, silk hat, crutch-cane,
and patent-leather shoes, picturesquing Picca-
Sarcey adds another to “ruling passion ’’death-
beds. He missed his weekly article only once in
forty years ; and when he died—
“ I must get up,” he said to his doctor ;“ it is abso-
lutely necessary that I should write my article. I will do
only a demi-feuiUeton, if I must, but I must do it.” A few
moments later he returned to this fixed idea. “ I shall
go again and see ‘ Le Torrent.’ I am afraid this piece is
not well understood. It has not been rightly judged.”
Those were Sarcey’s last words. By the way,
Henri Becque, a brilliant but unpopular drama-
tist, who held that Sarcey damned him with the
Parisian public, is credited with having threatened
many years ago : “ Well, when I go to the shades,
in 48 hours I will drag that villain after me.”
And, sure enough, he died two days before Sarcey.
Every readable journalist must be more or less
of a cocksure Macaulay (his audience does not ap-
preciate half-tones and side-lights), and bright
correspondent G. W. Steevens is more. When he
accompanied Viceroy Curzon to India all Bengal
went into his generalising funnel, and some of it
came out like this—
The down-country native of Bombay is poor and weak
and insignificant. He looks as if you could break him
across your knee. His formless features express nothing:
his eyes have the shining meekness, but not the benevo-
lence, of the cow’s. The leg of a free man is straight or
a little bandy, so that he can stand on it solidly; his
calf is taper, and his thigh flat. The Bengali’s leg is
either skin and bone, the same size all the way down,
with knocking knobs for knees, or else it is very fat aDd
globular, also turning in at the knees, with round thighs
like a woman’s. The Bengali’s leg is the leg of a slave.
Except by grace of his natural masters, a slave he always
has been and always must he.
But the Babu has a gift of tongue, and he used
it —like this —
Mr. Steevens, I thought, would he a giant—giant in body
and mind. But no such thing ! He is a very poor
specimen of humanity as shoulders go. Narrow chest,
narrow shoulders—it looked as if his body was suddenly
arrested in development. It may be that his head de-
veloped to the sacrifice of the body. And his face : It had
a nose which looked as if it were the result of a con-
temptuous after-thought on the part of its creator. It
had a pair of ears rather long, which reminded—hem !—
and which looked as if they were cut and pasted at the
sides not exactly in their proper place. It had cheek-
bones which courted some prominence, and which gave
the owner thereof a half-starved appearance.
And so on, accumulating pieces de conviction which
a Rajpoot dog would despise. But admire the
aposiopesis: “Ears which reminded — hem !”
This is a different Babu from him who asked to be
forgiven a debt on the ground that his “means
are already circumcised by my large family of five
female women and three masculine, the last of
whom are still taking milk from mother’s chest.”
«£* '
Some recent fragments. By Arthur Guiter-
man(Amer.) —
Free as a swallow dips,
Moving to viol-tones,
Over the floor she trips,
Men’s hearts her stepping-stones.
By E. G. Bowles' (Cockney)—
High in the elm it is silver morn :
Dusky nestlings chatter and peep
Over the rim of their cradle. Dawn
Lays her hand on the lips of Sleep 1
W. H. Malloek’s new novel, The Individualist,
reprinted from the Fortnujhtly Review, is as dull
as a dead policeman in a wet macintosh.
Fiona Maefeod says she isn’t William Sharp, or
Andrew Lang, or any other masquerading body.
She is just herself, plus as much “ Celtic spirit ”
as she can grow by careful cultivation.
Justin McCarthy, in his new book, Modern
England : “ The world will see no advance on
Tennyson and Browning.” McCarthy is 09, and
the prophet is senile.
Whoever has not read The Ordeal of Richard
Feverel can buy it in a new edition at 6:1.
Whistler’s “The Baronet and the Butterfly ” is
advertised laboured, tedious, and unworthy of the
author of “The Gentle Art.”
Coventry Patmore’s “Memoir, ” by his widow
and others, is promised this year.
The anti-climax of the recent Balzac centenary
celebration at Tours was reached when the great
man’s sere and yellow tailor was platformed to tell
a reverent.audience that the great man liked his
trousers baggy at the knee.
Obeunt: Augustin Daly, American novelist,
critic,-playwright, and manager; 61. Rosa Bon-
heur, painter; 77.
Balzac’s “ Let tree a rare Etrangere ” — the
woman for whom he longed seventeen years, are
just published. She was Countess Eve de Hau-
ska, and in the end Balzac married her—dying
three months after. Yet, as A. B. Walkley
notes, the wife seventeen years waited-for had
left him before bis death, before, three months !.
Tub: BOOk FELLOW.
As fit as a fiddle.
As cross as two sticks.
As slow as a funeral.
As straight as a dart.
As straight as a yard of pump-water.
As straight as a rush.
As tricky as a box of chips.
As clear as my conscience.
As sound as a bell.
As sharp as a needle.
Like a red rag to a bull.
As ugly as sin.
Like a dying duck in a thunderstorm.
Like a bewitched hayrick.
As weak as seven days.
Shivering like a dog in a wet sack.
As long as a late breakfast.
Getting on “like a house on fire.”
Getting on “ like a brick wall burning.”
A CARESS.
I said, “ The Sea is royal blue."
She opened her large eyes.
“ It wins away my heart from you.”
She answered me with sighs.
I said, “ The Sea has snow-white sands
That glance and gleam like silk,”
She opened her two pretty hands,
And they were white as milk.
I said, “ The Sea hides many pearls
Red coral caverns in.”
She laughed the laugh of merry girls
To show the pearls within.
I said that many moods abide
Beneath the velvet Sea.
She drooped her blue-veined lids to hide
A truant thought from me.
I said “ The Sea has winsome wiles
And singeth ‘ Come to me ! ’ "
She wreathed her rosebud mouth in smiles,
And turned as if to flee.
I caught her so—“ The Sea’s caress
Gives Death or deadly strife ;
But yours, my love—now, by this kiss
Your lips, my love, are Life ! ”


Btodioal*
zfkin st)i6ea6e6.
s?leu) Wkcotiery
”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
UGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CUBE
EOZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ Woolloston House, Gastleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. IV. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D."
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.0.5., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM N€NRYMALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7s. Gel. Eacla.
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Stdnbt :
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
Cramps
i Colic,
Y Colds,
\ Tooth - )
\ ache.
Cuts,
Burns,
\ Bruises.
\
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles Is
’PainKiUev
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOX HAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron hand, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away I Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss— Elastic— without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY I
As for CUBES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write foitrsame, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or '
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
-V
♦
O
IP
OLD
hnts
SUNBU
FINg
cP
CHA
&.C
y
Y
r, £tors .
ZETZ-SPA WATER
How Wonderful!
Not at all. It is merely a case of
cause and effect. The cause was an
Allcock's Porous Plaster placed right over
the small of the back. The effect was the disap-
pearance of the lameness so suddenly
that “ lost ” was the only term which
could fairly be used. But it is not
lameness only that thus disappears
under the touch of
Allcock’s
Porous piasieu
it is equally effective in sprains,
*3
UN
BAC
im
C4
stiffness of the joints, sore muscles, pain in the chest, any
trouble arising from taking cold from accident or over-
erertion. I % . . .
'W •' *"* . ir- •••'-• •
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
Allcock’s
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
*l>s
««s
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
w
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ II- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
idgco-ivstFu lifs sin
BRUSH
H»Wr
W>W*>
, v.
Natural Saffron
AND
Bark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
BRUSH.
V/
kW
f"/ N\i\^V'w<
_ T'.TNT -r-c . . IV O. 21.
.These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads witl
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“ Brush, Maker, Syaney, Registered.’
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit foi
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX. .£3 ss; A, £l3 15s; B £4
0, .£4los; D, £5 ; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired. I ’
■kt S rOCK 1 SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns aa
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d.
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired—No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations ol
Saddles and Harness on application.
John. Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER
H
FOR MAKIN6 DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT E£GS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and caurecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful ageut in the preparation of a good Cus'nrd. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Solo Agents for New South Wales: TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing’ in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/ .
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2,11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13'6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
?K,
1
iim*
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 6 Tunis*
° Id ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs,
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Egvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
King Street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lons, 5/0. oil real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
up, 2/6 per oz.
\Ve are the clieapestin Aua>
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W.H.’Wigz«llj
' >lO William Street,
corner of Palmer-stfeet,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Profppt attenfeioo giyen to Country Ordem
FREDCKS’
The Reform Price
Jewellers-*.
Watches Cleaned and Regulated, 2/0
Best English Mainspring ■ • - 2j6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
tiercel levy Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
FREKTCHL’S, 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney's leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
ECZEMA OLEAC :
Discoverer—Chris. Mudd, F.L.S., Prince of Wales’ a
botanist. Mr. J. Vernon, 142 Osborne St., Williams- ®
town, writes : —“My honest conviction is that had it 9
not been for your ‘ Oleac ’ I should now be in my
grave.” Mrs. Poole, of Cooma, writes:—“l am fuly®
recovered, and not used one jar.” Mr. Gill, Dal- &
moral Crescent Surrey Hills,writes: —“lam happy®
to tell you the eruption has entirely disappeared.” 9
Jars, 4'6; post, 4/10. Chemists or Depots:
SYDNEY—M. H. Hobwitz, 34 Pitt Street. 9
ADELAIDE— Harris & Kkmp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOUHNE— Frro. J. E. Phillips, 817 Collins St. ™
What is Health?
Jfcheumatiam, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Dlr. C. Jf.
PA Hli Hit, 145 Victoria Paradb.
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
DEAF
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no mrtter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. KAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, aud will be pleased to send the means of cuie
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, .Melbourne Chambers
Pitt-street, Sydney.


TATTERSALLS.
Aaaress: Cal'© GEO. ADAMS, Hotoaxt.
Adelaide Grand National H. August 12.
25,000
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
Subscribers at 5,
- shares in the above.
t
x
Spring H. August V/.
25,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name _
. Address
£ t c
Metropolitan S. September 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Plea, St allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C.
Please allot me shares in the
Address
£ t *
MELBOURNE 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— shares in the above.
N arae
Address ,
£
t
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Sulbscrilbers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
. shares in the above.
Name,
Address.
£ « s
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Spring H.
Metropolitan S.
Caulfield C.
... 25,000 at 5
... 25,000 at 5
... 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C. ...
100,000 at 5
TATTERS ALL.
the.
Please allot me.
Special.
Shares
Name
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatters all,” care Cteo. Adams, Hobart.


Sit
w J
Anthony
Hordern’s
foe EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
./our order, either little or big, will receive
rur best attention, and you will get . .
THE LEST RESULTS
V. can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in ... .
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US!
AND TASTE OUR
QUALITY.
SEND FOR —.
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney
PMRoT
•Brane>
P HPl PlUtt*
VoUNDC
(bUGMJ (pipj Iq j
Beware of -
Jmitati°mS
fmerican Carriage Repository
(24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY)
For All Kinds of VEHICLES.
\
' V
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY.
RAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clareuce-st., Sydney.
66 DOWBXDGE’S”
) AS 'USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
E3HMO
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagel?;
POKEIGN STAMP 1M POUTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY is prepared to LEND in any
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY anil (SUBURBAN PROPERTIES ; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a lixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona Jides on the part of the applicant.
Tlie legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms'.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-sfc., Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £0 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3T Send for Price List. fSli
H. HILIiIEKi, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
[
Bent-Shalt Sulliles
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The JSest and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 337 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOIJRNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Yelrik-, - end particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
pARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
V AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
NEUIHS
FOOD
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
4 THE MOST DCEICIOVS SAUCE lIS THE WORED.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in. Bottles, 6d., I -, and z> eacli.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New Soutli Wales:
TIZ«L,OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEV.
Plum
Pm
3F»ltjl*xx
(1 ENTLEME3N who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
7T trial. This razor is superior to any other, it is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, ue know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We (juarantce each Razor fur Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, Cd, cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2Ls.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle*? in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Ilea lateral and sent I’ost Free to any part of the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY
nvr.S.'VV. Carriage & Saddlery Mlaiif Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Clcvcland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLEItY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shalt
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, til.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from t'J
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HABNESS and S t DDLEHY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us y onr
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Da not be
misled by any lirins who say they will deliver for less
than wo can. They cannot do so, ami you pay 15 per
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station),
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
XB.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While a certain Yic. suburban member was
addressing the House the other evening he was ob-
served to suddenly put his hand to his mouth.
He was in the middle of a sentence. “ I main-
tain, Mr. Speaker,” said he, “ that hon. members
opposite have no right to persist in their objection
to this Bill, in the very teeth”—here he took
something from his mouth and put it carefully
into his waistcoat-pocket—“of public opinion.”
For the rest of the speech he had some difficulty
in making the “ th ” sound ; but the dentist fixed
him up all right the next morning.
According to Abdul Wade, the Bourke
(N.S.W.) Carrying Co., of which he was general
manager, and whose awful slave-agreement was
lately before the courts, isn’t an Afghan concern.
It was formed three years ago to take over his
camel-trains and business, and now consists of
himself, several big wool-broking and mortgage
co’s, at least one bank, and some Western squatters
who had found the camels the surest way of
getting supplies. But, as Abdul Wade has power
to engage and dismiss, and buy and sell, and make
contracts and vary them, he is still probably all
but the tail of the dog. The co. has now about
400 camels and SO Afghan servants.
N.S.W.’s recent heavy visitor, Higgins,
got off some of his usual Dogberryisms when the
Federal Bill was introduced in the Victorian
Assembly :
Mr. Higgins protested against the unconstitutional
manner in which the Bill had been amended. The
people had not considered the amendments, nor were
they considered by their representatives. They were in
the position of having had a pistol held to their heads
and ordered to vote “ Yes ”or “ No.” He contended the
people had been deprived of the advantages which would
result from higher education on the question.
What would satisfy Heavy Higgins, The Bulle-
tin wonders ? The people elected the men who
first drafted the Bill —elected them specially for
the purpose. The men who drafted the amend-
ments were the people’s chief elected representa-
tives. Then the people’s representatives consider
the measure and the amendments as much as they
darned well please in Parliament. Then the
people consider the measure and the amendments,
and vote for it, or against it, or don’t vote at all,
just as they please. And even now Heavy
Higgins thinks things aren’t being considered
enough.
Idols.
There’s a chamber in our hearts, where we keep'
The memories that will not die. They sleep,
Bub when the South Wind, mourning, brings the
rain,
These shrouded dreams stalk gauntly out again.
There is a drawer in most desks. Untold
The wealth we bury there—the hoop of gold,
The letter, and the photograph. Years, years,
Your sapless trunks loom through a mist of tears !
Dreamer, the years are dead—are dead and gone ;
Dreamer, the years must die. Their souls live on.
Close thou the chamber of thy heart. Alway
Do feet of dreamers’ idols turn to clay.
Sydney, June, ’99.
E. J. BRADY.
From the Strand to the Never.
Last glass of the last of our revels !
Last song to be sung without ruth !
Let us give what is due to our devils
’Ere the curtain comes down on our youth !
In the old lands we’re vagabonds ever,
In the new such as we bear the brunt,
And the path from the “Strand to the Never”—
Why ashamed of it ?—lights up in front!
Then here’s to the cross-bearer silent,
To the lips that are grim to the end,
To the pledge that was broken for frien lship,
And the lie that was sworn for a friend ;
To the lie for the lie that was noble —
To the heart that would perjure the soul
For the sake of a woman in trouble,
For the sake of a mate “ in a hole.”
We drifted and saw not the dangers
Of wearing the heart on the sleeve;
We saw the fresh kindness of strangers
And deemed it was best to believe.
If we borrow’d and passed when we needed,
If we loved for awhile and were gone
In the end ’twill be surely conceded
That we gave all we had—and passed on 1
On the stage set for good or for evil—
111 the Youth-play we’re leaving behind—
Were the prompter man angel or devil,
For the most part the promptings were kind !
And whatever the future before us,
And whatever the heart-burn it brings,
Here’s a glass to the spirit that bore us !
And—the “rag” is waved down from the wings.
Sydney.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Idol of the King.
The Idol of the King was cast in cunning mould,
It stood on feet of clay—its head was carven gold.
It loomed in vision vast, a drear and awful Thing ;
It smote the heart with dread —the Idol of the
King !
But when the night had passed—it fled with Dawn
o’ Day,
This god of gold and brass, this god of ore and
clay.
4> * * *
Ah—better now we build. No stately olden fane
Beholds us bend the back to god of visions vain ;
For We who worship now—We know the Wiser
way:
Our Idol’s all of gold—Our Soul is all of clay !
P. LUFTIG.


The Australian Widows’ fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting- all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacit}' through illness.
Board ok Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RIiNYVICK, MiD., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES YVATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
“Donned," London.
222 CANNON ST.
London, EJ.C.
Established as a connecting: link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FR A.3XTK JA.RVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms'.'
THE MARBLE BAR
• PITT STREET, SYDNEY
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading Xiieatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Every Visitor says : “Do not miss The Marble Bar.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.]
, - - if
Painless Dentistry,
THE .. ..
[oedon Dental
Institute,
])H. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and M it. S. D. ASH Eli, Dentists.
ItST" Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY-98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN— —-
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE.
UNIQUE.
Tariff from #/- per Day.
Telephone 784.
D. Swiss-Davies, Prop.
(Member Com. Trav. Club.)
Cjr'caiest demand
£i gazettes
BceiausA the Best
NOBEL-6 LRS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
Thistle” Brand.
o
am
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BRLLISTITE.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
. by
MOISTURE.
K
2.^'e.us
3
m
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed
SPOUTING BALLIBTITE won over JlljOO ot Out: Ci.d>, Nutting Hill, in November
and December, 1898 ; or more than all other powders combined. Vide FlKl.l», 14th Jam, ’99..
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: '■ Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp”
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Ealgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
I
Wool pack.’
Twenty-seven years of active business experience among
squatters in a studious endeavor to learn their wants and
supply them cheaply and promptly has resulted in the only
exclusively Squatters’ Supply Business in the colony. Every-
thing under the sun that a squatter can possibly require,
from a needle to
A FENCE AROUND THE EARTH
can be obtained from E. RICH & CO. LTD. We want
your custom; you want our values. They are the best.
Take Whisky, for instance (our special “Woolpack” brand.
There’s no value in the colonies like it! Not a headache in
a case ! You will admit its superiority, once you have used it.
OUR
SPECIAL
Brand
The
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS OLD
BOTTLED BY
VERY
CHOICE
WHISKY
L RICH & GO. LTD.
SYDNEY. THE ONLY BRISBANE.
Exclusive Providers of Squatters’ Supplies.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
yankee Ooodle
IN AMERICA.
The Legend.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
general, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Payette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused
them. Marching with * drum and fife
was an old man, Jeremiah Wynton, and
his son, and grandson. The old father,
with silvery flowing locks, sturdily strode
through the field. The son with ban-
daged head fifing lustily, the youth,
catching the spirit of his grandsire, rolled
out with him the soul-inspiring rattle of
the drum Father, son, and grandson
had accompanied the troops as volunteers,
and were ever in the forefront of the
fight. The fierce light of battle was in
their eyes, they knew no fear, and many
a wild cheer arose, as on that, fateful
day Yankee Doodle was heard as never
was heard before or since.
Tobacco Manufacture
in
New South Wales.
Statistics:
71XCISE RETURNS show
that during 1898, over
60 Tons more of DIXSON’S
Tobacco were sold than that of
any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf.
DIXSON’S used in manufac-
ture over 149 Tons more than
all the other Tobacco factories.
DIXSON’S Brands are—
Yankee Doodle (Dark and
Bright Aromatic).
Champion (Bright).
Conqueror (Dark).
BONANZA CIGARS.
Machine-made ; contain the
choicest Tobacco, and arc
placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You. 20.— N0. 1014.
SATURDAY, JULY 22 , 1899.
Priob 6d.
ONE MORE CHANCE.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA : “ Come on, John, here’s one game that I haven’t beaten you at yet!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ■■■ \
Half-yearly nr it
Quarterly... ... ••• Goo
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Bote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Airticles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendinn MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to bere-draivn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.—rite Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — it. A. Tnompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Uout-st.. Cape Toivn, South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
71 stage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscriptior > v
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1899.
Queensland’s Twenty-Two-and-Sixpenny
Lie.
The old Twenty-two-and-Sixpenny Lie which
was invented by the anti-Federalists of New
South Wales, and did so much service under
their auspices, has spread to Queensland.
There were some variations about the old
N.S.W. lie ; for instance, the amount Fede-
ration was to cost annually in extra taxation
was sometimes put down at £1 per head,
sometimes at 225. 6d., sometimes 255. 6d.
or 295. 4|d. ; and the variations have spread
to Queensland also. The lie w 7 as specially
constructed to fit certain peculiar N.S.W.
circumstances, and it can’t possibly fit the
circumstances of any other province. In
Queensland it is as grotesque a misfit as a
fur overcoat would be at Cooktown on the
longest day—the one when you have no
shadow; or a mailed crusader would be
in Brisbane ; or a gorilla in church.
But in a dull, sheep-like fashion the
Queensland anti-Federal papers borrowed
this purely Cornstalk lie ; and having
not even sense enough to know how it
originated or what it referred to, they didn’t
see any discrepancy about it. The Sydney
parochialist organs reasoned the matter out
with a resemblance of plausibility ; the Bris-
bane ones merely dab down the bald state-
ment, without knowing what on earth it is
all about. So the papers published in the
city of many floods are breaking out in
harrowing, ungrammatical groans like this,
quoted word for word from a Brisbane
paper :
In addition to being the most heavily-taxed people
under Heaven, it is proposed to ruin our factories,
farmers and shopkeepers, and add a tax of £1 ss. 6d. per
head on every man, woman and child in Queensland, in
order that a Governor-General, two Houses of Parliament,
with members receiving £4OO a-year each, and a Federal
city 1000 miles away from Brisbane, at a cost of £5,000,000,
to be purchased and jobbed off by Southern auctioneers.
As regards the capital it can only be said
that Queensland is hard to satisfy. By the
terms of the agreement the capital may be
anywhere in N.S.W, except within 100 miles
of Sydney. Therefore it can’t be within 100
miles of Sydney, within about 160 of Mel-
bourne or Adelaide, within 1600 miles of
Perth or 400 of Hobart, but it may be on
the northern N.S.W. border not more than
80 miles in a bee-line from Brisbane. And
it can’t by any human possibility be over
800 miles from Brisbane no matter how
things are strained. And Queensland gains
new territory by it; 100 square miles are to
becutoutof N.S.W. to make the Federal
territory, and Queensland will be part owner
thereof. And if the new capital does cost
£5,000,000 N.S.W. and Victoria will have
to supply £3,500,000 of the money. Alto-
gether Brisbane comes out of the deal
rather better than any other State capital,
and still it seems Brisbane isn’t satisfied.
But this is a mere side issue, and has no
connection with the great Twenty-two or
Twenty-five-and-Sixpenny Lie.
* * * *
Said lie was based on the fact that there
must of necessity be a uniform Federal tariff,
and on the fact that New South Wales has,
at present, the lowest tariff in Australasia.
For the year ended 30th June, 1898, the
customs and excise revenue of the eastern
and central States was :
Customs and Excise
Revenue per head
per annum.
Queensland £2 14 7
Tasmania ... 2 3 11
Victoria 1 15 14
South Australia 1 13 5
New South Wales 13 1
It was on these figures and on certain base-
less assumptions tacked on to them, that the
original Twenty-two-and-Sixpenny- Lie had
its shaky foundations. It was assumed : (1)
That the extra cost of the Federal Govern-
ment would run to 2s. 6d. or 3s. 6d. per in-
habitant per annum, or thereabouts ; (2)
That there would be no saving to counter-
balance this by conversion of the public
debt, by the abolition of superfluous
Postmasters-General, Agents-General, mili-
tary commandants, &c., or by the reduction
of the number of members in provincial
Parliaments; (3) That Tasmania, S.A., and
Victoria couldn’t do with less customs
revenue, or raise more direct taxation, than
they now receive ; (4) That they had no sur-
plus under present conditions ; (5) That it
would therefore be necessary to raise the
customs taxation of N.S.W., Victoria, and
S.A. to the Tasmanian level—Westralia was
left out of the calculation because it is
specially provided for by being allowed to
temporarily retain its border duties, and in
the days when the Twenty-two-and-sixpenny
Lie was erected Queensland was standing
out of the negotiation ; and (6)That N.S.W.,
though it would thus have about a million a
year extra revenue from its tariff, couldn’t,
for some inscrutable reason, let the people
have the money back by abolishing other
forms of taxation, endowing municipalities,
reducing railway fares, building much-
needed public works, abolishing school fees,
and the like, but must throw the cash
overboard and make it a dead loss. By
assuming all these absurd things it was
figured out on a process of insane arithmetic
that N.S.W. would have to endure an extra
burden of 225. 6d. per head annually under
Federation, S.A. about 10s. 6d., and Vic-
toria about Bs., in order to put their customs
and excise revenue on the Tasmanian level.
The fact that Tasmania can afford to cut its
tariff down by nearly 10s. per head per
annum was left out altogether.
» * * *
There was a faint and flabby pretence of
reason about this so far as the Southern
States were concerned ; but when the
Queensland anti-Federalists, not being able
to construct a lie of their own, borrow
N.S.W.’s Twenty-Two-and-Sixpenny snake-
story, they show a pitiable poverty of inven-
tion. The tale doesn’t fit anywhere. Queens-
land’s customs and excise revenue can’t,
under a uniform tariff, be levelled up to keep
pace with that of any other province, for it
is already at the top. It might be alleged,
with some purely bogus show of plausibility,
that the inclusion of Queensland would
cost Tasmania 10s. Bd. per inhabi-
tant per year, and the other provinces
more, in levelling up their tariffs to
the Queensland level, but the idea of
it doing anything of the kind to Queensland
is a huge and very clumsy joke. Federation,
and the uniform tariff that necessarily goes
with it, may save the mass of Queenslanders
a great deal by lowering their tariff burden
to the level of that of Tasmania or Victoria
or S.A. ; in which case the State Govern-
ment may have to make up part of the differ-
ence by economy and by direct taxation on
the Fat Men of the MTlwraith clan—a
result which MTlwraith himself admits to
be more than possible. But to increase
Queensland’s burden by £1 ss. 6d. per head
per annum would mean creating a uniform
Federal tariff that would yield £4 per head
per annum all round. It would mean that
the N.S.W. members of the Federal Parlia-
ment were going to vote for increasing the
burdens on their own people by £2 16s. lid.
per head per annum; that the South Austra-
lians were yearning to pay £2 6s. 7d. per
head annually more than they do now ; that
the Victorians desired to load every Vic-
torian up with £2 4s. Id. extra taxation per
year ; and that the Tasmanians wanted to
revel in an additional load of £1 16s. Id.
Not one of these people could vote for taxing
the Queenslander an extra £1 ss. 6d. without
also voting to tax themselves a great deal
more. And are they built that way ? I hey
don’t look like it.
* » * *
The Finance Committee appointed in
N.S.W. to consider the possibilities of the
case decided, by a majority of two bitter
anti-Federalists to one Federalist, that the
extra cost of Federation would be, as nearly
as possible, £500,000 a • year—about 3s. per
inhabitant per annum. This was taking no
account of savings by the conversion of the
public debt or otherwise. As Queensland
can’t possibly lose anything by the levelling
up of its tariff—its tariff being distinctly up
already— this is all it can by any chance have
to pay. On the other hand, Queensland’s
public debt now costs it £3 15s. lOd. per
cent, interest, and when the Federal Govern-
ment takes this over and -converts it into a
uniform Australian stock at 3 per cent. —and
the Commonwealth’s credit will be quite good
enough for that—the saving to the Queens-
land people will be about £250,000 a-year—
about 10s. per inhabitant per annum. There-
fore, Federation means a net saving of 7s.
per annum for every Queenslander —man,
woman and infant. By way of further
savings, Queensland will have no Postmaster-
General, Agent-General or military com-
mandant to pay ; it can reduce the dimen-
sions of its State Parliament, and it can stop
paying its State Governor, and make him a
purely honorary official. But, in the visible
savings alone, Queensland can afford to have
its tariff-burden reduced under Federation
from £2 14s. 7d. per inhabitant to £2 7s. 7d.,
and still be as sound financially as it is now.
It can further afford to have its tariff-burden
cut down to £2 per head, and make
up the difference by direct taxation on large
incomes and large estates, and still be about
the most lightly direct-taxed province in
Australasia. For Queensland is not, as
alleged, the most heavily-taxed country in
the world, even reckoning direct and indirect
taxation both together—not by a long, long
way. And if it was, so much the more
reason why it should join the Common-
wealth.
* * * *
For the plea of the Queensland anti-
Federalist literally is : “You are the
most heavily-taxed people in the world.
THEREFORE, ADHERE TO THE
PROVINCIAL SYSTEM WHICH MAKES
YOU THE MOST HEAVILY - TAXED
PEOPLE IN THE WORLD ! Hang
on manfully to the old arrangement
under which you have become the
most heavily-taxed people in the world.
You will know the goodness or badness
of a system by its results. The provin-
cial policy has made you the most heavily-
taxed people in the world ; therefore it
is a good policy, and he who lets it go is a
fool, and he who doesn’t hold on to it is an
ass, and he who isn’t ready to perish in the
last ditch in defence of the policy which has
made his country the most heavily-taxed
country on earth is partly suicide and partly
traitor. All the great men—the M‘ll-
wraiths and their kind — who made this
the most heavily-taxed country on earth are
against Federation, and they ought to know ;
financiers like Reid, Turner, Fysh and
Holder who didn’t lead their provinces into
the same heavily-burdened condition are in
favor of Federation, but they evidently
don’t know. The only genuine financial
authorities are the boomers who wrecked our
big bank, and muddled themselves into in-
solvency, and made us the most heavily-
taxed people on earth ; let us go by their
advice and stand by their policy. Above all,
keep your eye on Nelson. In 1893 he per-
sonally audited our big bank—the only bank
now existing in Australia which was so
utterly bad that it had to offer its deposi-
tors 15s. in the £ —and he was so shamefully
ignorant of finance that he said it was quite
sound. He now says the Federal financial
scheme is unsound, and he ought to know.”
* * * *
The Queensland provincialists don’t put it
in exactly these words, but the meaning is
there to a hair.
The Pacific Cable.
The Pacific Cable is a dull subject ; and The
Bulletin imagines itself taking the fatigued
and reluctant Australian by the nose and filling
him with facts he ought to know. And it cau-
tions him that if he skips them now he will miss
them later on.
# * * •
Australia’s cable communication with the
rest of the world is maintained on a single line,
which is owned by various countries and com-
panies, but is practically controlled by the
Eastern Extension Telegraph Co., whose head-
quarters are in London. This co. is the fattest
kind of monopoly. It has a capital of mil-
lions, and its £lO-paid shares are worth about
£l6 10s. It pays only 7 per cent., being studi-
ously moderate in the matter of dividends ; but
if it chose it could pay double that. But a 14-
per-cent. div. would invite competition, and
competition is the last thing the Eastern
Extension Co. w’ants. So it is credited
instead with the familiar devices of stock-
watering : accumulation of huge reserves ;
writing down plant below value ; carrying
heavy stocks of material; and so on. Never
was there a more amiable monopolist. If a
prominent Australian politician whose goodwill
may be of value goes to London he can
send practically whatever cables he wishes,
without charge. If he does not call round, the
co. is good enough to look him up and let him
know his privileges. Then the prominent Aus-
tralian is supposed to come home grateful, and
very much averse from interfering with a nice,
kind monopoly like the Eastern Extension Co.
Yet there is no doubt that, sooner or later,
the Eastern Extension co.’s monopoly must be
destroyed ; and the sooner the better for Aus-
tralia. One cable, one way round the world,
is not enough for this country to-day ; in ten
years’ time it will be inconveniently little.
Even in peace-time, our one cable is subject to
frequent and costly interruptions ; in war-time
we should probably be cut off from the world
altogether. Further, it is foolish to bring our
messages to and-from Canada and the U.S.
round via England, when they can be brought
direct with a saving in time and money.
* * * •
Then there are our pockets to consider.
Up to 1891 the rate of cabling to Eng-
land was 9s. 4d. per word ; and the monopoly
waxed fat. Since 1891 it has been 4s. lOd. to ss.
sd.;and the monopoly has actually waxed fatter,
for the increase in messages has returned a
greater revenue with practically no addi-
tional expenditure. Messages would pay
at 3s. per word ; and by-and-by they will
pay at less. With trade increasing yearly,
cheaper communication with customers means
a great deal to Australia. The cost of a new
cable would be repaid in a very few years. It
is not clear that the cost of press messages
would be much reduced by a new cable ; never-
theless a new cable would be a great boon to
the Australian press. Just now monopoly
helps monopoly. You cannot start a daily
newspaper in Australia without arranging for
cables : and the Eastern Extension Co. is not
desirous of arranging for cables. It deals with
the existing ring of daily newspapers, who-
naturally do not want competition. In prac-
tice the unwritten understanding between the-
newspaper monopoly and the cable monopoly
works out this way : “If we agree not to say
unkind things about your monopoly, and not to-
incite opposition, you will discourage opposi-
tion to our newspaper monopoly.” That is a
very good understanding for the monopolists ;;
but a very bad one. for the public, who often
get meagre and worthless cable-intelligence-
where newspaper competition would give them,
full and valuable cable-intelligence.
• ♦ * *
Theoretically, it is obvious that the Pacific-
cable-game is worth the candle. Practically,
the trouble is : Who shall provide the candle?
Britain is interested, for reasons of empire and
trade ; Canada is interested, for reasons of im-
perial sentiment and trade ; Australia is inte-
rested, for reasons of security and trade. The
cost of a cable is estimated at from <£1,500,000
to £1,800,000. It could go from E. Australia to
Norfolk Island ; to Fiji ; to Fanning Island (a
little island between Fiji and Canada) ; to Van-
couver. At the Premiers’ Conference, last
year, it was arranged that, if Britain ano
Canada would each contribute five-eighteenths
of the cost, the Parliaments of N.S. W..
Vic., and Queensland should be asked to
guarantee one-ninth each. (South Australia
and Westralia stand out because they help to
control the existing cable, and are interested in
maintaining the existing monopoly.) Maoriland
Ministry came in with the offer of another
ninth. Canada was agreeable. But Britain
refused. British Columbia then offered to
guarantee an additional one-ninth, leaving
three-eighteenths to Britain. Britain stilt
refused. But Britain munificently offered
to guarantee five-eighteenths of the annual
deficit, if any, in working the cable, providing
its utmost liability did not exceed £5,555 per
annum. In return for guaranteeing a possible
£5,555 per annum out of an expenditure of
If millions or more, Britain demanded—
1. That the cable be constructed under its superin-
tendence and to its approval, and stations be put where
it saw fit, to be worked by British subjects.
112. That British Govt, messages take priority of all
others, at half ordinary rates.
3. That all rates charged be subject to its approval.
4. That complete accounts be rendered to it for inspec-
tion and approval.
6. Three other stipulations.
Good old Britain !
* * * *
The latest cable says that Britain has recon-
sidered things in a less niggardly spirit. Britain
now offers to take a full share of the cash
responsibility, and proposes that commissioners
be appointed to manage the undertaking.
Britain wants three commissioners to Aus-
tralasia’s three and Canada’s two ; but if Aus-
tralasia is to contribute four-ninths of the cost
she should have four, and Britain might be
satisfied with two, the same as Canada.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Concerning a Certain Ass.
After reading about 45 explanations of the
Federal Constitution by all sorts and conditions
of anti-Billious, one is struck by the fact that a
very small percentage of the human race seems
to understand its own language, even when put
clearly in large print. The latest Bill-explainer
who has come to this paper’s knowledge is
“Junius,” the man who is paid for not know-
ing things in Dunedin (M.L.) Star. He tells
the people of the Scotch-whisky city that:
The present Parliaments will be abolished and a Senate
with House of Representatives substituted.
The qualification of members of the House of Repre-
sentatives in the first election will be just the same as
are now in force in each State, but (here One-man-one-
vote and our woman suffrage are in danger) what after
the first election ?
The Customs, with our other various departments,
would have their control diverted to the capital; roads,
railways, shipping and navigation the same.
This Commonwealth Bill does not even concede to the
States what the Home Rule Bill of 1886 conceded to Ire-
land. A leading politician of the day—Mr. Bryce -thus
tersely and briefly explained its meaning : —“ Whilst the
ultimate right to legislate will reside in the Imperial Par-
liament, we shall have conceded to the Irish Legislature
the right to legislate on subjects upon which we do not
intend to legislate ourselves.” Mr. Want may well say
the present Bill is worse than the last one.
The Bill in question takes away almost every liberty
that we have so nobly fought to maintain.
Protection has triumphed.
I have enumerated sufficient to demonstrate the ultra-
Toryism of this so-called liberty-taking measure.
Think of any paper paying so stupendously
ignorant a lout as this for his misinformation.
The Bulletin also desires to address the people
of the whisky-loving city in a few words :
The Bill doesn’t abolish any one of the present Parlia-
ments. The very term “ Federation ”is always used to
imply a league of States, each one of which retains its
own State Legislature, and in every Federation every


State has its own Legislature. Therefore, " Junius” is
a Vhe Qualification of electors of the House of Represen-
. the first election will not be the same as at
nresent the Bill specifically abolishes all plural voting.
Therefore “Junius” is another ass.
man-one-vote is not in danger afterwards. In
clauses 8 and 30 it is fixed as part of the Constitution
whatever changes may be made later on in the
method of voting, still, both at elections for the Senate
and for the House of Representatives, “ each elector
shall only vote once.” Consequently “Junius” is the
Sa No mmnorwoman who has been enfranchised by the
can lose his or her vote for the Federal Parliament.
The woman suffrage is NOT in danger. Clause 41 says :
.. w 0 a( | u it person who has or acquires a right to vote at
ole,•lions for the more numerous House (i.e., the Lower
l ouse) of the Parliament of a State shall, while the
continues, be prevented by any law of the Com-
monwea?th from voting at elections for EITHER HOUSE
OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
For which reason “Junius” is the animal above-men-
Commonwealth Parliament doesn’t interfere with
anv State’s roads and railways except by the permission
of the State. Which again shows up “Junius” as the
nnrespected beast of burden already described.
It leaves the State Parliaments much larger powers
than the Bill of 1886 offered to the proposed Irish Parlia-
ment, though “ Junius,” being the object hereinbefore
mentioned, didn’t know it.
It doesn’t contain a single word or line committing the
Commonwealth to Protection. That matter is left to the
people, as it always has been. The reason why “ Junius”
didn’t know this has been already set forth.
It offers the people two Houses of Parliament, both
paid both elected by absolute manhood, or manhood and
womanhood, suffrage, both dissolvable, both fully respon-
sible to the people, with no property qualification for
either House, with a remedy for deadlocks, and with the
referendum as a means of deciding alterations of the Con-
stitution. In fact it offers Maoriland a Federal Parlia-
ment which is vastly more democratic than its present
State Parliament with its undissolvable Council of
nominees. And “ Junius,” who thinks this is pure Tory-
ism, is evidently the long-eared, unthinking bearer of
heavy burdens already specified.
For all which, and many other, reasons The
Bulletin urges the people of Maoriland to con-
sider the advisability of joining the most com-
pletely democratic Commonwealth this world
has ever known, and calls “Junius,” of the
Dunedin evening paper, an ass once more just
for the sake of variety.
The City of Mean Streets.
Mayor Harris’s scheme for the municipal re-
organisation of Sydney is satisfactory in spots
while in other spots it isn’t. It starts well
wit h a recognition of many things that are not
done when they should be, and are done when
they shouldn’t be. At present the Government
owns the Sydney trams, which should be a
source of revenue to the municipalities. The
municipalities have no power to compulsorily
resume land for the straightening and widening
of streets, whereas they should have power to
not only resume the land actually needed, but
extensive adjacent areas as well, so as to secure
for the municipality the increased values arising
through the improvements made with public
money. They should also be authorised to
levy general improvement rates and special
betterment rates. At present the Gas Co.
and the Hydraulic Power Co. have authority to
tear up the streets anywhere and everywhere
at their pleasure, and these and all other ser-
vices which take violent liberties with the
public thoroughfares should be municipally
owned. Also, the Government reserves the
right to obstruct the streets in any and every
way, as witness the blocking of the centre of
narrow, crooked George-street with a row of
huge pillars to carry electric wires. It likewise
reserves the right to break or ignore the Build-
ing Act at its pleasure, and to put up structures
in the city which, if put up by any private per-
son, would involve prosecution—the extraordi-
nary cow-shed which the Postal Goths have
erected in Martin Place is a case in point. All
these are tilings which require remedy. Some
of the Sydney suburbs have no Building Act at
all. None of the 41 municipalities have any
control over street traffic. They have very
little power to compel the improvement
or demolition of slum properties. They
have 233 aldermen among them, which is a
great and cumbersome army for a population
of 420,000 people. They have practically no
power to construct anything, whereas their
powers-should be of the widest. And it is
estimated, in addition to many other grievances
of the present system, that it involves a need-
less loss of £45,000 a year through the useless
multiplication of officials, and through the high
interest rates which the pocket-handkerchief
municipalities have to pay on their loans and
overdrafts. And having drawn attention to
these and many other things, the report con-
cludes with the suggestion that the advisability
or otherwise of combining the 41 municipalities,
and saving the £45,000 a year, and putting the
whole area under one strong municipal govern-
ment with power to make Sydney something
like a decent modern city, be buried in the
trackless wastes of a royal commission. Which
is a lame and shabby conclusion to a
great idea. A royal commission gener-
ally consists of eight or ten Parlia-
mentary bores. They are put on it
because they have nothing better to do ; because
they are small enough to feel flattered at having
the job offered to them ; and because the House
hopes it will keep them out of mischief. And
they will call the 233 aldermen as witnesses,
and ask them solemnly, as men who have
mostly spent all their- lives in Sydney, and
have no idea what a decent-looking metropolis
is like, what they think should be done to
make Sydney a really modern, up-to-date
capital—a capital .like ; the world’s half-dozen
model cities which most of the 233 aldermen
never saw and seldom hear of. So the 233 will
give a valuable and unbiassed opinion on the
subject, and their complete evidence, in eight
volumes, will come out in eight years or there-
abouts. In these volumes they will set forth that
in their opinion cleanliness isn’t so dirty as dirt,
and a straight thoroughfare 99ft. wide is
straigliter and wider than a crooked thorough-
fare,4oft. wide ; and that per cent, interest
isn’t so much to pay as 4J. Why can’t N.S.W.
Parliament deal with the subject direct with-
out the wearisome circumlocution of a Royal
Commission which can only find out at great
length what is already known?
Federation and the Great Tired Feeling 1 .
One thing which every country very much
needs is a periodical cleaning-up of its law—
tlie repeal of statutes which have become out
of date, and the consolidation of the three or
four or a dozen live statutes which bear on the
same subject and cover it with confusion.
Among the many advantages of Federation is
the fact that, on several important subjects, it
will cause a great cleaning-up of the Statute-
Book. The Federal Parliament takes over certain
departments of legislation—the regulation of
banking, insurance, insolvency, marriage, di-
vorce,invalid and old-age pensions,immigration,
exclusion of aliens, conciliation and arbitration
in industrial disputes, &c. In these matters it
must make uniform laws for all Australia. At
present Victoria has the best banking law in
Australia—butitdoes not make the issueof notes
a State monopoly. The Queensland banking
law does make the issue of notes a State mono-
poly and makes partial provision for State
audit. N.S. W., Westralia, and Tasmania have
practically no banking law at all. These pro-
vinces, in the restful Australian fashion, might
fix up some kind of decent statute bearing on
this subject in 10 or 45 years —there is iMtoiiig
to hurry them. But the necessity for a uni-
form Federal law will force the Commonwealth
Parliament to consider the matter —probably
50 years sooner than the last of the provinces
would have done it. It will have to decide
whether or not to extend to all Australia the
Queensland idea of a State-note issue, and the
Queensland partial State-audit as applied to
the Q.N. Bank ; and the Victorian law dealing
with the form of balance-sheet and the respon-
sibilities of directors. It can’t well go back on
the progressive ideas of these two pro-
vinces, so the probabilities are that the
reforms which they have made in banking law
will be applied to Australia in general.
If Premier Turner succeeds in carrying his
Old Age Pension Bill this or next year, or if
any other province carries such a Bill, Federa-
tion will hurry up the spread of this reform
also. Under the Constitution, Old Age
Pensions are a Federal matter. Therefore, if
any one of the Australian provinces has an
Old Age Pension law in force when Federation
begins, or if Maoriland joins later on and brings
its pension system into the partnership, the
Commonwealth presumably must take that
pension system over. Then it must either
abolish the Old Age Pension law where it
already exists (which, in a Legislature elected
by one-man-one-vote is utterly impossible) or
else extend the pension principle all over the
Commonwealth, and the probable result is that
Federation will hurry up this great reform, so
far as some of the provinces are concerned, by
thirty years or more. The Commonwealth will
have to decide on a uniform anti-nigger-
and-Chinaman law for all Australia, where-
by Queensland, Tasmania, and Victoria
will probably get the benefit of N.S.W.’s
Chinese restriction system many years sooner
than they otherwise would ; and in the same
way the arbitration and conciliation laws of
Victoria and S.A. will probably be spread all
over the continent; also their laws to prevent
the influx of foreign criminals, and the S.A.
female-suffrage system. In most of the matters
which are handed over to the Federal authority
there are one or two States that are dis-
tinctly ahead of the rest. The others mean to
catch up some day—next year or 40 years
hence —when they have time to consider the
matter, but under the separate system there is
nothing to compel them to tackle the question
now, or 25 years hence, or at any other fixed
date. But the Commonwealth Government,
having to make uniform laws for all Australia,
must tackle a whole lot of neglected questions,
and the chances are 1000 to 1 that in every case
it will do so by bringing all the provinces abreast
of the one that happens to be most advanced
at the moment. Almost every Lower House in
Australasia believes more or less in female
suffrage, State regulation and audit of banks,
State note-issue, arbitration and conciliation,
regulation of insurance companies, cheap post-
age, old-age and invalid pensions, the shutting
out of undesirable aliens, and the like. And
they all mean to consider them when they have
time, and some outside circumstance forces
them to wake up, and the propertied Upper
House ceases from obstructing. There will be
no propertied Upper House in the Common-
wealth Parliament. The necessity for making
uniform laws will force the Commonwealth to
wake up. And, when this necessity overcomes
the great national Tired Feeling, it is probable
that the first five years of Federation will show
better results in the way of Democratic legis-
lation than 100 years of provincialism w'ould
have done.
Tlie Flyspeck Deadhead.
One hundred pounds a year is considered ade-
quate payment for Tas. members of Parliament.
As an inevitable result of placing ill-paid ser-
vants in positions where they can reach the
cash drawer there is an awful leakage in the
takings, and Tas. M’s.P. are in a fair way to
emulate the exploits of “ Middleton’s Rouse-
about.” The franking privileges allowed the
needy law-makers of the Isle of Sleep are ex-
ploited for all they are worth, and the member
who used to send his washing to the laundry
by free railway seems to have set the fashion
for all present members. It is openly
averred that lodge - officials, who are also
M’s.P., frank all their correspondence through
the Post-office ; invitations to private parties
have been franked by a complaisant M.P.
at the request of his relatives or friends ;
and it is even stated locally that a business firm
has been known to send out its monthly
accounts to customers free-passed at the ex-
pense of the bleeding country. One mercantile
firm with an M.P. on its official staff must have
gained hundreds a year by free telegrams ; and
other businesses have been left-handedlv subsi-
dised in a similar manner by a Government
which doesn’t profess to subsidise any industry
and strenuously opposes “ on principle ” any
interference with Private Enterprise ! So far
is the franking system used that the autographs
of M.’sP. often appear on the private letters of
influential constituents desirous of saving the
cost of a 2d. stamp. The other day in the
Assembly a member had a lot of correspond-
ence tabled concerning a personal grievance
—the Railway Department had objected to
allow his Mightiness to carry free on the line
more than 801 b. of alleged luggage. His claim
was that, as he only used the railway one day
a week, he should be allowed to carry some-
thing like 4801 b. on that day if he wanted to !
Of course, particular instances are not easy of
exact quotation, but figures culled from the
1898 annual report of the Post and Telegraph
Department, disclose a state of deadheadism
unparalleled outside Tasmania. According to
the report there were franked in Tasmania,
during 1897, 1,059,507 letters and packets;
and in 1898, 1,146,598 items of correspondence
were carried at the taxpayers’ expense about 7
for every man, woman, and child on the island.
Reckoned at each (a fair average) this means
a loss to Tas. Postal Dept, of over ,£7OOO a year.
The deadhead is on the increase in telegrams
also. Telegrams franked in 1897, 38,341, value
£4441 13s. 7d. ; in 1898, 47,313, value £4867
Is. 3d. Excluding interprovincial and foreign
messages, the total number of telegrams handled
by the Tas. E.T. Dept, in 1898 was 195,724, so
that the “deadhead” messages for the same
year amounted to nearly one-fourth of the
whole Tasmanian inland business 1 The visible
cost of Raspberry Land’s deadhead is therefore :
Letters, £7167 3s. lOd. ; telegrams, £4867
Is. 3d. Free rides on railways granted
to M’sP., editors of newspapers, and distin-
guished visitors would probably bring the grand
total to £15,000 a year. For a province con-
taining a mere handful of people (170,000), and
whose longest distance doesn’t stretch farther
than from Sydney to Yass, this looks anything
but illiberal encouragement to native industry.
No wonder Tas. legislators profess to consid r
£lOO per annum adequate payment for mem-
bers of Parliament ! If they were paid the
cash value of their franking privileges the som-
nolent Tas. taxpa3'er, when asked to foot the
bill, would suddenly awake and fling his shame-
less deadhe id Parliament down a steep place
into the sea. But being blissfully ignorant of
figures, he mostly stays asleep at present and
dreams of better times. It is very doubtful if
there is one M.P. of all Vandemonia’s 57 whose
hands are clean enough tostop this wholesaleloot-
ing of the public till, for they have all used and
probably abused the privilege. And even if a
member could be found willing to lift up his
voice in opposition to the steal, his constitu-
ents would arise and fire him out with much
indignation as a traitor to their best business
interests, and a disobliging person who tried to
stop influential citizens from turning an honest
Denny. A Northern business firm (say) wants
to get a 200-word message through to its
Hobart agents. A shilling wire is sent to the
local member, who, if Parliament is in session,
is at Hobart: “ Wire us if anything fresh.”
Jones, M.P., replies : “ Barraeouta selling two
for sixpence. Derwent wet. Reply free.” Then
comes the 200-word message “ on the nod,”
and Jones, M.P., hands it to the agents indi-
cated. Meanwhile the telegraph operators and
the head of the “got at” department pray for
relief from the dreadful deadhead, but, so far,
prayer seems unavailing.
♦
The Melbourne Tramway Sweaters.
The Bill introduced by Bromley, M.L.A., fix-
ing the hours of Melbourne tram-conductors at
eight daily, isn’t really anything new, so far as
this clause is concerned. To all intents it
merely re-enacts the agreement on which the
Tramway Co. got its concession, and which
agreement the co. has disgracefully broken ever
since. The proposal to fix the conductor’s wage
at a minimum of 7s. a day is something new,
and the Tramway Co., which has persistently
broken its own contract as regards hours and
overtime, is filling the air with wails about this
“breach of faith/’ It says there was nothing
about a minimum wage in the contract when it
leased the tramways, and it is quite true that
there wasn’t. If there had been, it is practi-
cally certain that the co.’s solemn swear and
promise and word of honor to pay a certain
wage would have proved just as worthless as
its undertaking to observe certain conditions as
to hours and overtime. If the minimum-wage
idea is persisted in, the probabilities are that
the Melbourne Tramway Co. will offer to
accept the idea provided it gets another long
extension of its lease. It has got one extension
already, and it has hinted at a second on condi-
tion that it promises to begin to keep its pre-
vious promise about working hours and payment
for overtime; and it will quite likely want a
third as the price of its promise—probably as
worthless as the other one proved —to pay a
certain minimum wage. Here is the case in a
nutshell:
The Melbourne Tramway Co. pays 9 per cent, dividends
on the capital actually paid up by the shareholders. It
pays only 5 per cent, on its nominal paid-up capital, but
a large part of that is really capitalised profits ; on the
amount which the shareholders actually furnished the
dividend has never been below 9 per cent. A concern
which pays 9 per cent, can hardly plead poverty as a
reason for cutting down wages. In its present agreement
there are certain conditions about hours of labor and
payment for overtime, which conditions have been sys-
tematically ignored. The Tramway Co.’s concession is
in all probability legally forfeitable by reason of this
breach of the terms of the contract. And if the State is
willing to overlook this gross breach of contract, on con-
dition" that the Tramway Co. adheres strictly for the
future to its agreement about hours of labor and payment
for overtime, and also pays its employes a minimum wage
of 7s. a day, it seems a very fair deal.
But if the co. asks that nothing should happen to
it for breaking its agreement about hours and overtime
in the past; and that it should receive a large concession
in the shape of an extension of lease on condition it gives
its promise, already proved worthless, to keep its promise
on this point in the future; and that it should receive
some other special consideration—probably another ex-
tension of time—on condition it leaves off sweating its
employes’ wages, when other employers are required by
law to leave off sweating without any such payment-
well, it is a cheeky and aggressive monopoly, and its
petition should be promptly kicked down the big
marble steps into Bourke-street. The Victorian law has
begun to recognise that sweating is a crime, and if the
Melbourne Tramway Co. expects to be paid for leaving off
crime, instead of being run-in like other people for not
leaving it off, the Melbourne Tramway Co. evidently has
a very high opinion of itself.
That is about how the Melbourne Tramway
difficulty rests at present. It is an eminently
restful difficulty, and always stays in about the
same place.
*
To Heroes and Others.
An Australian surgeon discourses to The Bul-
letin on the modern rifle-bullet: —
The alleged humanity of the modern rifle-bullet forms
a touching example of public fatuity. “ It just makes a
clean hole,” says the oracle of the bar-parlor ; “ stops a
chap from fighting, you know, but doesn’t smash him
up.” It’s a nice, kindly theory, and encouraging to the
youthful warrior yearning for khakee and glory, but
active-service men tell a different tale. A newspaper
correspondent in Cuba was severely sat upon by the army
chief for giving a detailed description of the American
killed and wounded after a smart skirmish. “Long
strips of flesh were hanging from deep jagged wounds,
and, in some cases, the head or limbs weie mangled out
of human semblance. Altogether, it looked more like
the result of an Afghan skirmish after the women had
been out, than a civilised battle-ground.” This was not
good reading for recruits, and the indiscreet scribe was
muzzled. Weird yarns of deliberate mutilations flew
about, but military surgeons quickly testified that such
injuries were but the expected results of the Mauser rifle
at short range. And the Mauser bullet in all respects is
very similar to the rifle projectiles of other European
nations, Lee-Metford, Lebel, Mauser, or Krag-Jorgensen.
At the Hague Peace Conference a certain von Bruns,
of Subingen, has been attempting to prove that the
English modified bullet is practically an explosive projec-
tile of the kind forbidden by the Geneva Convention in
'6B. The faithful English press has gone for him like a
bull-pup, charging him with a base attempt on the
character of the Dum-dum bullet. They are either
ignorant of, or discreetly mis-remember the fact, that
he refers to the (mark iv.) C, or Woolwich model bullet,
made for service in the Soudan, and which is distinctly
explosive in its action.
The fully-mantled Lee-Metford bullet consists of a core
of solid lead covered by a nickel jacket, or mantle, as it
is scientifically termed. The object of the mantle is to
prevent the lead from “stripping "under the tremendous
velocity and force with which it is shot along the rifling.
It is also supposed by certain persons to prevent the lead
from mushrooming on a bone, or other hard substance, to
the great detriment of the surrounding tissues, but recent
experiments have shown that it is in the habit of parting
company from its core, and either making a track of
its own or being left in fragments along the course of the
wound. Out of it came the Dum-dum, the tip of the
mantle being filed off, so that the soft lead was free to
protrude on impact and make a mushroom-shaped mass.
The result was that the energy of the bullet was all spent
on the part struck, and the alteration of shape, together
with the tremendous velocity, produced a semi-explo-
sive effect of great “stopping" powers. Later on,
another model was introduced for the benefit of
the Soudan dervishes. It was termed the (mark iv.) Gor
Woolwich model, and consisted of a mantled lead projec-
ti’?, containing an air-chamber opening at its top after
the fashion of the modified Snider. As a “ smasher ”it
is unsurpassed, the enormous compression of the air in
the chamber on impact, together with the hydraulic
effect of soft tissues forced into it, exploding the leaden
walls like a powder-charge. It produces a shattering
effect, especially on soft semi-fluid tissues, and competent
authorities have stated that but for its use the British
casualties at Omdurman would have been doubled. The
British bullet won, not the famed British bull dog.
Continental surgeons have come out strong on the
subject. Von Bruns mistook the Mauser sporling bullet
for the Dum-durn in some of his experiments, but he made
no error over the Woolwich model. Esmarch, of Kiel,
states that in future warfare, with this bullet, there will
be no choice but to amputate the limbs of those who have
not bled to death from extensive wounds of the soft parts,
and that “it would be a matter of deep regret should
such barbarous engines of destruction come into use in
European wars.”
A few of the results are striking. Up to 450yds. with
the hollow-fronted Woolwich bullet the entrance wound
was small (sin.), the exit a gaping, lacerated opening from
IJ4 to inches in diam., with long strips of skin hang-
ing from it. Fired through a limb, taking the bone on
the way, it made an exit wound which in many cases
measured eight inches by six ! Out of the great rent
hung shattered strips of muscle and tendon mixed with
fragments of splintered bone, and pieces of mantle and
bullet were scattered for long distances through the sur-
rounding tissues. One shot tore a bullock’s heart to
small pieces, studding the fragments with splashes of
lead and mantle. And so on.
All this sounds very nasty, and the Peace crowd has
made the most of it, to the great bepraiseinent of the full
mantle. An enterprising Frenchman, however, did a few
experiments with the Lebel and regulation bullet, on
horses. He found that, just as with the execrated modi-
fied bullet, muscles were rent into pieces and internal
organs torn to shreds. Lungs were pulped, large bones
splintered, while one shot striking the skull smashed it
wide open and reduced the brain to a sort of soup.
Bullets traversing the body-cavities tore up the internal
organs without actually touching them, and everywhere
the exit wounds were at least three times as big as those
of entrance. Beyer found similar results with the
American navy rifle firing a projectile of 112grs. at 2560 ft.
per sec. of muzzle-velocity. He states that “ wounds
produced by it will have to be treated from the first as
infected injuries,” and prophesies a very high percentage
of mortality from the scattering of pieces of lead and
copper mantle about the wound.
Above 700 or 800 yds. the shattering effect of the modern
bullet is less, but it still persists in considerable degree
up to 1500yds. The majority of hits in actual battle will
probably lie made at medium ranges (600 to 800 yds.) and
at close quarters. The ambulance and surgical arrange-
ments are almost sure to break down under the strain,
and the condition of the wounded in future wars will be
infinitely worse than any of the horrors of Plevna or
Sedan, and this is one of the things about which the War
Office and the Patriotic Press remain discreetly silent,
while endeavoring to run the A.M.S. on an economic
basis.
♦
From Mr. Alfred Deakin :
Dear Bulletin. —The contention that the absence of
Bible readings in Vic. State schools can be traced in our
crime statistics, which you attribute to me, is one that I
have never used, and have expressly' disclaimed. As to
my real contention that religion is an essential of
complete culture, and that therefore its elementary
principles ought to be taught in an elementary'
school (so far as they are common to both Protestants
and Catholics, and so long as parents do not object), is it
not written in last year’s Hansard ? My' motion is simply
Higinbotham’s proposal revived, and aims at unity and
not strife. You have in .vour own province Scriptural
teaching of a much more doctrinal kind than we ask for
in Vic. Your powerful cartoon at our expense becomes
even funnier to those who note that the flaming Gehenna
towards which you picture us as marching is—New South
Wales ! —Yours truly, Alfred Deakin.
4.
The unhappy Baker, who, at Sydney Criminal
Court in June, was tried for murder, and
acquitted as insane, committed suicide in gaol.
This was how it happened, according to
inquest evidence :
He frequently showed suicidal tendencies, and, being
aware of this, at his own request he was placed in a
padded cell at various times, and in addition a warder
was appointed to keep him under observation, assisted by
a prisoner. About. 1 p.m. yesterday deceased was left in
a padded cell with the door open. The prisoner ap-
pointed to watch him, who also carried out duties in the
store, had gone to report himself at “ muster.” On his
return he found deceased lying in the corridor with his
head bleeding, and upon being examined he was found to
be dead.
After that it is an open question whether the
gaol authorities or Baker were the less sane.
Here is a known suicidal maniac put in a
padded cell for safety, with a warder and a
prisoner to watch him. The cell opens on to
a narrow gallery high up in one of the gaol
corridors, and only protected by a low iron
railing. The observing warder is somewhere
else—no one seems to have known where. The
prisoner goes away to answer his name, leaving
the cell-door open. Then the maniac sees his
chance, throws himself over the railing, and is
killed. Orders must be obeyed ; but why (1)
was not the prisoner relieved before going to
muster? (2) was he not excused going to muster ?
(3) was he not ordered to shut and fasten the
door of the cell ? It is not to be supposed that
there was a deliberate plan to give Baker a
chance to kill himself, but many a man has
been hanged on less convincing evidence of
intent. This is the official explanation as it
appears in a Sydney daily paper on July 15
Immediately Baker was seen lying on the floor in a
pool of blood the doctor was sent for. He arrived at the
gaol at about 1.30, and on seeing Baker said, “It looks
like aneurism.” He ordered him to be removed to the
Morgue and washed, and he would see him later 00. D


AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY
m
tix© Ad.laise Camera
A Magazine Hand Camera, holding 12 5 x 4 Plates.
THE SIMPLEST AND BEST MADE CAMERA YET INTRODUCED.
Price, £3 lOa.
Fullest particulars
application to the
Sole A ustralian A gents:
Baker & Rouse Proprietary ltd.
375 George-street, SYDNEY ; 280 Oollins-street, MELBOURNE ;
65 Rundle-street, ADELAIDE; 81 Queen-street, BRISBANE.
STAMPER
BATTERIES.
American or Australian Type.
10 to 100 Head. From 600 to 1250 lb. Stamps.
FRAMING EITHER TIMBER OR IRON.
PACKED IN PARTS
To facilitate Economical Transport.
CAMS, TAPPETS, SHOES, DIES, etc.,
of Unexampled Durability !
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
TD
L
Clyde Works, Granville.
,3 M‘
: mmm Hi
-. r „ 4 5.
EHBHB
was after 4 o’clock when he again saw him, and it was
not until then that he really knew the injuries he had re-
ceived. YVhen the doctor expressed the opinion that it
was aneurism, the governor of the gaol at once com-
municated with the Comptroller-General, informing him
of Bakkr’s death, and stating that, from what the doctor
had said, death was evidently due to the bursting of a
blood-vessel.
Comment is needless.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty's “ A Trip to Chinatown."
® OYAL “ The Physician.”
Lyceum “ Qur Native Home.”
Criterion Curtis’ Minstrel Co.
Tivoli. Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Twf Cliss 'L ’ “The King’s Musketeer.”
Theatre Royal “ Straight from the Heart..”
£ wo ° • Rickards' Variety Co.
Jlown Hall (, at.urday).. Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
Athenaeum Hall John Fuller’s Myriorama Co.
Jones's “Physician,” which made its first
Australian appearanoe at Syd ney Royal last Satur-
day, is a rather strong and distinctly gloomy play
about which The Bulletin finds it difficult to
prognosticate. The cultured boniness of it may
catch on with the public, and, again, it is quite as
possible that it won’t. This paper acknowledges
light here that it can’t say whether it loves Jones’s
play or not. It desires to retire into its cave and
mumble these bones at great length, and arrive at
an opinion gradually. The physician, played by
Joseph Game, in a strong, restrained, impressive
*ashion, is a great nerve-specialist whose own
nerves have given way, and he is mooning dis-
mally on the verge of suicide because the married
woman who had been his platonic best girl has
thrown him over. This isn’t cheerful. She deepens
the gloom by calling in and bidding him a frivol-
ous good-bye, and shakes a mocking bonnet-
eather at him, and. leaves him a worse wreck
than before. This isn’t cheerful, either. And
he flies into the country, and loves a simple angel
in white muslin who doesn’t love him—her affec-
tions are fixed on an enthusiastic teetotal reformer
who drinks. He is also a nervous wreck ; only the
furtive look acquired by making sure there are no
snakes in his boots is set down to the consuming
fire of philanthropy. But the specialist pene-
trates Ins secret. He knows the shuffling gait of
the man who is pursued by snakes, and the
haunted look of the man whom snakes walk upon in
the night. So he seizes the drunken reformer
with both hands, and resolves to cure him for the
sake of the girl in white muslin, and they lead a
dreadful existence together—the keeper and his
drunk for six months ; only to find at the end of
it that the teetotal evangelist is more given to
sneaking into public-houses than ever. And this
isn t a very gladsome point in the story either.
* * • .
Also, the woman whom the physician for-
merly loved comes back, having learned suddenly
that she is growing middle-aged and battered, and
getting too old to make new conquests. She cries
to him to take her, body and soul, and keep her as
long as she has any beauty left, and then poison
her; and he brightens up the darkness a
little by telling her, as gently as he can, that he
has quite forgotten her, and wonders how her
painted graces ever attracted him. The ano-el in
white muslin spends most of her time breaking
her heart because her lover doesn’t write —he is too
drunk to write, but. she believes that be is busy
saving souls from gin. The man whose daughter
the intoxicated teetotaller seduced moons around
like a lost soul crying for vengeance—and these
things also have an ameliorating effect on the
auditor. The nice girl at last finds out that her
idol is only beer, and she crumples up for a time
under the shock. The seduced girl comes home
and dies. The burning advocate of total abstin-
ence catches cold while lying in the rain very
drunk on strange drinks in a strange land, and dies
also. And, barring the fact that the deceased’s ex-
gul gives herself to the physician in the end, there
isn t a gleam of joy in Jones’s play from first to
last. It is a strong production, but as cheerless as
a hanged gentleman dangling on a windy night
from the one lone dead tree on the Old Man Plain.
* » » *
The Bulletin is as far from a decision as
ever; in fact, it will gladly give (id. to anyone
who will tell it whether it is pleased with Jones’s
new play or not. Its utter inability to decide
whether it appreciates, or doesn’t appreciate,
Jones’s play is breaking into, its sleep. It likes
Joseph Carne for a dead certainty; his picture of
the still strong man is a gem. And it likes
Brough s incidental old parson immensely ; and
Mrs. Brough’s woman of fashion is a clever
rendering of a character that is almost repulsive.
Mjss Temple doesn’t quite get there as the saint
in white muslin—Grace Noble would have fitted
the saintly part better—but there is no special
cause of complaint. As for Lovell’s intoxicated
teetotaller the apostle with the burning gin-
bottle at his vitals—he is a careful study in
debility, nervous wreckage, and the slinking man-
ners and customs of the person who is always try-
ing to get round the corner unobserved. And if
the advt. of J. P. T. Caulfield’s drink -cure pro-
cess was put on the programme things would be
complete.
** * *
The “Trip to Chinatown” will last till
next Monday night and thereafter Harry Conor's
company will quit Sydney. It won’t even wait to
produce that mysterious “Rag Baby ” which was
announced as its opening production, but which
didn’t come off either then or since. And it is
noteworthy that it opens in Melbourne with the
old and reliable “Trip to Chinatown”; it
tried the other piece (“Stranger in New
York ”) on the dog in Sydney, and appar-
ently one dog was enough. On Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday the “Belle of
New York ” rises up from wherever it has been
concealed and makes its final appearances, and
then departs for its bright home in the land of the
Declaration of Independence. “The King’s
Musketeer ” follows on Saturday (29th July), and
Sydney will probably receive it with great joy.
After a long course of the fluffy musical jumpedy
this should be just about the time when a
meritorious new show, which has really got some
definite remarks to make about itself, will be
welcome.
** # «
“ Our Native Home ” will unfold itself in
many acts at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday, and
for people who like the loud, painted struggle in a
large quantity of tableaux it is safe to say in
advance that they will have lots of struggle for their
money. Personally, The Bulletin would like a
peaceful, domestic drama for a rest. It would
like Charles Holloway to turn the guillotine side-
ways, and fasten a horse to it, and make it into a
ploughshare ; and it would be pleased to see Mr.
Stanford exhibiting his dynamite bomb at the
Agricultural Show as a prize turnip, and his
accomplice, the lost girl, bringing the cow home
in the dusk. There are times, late on a Saturday
first night at the Lyceum, amid the roar and
blither and explosion of the 187th act, when this
scribe feels half inclined to go out-back, and take
up a selection, and grow the gentle pastoral
chookey-hen for the rest of his days, and never
hear another explosion as long as he lives.
* 516 * *
The cannon-ball droppeth like the gentle
dew from Heaven on Cinquevalli’s neck at
Sydney Tivoli, and that wonder-worker con-
tinues to balance the smooth elusive round
thing on the thin end of the unstable long thing
with the same success as heretofore. Apparently,
it will take many weeks and many changes of
programme to exhaust Cinquevalii’s stock of
tricks, and his boom appears good for a long while
to come. Also, he is very well supported ; in
fact, the Tivoli bill just now is an unusually
strong one, all round.
** * *
The black people and the brown people
and the people of various shades are doing good
business at Sydney Criterion. A complete change
of programme is advertised for Wednesday, so by
the time this issue appears, the murky Dante will
be producing quite a different collection of articles
out of a different set of impossible places. And if
circumstances permit, and the rain keeps off, and
this powerful organ’s feet are not too bad, it will
endeavor to give further details thereof in next
issue.
** * *
Sydney Opera House closed last Saturday
night with a one-night revival of the “Alhambra
Girl” and one consecutive production of a sketch,
“Into the Night,” written by Mr. Arnold Den-
ham, one of the co. The fragment is rather good,
though somewhat lacking in novelty, and the
staging was effective—the red light of sunset
streaming through the gums, the interior of a
boundary-rider’s hut, and Jack Hardy, the
manager of the next station, who had been bushed,
moralising on his luck in striking the boundary
fence. But Jack was always a lucky dog—the
luckiest man in the country, in fact. He had
dropped into the station in a casual way, and had
become manager thereof and was about to marry
the owner’s only and pretty daughter. (All girls
with prosperous stations are pretty.) Just as he
is about to attack the mutton and damper he
hears a groan and goes out. The sunset-red has
gone, and mellow moonbeams are shining through
the gums now and show a sundowner gasping for
water. The sundowner is an ex-convict who had
served his time with Jack’s father (also a convict)
at Port Arthur, and he tells Jack that he brings
a message from the progenitor. Jack receives the
message his father’s blessing—with just the
amount of reverence that might be expected, and
remarks that the “old man ” must not come
round there. The sundowner fails to see why as
no one need know who and what the old man is.
I hen Jack thinks better of it, and, after promising
the sundowner a billet for life, tells him that
when his father does come he is going to kill the
fattest wether, provide a white shirt and many
large cigars—and damn the odds. This very
proper sentiment and declaration is responsible
for great evil, for the sundowner is Jack’s father •
ana when he hears that statement he solemnly
tells Jack the old man is dead; and when that
v ® r 7 “eeent son is asleep the heroic old man
shoulders Ins swag and goes out into the night to
perish for the drought is on and the dingoes are
howling -rather than blight his son’s prospects.
Mr. Denham personated Jack, and personated
him well, while Mr. Percy Walsh made a suffi-
ciently effective old sundowner. The dingo wasn’t
specified on the bill.
* * * *•
The weirdest public meeting this writer
ever attended was that of ex-priest Slattery, at
Sydney Protestant Hall. The grand-mastiff of
the yellow-pup order was in the chair, with city
magnates and clergymen ranged up behind him.
Ihe hall was packed by a dense crowd, which
proved how fiercely in earnest it was by utterly
scrunching and heaving out in one act the first
objector—nobody was allowed to object there.
Slattery is a tall man, with an aggressive, dome-
like forehead, solid appearance, dry wit, and
biting, incisive sarcasm. He is a good speaker
and rather interesting. In one breath he told
risky stories that shook the hall with laughter,
and m the next invoked the name of Jesus with
impressive solemnity. And —weirdest of all
every mention of that name was greeted with
cheers and wild applauso-it was the first time
this writer ever heard the Lord enthusiastically
encored. At the conclusion, there were given
three .cheers for Jesus, one for Slattery, and
four awful groans for Cardinal Moran.
** * *
Matters at Melbourne theatres are what
they have been for some time past, and will be
until the end of next week. All shows go fairly
strong whilst competition is limited; moreover,
this is the time of year when no manager puts on
a new bill until the old one has quite exhausted
its usefulness. So “ The King’s Musketeer ” con-
tinues a career of moderate success, and “ Straight
from the Heart ” prospers mildly at the Royal,
and the Rickard? management has nothing to
complain of. Paul Pelham, the latest Rickards
importation, is a persevering character-vocalist
who improves on acquaintance after one has be-
come hardened to the fact that Charles Godfrey
was more effective. Which is not to say that
Pelham, for his part, can’t give points to a lot of
other people in the same line of business.
** « *
Bland Holt’s season at Melb. Royal will
last until the middle of September. Then Hollo-
way and Anderson take possession of the house
on a ten months’ lease.
** * *
The success of Scherek’s Orchestra at the
Town Hall on Saturday afternoons is a surprise
to the culchawed jeremiahs who lately bemoaned
Melbourne’s lack of taste for high-class music.
Seherek, who is so little of a pedant that he can
get pleasure from some of the singing at Rickards’s,
has created a market for the good music that has
sugar and spice in it. He gives his public what
they can easily appreciate, whereas Marshall Hall
confines his occasional efforts to the performance
of masterpieces which they admire with difficulty
when they try to admire them at all.
'
Dear Bulletin.— Tell a Roman Catholic
acquaintance that Amy Castles was a Sectarian
Boom from the start, and in nine eases out of ten
the obviously true statement is resented as a sort
of personal insult, instead of being accepted as a
compliment to R.C. esprit de corps. Scotch
Presbyterians, like the Jews, seem to delight in
proclaiming their clannishness, whereas Irish
Catholics get “narked” when told (by an out-
sider) of their disposition to league together.
Why ? —Bendigo.
** * *
The boy, Sydney Smith, who appeared as
the prosecutor of Hoppytub, in “One Summer’s
Day,’’was not bad for a boy, but he might have
k e, " n ii rnuc l ( 1 t more effective. Child characters are
so full of “fat ” that a very ordinary combination
of intelligence and nerve passes for dramatic talent
in a well-trained youngster. This is more especially
the case with girls. Every Cissie Denver that the
writer has seen was voted very clever by the public
in general, though none of them spoke their lines
spontaneously.
** * *
Melb. newspaper desire to boom one after
another of the Firm’s productions is responsible
for absurdly contradictory pars. “The King’s
Musketeer,” for instance, was said to be crowding
the house (which it certainly didn’t) for the first
two or three weeks, and each successive mention
of the show laid stress upon the enthusiastic re-
ception it was getting. Then at the start of the
J , wee k comes this notice in the Argus :
‘ The increasing popularity of ‘The King’s Mus-
keteer ’ was evident on Saturday evening, ” &c.
aA n <^ 10 h an ds of a strong dramatic company,”
&c., “ the play has won more favor at each repre-
sentation.” The original notices, of course, had
left no room for increasing popularity and grow-
ing favor. The journalistic world seems to be
utterly careless of the maxim that a liar needs a
good memory.
** * *
It will be interesting to note the effect of
the Castles Boom on the concert arranged for Satur-
day (22nd) at Melb. Town Hall. This time two
young damsels from Bendigo are coming forward
—Miss Lili Sharp, soprano, and Miss Hansen-
Ivnarhoi, a violiniste—and they are both said to
have a Future, with a capital F. Also, Miss
Elsie Hall, an accomplished and charming piano-
forte player, will appear as a side-light, and
the concert altogether promises a much
better entertainment than the public got for
their money when the Castles Boom was started
on its wild career. Will the multitude fight
for admission on Saturday, and will Mon-
day morning’s musical criticisms in the news-
papers measure the young performers by their
present merits as artists, or their possible develop-
ments hereafter ? Is there a strong demand for
more “discoveries,” or did the recent paroxysm
of credulousness reduce Melbourne to a state of
weary cynicism ? To the writer’s way of thinking
Miss Lili Sharp is being brought out much too
soon after Amy Castles, and Miss Hansen-
Knarhoi, on the violin, will find it hard to seem
as wonderful as Fritz Mueller, the small-boy
pianist, but they may score big successes all the
same.
» * * *
The acting landlord of the Town Hall
aforesaid seems to have hurt the feelings of John
Fuller, who states that he engaged the building
for three Saturday nights on a verbal understand-
ing that it would not be let to another tenant yet
awhile if he were prepared to renew his lease. The
Myriorama show got good support, and manager
Fuller was disposed to sign a fresli contract when
he found that the concert promoters had jumped
his claim—if it icas a claim under the municipal
circs. Wherefore the Myriorama will shift to the
Athenaeum Hall next Saturday, and the co. will
soothe its savage breast with musio on a liberal
scale.
** * *
Miss May Allen, an ambitious soprano
who, the other week, invited the world to hear her
sing at Melb. Town Hall, and who was politely re-
proved for her temerity, is seemingly a difficult
young lady to convince. On Saturday afternoon
she burst forth again at Scherek’s Orchestral Con-
cert, like one lodging an appeal against the
cold, damp notices of her previous appearance.
Miss May Allen needs to be told, once and
for all, that she is a very nice amateur with a
plain ordinary voice. She sings a trifle better
than the average girl who goes up and down the
scale every morning in the front room of a
desirable villa residence. The passing milkboy
would prnbab y remark of her warble that it is
not too bad. But Melbourne is full of not-too-
bad vocalists.
At Poverty Point.
Luck is against handsome Ilarrie Ireland She trot a
profitable look-in with the Firm, and her voice hn
mediately went back on her, compelling her to go out
and rest which is very tiresome.
P astles was 'mostly the
woik of one of the Oriel trio, who never misses a
chance to worship any new idol. Musical critic Guenett
was but mildly enthusiastic and must have fouledl hard
to say even as much as he did say. Just previous to
Amys discovery at the Austral Salon the damsel
competed unsuccessfully for a musical scholarship before
t Laver and Ernest Wood, and none of the
Whioh ‘emarked a phenomenal quality in her voice.
Perhaps goes to explain why the rival Agk critic
lauded Amy to the skies.
nvu!n h c, L !£ h f M f iS fu ß °n MllSKrovc P la A’ s tinder the Firm’s
management father George is said to be still opposed to
her appearing on the stage at all, FF
TT o D ri r ,r ßL ; LL S TIS - Heard Amy Castles ; wasn’t thrilled !
Heaid hate Rooney ; teas thrilled. “The little less—and
how far-away it is! —Jimpan.
Tilf« la^?f rial y enture > at Sydn ey Royal Standard
Theatre, of the veteran aclor J. P. West has, after a
plucky two-months' struggle, justified the title of the
iinal piece, The Last Appeal.”
: Consider the adaptability of Cecil Ward,
who has played Mercutio, Little Minister, Tom Dossetter
J, A'tagnan, and sundry “ johnnie’' characters in B. and
15. comedies.
Editor Bulletin.— Re Hosea Easton. A week prior to
his death Air. W. J. Stent, of the American Banjo Club,
applied to all the principal Sydney hospitals for the ad-
mission of poor Easton, who was in a fearful condition,
hut wus refused-on the ground of what 1 Nothing definite
could be gained as to the reason for the refusals. After
sotne consideralile time Mr. Stent—who deserves all credit
for the manner in which he helped to make the poor black
musician s last hours easy—secured his admission into the
institution in w hich he died. And these hospitals are the
ones we help to maintain.—Count Brenn.
The end of Grattan Riggs was dramatic in its rugged
simplicity. The only vehicle available at little, out-of-
the-way Stralian for funeral purposes was a dray, and on
that rustic conveyance, followed only by the members of
his company, poor old man Riggs went to his grave.
Airs. M. L. Huddlestone writes from 46 Lake Place,
llo> lake, Cheshire, England, under date June 8, asking
The Bulletin for news of her husband, William Huddle-
stone, who went to Australia with George Snazelle the
entertainer. lie made the gas and worked the lantern
for Air. Snazelle s music, song and story. After that he
took up his artistic work and had a studio in the Arcade
but he seemed very unsuccessful for a time, and as it is
now two and a-half years since she heard of him, she fears
something has happened to him. Can any reader oblige
with information ?
“S.S. 'iOh, those clothes in the “King’s Musketeer ’!
ho\v they weigh down the harrowed actor and dangle at
his heels ! how desperately they afflict, him in his heroic
moments, and how they overwhelm and abash him when
he is moved to tender sentiment! At least, that is how a
sympathetic spectator feels about it., and it seems to me
that plays of this kind run unusual risks of dismal failure
if only because ihey afflict the audience with the actor’s
anxiety about bis superabundance of purple and fina
linen, and his great waste of velvet and gilt trimmings
The audience feels over-dressed ; it is togged to death "it
gets clothes on the brain. Clothes unmake the man !
Plow many good actors can be anything but uneasy
tailors’ dummies in the full dress of a musketeer’ They
all look to me like the penitent figures of chubby business
men at a fancy-dress ball. But the plays serve a godd
purpose in reconciling us to the hideous simplicity of our
habits, a.d. 1899. J
Justin Huntly McCarthy is distinctly flighty. Befoie
his marriage to Cissie Lottus he had been successiielv
engaged to Aliss Florence Toole and Miss Aida Jenoure
to the latter of whom he addressed the “ Ballade of
Columbine,” of which the last verse ran :
Aida of the wing&d shoon,
London in her Lyric fane
Hails a frolic muse’s boon—
“ Columbine has come again.”
Harry Rickards is very different from the average
manager. It is a treat to watch him in his box when a
new artist makes his appearance. No “ god ” half so
prodigal of applause.
Little Fritz Alueller has a clever young sister of whom
the artist world will surely hear. She has done an
exquisite sketch in pencil of her brother, cat-chin*' with
absolute fidelity his rapt expression and decided, square
little features. The picture is autographed by Fritz and
bears a few bars of his own composition.
Brisbane Review : —•“ Ada Crosslev has transformed
herself, or her maid has transformed her, from a coarse,
red-headed, coinmonplacely attired singer into a tall’
elegant, handsomely-attired belle.”
The Melb. Opera House cast of “ Friends,” in which
George Gordon’s scenery was first displayed in Australia
included Marshall, Garner, Ue Belleville, R. J Roberts’
G. Warde, Cates, Shepherd, Aliss Stammers, Mrs. Start i-
mers, Clara Lemore, Annie Taylor. How many of them
are left in the land ?
“Paradis”: A Swanston-street tradesman shows in his
window a Alelb. Theatre Roval bill of 1867, the plav
“ Virginius,” with Montgomery nnd Mdlle. St. Denis.
Both suicided. The wretched cast is a reply to Lieut.-
Gov. Madden, Coppin, and Neild on the painty"days. The
same bill has the “Merchant of Venice’’—Shylock
Montgomery; Portia, Cleveland; Antonio, Harwood :
Bas-*anio, Bellair; Old Gobbo, Lambert; Launcelot’
Stewart.
Our young friend, Mark Hambourg, is already a recog-
nised “ star pianist in Europe, and has accepted big-
terms for an American tour next season.
Irving gave a cabman one shilling in mistake for two.
Cabby : “Hi ! I’m going to see your Shylock with Ibis”’
The actor laughed, and gave him a sovereign. They
all do.
A Horsham (Vic.) vocalist named O’Donnell—a man
this time—is having a local subscription raised for him
on account of a testimonial from Prof. Marshall Hall,
who is not necessarily a better judge of voices than Gov.
Brasse.v or Bishop Goe. Marshall Hall, says the Horsham
correspondent for the Age, heard the aspirant sing and.
“ pronounced his voice to be a splendid one.”


ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Minings Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-at., Sydney.
A. E. (SOLPSTE'N,
(O/O S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
•“BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may he required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving 1 co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100^
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
Ail Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Mklbournk ;
11 Pittst., Sydney ; 68 Currie-et., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street
Brisk.; Lamb ton <)uay, Wellington, N.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Treasurer Braddon, of Tasmania, rather late in
the day, supplies a report of the revenue and expenditure
for the financial year ended 31st Dec., ’9B. Thesurplus was
£78,055. This is how Tasmania has been getting ou in
recent years:—
1886 Deficit ...£15,851 1893 ... Deficit ... £129,453
1887 74,183 1894 93,010
1888 „ ... 09,418 1895 ... Surplus... 13,025
1889 ... „ ... 2,765 1896 ... „ ... 47,333
1890 ... Surplus ... 35,354 1897 ... „ ... 69,994
1891 31,631 1898 ... „ ... 78,056
1892 ... Deficit ... 132,038
The Tas. deficit was reduced, at the end of ’9B, to £256,321.
Braddon, who looks far ahead, reckons ou a surplus of
£90,180 at the end of ’99, reducing the old deficit to
£166,141. Also, he thinks he sees another surplus of
£98,793 at the end of 1900, reducing the old deficit to
£67,348. He hopes to wipe that off for good and all in
1901. Meanwhile, N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria, and
S.A. are pegging away at their old deficits in a way that
should wipe them off between 1910 and 1940.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Government proposes to reduce
customs taxation to an extent which, it is estimated, will
diminish the revenue by £47,000 a year. It would be
wiser to hang on to every penny of revenue till the deficit
is paid off, and then, as the next most urgent financial
reform, to start paying for the construction of roads and
bridges and other non-revenue-producing public works
out of revenue. Probably the Braddon Ministry hasn’t
courage enough. Yet Tasmania wants that latter reform
most woefully ; it has a very bad record for charging un-
productive woiks to loans in order to make the revenue
account seem less insolvent than it is. How do these
r igures look?
Loan money Loan money
spent on spent on un- Total
productive productive
works. works.
1895 .. £2,318 .. £110,960 ... £113,278
1896 .. 27,000 .. 54,801 .. 81,801
1897 .. 13,376 .. 66,226 .. 79,602
In 1895 Tasmania got through £113,278 of loan money,
and it has only £2318 of productive assets to show for it.
All the rest was used to pay for those non-revenue-pro-
dujing works which ought to be charged to ordinary
expenditure—was used, in fact, to cook the accounts
with, and make things look better than they are. To put
it shortly : £113,278 loan money spent; results : £2318 of
productive works and £110,960 worth of political swindle
and fraud.
* * * *
Westralia’s accounts for the year ended 30th
June, 1899 : Revenue, £2,478,811 ; expenditure,
£2,539,357 ; deficit for the year, £60,546, which is much
ess than was expected. With the deficit for the year to
30th June, 1898, the accumulated shortage is now
£247,349.
* * * •
The N.S.W. Government proposes making
another attempt to sell the land fronting Martin Plane,
Sydney. That strip of land represents £468,975 of
Government money, saying nothing of interest, and the
land at Centennial Park is supposed to stand for £224,366.
These items used to appear simply as part of the deficit,
but they were taken out to make the deficit look smaller.
Probably the Martin Place frontages won’t fetch their
paper-value, but then if the account was debited with in-
terest and land-tax it would swell up so rapidly that they
would never fetch their paper-value. If they brought
£300,090 now, aud the money started to earn interest,
and the land became available for land-tax, it would be a
great deal better than if they brought ±500,000 20 years
hence.
• * * *
Things look rather better with the Bank of
North Queensland this half-year. The receipts for six
months ended 30th June, 1899, were £2555, but of this
£BBO consisted of recoveries from debts written off as bad
when the B.N.Q. made its great cleaning up. This isn’t
really profit; it only means that part of the bank’s capital
which was supposed to be lost, and treated accordingly,
has been unexpectedly recovered. Still it leaves a real
irailing profit of £1675, which is the best result shown
since June, 1897. Last five years’ earnings have been
December, 1894 .. £1,674 June, 1897 .. ±2,003
June, 1395 .. 1,736 December, 1897 .. 1,559
December, 1895 .. 1,182 June, 1898 .. 687
June, 1896 .. 1,703 December, 1898 .. 1,480
December, 1896 .. 1,717 June, 1899 1,675
Reckoning the whole £2555 as profit, this is the best half-
year the Bank of North Queensland has had since 1893.
Reckoning only the £1675, which the hank claims as the
trading profit of the half-year, and allowing for the fact
that all banks have a new source of revenue now through
the imposition of a charge of ss. half-yearly on
every account, things are quite as good as they were six
months ago. Also, the B.N.Q. has got rid of a heavy
burden. The late manager—the unfortunate gentleman
who committed suicide—conceived the remarkable idea of
raising £50,000 by the issue of per cent, debentures
(when money wasn’t worth more than about 3$ or 4 per
cent.) fixed for ten years certain and then redeemable at
the bank’s option at a small premium. And The Bulletin
remarked at the time that it was a very unpromising idea.
The new management has contrived to recover £31,500
of these, paying the premium out of this half-year’s
profits, and greatly reducing the future interest load.
Therefore affairs are really better than they appear on the
surface.
The trading profits represent .£3 ss. Bd. per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ hinds or £3 7s. per
cent, per annum on capital, which is a better result than
that shown by seven or eight Australian banks. The
entire profit, including recoveries, equals £5 os. 2d. per
cent, per annum on the total funds—rather a high figure
nowadays. The management of the B.N.Q. wisely pays
no dividend. It adds £2OOO to reserve, making it £4OOO,
and the remainder, with previous balance, leaves £622 at
credit of profit and loss. This would be a good time for
the B.N.Q. to make it one of its articles of association
that at least a quarter of the profits shall be carried to
the reserve fund for the next 100 years, and that at least
half of the reserve shall be separately invested in State
securities. Then there would be a reasonably solid
guarantee that the hank, which is beginning to pros-
per again, and has a decent little business and a very
sound cash reserve, would keep on that way.
* * * •
Sydney Morning Herald which rises up at
every opportunity and with very little regard for the
truth, to point out how private enterprise is a success and
State enterprise a dead failure, has the unspeakable gall
to publish this : —“ While there is nothing to justify the
jubilations in which some political partisans of the
Government are indulging over the recently issued report
of the Bank of New Zealand, there is room for congratula-
tion on the fact that it indicates progress toward recovery.
After providing £BO,OOO interest on the £2,000,090 guaran-
teed stock, and £17,500 for dividend at the rate of 3J4 per
cent, on the preferred shares, there is a profit balance of
£93,920 remaining. This compares with £85,032 in the
previous year, being an increase of £BBBB. It is proposed
to appropriate this balance in reduction of dead assets as
follows: Payment to assets board, £50,000; written-off
estates company assets in liquidation, £30,617; written-
off debenture conversion account, £8302. In three years
the bank has written down £204,052. That the bank is
regaining the confidence of the public is gratifying : but
until it gives its shareholders some return after their long
abstinence from dividends, not on their lost capita), but
on the fresh-called money, it is rather too soon to begin
to crow about the merits of Government management.
All experience justifies the conclusion that the sooner it
gets rid of any connection with the bank the better will
it be for the public and mercantile life of New Zealand.
The private National Bank of New Zealand the other day
managed to increase its dividend return for the year from 6
per cent, to 7 per cent. And if without Government support
and prestige it sould do this, surely there is nothing to
boast about State bank management which cannot in the
same country show as great an increase of net profits.”
This utterly unscrupulous misrepresentation (in
fact, it gets beyond misrepresentation, and soars to a high
pin I acle of plain mendacity) is hereby brought under the
notice of the Herald’s moral proprietary. The Bank of
New Zealand last year, under Government management,
had a profit of £’93,920 after paying all charges and inte-
rest on the money which the Government advanced to
put the concern on its legs after private management had
made it utterly and disgracefully insolvent. In other
words, it is earning over 20 per cent, profit on the private
shareholders’ capital—twice as much as the privately-
managed National Bank of Maoriland, and five times as
much as the average earnings of all the privately-managed
banks of Australasia. The only reason why the private
shareholders don’t get dividends is that all these
splendid profits that State-management is now making
have to go to write off the huge losses which
private management made in previous years, and which
the State had to take over when private management
collapsed utterly and miserably. The B.N.Z. earns about
6 per cent, on all its capital (State and private), but after
paying the State’s preference dividend (£‘2,000,000 at 4
per cent, and £500,000 at 3£) there is over 20 per cent,
left on the private capital—or would be but for the losses
made by private management. And the Herald, a moral,
religiously-brought-up paper, which ought to know where
it will go to when it dies if it doesn’t tell the truth, calls
the State management which produces these splendid
results a fai'ure.
• • • *
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, asked for their
opinion upon the proposal to build a Govt, line from
Broken Hill to connect with theS.A. system at Coc.kburn,
report that they are not impressed. They think it might
be considered inequitable to interfere with ihe Silverton
Tramway 00. in the manner suggested. The only other
way is to wait for the co.’s 21 years to expire ; and then
Govt, may take over the works on paying nearly three
times the amount of the co.’s profit during the
preceding seven years! As the co.’s profits amount
to putting it very mildly—£Bo,ooo a year, this
would work out at about £l,6oo,ooo—for 35 miles
of narrow-gauge line! The Commissioners are good
enough to add that they could not recommend purchase
under the powers of the Act. In other words, years ago,
in the bad days before Barton’s Bill of electoral reform,
Parliament threw Broken Hill into the frying-pan ; and
now Broken Hill must stay there. But the final word is
not with the Commissioners.
* * • *
Silverton Tramway Co. is busy arguing that it
really isn’t worth the country’s while to interfere with the
gorgeous monopoly which it holds. It has accordingly
published a series of comparisons of its tariff and that of
N.S.W. Govt, railways, and triumphantly calls on the
gods to witness that in most cases its own rates are the
lower. But as the co. quotes the rates for a 35-mile jour-
ney on a N.S.W. Govt, line, the comparisons are value-
less, because the S. A. co.’s really isn’t a separate line of 35
miles ; for every practical purpose—so far, anyhow, as
Broken Hill is concerned—it is simply a 35-mile section of
a through line to the seaboard. A fair comparison
would be made if the co.’s rates were set beside N.S.W.
Govt, rates for the last 35 miles of a 320 - mile
journey. If S.A. Govt, worked a line to Broken Hill,
running at the same rate for the 30 odd miles over the
horder as it charges for the same distance on its own
lines, the freights between the border and Broken Hill
would average one-third of the Silverton co.’s charges; w'hile,
if S.A. Govt, charged for each 35-mine section what the
co. charges for its 35-mile section, the S.A. Govt, rates
would have to go up in some cases 600 per cent. And,
seeing that the trains run right through, with precisely
the same staffs, there isn’t any visible reason why the rate
on one section should be six times greater than it is on
another section. But, after all, these comparisons of
rates are not wanted : the mere fact that a co. owning
only 35 miles of narrow-gauge line, and with less than
one-fifth of the rolling-stock necessary to work its
traffic, makes a profit of nearly £lOO,OOO a-year is
sufficient. The co. shows that, if it carried goods to
Broken Hill for nothing, jam could be only l-15th of Id.
per lb. cheaper, and so on ; but all this doesn’t alter the
fact of the £BO,OOO a-year divs., with additions to reserve.
The co. did not bargain with Parliament for a monopoly ;
and that it has had one for 12 years isn’t a particularly
striking reason why it should always have it.
• * * *
The action of N.S.W. Examiner of Patents, in
refusing the cyanide co.’s application for permission to
amend the Maoarthur-Forrest patent, brings N.S.W. into
line with Victoria. A Victorian appeal is now before the
Privy Council, and presumably the N.S. Wales contest
will go there too. The cyanide people have had mixed
luck in their fighting. In Britain, the patent was
amended ; but in Germany it was quashed. Maoriland
bought the patent’s last four years for £lO,OOO, to save
bother and litigation. In W.A., Q., and Tas. things are
simmering; but the patent goes so far. In the U.S., the
patent is upheld ; but in the Transvaal, the Supreme
Court threw it out.
The point for decision is one on which arguments
are so nicely balanced that equally good Judges can
easily come to opposite decisions. It is pretty generally
admitted that the knowledge of cyanogen’s power to
separate gold was common property 50 years ago; and it
is usually admitted also that the cyanide patentees, Mac-
arthur and the Forrests, were the first to patent a practi-
cal method for using cyanogen to separate gold from its
ores. Unluckily for themselves, they specified one par-
ticular solution, which may or may not be held to embrace
the actual solution in use. Hence they were driven to
try and amend their patent. The patentees have laid
stress on their right to the idea; their opponents have
denied their right to the particular application of the
idea, and have contended that, anyway, they have only a
right to what is included in the language of their patent.
And the patentees say : Look how your industry booms
through the use of cyanide—our discovery. And the
mine-owners retort: If it is your discovery, and in your
patent, prove it. And the patentees say : You ought to
be ashamed to use our process and not pay for it. And
the mine-owners retort: The essentials of the process are
not yours; and hundreds of people would have applied
the idea long ago independently of you. And on which
side abstract justice lies is a point which may be argued
till doomsday.
* * » *
Whispered in writer’s ear that a very strong
development has occurred in the Young Australian mine,
Cobar—quite equal to, if not better than, the big run of
gold worked three years ago. How very quiet these
things are kept in N.S. Wales !
* * * *
Bora Creek, N.S.W. : —Veteran John Howell
seems to have got on the track of a good thing in this
locality in a mine named the Conrad. It appears that on
the surface the deposits were heavily charged with zinc,
which practically gave out at a shallow depth, leaving the
vein with good values in silver and lead. Country,
granite.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, who promoted the
Ashcroft sulphide process and probably lost fully quarter-
of-a-million in works and other things at Cockle Creek,
Newcastle (N.S.W.), appears to be prospering as owner of
Broken Hill Central mine. A good div. expected in Sept.
Profits last year believed to be some t'175,000. The co.
isn’t taking any more sulphide processes, but is smelting
in the ordinary way.
• * * •
Broken Hill’s mineral exports for the first six
months of the past three years compare this way :
*97. *9B *99
Bullion £256,738 ... £109,591 ... Nil.'
Crude ore ... 211,967 ... 174,589 ... £162,094
Concentrates ... 320,439 ... 395,092 ... 551,803
Slimes, &o. ... 12,474 ... 9,583 ... 26,387
Zinc tailings ... Nil. ... Nil. ... 10,022
The figures show the extension of sulphide-treatment and
the absolute stoppage of local smelting : the concentrates
are all sulphide product, and so are all the
rest, except about half the crude ore. Of concen-
trates 110,300 tons were sent away, representing probably
575,000 tons of ore, and containing (along with the crude
ore exported) approximately 70,000 tons of lead—which
is an Australian record.
Girilambone, N.S.W., turning out a little cop-
per weekly with a small experimental blast furnace ; rest
of plant shut down for want of water. Still making calls,
a sad thing for any producing copper-mine when metal is
nearly £BO a ton.
* * * *
Mt. Apsley, N.S.W. Negotiations proceeding
by cable to place this copper-mine in London on a share
basis to furnish working capital. Owners satisfied to take
scrip instead of cash, but will insist upon a local board of
directors and an Australian register, so as not to be abso-
lutely at the mercy of London management, like the
Cohar Gold Mines and other London-managed properties,
the'position of which, so far as local shareholders are con-
cerned, is kept dark as the lungs of midnight. The
Sydney C.G.M. shareholders have not heard one solitary
syllable from London for over 13 months 1
» • * *
From Cooma, N.S.W. comes a caution to the
public to be careful about a series of mines, the prospec-
tus of which is out—on the ground that no crushing has
ever come from any of the leases, and that though there
are a few small claims working in the vicinity, gold is
precarious and chutes are short.
• » • *
The tricky Lake George Mines, N.S.W.: Last
monthly return gave an extraction of less than 1 per cent,
copper and the other metals included brought the value
up to £1 2s. sjd. only. Mining and smelting cost
17s. 10|d. ; estimated cost of realisation, 4s. 7£d. p6r ton.
A small loss admitted on the month's work, hut no allow-
ance made for office expenses in Australia and London —
and they are no bagatelle. The low recovery attributed
to all workings being at present in low-grade ore. By the
bye, is it a fact that the ore is now broken by contract at
so much per ton without any stringent conditions as to
value or selection ? If so it might account for a good
deal. What would the mine be if copper were now at last
year’s average price ? The only remaining hope seems to
be treatment of the gossans by cyanide, and although
shareholders have been several times told that this and
that were satisfactory, nothing definite has been given as
to prospective values and profits.
* * • *
Molong,N.S.W.—“The shutting-down of Cargo
Gold Mine has made things very gloomy here.” Well,
that mine would never have been started again if pre-
vious experience had been of any use to the Cargo people.
* * * *
Macquarie River Dredge Co. No. 2 came out
the other day, and all the shares were taken up. The
ground adjoins Garland’s, and no cash was asked by
promoters. The eo. hasn’t got a great number of shares,
and altogether the scheme looks a likely one.
* * * ♦
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne refused to
grant a quotation to the Hampden (Cloncurry district)
Copper Mine 3 Co., last week, on the ground that it was
still in syndicate form, there being, apparently, only five
shareholders. This is fairly rough on Knox, Orr and Co.
There are 1000 shares of £lOO each in the co., and only
four are loose on the market. £650 is asked for one of
the quartette.
* * * •
Four Hampden (Cloncurry) puplets were
launched last week, and they are as mixed as this
metaphor. The Hampden people didn’t take up all the
ground, and those who got in after W. Orr have
pegged plenty of outcrop and other things. Melbourne
is making up with a vengeance for losing its grip of
Westralian mines : all N.Q. is pegged for Melbourne
mining men.
* * * *
Wortupa, S.A. —the place where tellurides are
alleged to come from. T. Houghton, who really knows
what he is talking about, described the reef as composed
of carbonates of lime, iron, and quartz full of mineral,
said to be telluride. His assays weren’t sensational.
Sample from cap of lode showed only a trace of gold ; a
quartz-vein running away from it ditto. Another quartz-
vein, showing gold and mineral, assayed a little over an
oz., and this sample exhibited a few specks of what is
believed to he telluride of gold. Only a few telluride
specimens were brought down, and two of these were
stolen ere they had been long on show—doubtless not for
their intrinsic value, hut for boom purposes. Four co.’s
incubated in a less number of days. Scrip printed and
sold, but the boom didn’t last a week. Adelaide people
prefer Stock Exchange mining to anything else. They
are born gamblers, and will never get over their magnifi-
cent Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie luck,
• * • •
Adelaide having “gone off” one telluride find
has started another. This latter is at Wilgena, 300 miles
N.YV. of Port Augusta; Capt. Matthews, Govt. Geologist,
has been despatched there. The show “is highly
mineralised, and is nearly in a direct line with Kalgoor-
iie.” Alas ! nothing now seems to be in a direct line with
Cooigardie, or with the White Feather, or Kurnalpi, or
any of the other dead-cat places of the great cat-land,
yet they are all within easy distance of the camp that
wears the Telluride Crown of Glory—Kalgoorlie. Also,
said that mining men often remarked that this particular
spot was very much like Kalgoorlie in many ways, and
the discovery revived an old yarn. Newspapers, Adelaide
brokers, and other boomers, are quite satisfied that this
is the place referred to in the tale. Many years ago a
black-boy and a man knocked off a lot of gold with a
tomahawk. The man had to go to England to see a dying
brother, and, when he returned to Adelaide, he died
without being able to give any information that would
direct anybody there. Nothing is said of the black-boy.
Also, there is a yarn about Wilgena being most
assuredly identical with the mysterious place whence an
Adelaide resident long ago got much gold : he pegged out
without locating the spot—he only waved his dying hand
to his stepson, or somebody, faintly whispering the
while : “Go North West! ” Well, that was more or less
original, anyhow. “Go West, young man,” is quite a
chestnut.
* • * •
The finders of the telluride gold at Worturpa
(S.A.) were two brothers named Stubbs who had only been
prospecting for a few months. What may be a valuable
field was made known through the prospectors mistaking
the telluride for coal. As it is, they have almost entirely
parted with their interest in the mine—since floated at
big prices—for a few hundreds.
The rush for S.A.’s new alleged goldfield pro-
duced some funny experiences. Several capitalists from
Adelaide went up with the warden, but in the long and
intensely trying scrub journey three of them disappeared.
The man who stuck to the warden, over the boulders and
up the creeks, seemed to have the best of it, but he found
on arrival that another had been shown a desperate kind
of short cut over the range, and had bought out the
original prospectors. This first-comer, before buying,
very honestly showed the prospectors the assay of their
stuff, 270 z. to the ton, which had caused the rush, but of
which they had not heard before. The other two who
tried a short cut got bushed, and found the whole place
pegged-out when they reached the field. One of them
obtained a lift on a donkey, was thrown off, broke a rib
or jtwo, and finally despatched a wire to the city con-
demning the whole show.
• » • *
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
beeh encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value'and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assays alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not only give a statement of metallic contents —
owners will he advised by an experienced, practical metal-
lurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in bulk,
whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation, smelt-
ing, cvaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should not be
less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
» • * •
Golden Horseshoe has at last declared a div.—
155., equal to ss. a share on the new issue. The old issue,
which went to £5O per share, are now hack to £4O, and
why they are that Heaven, and Kaufmann, only know.
* • % *
Stated that the manager of the Queen Margaret
South, on the 10th inst., reported that face of the drive
was full of visible (fold, and that he had obtained 60oz.
that day. Nathless, shares have ever since been steadily
on the down-grade.
• • • *
Real humorists are the mining oracles of the
Sydney evening papers. Thus the News on rumors : “ A
red-hot Westraliaii market between now and midsummer
—a big deal has been made in Associateds, and when the
supreme moment arrives it is going to pay the ss. div.”
Queen Margarets, which were up to 365., are going there
again. It hears nothing but good of Bayley’s from “ a
man who has been down the mine, and who is in touch
with moneyed people.” Declaims that the reason for that
all-round slump is unaccountable, except the presump-
tion that “ bears ” in London are working Kruger’s
obstinacy for all it is worth. It also wants to know why
Chaffers and Biulder Main Reefs should be so depressed.
And so on. Now, the Westralian market is having its
“ red-hot ” boom in midwinter, anti to call present market
values depressed is absurd, as the News readers will
presently find. Chaffer’s, for instance, at 225. 6d., repre-
sents haif-a-million of money—as the value of a mine with
an area of but 12 acres which has practically never had a
crushing, much less a div. It developed tosooft. before it
found pay ore, and even at this level the rich ore is con-
fined to narrow streaks, and its bulk is doubtful. Chaffers
has nothing but position to recommend it, and half-a-
million is a lot too much for that. Queen Margarets went
to 365. on the striking of a bonanza, and, as soon as the
smallness of the pocket was exposed, they went back to
225. 6d , which is very fair value. About time that papers
recognised that the judgment of the collective markets
of Australia and London is better and more reliable than
that of the horse-reporter.
* * * •
The Wilfley concentrator has only been a short
time before the mining public, but has already demon-
strated its superiority 7, over 1200 being sold within the
past two years. This machine has a capacity of from
25 to 30 tons per day, and will save more sulphuretts,
float gold, amalgam or quicksilver, and make a cleaner
and better separation than any belt, concentrator made.
It can be easily and rapidly adjusted while in motion, and
requires no expert attention. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Coy., South Melb, have been appointed sole manufac-
turing agents, and are now engaged constructing machines
for the colonies. The price of the machine is ±ll5.
* * * *
Brown Hill, W.A.—Another heavy fall in these
shares in London —again attributed to the statement that
the ore in the lower levels is rapidly diminishing in value.
* * * •
Lake View Consols has put up a record in pay-
ing a div. of £1 a share ; a quarter of a million being thus
distributed. On £250,000 capital the Consols has paid in
divs. £567,500. Mt. Bischoff (tin) has distributed over a
million on a paid-up capital of about £12,000.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* » • *
The Lady Shenton’s clean-up for the four weeks
ended 24th June was 17990 z. 7dwt. gold from 1190 tons of
ore. Total output of mine to date, 57,2780 z. Idwt. 3gr.
melted gold from 20,649 tons, exclusive of gold from tail-
ings and concentrates. A further div. of Is. per share
—the eleventh—has been declared, bringing total dis-
tributed to shareholders up to £BB,OOO.
The bier Westralian producers at Kaleroorlie up
to date :—Great Boulder, 297,8600 z. ; Lrke View Consols,
266,7150 z. ; Ivanhoe, 140,7570 z. ; Hannan’s Brown-hill,
124,9700 z. ; Associated Mines, 116,6860 z. ; Golden Horse-
shoe, 88,0370 z. ; Boulder Perseverance, 54,0570 z. ; Great
Boulder Main Reef, 32,7590 z. ; North Boulder, 30,4460 z.
Australia has never seen the like of these—in one belt of
country covered by a square mile. Total from the camp
for the half-year, 342,3880 z. —an output nearly three times
as great as for the first half of ’97, and more than twice as
great as the production first half of ’9B. Naturally,
the two biggest producers are the biggest div.-payers ;
Lake View on top with 1625,000 in three years, Great
Boulder £608,000 in five.
* » * *
New Moon, Bendigo, Vic. Average for half-
year, Bdwt., and this has been maintained for seven years ;
over 100,000 tons crushed. Pivs. to date, £72,600 : for
half-year, £11,560. Manager reports plenty more in sight.
Management, including directors’ fees, for half-year, £164.
Are you listening, J. Bull ?
Beehive and German Consolidated (Maldon,
Vie,), after years of call-making, began to drive for the
reef a few weeks ago, and the contributing shares rose
from ss. 6d. to 14s. on the strength of golden expecta-
tions. At time of writing, they are down again to 7s.
Unfavorable report: “Crosscut at 925 ft. extended to
190 ft. from shaft, and intersected Old Beehive and Western
reef. Driven on course 12ft. ; stone. sJft. wide, not yet
payable.” B. and G. Consol, doesn’t appear to have im-
proved its position among the mines which are “ going to
be good some day.”
* * * *
Bright District and Smoko Reef Co., with a lot
of stone in sight, and reasonable prospects of a 15dwt.
average, has now arrived at the 2s. 6d. mark, and may go
higher. But it will take £5090 to pay a shilling div. on
this show.
* * * *
“Tailings” writes from Maoriland From
enclosed cutting you will see that, for week ending 19th
June, 27 public dredges got 12700 z. gold, or an average of
470 z. per dredge, and this particular week is only an
average one. As the biggest dredge working can pay all
exes, on about 9oz. per week, it can be easily seen what
bonanzas some co’s are. Local failures are few and far
between—they number, I think, only three out of our 70
private and public concerns. Many public co’s by the
end of present year will have paid back the whole of their
capital in divs., and still have from 12 to 15 years work
ahead of them. Writer reckons that over £600,000 worth
gold is being won per annum by Otago dredges alone ;
better still, all profits, including those on the building
of the dredges, go into our own people’s pockets and not
into J. Bull’s.
* * * *
“Skimpy”: The question is not what the
Briseis co. has spent in the past; it is—what are the show’s
present prospects ? Also—who wrote that Financial
Timks letter ?
* * * *
The next big gold boom appears likely to take
place in Rhodesia. On 30th Sept, last 130,000 quartz reefs
had been registered, extending over an area of many
hundreds of square miles. This district is said to be full
of old workings, variously attributed to Arabs, Phoeni-
cians, and Portuguese. The caps of the reefs had simply
been removed by these old workers, and the claims aban-
doned when water became troublesome. Average yield of
gold so far, 14jdwt.—without cyanide. Tailings can be
treated (so Cecil Rhodes says) by cyanide at a cost of
ldwt. per ton, and so induced to yield another 4 or sdwt.
Some lodes are said to be of enormous size. Sounds mild,
though, after Klondyke.


Hr
d
A NEW DEPARTURE
In Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
88T We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Opposite j
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J4-plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Brisbane Branch : 34 QUEEN STREET.
Melbourne Agents : CRAVEN & CO., 179
COLLINS STREET.
PHOTOGRAPHY!
The Pictorial Triumph of the Century!
Everything requisite for successful working and
obtaining good photographs can be supplied without
delay.
All the last forms of Camera and appliances. Latest
makes of Papers and Plates, and Fresh, Reliable
Chemicals are kept in stock by
Harrington $ go. [td.,
Photographic Merchants
66 King-street, SYDNEY.
Write for our Illustrated will be mailed E 11.,:
by return.
|!3i” Our Goods can also be procured from W. ANDRICV
3 Jaines’-place, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
IN THE LAND OF THE PRICKLY - PEAR.-A BRILLIANT IDEA.
SELECTOR'S WIRE : “ Oh, Jack I come quick. Cissy has caught on tire!”
JACK (pear cutting) : “Put her where she'll burn some pear — quick!”
The weightiest influence against the
stablishment of a County Council for Sydney
and suburbs is the dexterous work of several
council-clerks. These see in a County Council
what certain anti-Jbederahsts see in federation —
loss of office or risk of displacement—and they
work underground and overground to block
Destiny.
That ghastly show, Coolgardie Exhibition,
has fizzled out at last. It was open for four
months, and was attended by 70,000 people in-
cluding deadheads and season-ticket holders.
More attended one of the big test matches in
Sydney or Melbourne, and yet Morgan, M.L.A.,
President of the Commission, gravely asserted
that through the Exhibition —
Attention had been called to the resources of the colony
by advts. distributed all over the U.S. and Europe, and
to-day hundreds of thousands of men who previously
knew nothing' at all about the colony were well acquainted
with its resources. This had all" been gained by the
establishment of the Exhibition.
Thus, according to Morgan, Westralia owes little
or nothing to its marvellous output of gold, but
everything to a paltry little tin-pot show —
despised and rejected even by the Sandgropers
themselves.
Speaking at the interment of the aforesaid evil-
smelling Exhibition, John Forrest said that the
money it had cost the country had been most
judiciously expended. The £20,000 or so which
HE had advanced the Commissioners had served
to bring Westralia prominently before the civilised
world, and it was triumphantly proved that the
province could now produce everything for the
sustenance of her population as well, if not better,
than the East. At Bunbury, only a day or two
ago, Victorian butter, Victorian bacon and cheese,
Tasmanian potatoes, South Australian jams, and
Parramatta oranges were the only samples of pro-
duce available. Butter was ticketed la. Bd.,
cheese Is. 3d., bacon Is. 2d. per lb. ; Parramatta
oranges (inferior), Is. fid. to 2s. per doz. ; eggs
(from Adelaide), Is. fid. to Is. lOd. per doz. Apples
are prohibited as an article of import, and a few
common cooking sorts were labelled Is. per lb.,
pears ditto. Bunbury is considered W.A.’s best
farming district, and is the Premier’s own con-
stituency. Why these fairy-tales ?
♦ * * *
A “survivor” of the Excelsior-Edina
collision tells a Bulletin man this little story.
All the Excelsior’s passengers were taken aboard
the much-battered Edina, and the steamer
returned to Melbourne. Shortly after she started
for home, informant noticed a man looking about
amongst the crowd with ill-disguised eagerness.
Presently the seeker came face to face with a
woman who was also seeking. The man’s face
fell a yard. “Just my cursed luck!” he said.
“Just mine, damn you !” answered the woman.
• * * •
The most excited man on board the
Excelsior when she was cut down by the Edina in
Hobson’s Bay last week was a large, raw-boned
Caledonian who was discovered wrestling energeti-
cally with the wreckage of the big awning. A
couple of sailors went to his assistance, thinking
from the mortal agony expressed in the face of the
man that his wife and family must have been
pinned down by the ruins. A section of the
wreckage was lifted, and the man went on his
knees, and dragged from under a seat a well-wotm
mackintosh. “ That’s all richt the noo an’ thank
Y e J me men.” he said,
* * * *
transpires that the treasure-chest on
~,,,, . . , .
board the Alameda whence the 5000 sovs. mysteri-
ously disappeared was also used as a spirit-cellar
and frequently opened to procure liquor !
“H.”: Wentintoapawnshoprecently. The
occupants were a little grey-headed Jewess
and a tall, powerful man with an Irish accent.
She was so decrepid that she could hardly
walk ; he was in the prime of his strength,
and a regiment of him would represent a lot
of agony to an enemy, but he stood pleading I
to that decrepid old woman to give him one
week’s grace in which to pay the interest on
a family relic, which he declared was of great
sentimental value. Also, it was mortgaged
for only one-sixth of its intrinsic value. The
little old woman behind the counter, with her
wizened face screwed into a smile like a
crumpled promissory-note, kept on laughing
a little dry laugh and repeating, “It ees not
piziness.” It was a work of political economy in a
nutshell.
* * • •
A Melb. solicitor, who had just sue- ,
needed in getting a client acquitted, left the
precincts of the criminal court and was stroll-
ing down Lonsdale-street when he felt a
touch on his arm. “ I’m the foreman of the
jury that just let off Blank, sir,” said the
stranger, touching his hat with a greasy
forefinger, “an’ I’d take it kindly
if yer could spare us a bob.” Who
wonders at the success and afflu-
ence of the professional jury-,
squarer when the prospect of
twelvepence does the trick ?
One of Brisbane’s “naicest”
astonished her fellow-passengers on a
big coastal boat t’other day by
calmly taking her cigarette with
the men in the smoking-room ;
also, she played euchre for
drinks, and took her whack like
a man.
* * *
A S. Melb. man has been
fined for persisting in walking about
in church during the service. Is somnambulism
really a crime ?
* ■ * * ♦
Although there was a large demonstration
by friends in court whpn Flanagan got acquitted
for the third time on a charge of embezzling An-
drew Rowan’s money in days of vore, Melbourne
has regarded the whole Rowan-Flanagan matter
with a cynical eye thus far. Considering the “ pri-
vate and confidential ” pamphlet which Flanagan
hurled at the character of his former employer and
colleague, there was nothing inhumanely vindic-
tive in Rowan’s scheme of revenge. The one furi-
ous litigant asked the public to believe his ex-
mate guilty of dishonest financing, and the other
retaliated by bringing his accuser before a jury on
similar charges. It now remains with Flanagan
to convict Rowan of malicious— i.c., unreasonable
—prosecutions, and, when he has landed a verdict
for heavy damages, the public at large will pat the
acquitted “martyr” on the back—but not till
then. And, on the other hand, if Flanagan does
not bring his adversary to court, there will be no
feeling of sympathy for Rowan unless he, for his
part, can convict Flanagan of criminal libel in
publishing the pamphlet aforesaid. And there is
no visible reason why the public should sym-
pathise much with either side of the cat-fight.
* * * *
The Rowan-Flanagan scandal has pro-
voked a new edict from the Vic. Attorney-General
prohibiting the appearance of Crown Prosecutors
in private cases. Finlayson, the much-“ but-
tered ” C.P., held a brief for Rowan at the Police-
court, and continued the attack upon Flanagan in
the Criminal Court as representative of the
Crown. Which meant that Finlayson, after
accepting his client's biassed views and fat fee,
was called upon, in his higher capacity, to say
whether the Crown should take up Rowan’s case,
and he naturally decided in the affirmative, with
the result that a lot of public money was wasted
on abortive prosecutions. Defenders of the old
system argued that it would be impossible to get
able men as Crown Prosecutors if they were re-
stricted to Crown business, but in these times of
a crowded legal market and keen competition the
steady employment offered by the Crown billets
should command plenty of talent quite up to the
Finlayson standard.
* » * *
“ What is the Melbourne Women’s Hos-
pital fussing about ? ” exclaims a Bulletin cor-
respondent. “ If they don’t want girls and
married women to fight about their babies’ com-
plexions, why don’t they settle matters by placing
them in separate wards, the same as in Sydney ?
That may be as bad as ticketing them, but some-
how nobody has made any trouble yet. The Ly-
ing-in Hospital at Sydney is not in a very nice
place—it is situated at the back of the Benevolent
Asylum, on the left wing, as you go in ; but still
they have separate wards, and one gets as good
attention as the other. And separate wards are
much more pleasant for cases of this kind. Girls
who cannot claim their husbands—the husbands
given to them by love—talk and sympathise with
each other about that pleasant day out, and where
each couple went, and how they planned for the
day’s outing. And as for the married ladies
bound by law, they talk about their husbands and
what great positions they held one time, and how
they would not be here only for reduced circum-
stances. There are more reduced circumstances in
Sydney Lying-in Hospital than in any other place
of its size that I know of. Some day, I suppose,
the people who are bursting with benevolence will
discover that the separate-ward idea is invidious
and savors of Old Cattism, and the row between
the old cats who want to keep the unmarried
mother apart, and the young cats who don’t, will
ODDS AND EVENS.
H E: “Do you think odd numbers are lucky? ”
SHE: “ Certainly; look how many unhappy mar-
riages there are! There are two people to a
marriage .”
HE: “And look how many unhappy bigamies there
are. There are three people in a bi.amy.”
break out here also. But, for my part, I am weary
of both cats.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin : There are two sides to
almost every case. Recently many people reared
up and snorted at the infamous conduct of the
committee in labelling the beds at Melb. Women's
Hospital “married” and “single” respectively,
according to the status of the occupant. These
democratic souls were so determined that no
woman who had found a baby for her cradle
before she had a wedding-ring for her finger should
be in any way reminded of the fact, that they
joyfully insisted that every respectable married
woman who had to take advantage of the hospital
on account of poverty should have to endure the
ignominy of being suspected to be a “loose'
woman. A very large proportion of the women
who go to the Women’s Hospital to be confined
are Totties ; and if the exceptions are not distin-
guished in any way, in course of time it will he
regarded as a proof of having passed through a
period of Tottiedom to have been an inmate «.,
PER SAMPLE POST.
SLONKEY : “ Luv me, nipper, they ’AVE done yer up
in a orright parcel! Where they yoin’ ter post
yer to? ”
BABY O’CALLAGHAN’S DAD.
In reading the newspapers, maybe,
You noticed the case of a nurse
Who took in a ninety-pound baby
And sent it away in a hearse ;
It died of acute indigestion—
An ending too commonly sad—
And hence rose the pertinent question
As to Baby O’Callaghan’s Dad.
The Coroner boldly protested
His right to an open reply,
So the taciturn nurse was arrested
For winking her sorrowful eye
At the public, instead of disclosing
The name of the party who had
Supplied her with cause for supposing
He was Baby O’Callaghan’s Dad.
But, loud as the Coroner snorted
Before the historic event,
The Truth he had openly courted
Quite staggered that truculent gent,
The news put a stop to his fury,
Though all the reporters grew mad
When he kept back the name from the jury
Of boy Baby O’Callaghan’s Dad.
The inquest was speedily ended,
And “ mum ” was the Coroner’s word.
The name, which he rashly intended
To publish, has never been heard.
The Law is again disrespected,
The friends of Corruption are glad—
And a person whom no one suspected
Is poor Baby O’Callaghan’s Dad.
He’s a dark, very dark-looking, stranger,
And “ dotty ” on one of his feet;
His glance is a warning of danger
To any he happens to meet;
There’s a sulphurous smell where he lingers ;
His figure is gaudily clad,
And he wears little claws to his fingers
Does dear Baby O’Callaghan’s Dad.
Melb.
E.F.


Roderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers,
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
Margaret ’’—will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number.
Zetz Spa Water (naturally effervescent)
taken with meals absolutely cures and prevents
indigestion. There is no other table water as
pleasant to take, or as effective. Try it.*
E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.
Sore Throat.
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Gondy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Conpy’s Fluid” can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations:
gunlight jjj| gakt
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk WTRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DBINK . . .
Williams’
Tucker & O
Agents, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free by post.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
ELEGANT AMD
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Dungs, Neuralgia and Headache, Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Senior's HEADACHE CURE.
Senior's BLACK CURRANT BALSAM
■" For Coughs and Colds.
BEWARE of Injurious Imitations of these famous
Remedies.
SENIOR, CHEMIST, 246 GBORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
that institution at all. Which will go a long way
ito destroy the usefulness of the building to a class
which deserves every encouragement and assist-
ance. —Hermes. [But if neither class is labelled,
neither is reflected upon.—Ed. B.]
, * « •
Interesting item of domestic intelligence
from Morpeth and East Maitland (N.S.W.)
Want— wants news, apparently :
The friends of Mr. and Mrs. Robson, of Hinton, will
learn with very great regret of the very serious illness of
their little infant, now passing through the teething
stages of infantile life.
* * * *
“Gunner”: Be N.S.W. artillery-horses
(“Limber,” B. 15/7/’99). The excuse that they
don’t get enough exercise is nonsense, and the
acceptance thereof by Commandant French is self-
condemnatory. The Commandant, himself an
artilleryman (but without field experience), should
know that English regulations ordain three bat-
tery drills a week in marching order ; and that,
on other days, the horses shall be taken for exer-
cise in “ watering order.” If the men and horses
get drill enough to keep them in practice, there
will be no fear of their not having sufficient work.
English cavalry officers, who buy their own
chargers, are nevertheless not allowed to either
drive or “ hunt ” them.
* * * *
Half the army of N.S.W. is wild (accord-
ing to the daily papers) to distinguish itself in
South Africa, but whether Bull, after his experi-
ence with the Soudan Contingent and the Lancers,
is equally anxious to accept its services is
another question. Some of the volunteers pro-
fess readiness to take English pay; but if they
are not also willing to submit to English service
conditions (against which the N.S.W. Lancers
have been violently kicking) they would be worse
than useless. (
The N.S.W. Lancers at Aldershot are not happy.
One little wail to London E. News reporter
We hardly seem to be treated as we ought to be. I
don’t think much of Aldershot and its arrangements.
Remember we had to plank down 20 sovereigns, and
throw up our berths, a lot of us, too, to come here. All
we get back is Is. 2d. a day.
But J. Bull undertook only to treat the N.S.W.
warriors as he treats his own, and those 20 sove-
reigns didn’t go into his pocket, nor did he ask
them to throw up their billets. Also, the Lanceahs
complain that their horses (Bull’s horses, which
he lent the/.i) are “picketed in the open.” Our
experienced veterans don’t seem to know that
such is the custom with cavalry horses in the
field, and they are growling also about the English
climate, because they, or the people who sent
them, had not the common forethought to provide
suitable clothing.
Despite all that is said about Tommy Atkins’s
hard lot, the British army is by far the best fed,
housed, clad and paid in Europe. It is, in fact,
practically the only one that is paid, and to judge
by the advertisements in the Sydney papers,
there are hundreds here who would be glad of
Is. 2d. a day and keep, even if it involved a little
danger. Better, at all events, than 12 hours a
day on a. farm for 3s. 6d. a week.
“Tassy”: Launceston (Tas.) people are
a “ near ” lot. Every Sunday evening one of the
local bands gives a concert in the City Park, and
the gates used to be left open, with collection-boxes
thereat. The collections, however, were so skinny
that turnstiles were introduced, with result that
the public stays outside with great unanimity and
listens to the music from there. Not long ago a
visiting lady-entertainer gave a Sunday lecture on
the Passion Play, but, though the attendance re-
gistered was 1352, no fewer than 803 of these
planked “ tray-bits,” the rest being mostly coppers.
• » * »
At a big church in Ballarat a large dia-
phragm is reared near the parson, and tubes carry
the sound of his voice to the pews for the incon-
venience of deaf worshippers. There is no rest
for the wicked —even in church.
* m • *
“ Wolfang ” speaks disrespectfully of
steamer-captains:
Used to believe
that the sea-cap-
tain was a jolly,
kind-hearted, big-
souled “individual
—always ready to
help anyone off a
lee shore, but a
recent trip round
the Australian
coast has changed
all that. I find
the skipper a surly
cynic, with the
makings of an old-
time pirate in him.
After leaving Bris-
bane three stowa-
ways were dis -
covered, and the
“soft - hearted ”
skipper said he’d
put them ashore,
hut he waited till
we were 15 miles
down river, and
then landed the
men at 5 in the
evening in a
dreary, snake-in-
fested swamp.
Clutha (M.L.), being a prohibition dis-
trict, except for wholesale licenses, liquor has to
be imported in two-gallon vessels. Every week
there is an exodus of “ returned-empty ” demi-
johns by rail. Temperance-ranter Isitt had just
got off the train there when someone told him a
deputation awaited him at the other end of the
platform. He hurried off to find that the deputa-
tion consisted of the collection of “returned
empties ” —about 200 in number. Apropos, a
man recently collected two tons of quart bottles at
Balclutha. The place, as already noted, being
prohibitionist, they must have been used to hold
eucalyptus-extract or castor oil.
The M.L. Cold-Tea cranks have been taught a
lesson by their defeat of three years ago. Instead
of trying to sweep the whole country, they are
concentrating their forces on one part alone, Tara-
naki. They have chosen their ground well. On
the North it is bounded by the already-prohibited
King country. The East is shut in by unpeopled
bush, and the only road leading into the province
from the South passes through Patea. They have
good material to work on. Taranaki was origin-
ally a Nonconformist settlement, and its popula-
tion of soulless cockatoos is subject to frequent
fits of revivalism. The Cold-Tea party has been
working them for all they are worth. For months
past the district has been perambulated by agita-
tors of all three sexes—men, women, and parsons
—and before the November elections all the big
temperance guns are to be trained on to the spot.
Even among non-prohibitionists the feeling is
largely, “ We’ll give it a trial, anyway.” So that
next election “No License” will' probably be
carried in Taranaki, and cocaine, morphia, chloral,
and sly grog will hold high carnival among the
Cowjerkers.
« * * *
S.M. Herald has at last determined on
publishing a serial story. When Melb. Argus
adopted this course some three years ago there was
a great outcry, but wisdom was justified of its
child, and the novel-publishing has been kept up
ever since. The Herald is the last big Australian
paper to take to the serial business—the idea
being to catch the feminine “ vote.”
* ♦ * *
Strange how the “great” Australian
dailies have climbed down, for the sake of the
pennies, to habits and customs that formerly they
affected to abhor. Every pressman of 20 years’
standing remembers when Melb. Argus looked
on “interviewing” as a low-down American
custom, reprehensibly introduced by the evening
papers to Australia. Now the Argus does it—
and does it badly. The young Australian native
has no notion of a slashing, photo.-like interview,
wherein a graphic general impression is produced.
His idea is to take the man’s depositions, and
make him ask the questions as well as answer
them. “ How do I like the colonies? Well, you
see,” &c. “Do we expect to begin operations
soon? Probably about,” &c., and so on, with a
dismal hunk of “solid” matter between each
batch of questions.. They might as well ask the
interviewed to write a letter to the editor. In
most cases the young man who interviews has no
ideas of his own to work on (except a few concern-
ing cricket or football), and thus the “interview ”
in the mighty Australian dailies is generally very
dry hash.
J • » » •
Query : Supposing the Victorian law
authorities do find, as they seem likely to do, that
Deverill, sentenced to three years for forgery at
Rochester, was really in Adelaide at the date of
the alleged crime, how many years will the people
who “ identified ” him so cheerfully get for per-
jury? How many years does the Crown witness
ever get for perjury in such cases? When a Vic.
prisoner swears to Ids own innocence, and the jury
finds that he is innocent, and therefore that
he told the truth, the Vic. law' very often
has a second shot at him on a charge of falsely
swearing to his own innocence—which is really
trying him twice for the same offence. But when
a Crown witness swears to an accused person’s
guilt, and the jury finds that that person is inno-
cent, and therefore that the Crown witness swore
to a lie, what happens to the Crown witness ?
Nothing at all.
* » » *
“F. 0.” : Some women are fearfully and
wonderfully sudden. Writer recently “ assisted ”
at accouchement of a lady in a Richmond (Melb.)
street, at 9 o’clock in the evening. Said assist-
ance consisted in bringing a nurse on the scene
and coercing a passing carter to carry mother and
infant to hospital. Two cabbies refused the job ;
also two alleged women in adjoining houses
refused the loan of a blanket, and slammed their
doors in writer’s face, remarking that “it served
the hussy right.”
"OUT OF THE MOUTHS."
SIX-YEAR-OLD (who has just had his hair clipped
short, sitting at table with two baldheads
opposite ): “ Hello , two more with their hair
cut !”
“AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS"
Concerning yet another N.S.W. free news-
paper-train :
Immediately after last N.S.W. Referendum “Mister
Jamks,” of S.M. Herald, sent an emissary to Maitland,
where public meetings were at once held, at the Herald s
urgent request, with the object of asking Govt, to give
the “ great daily ” (or dailies) a free, early-morning news-
paper train to Newcastle-Maitland district. And now the
Herald people heartily wish they hadn’t called any
meeting, for instead of getting a unanimous vote in favor
of the suggestion, as was expected, the meeting hit
straight out and angrily stated that tbey didn t want any
suchtrain. Their own papers had just as much news as
the Herald, and a free, early newspaper-train from
Sydney would mean onlv bigger dividends to the Fair-
faxes and others. If the Herald proprietary wanted
their papers delivered at an earlier hour they were quite
at liberty to charter a special train—at their own ex-
pense. The meeting (a very large one) also hoped that
the free - postage of newspapers would be speedily
abolished. Besides, a lot of similar indignant remarks
were made, which clearly expressed the meeting’s
Strong disapproval of free newspaper-trains at the tax-
payers’expense. As far as the S.M.H. is concerned, it
was a plain case of “ didn’t know it was loaded.”
The Newcastle and Maitland papers are far
ahead of the rest of the N.S.W. country press, the main
reason being the accidental disposition of the railway
time-table which saves them from the interference of the
Protected-Freetrade metropolitan daily papers, which
have utterly squashed the Southern and Western press.
S.M. Herald’s coup in running a special train on June
21st, when Newcastle received its Herald at 7 a.m.
instead of 1 p.m. as usual, was an attempt to secure an
early-morning train North at the expense of the Treasury.
The Newcastle papers are very bitter at the Sydney -
paper-train petition now being hawked round the coal
city, and are fighting the proposed “ small and early”
all they know. But it will doubtless be a losing battle,
for the Sydney dailies are all powerful. No industry is
so well protected as that of the Sydney Freetrade apostles,
and no one can fight so hard for their vested interests.
* * * *
Anastatia Butler, daughter of the Butler
whose charred corpse was found in his hut
at Mansfield (Vic.), is to be formally prose-
cuted for parricide. Taciturn ’Statia was taken
into custody during the inquest proceedings,
but the coroner’s jury found “ no evidence to show
how deceased came by his death,” and so the
suspect went free. The new proceedings seem to
have been started on the assumption that ’Statia
knows all about the tragedy and can be soared
into making a statement. She was apparently a
kind daughter to the old man ; the idea that she
murdered him is not warmly entertained, except
by policemen ; and seeing that the Crown has
practically no chance of proving its case on any
evidence but her evidence, the wretched woman
looks very like the victim of police chagrin. They
reckoned on getting her committed for trial by
the coroner’s jury, and the open verdict hurt their
feelings.
Be some alcoholic matters :
Dear Bulletin.— About 2 o’clock on a recent
Sunday morning was sitting, with some 20
others, in a Sydney wine-shop, when knock
came to door, and in an instant gas was out
and most of us were for getting over back
fence. But I recognised d’tec's voice, so gas
was re-lit, and two D’s were admitted, and
joined in. We carried on for an hour after
they’d gone, and the boss told me he’d be
“ damned sorry if these D’s stopped coming,
for so long as they came no one else would.”
Again, there’s a city pub., not far from the
water, where you can see the plain-clothes
traps drinking any Sunday. Some day, of
course, this Bung will be put away, too, but
meantime he’s coining. I can get liquor in at
least 25 city pubs, on Sunday ; and, as for
Manly, Watsbn’s Bay,' Coogee, and Bondi,
the stranger need not even knock, but can
walk right in and get what he wants. Also,
I can walk into any one of a dozen Sydney
oyster-shops on Sunday evening and buy
beer with my meal in defiance of the Licens-
ing Law and a £3O fine. Often see half-
a-dozen bottles of beer down at once on as
many tables, in a place right on the main
street. No secresy about it —sometimes
I even see plain - clothes policemen eating
!\ at the tables. This is as it should be ; but
why all the cant and humbug? In
Singapore, licenses are Ist, 2nd, and
3nl class, according to whether the
licensee closes at 10, 11, or 12. He
p:>.ys acoording to his means and
profits pro rata. —C.P. *
“S.S.”: A family of young-
sters (Protestant) at N. Carlton,
Vic., were sent to the local R.C.
school, the State school being too
crowded to admit them. Result of
seven weeks’ teaching—nine prayers.
“ Pab.” on widows and spinsters :
As to the widow’s success in bagging a husband where
the spinster fails, this may throw light on the subject.
Recently a man had his leg broken three days before date
fixed for his marriage with a widow, whereupon his
fiancee, after seeing him safely tucked in, went straight
and made all arrangements, and the wedding came oft
next day, the groom lying in bed. She gave as her
reason for the haste that she would be free to nurse him
back to health as his wife, while as his best girl
she could onlv call and send him flowers and
peaches and things. The average spinster would have
shuddered her front teeth out at the idea of such a
proceeding; but the widow wasn’t going to take the
chances of a long recovery, and the obvious dangers of
the sympathy of other girls also with flowers and peaches
and things. With a widow, in short, marriage is not
sentiment, but business. The behaviour of a M.L.
damsel is a sample of how the spinster loses her head at
the approach of marriage. She was 19, and had written
for her father’s consent, and as this hadn’t arrived on the
morning fixed for the wedding she attempted suicide.
If a man on the brink of marriage be capable of reason
at all, he would surely reflect that such an irresponsible,
iinnatient idiot would not make the best of wives. But
the man doesn’t reflect, and it is to his temporary in-
sanity, more than to her own deserts, that the maiden
owes her chance of marriage at all.
The supreme touch of humor in
the awful Melbourne tart-eating com-
petition has escaped notice. Two
vouths stuffed themselves with jam
tarts for a wager, and the prize to the
champion who ate most was—a belt! A
seidlitz-powder would have been a reasonable
prize, but the idea of offering a belt to a youth who
has just eaten nearly thirty tarts !
It y * V
“Searchlight” to The Bulletin re the
Gregory case: —
“ Gumleaf ” is quite correct (B. 15'7/’99) in his statements,
but he overlooks the fact that barrister Gregory was in the
asvlum in ’92 or ’93 for a few months. I had business
dealings with him for 12 years, and went out to see him
in May ’9B, on being told that there “ was a perfectly
sane barrister in Kew.” Without professing to know any-
thin" of his sanity I can say his memory was unimpaired.
He "perfectly recalled dozens of transactions and the
fio-ures and dates of same. He complained bitterly that
his brother-in-law (C. A. Topp) being the permanent head
of the department of asylums, as Under-secretary, he
could not get fair-play. He seemed quite harmless but
got into disfavor over his fondness for carrying a revolver.
The statement that it was even possible for his brother-in-
law to intercept all his appeals for an examination should
be enquired into. If true itis a scandal— though no reflec-
tion is here made against Mr. Topp, whose reputation is
that of an honorable and compassionate man. Gregory said
to me when I visited him : “ at the best of cricket matches
I could only take an hour’s interest, but here they expect
me to get wildly delighted when some lOth-rate visiting
teams play the warders. I never cared for any but high-
class concerts, but now I am termed ‘depressed if I
don’t laugh at the amateur Christy minstrel troupes that
come to amuse us.” May he get out and keep out till he
harms somebody, say I. The class of cranks he had to
associate with were enough to madden a Solomon.
* * * *
The recent jewel robberies in Melbourne
were probably managed by a man and woman
who haunted the vicinity of Denis Bros.’ shop for
some days previous to the successful snatch, and
have not been seen around since the event. The
woman—an attractive, well-dressed mystery—was
sometimes in the man’s company, though at other
times they passed one another like strangers.
A TAX ON BACHELORS.
A tax on Bachelors ! Unfair !
It is upon our lives ;
They're taxed as much as they can bear
By other fellows’ wives.


Tbe Principal Attraction
of tlje Week
IS Undoubtedly
Mark Foy’S Fair!
All Drapers Everywhere.
The light that (never) failed,” is, without
doubt, given by the “ Albatross Lamp Wick." Keep the
reservoir filled and all your work is over. “It requires no
trimming,” emits no offensive odour, gives a more bril-
liant light, saves your oil, and unless your lamp has some
material defect it is impossible to have an explosion.*
Rciperpbcr !
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
w. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
BUIE TO have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 18, 1899.
Mr Dear Mtee,—
The week’s gaiety has been unusually Catholic,
even for Sydney, where we do as we like to an
extent unknown in other certain places. Even to
wearing a Beauchamp tie with your hammer-claw,
as witness somebody at the Cardinal’s evening.
That was the Cardinal’s reception for Dr. Carr.
An uglier building than St. Mary’s Hall on a wet
night can’t be imagined by any dull person who
wasn’t asked to the reception. And those who
were there will never'want to imagine the degree
of ugliness that outbids that hall’s cast-iron roof
and rafters. Also, long refreshment-tables run-
ning down one side of the room gave an up-
country-party solemnity to the beginning of the
“At Home.” “It will not be used any more
when St. Mary’s is finished,” one jolly little priest
explained to a Melbourne lady with a temporarily-
turned-up nose. “ When will that be ? ” said she.
“ When you and I are in heaven,” he said. That
stopped her. It pulled her up and pulled her
nose down. For the most rollicking brogue in the
world can’t cast a jolly aspect over a heaven that’s
throvvn suddenly into the midst of a social earthly
evening. If your friend offends you, there are
points in wishing him to heaven; though custom
inclines otherwise.
Cardinal, archbishop, bishop, priests. They
mixed with the crowd in a gloriously aesthetic
way, touching dark clumps of black satin frocks
—and every nine out of ten frocks were black, out
of. compliment to the clericalness of the party—
with vivid reds, and.purples, and wine-colored
cassocks. ( People outside the fold of the Cardinal’s
red moire worried themselves over kissing the
hand. They all wanted to do it, but some ,didn’t
know how. Those who could kiss as to the
manner born had a great pull over the base imita-
tions. The Cardinal stood on a square of red
carpet, just inside the door, and received the
guests and their kisses with his restless smile and
ever-roving eye. Beside him was the well-beloved
little Dr. Carr, looking just like the following
little incident:
Which little story is true. Well, I don’t mean
that sort of thing, but I mean it’s a fact. No,
that is also a misleading description, so I had
better say briefly my sketch is drawn from life,
and show it to you to convince. Once, at a Mel-
bourne Exhibition, Dr. Carr adjudicated at a com-
petitive dinner, cooked by a local cooking-class.
It was a hotter summer’s day than usual, even in
Melbourne, and the dinner was cooked by a class.
The Archbishop sat at the end of the table, with
his big, round face, and big, kind, childish eyes,
and never murmured, never frowned, never looked
otherwise than exquisitely beatific, and calmly,
slowly ate the whole of the cookery-class’s
lessons. He worked his way through terrible hors
de combats — hors d’ oeuvres I mean—through
greenly-girlypea-soup ; through mysterious chops,
in masks ; through hitherto undiscovered samples
from the animal and vegetable kingdom ; through
stiff-necked jellies, and hysterical blanc-manges;
down to a savory omelette that might have saved
from the bullet a soldier who carried it in his
breast-pocket, but that had deadly qualities if you
had to use it, not as a breast-plate, but as a savory
omelette. And, through them all, Dr. Carr smiled
sweetly. And if that class has managed to live
till now, I hope it will see this, and be smitten
with the true inwardness of that uncomplaining
smile.
. About six hundred people came. The invita-
tions were rather limited, and a bigger crowd
might have improved appearances. Dr. Higgins,
Dr. Doyle, Father Milne-Curran, were only a few
of their reverences. Miss Rooney and Mr. Wood-
house warbled, and others fiddled. Naturally, the
party represented all the most ardent local Catho-
lics. Mrs. John Toohey was there in black
brocade, looking brisk and well after her year’s
tour. Mrs. John Hughes and Mrs. Tom Hughes
and their respective husbands, and Dr. Michael
Hughes, made up a picturesque party. Mrs.
Lassetter wore the tomest frock, a black spotted
net polonaise over white chiffon, with elbow
sleeves of thickly-ruched net, and nasturtium sash
tied in front. Mr. Murphy, from Cork, with a
Yankee drawl and big buttons on his coat, was
the hero of the evening. He was blown up in the
Merrimac, don’t you know. A dark, stiff-looking,
little man, suggestive of having been broken
to bits and put together again. How men,
women, and priests hung on to his descrip-
tion of that blowing up of the Merri-
mac! “Blown up into the air,” he said,
“and came down again.” “There, now, do you
hear that ? ” said everybody, and a reverent bishop
interpolated, “Ah, you thought you were going
to Heaven thin.” “ Yes,” said Mr. Murphy, “I
gass I did, ’specially when I was coming down
again.” One rude woman stared at him and said,
“ Nobody would ever think you were Irish from
your accent.” He frowned freezingly, or frozenly,
and marched off. After that, she thought he was
a hero beyond the dreams of the ’apenny novel-
lette.
Two Governors graced the opening of Parlia-
ment on Tuesday—Lord Brassey and our own
youthful Ex., who looked younger and curlier
than ever among so much white hair and bald
patches. Lady Mary (in violet hat and jacket)
and Lady Bertha (in black) were accompanied by
Captain Lindsay—with all his English rose rubbed
off by his recent adventure with a colonial nag.
As far as frocking went, all the smart dresses be-
longed to unknown members’ wives. The promi-
nent wives dressed quietly, and took every-
thing in a languid, blase way. Mayoress
Harris’s large, kind - looking personality was
graced with a violet toque and a grey-
silk polonaise over rippling frills of tur-
quoise blue. Miss Harris was in red, with a
pink hat. Mrs. French was a sweet edition of
Her Gracious in a long black silk cape, lined with
black and white silk, a bonnet of Czar violets,
and violet gloves. The ceremony was short and
solemn. Ihe only alleviating gleam shone when
His Ex. bade the Councillors be seated and all the
seats were discovered swamped with women.
r l hey say it was a record crush of visitors. After
the Go Vi had gone, a little crowd gathered in the
lounge room to the accompaniment of biscuits
and champagne. Champagne, because a bust was
being presented to President Lackey—a bust of
himself by Signor Sirnonetti.
More church at Mrs. Escaped-Nun Splattery’s
lecture to women only. The Catholic press pep-
pered the streets near the Protestant Hall with
green leaflets that denounced the Slatteries in big
black letters, but women and children trampled
over the leaflets, and took an afternoon’s horrors
with marvellous equanimity.
Listening to that shrill, shrieking voice invoking
Cod to witness at every horror, you wonder not
that she escaped. The most elastic imagination
couldn t picture anyone chasing her to bring her
back. The horrors grow, and the voice cracks
and shrieks ; and she drinks water, and shrieks
again, and hundreds of tongues say “dthth ! ” or
words to that effect, and she shrieks more, and
denounces rivrin’ mothers arid confessors, and
digs up dirt till there seems to be none
left anywhere on the earth outside this
Protestant Hall. She is an Irish lady
with a brogue, and an unceasing gush of synonyms
for the word ‘ fiend.” She was dressed in genteel
black silk, with her light hair neatly arranged,
and would have been a pert, nice-looking woman
if she had been serving you with Berlin wool, or a
new hat or anything except the stuff she was
selling thusly at three shillings a female. She
must be coining money, for the house was
packed to the walls, and crowds of women
stood outside all the afternoon, unable to get
in, but unwilling to lose all chance of a
little splatter. As for the good Mrs. Slattery
does, you don’t need to be a student of human
nature to know that all those eager, voracious
women would rather convents existed, and Mrs.
Slatteries exposed them, than that convents were
cleared and escaped-nuns’ stories ended.
One lesson you can learn from “The Physician ”
is that even Parisian weeds can’t hide the rawness
of that crude vulgarity, a smart widow. Smart
wedding, smart christening, smart funeral, smart
widow. All that can be done to smarten the body
in life, and death, and on the borders, has been
done. It only remains to catch the soul and tie a
ribbon round its leg. Ihen the decorations will
reach from here to Yonder.
Not that Mrs. Brough wears anything outre in
the way of widow’s things. She is'dressed in the
very height of fashion; that’s all. And as she
didn’t care, there’s no anachronism, so to speak.
But she illustrates the cases of the widows who do
care, and the widows of fellows who deserve a
better monument than the hideous, discordant
draper’s block that arises after the funeral, mean-
ing what it doesn’t look, rustling what it doesn’t
mean, that always reminds one of a sneak’s face,
somehow.
Of course, Mrs. Brough carries her weeds ele-
gantly. She wears a plain black cashmere frock,
with a long, sweeping train, and a tiny vest of
white ruched chiffon. Her cape’s the thing,
though. It seemed to be made of fine black cash-
mere, lined with a shimmery black silk. It was
very long and pointed at the back, with the
fronts gradually sloped away. A border of long
black silk fringe edged it all round, and the high”
outstanding collar showed little white ruches of
chiffon overlapping thickly, and giving the effect
of a white ruff round the face.
All through “The Physician” Mrs. Brough is
beautifully frocked. Her walking-gown is black
and steel, with a big black hat and lovely black
feather boa, a guimpe and sleeves of white net
spotted with black. This guimpe is going to run
over everything soon. It is a sort of round-shaped
yoke, made separately, if you like, that will turn
the lowest ball-dress into a day gown. The trail
of the guimpe will be on all our summer frocks,
and soon we shall realise the joy of turning street-
frocks into evening dresses and back again, at a
moment’s notice. If you look at Mrs. Brough’s
black frock, you can see a charming ball-dress
arising, when the guimpe and sleeves have been
taken out. Her frocks are up-to-date also in their
length. They sweep the ground in front, and
trail beautifully behind. An ordinary long frock
doesn’t look long on the stage, and these “ Physi-
cian ” skirts are all lavishly cut in the newest
London sweep - the- streets style. I hardly
know whether to like that mauve and red
foulard in a big check pattern, worn with
a little scarlet hat massed up with scar-
let flowers. Mrs. Brough has a dashing, con-
vincing way of wearing them that almost per-
suades you. But why does a certain painstaking,
good, amiable, worthy woman play the part of a
pretty young girl? It is impossible to reckon
how much the piece loses by that mis-easte. How-
ever, making the most of things, Miss Temple
gives a valuable hint to red-haired people (for the
red wig comes out again). She wears a pale golden
brown robe most successfully against her auburn
locks, softening it at the neck with a big square-
frilled collar of yellowy net. As for her white
muslin trucking—but, then, how manv people can
wear white muslin? It isn’t a slur on Miss
Temple's acting to say that she is never the girl
Jones meant her to be. It simply means that she
and white muslin don’t go well together, which
might be said of the Queen of England, mightn’t
The men are the attraction of the play. Es-
pecially Carrie, and particularly Lovell. They act
up to each other superbly and quietly, and if we
could only get Lovell out of a room with less of
the linked-sweeoness-long-drawn-out business, he
would be too beautiful for words. His stiffness is
wearing off ; or are we getting used to it ? There’s
still the slowly-struck attitude before he gets to
the door. lam living for the day when an actor
will have the courage to walk straight out of the
room without yielding to a fatal last pose at the
portiere. As far as I can remember, it is on his
way to the door that Lovell stops to pose. When
he really gets there he throws himself out
heroically. Carne looks an ideal London doctor,
with just that tender, impressive manner tiiat
goes three-quarters of the way round a big practi, e.
He and Lovell are a fine-looking couple, that hold
one’s eyes as well as wits and feelings from
beginning to end of the piece.
By the way, “ The Physician ” is the fourth
Brough piece that ends with, “Oh, my dear,”
expressed or understood. In “Lord and Lady
Algy ” it was understood. The Algies were
sitting beside each other on the sofa when the
curtain went down. “Lady Ursula,” “ A Sum-
mer’s Day,’’and “The Physician,” all leave the
stage to the lovers. This tapering away, as it
were, to the supreme points of interest, is the next
best thing to the full close that only Shakespeare
wields quite successfully.
There has been much talk about a certain en-
gagement. The fiancees are Miss Una Russell, of
Sydney, and John Downer, Q.C., of Adelaide. Miss
Russell is the eldest of the three pretty daughters
of Mr. H. F. Russell, financial agent of this city.
Sydney knows her as a belle with a dazzling com-
plexion and a Hebe-like physique. But in addi-
tion to these charms Miss Russell is a brilliant-
minded girl, a merry witty conversationalist, with
a lot of artistic talent—displayed at the Art
Society shows ; also a peculiar penchant for the
historic. This will be now gratified. The well-
preserved John is 56. Her friends say thau
she always wore a black ribbon on Napoleon’s
birthday, and hero-worshipped in away that dis-
pleased Society males, who found her rather
’ deep ” for them, In short, she is just the sort
of strong, brainy, beautiful woman to put a high
polish on a political title.
And Pattie Browne’s engagement to Mr. Walter
Harper is announced off.
London World paragraphs the “coming out”
of Lady Maud Lygon, sister of Governor Beau-
champ. A dance held in honor of the event at the
family mansion in Belgrave Square was attended
by a host of fashionables.
Some stalls and stallholders in the coming Con-
S K ri ,\ pt i'r e Home Fair will be Mrs. Willie Mit-
chell, Mrs. Cruickshank, and Mrs. Arthur Tooth,
cigars and cigarettes; Mrs. Scot-Skirving and
;u s. .T. L. Brown, household emergencies ; Miss
ivadith Walker, Mrs. Consett Stephen, and
others, fancy articles and Irish linen ; Mrs. Harry
Levy and Mrs. Teece, perfumery and soap; Miss
Harris and Mrs. J. T. Thompson, fancy stall:
Mrs. Barton, Mrs. See, Mrs. Delohery, Mrs.
Oliver, Mrs. Marks, Mrs. Macnamara, Miss
Doyle, and others, the tea-room; Mrs. Tom
Hughes Mrs. Neville Griffiths, Mrs. Huxtable,
Mrs. JVlort, sweets and cakes; Mrs. Mackenzie,
Mrs. Toohey, and Mrs. Sargood, a Japanese stall
of china and pottery. Mrs. Cowlishaw has the
doll stall; Mrs. Shewen, the fortune-telling; Mrs.
John and Mrs. James- Marks, the flowers and
plants. The country people have been splendidly
worked up—in the first instance by Lady Hamp-
den—and are responding nobly. Among them
are Mrs. Aleck Osborne (the . Berrima district),
with a provision stall; Miss Suttor (from
Bathurst), with a fancy stall; and a general
country stall under Mrs. Tooth’s guidance, repre-
sentative of Newcastle, Mittagong, Afmidale,
Inverell, Hay, Goulburn, and other country
centres.
. The Press section will include a “ grand mechan-
ical display of printing in ,all its branches by
ancient and modern methods, including linotype
and Hatherley type-setter. ” Then there will be
the Press News, issued twice a week and printed
in the building. I understand that H.E. (the
editor) is thinking out a touching poem for this,
entitled “ Never Morce Ball for Me 1 ”
The Amusement Committee is strong in names
and notions. Brough, Williamson, Rignold,
Newbury, Rickards, Hazon, Lauri, Leete, are
helping this section along. And so, in some de-
partment or other, everybody in Sydney and the
suburbs seems to be going to sell or exhibit. There
is only one thing that puzzles. What women will
be left to buy ?
Speaking of women, poor old Granny has gone
the way of all pressh. S. M. Hkrald now sports
a serial story. Yes. Thirty or forty thousand
people opened their copies of that damp, cold
paper early on Saturday morning and were hit in
the eye with “The Greatest Gift, To be Con-
tinued.”
I 1 rom a strictly private and most unreliable
source I am able to tell you about the Family sit-
ting round the table with the shutters shut,
deciding in hushed tones on the incidentals to
that serial. It was a long and arduous task,
that I amily Conclave. Should the serial be of
the religious nuvvel order .? “ Won by Waiting,”
by Miss Edna Lyall, would have done exquisitely
if about three people in Australia had not read
it. Then one member of, the Family was strong
on “ A little thing of my own, which I will jot off
without the slightest strain on the brain-pan - ”
one member couldn’t make up his mind
whether Federation and the Career of Nations
and the Sydney Gas Supply wouldn’t suffer from
this momentous innovation. Slowly and solemnly
they tossed to-and-fro the pros, and cons. At last,
they fixed on “The Greatest Gift,” which sounds
like a text from John’s Epistle, but is awfully war-
like and gory, and so on internally. “ The title’s
the tiling, ’ said somebody. “Yes,” repeated
Mister Janies (said my unreliable informant), “ the
title s tlie thing ! ”
Newbury’s “ pops ” grow more and more popu-
lar. Last Saturday’s house was crowded, and the
ilr^ I > e^ )rei ' eur mus^ . be making heaps of money.
Walter Bentley recited for the last time. A new
girl violinist, Miss Violet Vivian, fiddled pro-
misingly. A new recitative and aria music by N.
Gehde, words by Fred. J. Broomfield, composed
expressly for the “Pops,” was a poetic item
on a programme that is matter-of-fact in places.
Miss Ilorence Mack, who was billed for a
ballad, was prevented from singing by a bad
throat. And now Newbury, after wonderfully
successful Saturday houses, is running Wednesday
afternoon matinees to good biz. Friedenthal will
play at to-morrow’s matinee, and makes his last
appearance in Sydney at next Saturday’s pop.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
Melbourne Society is still shaken over the re-
volt of one of its daughters, witnessed in its final
act by a small assemblage at a fashionable church
in St. Kilda the other day. The bride, some
months back, annoyed her family by suddenly
breaking off her engagement to one of the few
eligibles about. A lively time ensuing, by way of
distraction she took to violin-lessens, and, as
though this measure was not sufficiently violent,
to the violin master (a small German with a mass
of hair). Her people refused to hear of the match.
A wealthy and diplomatic lady friend invited the
infatuated young woman to tea, and after deli-
cately broaching the matter, made an offer. ‘My
dear, she said, ‘you are young. You are far
from ugly. You shall do as you like, go where
you like, dress as you like for six months. I’ll
chaperone you. Afterwards, if you still care for
him, marry the man. Now go home and think it
over. Ihe girl went home impressed, doubtful.
Relatives met her on the doorstep—stormed,
raved. Girl went upstairs, dangerously quiet.
Packed. Lodgings. Wedding next day.
“It seems to be the correct thing among mum-
-4 0 kiss di a promiscuous kind of fashion on
bidding farewell. This scribe happened to be
off last week per Oruba, by which
Ada Ferrar voyaged to England. Henrietta
Watson, the Bland Holts, and a large assortment
of men and women who paint their faces at night
were there. Kissing ! Why the'noise of it was
far louder than that of the waves lapping against
the pier. The men kissed the women, and the
women kissed back. There was no reserve ; plain
public kissing was the order of the day. A man—
unknown to the writer, but evidently friendly
with the theatricalities—went by the same boat.
He was a busy kisser. Yet they say it is a jealous
profession. £
“Lady Mary Lygon outshone all the local
fashion-followers at Flemington on Saturday. In
a whitey-grey coat and skirt and back-sliding
toque of fur and quills, the visiting charmer
looked particularly neat and as racy as the
smartest could desire. Her high, bare forehead,
religious nose, and conscientious smile made
everyone feel pleased that one must not be wicked-
looking to be aristocratic.
“Amy Castles does not leave in August as ar-
ranged. Her ‘ managers ’ have given her a month’s
grace, to be spent in Bendigo, after her Adelaide
concert. Boom earnings have been invested, and
now only the ocean lies between her and Paris.
Her mother goes with her, to see her settled in the
far country. Frau Mueller, too, escorts her chicL
back to her fatherland.
“ Maggie Stirling appears to have made a great
impression at Sach’s Orchestral Concert in Queen’s
Hall, London (June 6thj. Australian friends
who worked hard to help their favorite to the
change and rest prescribed, seem slightly sur-
prised that a London debut is the outcome of the
trip. A peaceful time and a course of study,
when she felt equal to it, was what most sympa-
thisers wished for Miss Stirling. Still if the sin-
ger can make herself popular at ’Ome without
further training, why not ?
“ Sophie Osmond, pen woman, elocutioniste and
good sort generally, takes a matinee benefit soon
at the Royal. All theatrical attractions in town
will be represented, everyone’s on the programme,
and altogether things look bright for the bene-
ficiare.
“ After all, gay Military Commandant Holled-
oirnth may not take the glory of his stars from
the Guvmentouse barn-room this year. He seeks
the post of Chief Commissioner of Police, which
carries a salary of something like £BOO a year.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
.£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia .*
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
JUST A MINUTE, PLEASE !
Tired men, whether suffering’ from physical or
mental fatigue, delicate women, growing girls and
little children find Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa a unique
beverage of inestimable benefit. The nauseous
drugs and disagreeable medicines associated with
ill-health are, in Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, replaced
by something which is pleasant and nice, with a
distinctive flavoring of its own which will appeal
to the fastidious and over-nice palate of the
invalid, and its soothing effect renders it an ideal
“Pick-me-up.”
Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa, by taking the place of
stimulants of an ardent nature, has made happy
many a home which otherwise to-day would have
been wretched, and the ultimate effects of which
it is impossible to foresee. For breakfast, dinner,
supper—indeed, at any hour of the twenty-four—
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be found light and
refreshing ; it leads the way among all beverages,
and nothing can equal it.
The unique vitalising and restorative powers of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa are being recognised to an
extent hitherto unknown in the history of any
preparation. Merit, and merit alone, is what is
claimed for Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the pro-
prietors are prepared to send to any reader who
names Tits Bulletin (a postcard wiil do) a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-
paid.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.*
Chronic Dyspepsia Two Tears,
And Cored By
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
“ For a period of two years I was a great suf-
ferer from indigestion in the form of chrome dys-
pepsia. What I suffered from vomiting, pains in
the chest and head, hysteria, and impoverished
blood, I cannot describe. I consulted three doc-
tors, and tried many so-called remedies, but with-
out deriving any benefit whatever. In the end I
was persuaded to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I took
several bottles before I found it doing me any
good, but I kept on, and when I had taken my
fourteenth bottle I was completely cured. This is
now fifteen months ago, and ever since 1 have been
in perfect health. I feel that I owe not only my
health but my life to this medicine. —B. G.
MARGARKT M‘DONALD, Albert-st., Chew-
ton, Victoria.*
Zetz Spa (naturally effervescent) is a
natural mineral water. The analysis on each
bottle is guaranteed. It is more pleasant and
wholesome than any other water with spirits,milk,
etc. Obtainable at all good hotels and stores.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
rpHE LATEST FASHION and ALL THE RAGE Any
Name made from Gold Wire like design— ss. post
free. Agents wanted everywhere to take orders. Send
2d. for Illustrated Catalogue and Terms to Agents.
R. SIMS, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
John Bull died in Melb. the other day.
He was a law-clerk.
Mgr. O’Brien, of St. John’s College,
Sydney, is viewed as next on the list for an Aus-
tralian R.C. bishopric.
Somebody ought to look out and procure
for an Australian museum the pen with which
Queen Victoria, in due course, will sign the Com-
monwealth Bill.
The convicted female partner in the most
sensational series of Australian infanticides to
date is now in charge of the laundry department
of Bathurst gaol.
Rumor in official circles has it that ex-
Attorney-General Want will be offered the next
vacant N.S.W. Supreme Court Judgeship, and
that he will accept.
At least one of the new N.S.W. Leg.
Councillors has been quietly working through the
recess at his trade —he is a journeyman wheel-
wright. Times have changed !
Chief-Justice Darley is the sole survivor
of the N.B.W. Bench of Supreme Court Judges
in being at the date of his elevation. Faucett,
Innes, Manning, Windeyer, are all dead.
Joubert, the Boer commander-in-chief, is
not Dutch, but of French Huguenot descent. It
is said that his wife, who accompanies him in his
campaigns, advised the attack on Majuba Hill.
Pritchard Morgan now figures as the
father-in-law of a count. His pretty eldest daugh-
ter was lately married to Count Erio Carl Piper,
described in the London papers as the representa-
tive of an old Swedish family.
Apropos Gov. Brassey’s retention of the
pen with which he signed the Victorian Federal
Enabling Act, it is said the Deas-Thomson
family possesses the pen with which the N.S.W.
Constitution Act of Wentworth’s days was
signed.
Hume Cook —the revolter against the
Turner Govt., and would-be leader of a new
party in Vic. Assembly—went to school in One-
liunga (M.L.), of she-Mayor fame. He arrived at
Melbourne in 1881 and became a working silver-
smith.
Died at Cairns n few days ago hotelkeeper
James Byrnes, brother of the late T. J. Byrnes.
A kindly, gen.al man, still comparatively young.
“ A family of big, soft men,” said one who knew
the Byrnes family well, and, apparently, he wasn’t
far wrong.
A bulldog-necked parson, with a capacious
mouth and shaggy brows, entered the office of a
Sydney daily one evening lately and
asked the editor to insert a letter. A
glance showed that the letter was
a- violent attack on the Rev.
Jedediah Smith for the hete-
rodoxy of his last Sunday’s
discourse. “ I cannot pub-
lish such severe stric-
tures,” said the editor.
“But they must be
strong to draw atten-
tion,” said the parson.
“That’s all right from
your point of view,”
rejoined the editor,
“but what would the
Rev. Jedediah Smith
say ? ” “1 am the Rev.
Jedediah Smith!” re-
plied the parson.
“Pump Court’ : Tho-
mas Howard Fellows was
turned up from his little bed and trotted
out t'other day both by Purves and
Madden. Plenty of encomium, of course,
on that “ able Judge,” which is pre-
cisely what he wasn’t. He was a great
lawyer, but not a good Judge, for he
failed in those multiform aspects where
the dry Law does not so much come in,
and where Purves is unrivalled at the
Bar. Higinbotham was an entirely differ-
ent man from Fellows, and yet I will
say that the colorless Holroyd—the man
whom nobody ever hears about, good or
bad, is judicially master of both. Fel-
lpws made one or two astounding mis-
takes, in matters of common sense,
during his brief Judgeship. In almost
the first ease he had to try he was led
away by forensic eloquence, and gave some
gold-stealing nabobs six weeks when everyone
felt they ought to have got six years.
Rev. Dr. Harris, for years the competent
head master of Kind’s School, Parramatta, but
for some time past settled in England, proposes
to give Australia another turn. One thing sure is
that the old King’s School boys will give him a
royal welcome. Dr. Harris was the unusual
blend of a manly, scholastic, and religious man.
It is said he expected an apron and gaiters on his
return to England.
It transpires that Astley Paston Cooper,
the elderly gentleman who helped Gov. Hampden
for many months to amuse Sydney society, was
in the running for the N.S. W. Agency-General in
London—and only lost by a nose. Sir Astley
Cooper is great as a Society don, and, as Hampden
engineered the negotiations, the gay old glass-
eyed spark counted on the post as a certainty.
What he said when euchrpd must have sounded
like solemn prayer.
When Premier Sedclon (M.L.) was touring
the West Coast mining districts he was appealed
to by an out-of-luck digger for a job on some of
the co-operative works. The digger produced the
receipts for gold sold during his better days as
evidence of “ what he had done for the country.”
“ Dick ” asked him what he had done with all the
money he had got for it. “ There it is ! ” replied
the digger, handing the Premier a cabinet photo,
of himself, wife, and nine children. A male Cor-
nelia ! He got a job.
Mr. Sam Hordern, of Sydney, does not
absolutely deny that he intends establishing a
branoh of his huge business in Melbourne; he
only “denies that he has taken any definite
steps.”
A student of Rand affairs exhumes a
statement that Kruger used to be able to “run
like a horse,” and was a mighty hunter of buffa-
loes, elephants, antelopes, giraffes, zebras, and
what not.
John Downer’s engagement to a Sydney
girl has caused a flutter in Adelaide society. The
ex-S. A. Premier is not only the father of a family,
but is also sufficiently old to be the “ father ” of
the local Assembly. His law-practice brings him
in a large income.
Julius Yogel, one-time M.L. Premier,
leaves under probate testimony d>l7B odd. Other
Australasian Premiers : Parkes minus ; Robert-
son minus ; Berry, help him up ; MTlwraith (I’m
away); John Douglas (give me a police-magis-
trate’s billet). Aren’t politics lucrative !
Yic. Attorney-General Isaacs will not risk
it being said that he favors his race. Leon was
looked upon as the best man available for Acting-
County Court Judge—but he was passed over.
Brother-in-law P. A. Jacobs gets no junior Crown
work. Horwitz’s valuable Acts have not been
authorised by Govt., and many say Wolfe Fink
would be offered the new Crown Prosecutorship
were he only a Gentile.
“ Hasbeen Dead :—Rev. Habens, M.L.
Inspector Gen. and Under-Secretary for Educa-
tion. A good man with a bad liver. Writer was
once going up for a higher exam, in which he had
aaain to pass in reading and writing. Wrote to
Rev. H., pointing out the absurdity of the thing
and received for answer simply: “Sir, you must
read and write. Yours, etc.” But it was altered
for next year, notwithstanding.
Ex-Prothonotary Frederick Chapman had
his 77th birthday on July 22. Who in Sydney
does not know the venerable lawyer ? He came
from England with the late Randolph Want,
father of ex-Attorney-General Want; and, with
Edwin Daintreyas partner, carried on an exten-
sive law business in Sydney, years before he en-
tered the Public Service. He retired from the
post of Prothonotary three years ago.
Frank Long—the man who first prospected
Zeehan (Tas.) for silver, and who is now past
work—was some time ago promised a life-pension
of £1 a-week by the Tasmanian Govt., which,
however, promptly fell asleep again and forgot all
about it. At a public function, lately, the hat was
sent round among the Zeehanites on Frank’s be-
half, and a meeting is to be held shortly to con-
sider the advisableness of waking the Govt. Up.
IN THE WILD WEST.
STHANGER (eyeing his glass suspiciously): “ Are
you sure this is three-star brandy you gave
me? ”
PUBLICAN : “ You drink it, mine good frendt —you
see three-thousan’ blanky stars!”
“Don’t write verses,” said Premier Reid
lately to a young journalist carrying letters of in-
troduction from Melbourne. “Stick to reports
and articles. Verses will lead you to perdition.”
G. used to write verses himself: he once
published a volume. Once again—can anyone
oblige The Bulletin by lending it a copy of G.
H. Reid’s poems ?
Wittenoom, Westralia’s Agent-General,
now enrolling immigrants on the old free system
for Forrestland, is grandson of the first parson
who said prayers in Perth. The elder Wit-
tenoom held the British-paid office of
Colonial Chaplain.
LONG ODDS.
HOLY JOE : “Peace be
this house! Kin I stay
here to-night?”
FARMER: “No!”
H.J.: “I s'pose you've heard of entertainin' angels
unawares?”
FARMER: “ Yes—but I'll chance it this time !”
Judge Casey, now in the Vic. public eye,
began to storm the world as a newspaper-man. He
was partner a while with Angus Mackay, and
afterwards started an out-back journal of his own.
His newspaper work got him into Parliament, and
Parliament put him on the County Court Bench.
Poor old Walsh, Q.C., who acted for a
short time as Melb. County Court Judge, in Judge
Casey’s place, and found the work too heavy for
him, was the prosecutor of Deeming. The festive
wife-slaughterer remarked of Walsh’s voice that
it was like “ the squeak of a consumptive shrimp,”
but when the time caine for it to “reply on the
whole case,” Deeming didn’t laugh any more at
that feeble passionless squeak. Prom first to last,
Walsh treated Deeming as a subject to be hanged
with the least possible delay—a “ dead bird ” for
the gallows, whose mental condition was not worth
considering.
Literary vanity in the backblox. Queens-
- Labor agitator, of scribbling propensities, had
to expiate alleged political offences by spending a
few months in gaol. Ere settling down in quod,
he handed the MS. of a story he had written to
editor of local Labor paper. Put in his six
months duly and patiently, and was finally liber-
ated. Bevy of friends and sympathisers were
waiting outside, to whom the ex-prisoner rushed
up anxiously with—“ Well, what did you chaps
think of my yarn in the Democrat ? ”
When the genial pastor Lawes went to
Boro, Papua, to establish a mission, be met there
Father Verius, the R.C. apostle, who had been
in command of the district for some years. Father
Verius didn’t like the intrusion of an alien creed,
but nerved himself to be courteous to the new-
comer. Accordingly, when Lawes called on him,
Father Verius, after praying for light, said:
“ Mistair Lawes, petter go away out of here ;
your ignorance of divine tings cannot escape de
notice of even uncultured sauvages; petter go
away.”
The boys of Launceston (Tas.) R.C.
school recently asked for a holiday, and Dean
Beechinor said he’d give it if at least one boy
could tell the Pope’s birthday. But that boy
was not forthcoming. Then the Dean said he’d
grant the request if the schoolmaster knew. The
schoolmaster didn’t; and just then old Arch-
bishop Murphy popped in and was told of the
shameful ignorance of teacher and taught.
“ Well,” said the Archbishop, “ I don’t know the
Pope’s birthday! And, what’s more, I don’t
know mywim. I was born some time -about the
date of Waterloo, and they christened me 1 Daniel
Wellington Murphy.’ ” The boys got the holiday
all right.
Premier Turner rarely jokes ; but he had
his little wheeze at the expense of the “ New
Party” of Joseph Haxton Newton Hume Cook,
M.L.A. A friend said to him that Cook him-
self was the only member of the party. “ Oh,
there are five names in it,” said Turner. “In-
deed,” exclaimed the surprised politician, “ who
are they?” “Well,” replied G.T., counting on
his finger-ends, “ there’s Joseph, then there’s
Haxton, thirdly there’s Newton, fourthly there’s
Hume, and lastly there’s Cook ! ”
Pumpkin Smith, N.S.W. ex-Minister for
Mines, is still kept going by his pals who survived
the Federalist uprising long enough to become
converts and so save their portfolios. He was
first appointed to the presidency of the “ unem-
ployed Advisory Commission ” —an honorary post
which carries travelling expenses and other perks.
Next he appears as chairman of the Tuberculosis
in Cattle Commission, with fees, and now the
papers refer to a Leichhardt land-valuation case,
where the übiquitous Smith acted for the Works
Minister.
In announcing his intention to again con-
test Encounter Bay with Tucker (whose election
was upset by the Court of Disputed Returns on
the ground of technical bribery), King O’Malley
whoops thus: —
The result of the trial positively demonstrates how care-
ful people should be before voting- for a man who is ready
to promise heaven and hell, with the earth thrown in, if
he can thereby secure a seat in Parliament. At the urgent
request, of hundreds who desire to r<deem Arcadia from
the thraldom of demoralisation and reproach into which
it has been sunk as in a quagmire of despair through the
unwarranted interference and the extravagant expendi-
ture of the blood-money of the Adelaide Stagger Juice
Brigade and kindred vicious interests at the last election
—as exemplified in the large number of nose-painting
drunkard-makers who attended the declaration of the
poll, and became blue in the face and blazing in the
throat from cheering Mr. Tucker’s success—l have deter-
mined to again offer myself as a candidate for your
suffrages, and—etc., etc.
That public-spirited and benevolent vete-
ran, Doctor Agnew, ex-Premier of Tasmania, is
now 85, and unable to leave his house in
Macquarie - street. In 1839
he was a young medico
in Sydney, and in that
year Lady Franklin, Adye
Douglas and he met in
Port Phillip. Douglas
had then a notion of
settling in P.P., but
- changed his mind and
went to Tasmania —
7 doing just the reverse
of Johnny Fawkner,
who went over from
Launceston to 1-VP.
' and stayed there till
he died in ’69. It
was in ’39 that Lady
Franklin made her
famous overland trip
from Sydney to Mel-
bourne. Young Doug-
las is now 84, and can
be seen skipping about
the streets of Hobart any
day in the week. ■ The
other day a friend asked
A. D. how he felt.
“Grand !” says lie; “if
we had weather like this
always, I’d live to 120.”
Douglas is father of the Tas. Bag.
Has been married three times, to
three sisters. A republican in
sympathy; otherwise he would have
been “ Sir Adye,” 30 years ago.
The man who tries-on flat-
tery with Maoriland’s Premier
falls in with a loud splash.
Dick was recently being inter-
viewed re a proposal to turn
Mt. Cook gaol buildings into
a university, when an obscure
person named J. M. Walter
attempted to tickle the Bun-
Tuckian ear. He said : “I
want to point out, Mr. Seddon,
that you are the Ministry.” Bun-Tuck turned on
him savagely : “ You are quite wrong; I’m not the
Ministry, I’m only the head of it. Ix» Hit your
remark, sir ! ”
“ M‘G.” makes a correction :
Dear Bulletin.—You have the wrong end of the story
about the late “ Bob ” Burt and Parn 11. Parnell didrfffc
die until Burt was in Australia. What the recently-
deceased journalist did discover —as I heard from his own
lips—was the marriage of Parnell and Kitty O’Shea, which
was carried out so quietly as to be secret. Burt was on a
Brighton (Eng.) paper at the time, and was correspondent
for the biggest London press-agency. He lived in the
middle of Brighton Esplanade, and used to see the un-
crowned king crossing his threshold pretty frequently on
his way to his faithful Kitty. But, one day, Burt struck
the two coming out of either a church or registrar's office
(I forget which), and, scenting a marriage, he went back
later and paid a search-fee. The investigation resulted
in the news of Parnell’s marriage being at once cabled
round the world, and in Burt being offered a billet in the
London agency, which he held until leaving for Australia.
“ Tui Tea” re Maoriland’s new C.J. :
I suppose it’s a sign of the “ judicial faculty " when a
man contrives to be popular all round. Maoriland seems,
to a man, to have forgiven Stout for accepting “ that
bauble ” from Her Gracious, for having taken on religion
after reviling it, and for turning Tory because he couldn’t
be Liberal Premier. Certain it is that there has been a
chorus of praise and satisfaction from all parts over his
appointment as Chief Justice. The prohibitionists like
it because they know his sympathies are with Cold Tea;
the brewers chuckle over it, remembering that Stout’s
last big case at the bar was one he gained for them ; the
Tories are pleased, for Stout was their staunch ally of
late years in politics ; the Liberals smile, for they know
that Seddon’s most dangerous foe is now out of the way ;
and the Left Wing party, though deploring the shelving
of its only possible leader, rubs its hands and pretends to
be pleased. The newspapers, for a variety of reasons, all
applaud the appointment. Perhaps the chief reason
with them is the state of the libel law. One journal, for
lack of a more convincing ground of satisfaction, re-
joiced in the fact that Mrs. Stout was a “ charming
hostess.” The lady, by the way, is brainy, almost as
“ faddy ” as her lord, Scotch, and very deaf—her ear-
trumpet being a “ familiar figure ” at public and social
functions.


WOLFE’S
SCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
and
| INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEWYORfc
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
for
Wolfes
Schnapps
LIFE—*-
Assurance Go., Ltd.
Head Offices: Cr. Moore and Castlereagh Sts,, Sydney,
Directors •
JOHN SEE, Esq., M.P., Chairman.
W. J. LYNE, Esq., M.P.
J. J. POWER, Esq., M.B.
E. B. EREEHILL, Esq., M.A.
JOHN J. GARVAN, Esq., E.S.S., Managing
Director.
SIR W. P. MANNING, Knt.
E. COFFEE, Esq.
Actuary: W. R. DOVEY, F.F.A. General Secretary: ARTHUR M. EEDY.
Resident Secretary : P. J. O’DRISCOLL.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/8 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel for Ladies and
Families is “The Australia.”
It gives every facility for a
most enjoyable stay in Sydney
at a very reasonable cost. This
hotel is absolutely fire-proof.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Jim was a glutton to work. Always up an
hour or two beforehand in the morning, and not
particular to the same extra of an evening, while
on Sundays he would fill in the time cutting down
bee-trees, boxing bees, straining honey, picking
fruit, &o. He had been nursed through a severe
illness by the farmer’s housekeeper and her
daughter, a girl of 19, and was never tired of
saying what he would do to show his gratitude if
ever he got a chance. At last the chance came,
ihe daughter died suddenly. Arrangements were
made for the interment, but a grave-digger could
not be obtained as the local hands were away
haymaking; so the farmer asked Jim if he would
dig the grave. Jim pondered a bit, and then said,
You know, boss, it ain’t a nice job, so it’s worth
a bit extra.” “You’ll have to arrange that with
the mother, the farmer told him. “Well,” said
Jim, we 11 say half-a-sov. I won’t be hard on a
poor widow in distress 1 ”
• * • •
He Australian blacks’ numerating powers.
Tommie Pipeful, of Big Scrub, was a brilliant
but erratio bat. Whenever he had made a poor
score he would,
on being pressed
for particulars,
link his name
with that of the
highest scorer
and say, “ Oh,
me an’ Missa
Coolmassa
make fine score,
my wud. We
WATCHMAN , WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
(Time , 1 a.m.)
DRUNK (after hammering at the door for an hour ):
“ Er, wash er time, Ikey? ”
IKEY (just aroused from his slumbers)'. “ V’y de
tevil you don’t look? ”
DRUNK: “ How devil can I, you fool — you’ve got
me watch !”
bin knock hup four score an’ nine runs.” “Yes,
Tommie, and how many of ’em were yours?”
“ Oh, me bin holdum mup wickit. Missa Cool-
massa bin get seven dozen runs.”
* * * *
“T.H.M.’' : The Maori is a quaint animal
when he gets to airi .ig his best English. Heard a
brawny brown man once in front of a country
pub. accounting for sundry cuts and bruises on
his face : “ I lide along de road—my horse he
fliten—de train no whistle—he shuck me off. By
Clist ! I summons him ! ” Also, once saw Maori
shepherd thrashing one of his sheep-dogs, while
the other tyke capered round apparently enjoying
the fun. Suddenly the Maori let go first dog
and collared the other, exclaiming—“ Come here,
you wretch ! I learn you laff at your brudder ! ”
* * » *
A woman recently called at the Two-
wharves parson’s house to have her baby chris-
tened. The rev. was out; so the mother retired,
came back after a time, and, finding the parson
still absent, said, blandly: “ Couldn’t I leave the
baby here while I do some shopping, and perhaps
Mr. Blank would have him done by the time I
come back ? ”
* * * *
“R.W.”: Shot a swan once at Tuggerah
Lakes, and when cleaning the bird found a ruby
ring inside it. Returning to town, saw an advi).
that the ring had been lost on the shore of the
lake. Returned it and was offered £2 reward.
* * * *
A Western undertaker got an order for the
funeral of a country policeman—height, 6ft. On
arrival of the coffin, the cadaver was found to be
6ft. 2in., and “wouldn’t fit.” Resourceful ghoul
suggested to relatives “ a military funeral, like we
have in town.” Consent being given, a circular
piece was cut from head of coffin—corpus fitted
nicely. Then —deceased’s helmet was placed over
the protruding portion of head, the coffin-lid was
adjusted, and the baton and darbies were crossed
thereon (but at the grave were removed, being
Govt, property). Same undertaker tells this yarn :
“ Old Wee, one time he was down in town, got a
wire from his wife, ‘ Jack died this morning ; come
home.’ Wee had been on the spree for a week,
nr* J^ e n w,re Partly sobered him. He came to me,
,_P b °ver the office about his poor son, and
erea a first-class funeral — no expense spared.
° • U P . to with tip-top fixin’s and a
special train with the old boy on board. He had
go over his temporary attack of sobriety by then,
vve got to the homestead, and there found that
??■.» *“0 family retriever, was the corpse. Got
Fu . n -: U :d, ° u &b ;as I promised to say nothing
about it till after he died. That’s his box I’m
sending away now ! ”
* * * *
Policeman O’Dooley’a sthripe was long in
coming, and he was casting anxious eyes round
or cases, when a she fortune-teller arrived in
the township and started business. O’Dooley
set several ingenious traps which didn’t come off ;
so at last he sent his own wife to visit the expert,
result to be embodied in an information, be
jabers. The wife happened, however, to be
known by sight to the intended victim, who
hmshed up the usual rigmarole with—“ You were
sent here by your husband to trap me. Now, put on
is old shawl and bonnet and watch at the corner
ot street, and you’ll trap him.” Mrs. Police-
man went, and was rewarded by seeing her spouse
sneaking out by the side gate from a very im-
proper house indeed. Policeman O’Dooley still
awaits that stripe, and his wife has gone home to
live with ma.
• * * *
He aboriginal stone axes. Near
lewantin, on Noosa River, about 60 miles N. of
Brisbane, is an outcrop of porpyhry, diorite, or
some such hard stone, and close by is a flat-stone,
with heaps of chips and hundreds of discarded
axes, probably spoilt in manufacture : Jacky only
knew of one grade—first quality. Factory must
have ceased business quite 40 years ago, yet the
place looks as if the nigs, might have been at work
yesterday. There are enough axes to supply all
the museums in the world with a sample each,
some only half-finished, but some almost com-
plete. .Local blackfellows say: “ Those fellow
leave there wah gootchal ” —that is, the relics are
useless to a blackfellow.
* * * *
Harry Stockdale re the finding of aborigi-
nal implements in districts not possessing the par-
ticular kind of wood or stone from which the im-
plement is made :
This is due to the native custom of barter, principally
practised at the great “ comings together” at some spot
maiked by abundance of fish or kangaroo or fruit in
season. On these occasions each tribe endeavored to ex-
change some weapon or implement easily obtained in its
special locality for something only procurable elsewhere.
Invis a tribe possessing the best tomahawk-stone would
exchange supplies of this raw material perhaps for an
equivalent of good cement-gum, brought from another
aistrict. The stones for grinding “ardoo” and other
hard seeds were, though extremely heavy, carried hun-
ct reds of miles. When any particular article was not ob-
tainable at these gatherings, special trips were made by
j oung warriors painted so to make known to all other
tribes the nature of their errand, and thus protected
horn molestation. Occasionally at these barter-meetings
was held a native tournament, in which a number of the
most expert boomerang men, painted with white bars of
kaolin, and provided with shields, would face each other
or . 40 ,P aces a P a i’t ; then one would move forward till
about half-way to the man he had pitched upon, and cast
h l ® boomerang 1 at the latter ; and this would go on turn
ana turn about until one would be seriously hurt, then
the show was over. This heavy war-boomerang is very
different from the toy or returning boomerang, though
even the latter can give an ugly wound. After the tour-
nament the assemblage would either (if the moon were
favorable) prepare for a grand corroboree or otherwise go
in for as great a “ gorge ” as the larder permitted.
“J.L.K. ’: The Maoriland cockatoo’s
fourth commandment is : “ Six days shalt thou
labour and on the seventh shoot rabbits.”
The rabbit-inspector is his supreme being 1 . To
him the cookie abases himself, when he is
present, and him does he heartily curse
when he is round the bend. The irre-
sponsible autocrat must be propitiated,
for if he thinks he sees signs of rabbits
on cocky’s land, he may send on a rab-
biter and compel the farmer to pay him
7s. a day for trying to find the rabbits.
Small wonder, therefore, that the in-
spector is an honored guest and can
depend upon getting filled up with
the best whisky. And still bunny is
everywhere, despite the fact that
his skin is exported by the million
yearly, and he himself industri-
ously canned.
“ Yang ” : Re canine tooth-
drawing to make bogus South Sea
necklaces (B. 18/2/’99). Most of
the hair decoration on parang
(Dyak sword) sheaths, supposed to
come from the “ nob ” of the head-
hunter’s fallen foe, is really Chinkie
pigtail—much of it being supplied by
hospital attendants and prison warders.
» * * »
Bakblox town. Times very dull.
Drunken bushie rolls out of pub. and
addresses Salvarmy captain, who is (joing
no business : “Look here, cap’n. Stand
on yer head and I’ll give yer sixpence.”
The captain did so immediately, and
raked in the tanner. The officer’s skill
in corporeal inversion became a per-
manent asset to the corps, and was
regularly utilised after knee-drill.
“6x8”: N.W. and Central
Q. teamsters travel with their whole
family and household kit. Often
meet team with driver’s wife and
youngsters on top, and small mob of goats, ducks,
and fowls following in rear.
* * * *
Taralga, N.S.W., has a “ Sardine Club’'
any person joining which must eat one large tin
of sardines in the presence of the members.
“ 0.W.”: At Redfern (Sydney) a
crowd had collected round an old man
crying over his dead collie. When he
wrapped the corpse up in his blanket and
made back for the railway-station, T fol-
lowed, and was told the story: “You
see, sir, we was strangers in town, and
when we got on the tram the guard
pushed Charley off, and the dog got
rounding up the engine and trying to stop
it, and got boxed. I'd give my cheque
to have him back (sob). Only last season
we shared our last water and tucker, and,
though I s’pose you won’t believe it, Char-
ley would look up at me twice before he’d-
touch the last drop of the water.”
* * « *
“P.L.” : Many secrets are to be won
from the blacks by a keen observer.
Writer remembers a well-known Cen-
tralian bushman who made a small pile
some years ago by manufacturing eucalyp-
tus-extract according to an aboriginal re-
cipe. The aboriginals used to bring him
two species of gum-leaves which he blended
and distilled, producing a very powerful
yellow liquid much superior to the eucalyp-
tus sold by ordinary druggists. The
blacks used to booze on the stuff, a very
little of which would soon make them
drunk.
“F.P.”: Common expression up here
(Cairns, N.Q.) for florin is “twob” —contrac-
tion of “two bob.”
* * * *
“ Pukaki ” illustrates the working of par-
tial prohibition in Maoriland
A buggy stopped at the gate. The driver clambered
down and walked unsteadily up the drive and on to the
verandah. It was only 10 a.m., but he was plainly “ the
worse. ’ He held out a shaking hand, and smiled beerily.
“Good morning, Mr. Jones,”he said. “Does my heart
good to see you 1 Couldn’t help calling on my way
through, to New Plymouth.” “ Very good of you to say
so,” I said, “ but realty you have the advantage of me.”
“ Why, don’t you remember Jack Smithson, of Nelson ?
I’m his brother Tom.” “ Oh, indeed ? I remember your
brother very well; but I must confess I don’t recollect
you. But what can I do for you?” “Oh, nothing,
nothing. You see, it’s this way. My wife’s got a pro-
hibition-order out against me. I’ve got a few pounds
together, and I’m going into New Plymouth to have a
real good bust. Your village pub is the first one outside
my district. I stopped there last night.” “ Well, if
you’ll take my advice, Mr. Smithson,” I said, “you’ll go
home again.” “No fear, cocky ! Know a trick worth
two of that. .Bye-bye, old man.” He stumbled off,
climbed into his trap, and went off at a gallop. I opened
the paper I. held in my hand, and the first thing I read
was—“ To-night Mr. L. M. Isitt will give an address on
“ Prohibition as an Elevating Factor in our Humanity 1”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re “Flabby Paul’s”
cuscus (8., 17/G/’99), a pub.-keeper in Cairns
(N.Q.) had two-male and female. Heard of a
man in Papua who caught one, and was proceed-
ing south with it when he was stopped by the
(black) police, who were evidently averse to
“ their ” native mammals being deported—at all
events without a valuable consideration therefor.
—6.Y.H.
* * * *
“ Malle ”: Re albino animals. The Cal-
cutta Englishman records the shooting in Assam
of the. only white tiger, ever known —over 9ft.
long, in prime of life and splendid condition.
* * * *
“6x8”: Hope we shall never be
compelled to depend on artesian water.
Have tasted several bores recently in
W.Q.}
to
able.
all so full of soda
be hardly drink-
SO SHE IRE.
SMALL BOY: “Say, mister, what does R.I. sta
for?"
OLD GENT: “ They’ve put 'Victoria, R.I.,' because
they were cramped for room. It ought to be
'I are Victoria.'"
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
’MELIA : “ O, I wish I was dead !”
’ARRIET : “ There yer go ag’in, yer silly little
carrity-’eaded rabbit; wot’s hup neow?”
’MELIA : “ Ho-o-o-o! My bloke's been killin'
a gent’s dorg, an' the coppers 'as took 'im
to quod. ”
’ARRIET : "Well, 'e’ll only get a munf, so stoush it,
will yer!”
’MELIA: “ B-but 'e knocked the gent dahn, an ’
booted 'im in the neck."
’ARRIET : O, 'e'll on'y get fined five bob and corsts
fer that, so dry hup an' come dahn the block
and see the latest fashins."
“ Aramac ” : Lately saw a fight between
a pair of kookaburras and a sparrowhawk which
came after their young. Female K. got in front
of hawk, and while latter attacked her, male K.
came behind and gave him a drive on the back of
the head that dropped him dead at my feet.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Had a fresh-water poncl
full of gold and silver fish, which I used to catch
and throw back again for amusement. Landed
one black-and-gold chap so repeatedly that I
began to keep count. When I left off, 72 was up
for a fortnight’s angling.—R.W.S.
* * * *
“ Dareel ” writes :
Dear Bulletin.—lf “Albion Park” lives in Illawarra
district, he should know that the scarcity of native frame
is due to systematic slaughter thereof at all seasons by
professional bird-shooters, for Sydney exporting firms.
The police never interfere with these men, who openly
send game to Sydney during close season, nor do they
take notice of the use of punt-guns, much above calibre
allowed by Game Act. Things same up North, though
effects are, so far, less noticeable. S.M. Herald had re-
cently a leaderette commending some French society’s
protest against export of live quail during laying season.'
This caused me to address Granny re our own game-
export, but the old lady was apparently not taking any
local application. Vested interests?
* * * *
“ Kooka ” : Re notion that snakes are at-
tracted by music. Have never met an instance,
but know one sound that will attract any snake
within hearing : the sharpening of a saw.
* * * *
Two men shaft-sinking. Man on brace
just finished hauling up dirt. Just then paper-
man on bike passes shaft ; braceman goes over to
him, buys a Bulletin, walks back to dump, sits
down and starts reading. Manager puts in an
appearance. Manager : “Hi, there, my man ; I
don’t pay you to read papers ; come up to the
office and get your time.” Braceman (in a stage
whisper) : “ Shut up, you blanky fool, you’ll wake
the man below ! ”
* * * *
“Yar.”: Many South Coast (N.S.W.)
dairymen now feed their pigs on treacle and
wheat. With water, they boil it into a thick
soup, of which the animals are very fond. It fat-
tens quicker than anything else, barring, perhaps,
malt ; and the bacon, which has not yet got on
market, is the sweetest writer ever tasted.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re python and sambur
(“ C.F.,” B. 8/7/’99). The sambur, often standing
16 hands at shoulder, is as big as a tall horse, and


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Will Ogilvie’s book of verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray Horses,” continues to sell splendidly. It
is unquestionably the most generally-attractive
poetry-book yet issued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. f
post-free from Bulletin office.
25/6
43/-
Any initials in Monogram, as above, 2/6 extra.
The “Fx*R” Watch.
The MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATOH OF the AGE.
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequ6t overeoil balance springs.
THEY are jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
THE Cases SCREW together.
THEY are specially made to stand rough riding
and knocking about, and go with great accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
THEY are 25/6 each in Oxidised Metal Cases, and
42/- in Solid Silver Cases.
THEY are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Henry Lawson’s “ When the World was
Wide and Other Verses,” Dyson’s “ Rhymes from
the Mines” and Barcroft Boake’s “Where the
Dead Men Lie ” may be had, handsomely bound
in cloth (uniform with “The Man from Snowy
River ”) for 5/5 each, post free, from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, and all Booksellers.*
“A NIGHT GAP”
of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
“Melb.”: How is it that no successor
arises to Kinmaker Kinsman’s five-bob splice?
The marrying trade is solid on the sov.
One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of caloium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney—who own the Willson patents for
Australasia—are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. Thisco. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
“The Patentees—Maeniven and Cameron, Ltd.,
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen • The Pickwick Pen
The Owl Pen The Hindoo Pen
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
That the great boom in West Australian mining
stocks was due in some measure to the increased richness
of the alluvial products there can be no doubt, and most
of the foreign speculation is done on that account. But
local dealers find an equally potent factor in the effects of
the thorough reorganisation that has been taking, place
for some time past. Many of these mines have been run
on high pressure lines that are not tolerated to-day.
Brainy men of science are taking the reins and every
move is known in advance to be an assured success. Im-
mense quantities of gold have been thrown away in tail-
ings which are now being converted into liquid gold by
the cyanide process. The vats used in this process are
made of wood or steel and are of enormous size. Great
waste of this liquid gold has resulted from absorption,
leakage or corrosion. This also has been corrected by the
useof that wonderfully effective material, P & B Paint,
which has come as a boon to mine-managers at a most
opportune time, and is now recognised as the best cyanide
paint in the world. Among the larger mines using P& B
Paint are the North Boulder, the Great Boulder, the
Brown Hill, Queen Margaret, the Australia, the As-
sociated, etc. Many others are preparing to use P& B
Paint in this and other ways known only to the up-to-date
mine-manager. E. Rich and Co., Ltd.,'are the agents for
N.S.W. Queensland and Tasmania.*
GIVE THAT “TIRED EEELING ” A REST
. AND DEINK
WHITE LABEL LAGER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
has a 6ft. spread of antlers. No boa would take
on that job! And Charles Waterton (no better
authority except Humboldt) says that the South
American boa swallows its prey hind-feet first,
and, when it can’t take in the head of a deer,
waits till it drops off. —David. [Boa-con-
strictor is here rung off. Don’t want to be led
into a discussion that may terminate in Polar
bears and reindeer. Let us get back to the big
Gippsland worm.—Ed.B.]
• * • *
“R.W.S.” : Know a selector in Coonam-
ble district who had not been even to the nearest
township for 15 years until he recently decided to
take a trip to Sydney. Arrived in the metrop.,
he put up at a leading hotel, never went outside
the door for a month, and then returned home !
Told me “ it was grand !”
♦ * * *
“Ellerdale ” : Any Bulletin reader ever
seen a fight between two ’roos ? On Wee Waa
Plains I saw a willing “go ” between a red and a
grey over a good patch of buffalo-grass that had
come to life. Umpired the event by shooting the
grey.
* * * *
“ Davig ” : No Australian snake is really
deadly, in the same sense as the rattlesnake and
cobra are, to a healthy adult. Nevertheless, I
have known a man nearly die of fright from the
bite of a harmless carpet-snake, and other men
have died of wasp and scorpion stings. Was
scorpion-stung once myself, but suffered little. ”
» • * *
“V.D.L.” : Re sheep as swimmers. A
Melb. to Launceston s.s. carried a deck-load of
sheep. On arriving at Launceston something
caused one of the woollies to jump over the side,
and soon nearly all had followed their leader. It
took close upon an hour to get them all on to the
wharf ; yet not one was drowned.
* * * •
Copy of genuine W.A. legal document :
Western Australia. To wit.—
I the undersigned, one of her Majesty’s Justices of the
Peace in and for the said Colony do hereby permit
Charles to take possession of and cohabit with one
“ Daisy ” an aboriginal woman living in this distriot.
(Sd.) John , Justice of the Peace.
* • * •
A dissertation on snakes :
Dear Bulletin.—The M‘Cooey asserts (8., 20/4/’99) that
snakes are not numerous in the Macquarie (N.S.W.) reed-
beds. When camped once near such a reed-bed between
Warren and Narromine (17 miles from the nearest snake-
juice foundry) we used to kill two or three snakes every
morning, and see plenty more while looking for “baits”
(frogs) round the swamp edge. Used at one time to kill
time and snakes between shearing and “whaling” up and
down the Macquarie. Found big, red-bellied black and
small brown very plentiful. Your renowned snakologist
asserts also that 12ft. carpet-snakes are “ abnormal,” and
that the c.s. never reaches 16ft. Have killed several of
10, 11, and 12ft., and seen many others as big. In’96,
two 14-footers (saw and measured the corpses) were
killed near “Campadore,” Winbar-woolshed, on “the
gutter” (the Darling), N.S.W. Also, in the Mossman
and Daintree river ranges in far N.Q., 1 6, 17, and even 20-
feet “ carpets ” occur not seldom—L. F. Sachs has, or had,
in his possession the skin of one over 22ft., killed by him.
Should like to know if there’s any truth in the yarns
about “ carpets ” taking to the man-crushing practices of
their relatives, the boas.
* * * *
Hang Fat was found dead, and was buried
in bis clothes without an inquiry. Coroner
ordered that he should be
disinterred, and police, not
liking the job for them-
selves, put it about that
“ Hang ” had been plan-
ted with eight so vs. in
his trousers-pocket. Next
morning, as the traps
expected, the corpse
wason top minus pants.
Somebody had been
green enough to be-
lieve that the
“foorce” would
“ pass ” eight so vs.
* *
The object-les-
son was on the Bee,
and, teacher having
told class that bee car-
ried pollen on legs, next
asked “ what it had on legs
to hold pollen ? ” Nobody
knew, and then “dux”
was asked “what he. had
on his legs ? ” “ Skin ! ”
said the best boy. Ah !
—she was drawing ’em.
Next time correct an-
swer must come. “And
what,” was the ques-
tion, “have you all
on your skin ? ”
“Dirt!” shouted
the class with one voice.
They knew!
“ Mourilli ” : Re treatment of jib-
bing-horse. Last summer was driving
three veteran mokes and a youngster in a
shanghai when the young-’un stuck up. Whip-
persuasion having failed, got splinter of wood,
jabbed it through tip of nag’s ear and started
him at once. Am told pin or a piece of bone will
also answer
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will betaken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu •
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case tv ill MS. be returned un *
* ess s^am l ,s (°f any province) accompany.
C.S. : Not a penn’orth of public interest in the
10t.... Senex : Too vast. A joke shouldn’t be more than
one bullock-load .... First Try : Funny, but totters on
the brink of the indecent The Infant : Have some
hopes about you when you grow up ... Yarran : Why nob
let ladies sit in Parliament along with men if they feel
like it? There used to be lady-members in the English
}" a i' lalnet ? t ’ and th . e Constitution stood it all right
R.H.F. : As one bush-poet shuts up, another opens; but
the stream of stale ideas in feeble language goes on for
ever Emily: Would suit a nice little domestic paper
w h' c h enthuses over new tortoise-shell kittens and such.
■:... Mariner : You have made into a bad paragraph J A
Philpsgood Bulletin story, “Mr. John Young.” And
yOU r other yarn is a hoary chestnut P.C. : The facts
are that The Bulletin’s Melb. correspondent derided the
Castles boom, and was thereupon savagely assailed as a
bigot (Miss Castles happens to be R.C.) by the R.O.
papers of Sydney, which averred that the critic’s unfavor-
£2 ffilZaySy “nit crtT’whS
was practically the same as sa.vinsr that an R.O,
lady must have a good voice. Also, these papers
directly and by implication whooped-up Miss Castles as
possessor of an unparalleled voice. After she had
sun i: ® yd, , iey ’ ol , le |’ e %*p us -newspaper
partisans utterly paralysed the Castles claque by more
than frankly avowing that Miss Castles’ vocalisa-
tion was as it, were a holy show, and that all the fuss
made about her was utterly ridiculous which to
be the firm opinion of 89 out of every 90 professional
musicians. All the same, those holy critics still keep on
yapping that The Bulletin man’s criticism was
based on Bigotry Virtus Sola Nobilitat: Thanks
for the remark .... Stephen Somerset: If you can
write stories which The Bulletin would readily
take, you can easily marke.t them in England
Dab. : Ructions at unregistered pony-meetings are of no
interest to Bulletin readers unless the ponv-rogues go so
far as to murder one another Oroso : Bulletin doesn’t
want ceremonial palaver—life’s too short. When sending
copy, just dump it down and let it speak for itself. This
paper has no “ favorites ”—it wouldn’t print a column
that it didn’t like to please its best girl or to rescue its
grandmother from purgatory Old Subscriber : You
want The Bulletin’s idea re State land ownership in the
Federal capital. Well, The Bulletin so far believes in the
idea that it was the first Australian paper to advocate it....
Knight of the Garter : Subject good. Poem calculated to
cause breach of the peace W.K. : “Are letters of
reference necessary?” Well, sometimes. Writer knows
a man who, in his younger and stormier days, used to
accumulate blank sheets of business-letter paper from
different firms, and when he got to a distant town and
had a billet in view he wrote his own references. That
man came over from Maoriland once with the letter-paper
of 15 different firms in many lines of business, and stormed
Queensland with them. His advice to young men always
was : “ When leaving, accumulate business-letter paper ;
also, save up other fellows’ cards. You don’t know who
you may want to pass for some day.”....One Who Knows):
Boss said he would sack any who lifted his hat
to him in the street. Well, any who grovelled
like that deserved it J.G.ti. : Many’s the muddy
waterhole we wouldn’t pull you out of J.S.: Thanks
Narranghi Boori : Sunset and Soul poem with no visible
meaning The Scapegoat: The subtle tail-coat of the
preacher is over it 7J.: Language too awful .. J.K
(Port Chalmers): Many thanks,.. .Queenslander : No l
PLAIN ENGLISH.
JOHN : “ How muchie you sell’m?"
BILLY: “ Two pfeller tickpon',"
J OHN: “He savee talk? ”
B ILLY: “ Yowi, bymby he yabba English all same
you an' me !”
new... .Eddie : Probably funny at the time White
Australia: Thanks T.W.: For that matter, nearly
every newspaper “sub” has a memorial ode to Queen
Victoria carefully pigeon-holed. So much for the sin-
cerity of poetic “mourning” 0.T.H.: Will print
C.P.Q.: No humor M‘C.: “C ’’has come to too
many literary places lately G.G.: We are sinners ; but
Heaven knows you make us suffer enough to expiate
1000 lives of iniquity....M.H.T.: Very verdant Brother
B.: Point small Prospect: Neither quite up “ Sub-
scriber ” wishes to know the address of an inebriates’
home, or of any place where alcoholic patients are treated
by a reputable medical practitioner W.M.F.: “ Brum-
Mr. WALTER BENTLEY, the Popular Tragedian.
Photo., Eden.
bies” wants the vitalising touch It was set up
in the offioe of a religious paper. That was all Barney :
Hardly up to high-water mark Warder No. 000 :
Thanks Outback : But you don’t “ have ” us in that
fashion. Aren’t you talking about the common iguana?
A.P.O.: Treasurer Carruthers is in his 42nd year,
and was, we believe, born atKiaina Marco : “ Jagger’s
Romance ” reads so like the stereotyped American
tramp story that we pass on it Ben Sun:
“Miller’s Father” too old a monkey-yarn Sprag:
Tale of a dead horse’s successor declined L.O.P. :
Your MS. absolutely vile ; we don’t intend try-
ing to read 12 pp. faint pencil-scrawl on yellow paper
A. : “Spiritual Difficulty” too vague O.M. : In-
ferior tombstone S.S.H. : Pressure of Federation
poetry is something tremendous H.M. (Albert Park):
Sorry, but it isn’t new enough.... W.J.G. : The brilliance
of these two jokes lit up the office and was mistaken for
a conflagration. Eight fire-engines arrived and pumped
on biggest joke to put it out J.8.D.: Lamentation to
hand The Pipe : Four lines ; two false rhymes and one
lame metre. Sketches hardly up Old Possum : “ Last
of his Tribe ” has gone where the rest of them are
P.A.P. : We badly wanted a pin just then, and
the one that your Irish jokes were fastened
together with was a very good pin ....Combi: Thanks
A Wandering Gentile : Bulletin isn’t a 2500-acre block.
Unless youboil yourself down by 95 per cent, we can’t even
attempt to read you T. 0.8. : Venomous no longer
B. : Well, we have seen worse F.O. : Not skill
enough W. J.C. : Will try and use some ; but they are
none too brilliant C.W.E. : Not up as handled
E.R.L.: Too far-away topic T.B.R. : Glad to get it off
the premises H.W:K. : Please take a billet as engineer
on one of Sydney’s uncertificated steamboats George
A. Drivelling Marshall: “Homoo" no good
M.S. : “Lines” now fragments J.J.P. : Did you ever
know us print an article like that? Send bright pars.,
not dull sermons Overlander: Doggerel Louisa:
Copious woman-soul, dry up ! Melb. :The guillotine in
Bland Holt’s drama is not so impressive as the block and
the headsman in “Yeoman of the Guard.” The casual
dropping of his chopper by the masked figure in black
was a gruesome stage effect ... Rid mond : The early
training of a boy like Fritz Mueller doesn’t reflect par-
ticular credit on anybody. Musical genius is largely its
own trainer B. : Marshall Hall found fault with what
he called the incongruous arrangement of Scherek’s pro-
grammes B.E. : Your ideas re “ drawn ” games are
purely Australian. Many people think that the cricket-
match which can’t be conoluded within three consecutive
days is not worth a further expenditure of time. ’Mur-
kans, as a rule, laugh at what they consider the absurd
dullness of English cricket. Yet here the average game
is drawn out to a greater length W.G.P. : Let us see—
you are the furious Australian who sent along thebalder-
dash about Clara Butt and Ada Crossley. The lady vou
are now so frenziedly boosting is an ambitious mediocrity
and f can’t be transmogrified into a genius by all the
printer’s ink on earth A. 0.8. : Too mixed M. :
Cheerlessly commonplace O’Raf: Not skill enough
J.C.E. : “ And all is sepulchre and tomb.” So true 1
Harper: Not blind, but comparatively dumb Helen
B. : Flat J.B.D. : Flatulent .. A.Y.A. : More of the
familiar flood which cheap minds with a cheap education
spout so easily Bensun : Not good enough H.C. :
“ Pencarrow ” is stiff, as if it wanted re-writing
in a hotter mood Christopher ; Too preachy
W.P. (Soochow): Sorry unusable E.W.D. : Presently.
Frances B>.: Cannot undertake Prodigal: Too
imitative WIF. : Bit too ragged Geo. S. : Will use
presently Gramma: “Wattle is growing over its own
grave.” Charmian Lea : A woman is known by her pen-
name V.K.: Probably “Rest.” Cigar: Ashes
Mar. H. (W.A.) : “History” too cataloguy John H.
O. (W.A.) : Only use of poems is to medicine a sick camel —
it would be kill or cure. . Sandgroper: How you do grope !
A.Y.B. : Same old bovine G.F.L. : Re-order and
wait; the local book-seller sacrifices his customers to his
caution Curlew (W.A.) : Right ; all other “ Curlews”
are warned off hereby. “Boss” not up. Craigy :
Rocky Prospect: “ Moon” deolined ; possibly “Song.”
R.O. : General verses weak.
W. J. Sowden, the new
editor of S. A. Register, has
done more than almost any
other man in his province for
Federation. A dozen years
ago he and Speaker Bray
(afterwards Agent-General)
and Paris Nesbit were the
Grand Panjandrums of the
Natives in Adelaide ; and
of several who talked much
about Federation, Sowden
was the one man who had
really studied the question.
He drafted the scheme that
was, with modifications,
adopted by the solemn
Natives’ Conference that
met under Bray’s presi-
dency in Melb. Town Hall
in ’BO. And since then he
has kept talking and writing
about it (Sowden is probably
as effective a speaker as any
regular paper-worker in the
Australias), and he kept
the Register going straight
even when the Advertiser
wobbled.
General Gallifet, the
new French War Minister,
an intimate of the Princ e of
Wales, is an old man, a M tr-
quis, and a cavalry-officer
outside the staff-clique. He
commanded a cavalry brig-
ade in 1870, and did good
service. He belongs to the
useful class of regimental
officers. In the French
army, an officer, once on the
staff, stays there, and gets
all the good things there-
unto belonging, while the
regimental officer gets all
the hard work and hard
knocks, dull country-quar-
ters, and slow promotion.
There is no love lost be-
tween the two classes, consequently the staff lias
nothing to hope, but much to fear, from Gallifet.
Mr. Walter Bentley.
That Mr. Walter Bentley (whose portrait we
present in this issue) would have made a good
politician is doubtful ; but that he is a
capable actor has seldom been questioned. It
was with feelings of regret that his many
admirers saw him relinquish his stage career
to embark on the troublous sea of politics.
His recent defeat at Carnarvon by the Queensland
Home Secretary is fresh in the memory of all,
and it is a matter for congratulation to play-
goers that he has abandoned such aspirations
and decided to return to the footlights. Messrs.
Williamson and Mnsgrove have secured Mr.
Bentley’s services, and it was intended by them
that he should make his re-appearance in the
“Silver King” at the Princess’ Theatre, Mel-
bourne on this (Saturday) evening, but the enor-
mous business which is being done by “The
King’s Musketeer ” has led to a postponement of
that intention, and Mr. Bentley will appear
instead as Cardinal Richelieu in that play.
As it is Mr. Bentley’s intention to remain in the
colonies, and as he is a comparatively young man,
no doubt the stage will be the richer in that he
has returned to it.


Extract from Grand Master Wheeler’s address,
Sydney Town Half 12th July .
“ But thanks to the existence of this institu-
tion and to the Orangemen, who have always
been active, she has not obtained the supremacy.
(Applause.) To attract the attention of the
people she has secured the most commanding
positions and erected thereon most palatial build-
ings. It has. often struck me that these elevated
positions with their sky-reaching buildings must
be intended to be put to some use, and it is rather
strange, in these days of wireless telegraphy, that
the chain is so complete that a signal from any
one of these points could be sent round the circuit
in a very few minutes, but, of course, there is no
object to be served by such a scheme. I leave you
to work it out for yourselves.”
FIN-DE-SIECLE WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY: A STRATEGIC QUESTION.
HIS REVERECE (at top of steeple, near Association Ground) to his Eminence ditto at Manly: “ Kelly’s just kicked a foine goal, an McMahon give the spalpeen Mullinoo a
divil — a great shpill, Oi mane!"


Several times lately Mr. Panto
has had occasion to speak to constables'
who. have just joined the police force on'
the manner in which they give evidence in'
cases brought before, the City Court Bench :
1 oung constables appear to be unable to
grasp the fact that ■ when detailing state’
inents made by various persons, in the pro-
senee of the accused, they must speak in. :
iUie first, and not in the third person,
yesterday, haying occasion to., comet ' a
constable, Mr. Pattton remarked that it
was a lamentable thing to see yOung coh-
stables coming into court, apparently with*
y) hut any instructions as to how to give evi*
b dence. It,would be a good thing if classes
C were started in the barrack-rooni. so that
ry lessons could be given to them-'twice a'
V.week. Itvjyas only fair to the then'that
jthhey shouldibe properly instructed before I
l ithey came into ff-court of iustice: *, - I
%
\ir
%
*&**** A
t#* |ss
*:.
V»/ '«* V^A
? r- 3 rfv/C:^W*&tov c *
\ -fi'iwl—
I Va-c/T e >
-'}<? J~ Scfc°l vill k 'W&j.
, H f- *p£v
7 W 4° V) ‘‘ 4^
/ ip ' j)kys
f' Y«tcr6ay' tn k tle^°£
u*HEO AUSTRALIAN^
ft 01STVNgJ| ! JJSS-% S oe; S
jftgfestfsrfsSst.
a T»2 V ,nS»»«•’ 'iSt* s ?
'^C,. s
j Trpez&fiy*.
h ''?y'£
CaJ/cd Ufa? <zr*p/'?y o '!7*r?i
° o !! a 4^
j. v. »?• *•»£ Vf&u** * Yo«^
oI ;« *9 t» C „ tO® 109®°
DS
fa noM/religiou&service^
If IN A CLOTHING ihcTORY.
\ll A new departure in religious services, so
far as Melbourne is concerned, was made
amongst piles of the various parts thafgo
.to make what is termed "slop clothes,” -in
> the' "cuf ting-room” of Mr. J. Barnett’s
J? clothing factory,, in. Latrobe-street, yester-
£.day, when the Rev. Carr Smith, ‘of St.
y Sydney, who is conducting a ten
? dnys parochial mission, in connection with
Fetcr’s, Eastern Hill, in conjunction
with the Rev. J. Wise, addressed a gathering
•of over one hundred male and female 44n-
(pToyes of the factory.
* Se/ ,
TtxSer'ye-rr ";r>
t{s£dV¥^
of nrf
if/rf/e <f W*h-'
\sj>er<\/of
"
J)*Be\by fcO/yrtyerf. porci ,
ffeC OC?P *s e po'y^r/pip*
"Jferry nhrirp /j eyferexl fh-r'pfe
Afe/bourse Cub. jCwbet/er /f 7fou~
\ /y'fZpdrC '/o' "htejK/y:
> ,-g^-aggJlH
'®jSi
/>7b<reed/j><xs c/asea wiftp”)<? I
5/ 2§T2§> //u» 7 l>er2ocy/£>'4-J{' a 2 | J
(9, educzpe our^rr'ovSf'gryoutfr 7 -
S/'rpfiU 3//>7e P
Q
Of J[by2s,f cKpd /fe \vf^/e.
MELBOURNIANA.


Victor Daley’s book of verses “At Dawn
and Dusk,” seems to have been badly handled in
England, so ineagre was the notice it got ;
but there is no question of the author’s apprecia-
tion in Australia. A stupid English writer has
been lately declaiming against the praise it re-
ceived. Daley is, and knows himself, a very
minor poet in comparison with the great names of
literature ; but that does not alter the value of his
contribution to the enrichment of Australian
letters. His book may be had direct from this
office ; post-free, ss.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, 6 vols., £4 for £1 ; The Home
Physician, £2 10s for 17s6d ; Universal Instructor, £1 15s
for 15s ; Webster’s Household Dictionary, 25s for 10s. I
have the largest stock of Second hand Books in N.S.
Wales. Write for Catalogues. I have also three Choice
Books Is 6d each, or three for 4s. Can only be procured
by Post; all Book sent post free.
R. W SKINNER, Second-hand Book Arcade,
105 Castiereagh-street, SYDNEY. Telephone 3043.
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1899.
J, J, MILLER'S SPURTING PAMPHLET
And Athmsjic Recokd.
All Booksellers and Newsagents.
Price Is.
as®,,
?#
jnnro mw"w»
-..mi* nm» “ loi'nnn ihinm n, n ""n, „
i* • a un men nmifm mm B lm "M» if 1,1 'i|
r J***!l** rfMV*'»«*»«* 0 «S?A J\
"rtjn linmi mo mu. X
Mils
rt
I I 111
The ONLY CERTAIN
cure for
Rheumatism,
Brights
Disease,
Diabetes,
and all impurities of the blood.
TESTIMONIALS have been received from ALL PARTS
of the WORLD.
Price, 2/9.
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Or will be sent (post paid) on receipt of price by
The Dodds Medicine Co., 17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
s
MUSICAL-TIME
CLOCK.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece. A
wonderful invention ; a hand-
some ornament ; will play popu-
lar airs at will, and is a perfect
timekeeper. The case is solid
nickel, ornamental brass front,
brass handle and pillars with
glass sides ; unlike any other
make of alarm, you are awak-
ened by the strains of “ Home,
Sweet Home,” “There’ll
come a Time Someday,”
“Daisyßell,” “Annießooney,”
“Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always
tell you the correct time, and
will play choice selections the
whole day, or as desired.
Price 15s.
Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2
extra; any other colony, 2/2.
Sent on approval ; if returned
within 14 days, Money Re-
funded.
[Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS,
24 Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
NICHOLSON $ CO.
Are the LARGEST IMPORTERS of PIANOS
ORGANS, and MUSIC in Australia.
GERMAN PIANOS by the most celebrated makers
ENGLISH PIANOS by the best makers
AMERICAN PIANOS at surprisingly low prices
AMERICAN ORGANS » great variety
ALL THE NEWEST AND MOST POPULAR MUSIC.
CATALOGUES FREE
ON APPLICATION.
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEV__—*
p ’ s Sbwp-Brai)dii)g Liqftid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool: to Scour Out ■
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Black, Red., and Blue. 3s 6d
per sall - in arid L Sydney; 3s 9d per gall. in. Brisbane
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade & Co-,
MELBOURNE.
Agents F, RIOH&CO. LTD-
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
A. SAUNDERS, Nigb-ClaSs Jeweller,
always to the front for NEW and PRETTY DESIGNS
in Jewellery, Watch and Silverplate. All Articles Post Free.
Ladies’ Long Granny or Muff Chain, 9c. Gold,
355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6. Silver, 7s 6d-; Gold-plated, 15s, 20s
Gold Necklets, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
Latest Gold Brooch.
Red Stone, Bell and 2 Nobs, 10s 6d.
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold Brooch, Bell, Chain,
Red, White and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 15c. Gold,
£2. Diamonds, £2 10s. and £3. Any Name
or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
Ac Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
m
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s; 16a
Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and Heart,
108; Special Value.
m
Gold Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6d.
_a_
A. Saunders.
3-Bar, 4 Diamonds and Ruby, 20s.
Very Neat and Pretty.
IP"
A. Saunders.
9o. Solid Gold Raised Flowers, 6s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Solid Gold Opal Links, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s; extra strong-.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, 10s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d
and 3s.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Red Stone Set Soroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
sefis
9c. Gold, Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6d.
Saunders.
New Design Gold-mounted Boar’s Tusk.
Chain and Bell, 16s 6d ; without Bell and
Chain, 10s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
16c. Gold, 358, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Silver, ss.
90. Gold, Pearls and
Amethyst, 17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 80s.
Gold Heart
Looket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
A. Saunders.
New Registered Diamond-cut Amethyst as Luckv Glove ra.
15s; with One Bird, same prioe. *
SEND
FOR
Price List.
Guarantee
the utmost
satisfaction.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size O&rd.
Any Name Free.
9o. Band Kings, 12s Gd,
16s; 16c., 20s, 26s ;
18c., 26s, 30s, 35s, £2.
Send for List.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15a Gold, 30s.
18o. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
18o. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18o. Gold, Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £6.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £10, £12 10s,
£16, £20.
Chain Rings, 16s, 20s,
25s, 80s, £2. Prioe to
quality and weight.
9c. Gold 2-bar Diamond-cut Amethyst.
16c., £2.
If
A. Saun.'.cis (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lucky Wish and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 128 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
V.N
jsgt
A. Saunders.
Gold Broooh, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15o. Gold, £2.
15o. Gold Raised Flowers, 20s.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepersi
9o. Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ;
16c. Gold, 16s ; extra heavy, 26s ;
18o. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s, 85s, 40s.
Quality of Gold and Finish First-olass.
815 George Street (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.


OTTO HERZ & CD'S SHOES
are celebrated for their quality.
OTTO HERZ & COL’S SHOES
are well known for their elegance.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
never lose their shape.
OTTO HERZ & GO.’S SHOES
fit the foot to perfection.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
have a 40 years’ reputation.
OTTO HERZ & GO’S SHOES
form the most comfortable footwear.
OTTO HERZ & CO SHOES
are sold by all of
JOHN HUNTER & SON’S (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
Important to Parties Furnishing*!
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers . . .
IBT Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL'S give Value for Value — 20s. for the <£.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. HALL "AND"COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
NEW PESCOVERy!
s. , i
il l I BRANDTS
OAiGtntRATO
A convenient pi rtable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Household, Shop Windows, or Lantern Work.
Price (Genera cor only), 255. Pillar Litcht, with shade
and %-it. burner, 17s. Cd. Rubber Tube, 6d. per foot.
Calcium Carbide, and all accessories stocked.
BRANDT BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET? SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
James M'Ewan & Company Limited
6UNS.
Special Notice to Sportsmen.
vSL Note Our Surprising Prices.
(aUNS
D.B. B.L. HAMMER GUNS, 12g.
Reduced
From To
Contes’ Bar Lock, Doll’s Head
Extension 815 0 £3 5 0
Cashm«re’s, Damascus Barrels,
Doll's Head Extension . 5 6 0 412 6
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Solid Strikers, D. and E.
Bolt 6 10 0 5 6 0
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Solid Bar Action, Cross
Bolt 8 10 0 6 6 0
Webley’s, Damascus Barrels,
Riaht Cylinder, Deft Choke 10 10 0 9 12 6
Cashmore’s, Solid Bar Action,
Damascus Barrels, Cross
Bolt, Solid Strikers 17 10 0
12 15 0
Reduced
From To
W. and C. Scott and Son’s
“ Excel ” Club Gun, Damas-
cus Barrels, with case and
tools 25 0 0 21 5 0
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
32in., Wedge-fast clips ... 27 10 0 21 5 0
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels, Side
Clips 22 0 0 17 5 0
Cashmore’s Whitworth Fluid
Compressed Steel Barrels,
in case 45 0 0 32 15 0
Cashmore’s Solid Bar Action,
Cross Bolt, Damascus Bar-
rels 13 0 0 10 5 0
D.B. B.L. HAMMERLESS GUNS, 120.
Reduced
Field’s, Damascus Barrels,
Cross Bolt
J. Reeves’s Damascus Barrels,
Doll’s Head Extension ...
Tisdall’s, Damascus Barrels,
Right Mod., Left Choke..
Tisdall’s, Damascus Barrels,
Cross Bolt
Cashmore’s, Damascus Bar-
rels, Treble Wedge-fast ...
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels,
Wedge-fast, Side Clips ...
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels,
Treble Wedge-fast, in case
From
To
Reduced
From Ti
Cashmore’s, Damascus Bar-
rels, Wedge-fast, wfth case £35 0 0 £26 0 0
Cashinore's, Whitworth Fluid
Steel Barrels, Wedfre-fast
Clips ... 45 0 0 34 0 0
E.C. Cartridges, Eley’s Loading,
Best Cases. Per 100.
42 grains 16s Od 12s Od
45 grains 16 0 12 6
47 grains 16 0 13 0
Schultze Cartridges, Eley’s Loading, Best Cases.
45 grains 15 6 12 0
47 Grains 15 6 12 6
Per lb.
E.C. Powder, in y>Vo. flasks 7 0 6 0
JAMES M'EWAKT & CO. Ltd., IX9 to 125 Ellzafaetll St.. Melt).
MTSS CLARA E. ELLIOTT, Zeehan, Tas-
mania. Vitadatio cured her of Con-
gestion of the Lungs, Inflammation of the
Kidneys and Jaundice, etc.
Hwt.:
r
MISS E. J. HOCKING, High-st.,
Maryborough. Vitadatio cured her
of Gall-stone. Doctor said must
undergo operation. She said “No.”
A friend said, “Try Vitadatio.”
Cured her.
VITADATIO, the Only Genuine.
Send foe Particulars Suited to Your Case.
LISTEN to the VOICE of REASON, and be led by FA.CTS and
PROOFS that the most exacting or prejudiced, or even sceptical, must
ADMIT. I ask you (if you are ill) to study for yourself the Thousands
of Proofs, of what has been the result in many similar cases.
“VITADATIO” appeals to the Wise to extend their Knowledge
of what is now occupying the public mind to a very great extent.
‘ ‘ VITADATIO ” has compelled Public Attention, and surely such
cannot be attained except by Meritorious Action. The fact that
‘ ‘ VITADATIO ” has Cured the many Diseases should always weigh
largely in the deliberations and counsels of the Wise.
“VITADATIO” is a Benefactor to Men and Women.
MR. F. W. HOHNE was five years a sufferer
from disease which the doctors at last dis-
covered was Hydatids, but could not cure.
But when in despair, Yitadatio cured, and he
is now well and strong.
MR. THOMAS JOHNSON, 10 Princes-st.,
Kew, Vic., 40 years a victim to Cancer, Piles,
Running Sores, eto. Vitadatio cured him
after all the doctors had failed.
Vitadatio,
THE GREAT
Herbal Remedy,
Cures all Curable Diseases of
BLOOD and SKIN, such as
Bright's Disease, Kidney
Troubles, Hydatids, Liver
Troubles, Bladder Troubles,
Stricture, Gravel, Diabetes,
Piles, Cancer, Consump-
tion, Insomnia, Jaundice,
Debility, Epilepsy, Ery-
sipelas, Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica, Eczema, Ring-
worm, Spreading Sores,
Poverty of Blood, Wasting
Disease, Fits, Indigestion,
Influenza . Gall-Stones, tie.
f)
MR. S. A. PALMER,
Cured of Hydatids, Bright’s
Disease and Diabetes, after
14 years of pain, weakness,
n-.isery, and expense. Given
up by the doctors, operated
on until he was sick unto
death ; but good fortune led
him to V itabatio, and though
he said he was too far gone
to cure, Vitadatio cured him,
and now his Life’s Work is
to assist others, and try to
cure them, and Vitadatio has
cured and will cure.
It is significant that a really
Good Article, well attested,
invariably brings out imita-
tors, with their weak shams.
“ Vitadatio ” is the only 1
“Genuine Tasmanian Her-
j bal Remedy.” It has proved j
itself.
It is essential that you pro-
tect your health and purse
by avoiding what is false.
S. A. PALMER,
VITADATIO.
Send for Testimonials and
Particulars of the Many
Cures.
MRS. F. A. CLARK, 74 Clarendon-
st., South Melb. Yitadatio cured
her of Consumption, after she was
given up by the doctors of America
and Australia. She is restored to
life and duty.
MRS. M. SERGEANT, Redfern, Sydney,
N.S.W. Many years troubled with Indi-
gestion and General Weakness and Emaci-
ation. She was very ill, and looked it. A
course of Webber’s Vitadatio worked
most wonderful results.
VITADATIO, the Great Healer.
PRICE, 5/6 and 3/6. INDIAN OIL OF CREAM, 2/6.
A BOON to the INTELLECTUAL.—I have received another de-
livery of the “ Yitadatio Series of Sheldon Literary Marvels ”
“In His Steps, or What would Jesus Do?” “His Brother’s
Keeper,” “The Crucifixion of Philip Strong,” “Malcolm
Kirk,” Richard Hardy’s “Seven Days.”
I will give the series of five to any caller, or post to any address in
the Colonies for stamps (fid.) to cover postage, wrapper, &c. I desire to
advertise “ Yitadatio ”at the same time. lam giving readers or book-
lovers a treat. Letters marked “Sheldon, Vitadatio, Melbourne.”
S. A. PALMER.
MR. FRED. B. NORTON, 60 Queen-st.,
Melbourne, suffered for 10 years from
Sciatic Rheumatism, which naturally dis-
abled him at times and made life hardly
a bed of roses. By the use of Vttadatio
he has been cured.
MR. ARTHUR J. WYLIE, a most remark-
able cure of Consumption, Hemorrhage, and
all the frightful attendances. A useful young
life ebbing away under the monster of dis-
ease, drift, drifting to death, and no hope.
Consumption has been cured. Life and hope
to the dying are now sounded abroad by
Vitadatio.


DRINIfOAfL^-
mm
rg
Go
(£aM pac *
BRANDY
ASK
FOR
sun
2^
y
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by tbe Civil Service Co-Operative Stores',
Pitt St., and by beading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Roderic Quinn’s charming selection of
verses, “The Hidden Tide,” has. been warmly
welcomed everywhere. The price is Is. 9d., post-
free from The Bulletin office.
Woman exclaims man knows nothing
about the worries and trials connected with house-
keeping’. Man knows woman spends about 75 per
cent, of his earnings. A man must live to earn,
therefore woman must study to keep man’s diges-
tion in good shape, and see that his food is pro*
perly cooked. Woman can do this by procuring a
Primus Chief cooking apparatus complete with
Primus Kerosene Stove. Price, 305., 405., 555.,
625. 6d. each. Also, the Improved Primus Chief
cooking and steaming apparatus ; price, 70s. to
80s. It will cook a liarge dinner, and steam at the
same time 9 to 12 different vegetables at a cost of
three farthings per hour. After all, man invented
the Primus Chief Cooker to lighten the labor of
woman. If woman will call on M‘Lean Bros,
and Rigg Ltd., Furnishing Ironmongers, Eliza-
beth-st., Melbourne, or George-st., Sydney, the
Primus Chief can be seen in full operation. Cata-
logues pasted on application.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY *»> CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
JgSP” SaTes lleld at the Auction Jtooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for. Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Tbe Perfect Sheep-Marker
In Three Colors—BLACK, BED and BLUE.
Is the Only SAFE WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Forrest—the clog upon the wheel of the
State coach, pretending to be the motive power.
Apropos the Transvaal. “ When England
goes to a country, she never takes a return-ticket.”
WESTRALTA.
The State progresses swiftest when
Its back is to its leading men.
The early-closing resolutions re shops, now
programmed for N.S.W. Parliament, will pro-
bably become law this session if certain woolly-
headed, allegedly-democratie members of Assem-
bly will practise the early closing of their mouths
,in the debate.
B. R. Wise, when spouting at the Salva-
tion Army meeting in Sydney, the other day, was
taken quietly by old hands. Parkes told Wise,
and Wise is a docile pupil : “Always stand in, if
they will let you, with the governing powers of
large religious bodies. It's policy.”
The ex-Labor legislators of Queensland
still cling to the paternal State. Ryott-Maughan
is again employed in the Engineering Depart-
ment ; Turley is working in a Govt, store, and J.
M. Gross, beside being secretary for the Federa-
tion League, is reported to have on hand certain
statistical commissions.
A month ago we were assured that Presi-
dent M'Kinley would not reinforce the U.S.
Army in the Philippines. Now the cable sud-
denly announces :
LONDON, July 6.
Thirteen thousand volunteers are being despatched to
reinforce the U.S. troops in the Philippines.
The sending of these men in the middle of the un-
healthy season shows that the experiences of U.S.
Army are not unlike those of the French in Hayti.
Perhaps they don’t know much about
electioneering out-back, but they do score occa-
sionally. Some Federalists in Speaker Abbott’s
Wentworth electorate, the most scattered in
N. doubted whether the Commonwealth
Bill was quite enough to attract the fellows from
the outside into the townships, so they organised
picnic sports-meetings; and the result was a
record vote, though there had been no canvassing.
Wentworth district figures were—Yes, BGS ;
No, 88.
M‘llwraith begins to dissipate the irn-
Eression that he is only physically unsound. In
is long letter to the anti-Bill
League he says that the Conven-
tion Bill of ’9l was largely-
influenced by the “ free
discussion that had
taken place in Queens-
land on the project
in ’9O of sub-dividing
Q. into three parts
and federating.
That Queensland
Bill was the basis
of the Bill of
1891.” M‘ll-
- reverses the I
facts. Griffith’s Q.
Bill was introduced to
the local Legislature in
’92 —a year after, not be-
fore, the Convention of ’9l.
If the heaven-born financier,
who opportunely abandoned
the State helm before the
Q.N. Bank crash, wants to
exert any influence on the
Federation discussion, he
should get someone to
revise his history before
publication. '
Tas. Assembly, by a
small majority, voted
against the Hare sys-
tem being applied to
country electorates,
while agreeing to let
the system stand for
the two cities —Ho-
bart and Launceston.
Whereupon Premier
Braddon called a pri-
vate meeting of mem-
bers of both sides of
the House, and but-
ton-holed to such
effect that the for-
mer decision re
Hare will be re-
scinded, and the
system will apply
to the whole
island. Braddon
is the boss but-
ton-holer of these
provinces. When he gets on the job he will con-
vert his man, unless the coat tears.
The beauteous Charles Tucker, who has
lost his seat in S.A. Assembly on an appeal to the
Court of Disputed Returns, has fought three par-
ticularly hard elections, and has just missed it
each time. Though he wants to get into Parlia-
ment pretty badly, he seems to go round hunting
up the hard places. He has tried Pt. Adelaide,
North Adelaide, and Encounter Bay in succession.
Westralian news-item :
At the beginning of May, a J.P. (related to the Carnar-
von Brockman, struck off the list of J.’sP. for cruelty to
aboriginals) had a dozen blacks before him at his private
house, charged with spearing sheep. They were bound
hands, feet, and necks with trace-chains. The constable
gave his evidence, and sentence was passed without call-
ing on the blacks for a defence. The sentence was one
year on eacli of them.
At time of writing, the only Q. Minister
who has taken the stump on behalf of Federation
is Treas. Philp. As the bulk of the Federal vote
must come from the workers, it is perhaps better
that Dickson and Co. should remain silent and
vote against the Bill than enter the struggle and
drive thousands into indifference or hostility.
The Q. democracy won’t take their cue from the
Coalition crowd. ,
Disputes which in the eastern provinces
are dealt with by the Qualifications Committees of
Parliament go in S. Aus. to the Court of Disputed
Returns—a Parliamentary committee with a
Supreme Court Judge as president. Boucaut, who
sat on the application to dislodge Tucker from the
Encounter Bay seat, was three times Premier of
S.A. ; it was a coincidence that Encounter Bay
was his last constituency.
Yic. Parliament is at last invited to shut
down on the quack doctor, and the regularity-
restorer, and the pill-man generally. Cook’s Bill
for the suppression of indecent or obscene ad vts.
is comprehensive enough to gather in the lot of
’em. All ads. are to be deemed indecent that
relate to certain diseases, to “ nervous debility,”
pregnancy, “irregularity,” or the treatment of
any complaint peculiar to females.
“ Circular ” writes :
I, like numbers of other Victorians, have had eyes on
Mr. Higgins during his anti-federal perambulal ion in
N.S.W. It seems by the reports that he has been warn-
ing the people over there to reject the Bill because the
Victorians reckon they are going to obtain all the bene-
fits. On his campaign over here, I heard him warn
electors that Victoria would be ruined because of the
preponderance of N.S.W. Now that the vote is carried,
I suggest that, a thanksgiving sacrifice be made of Mr.
Higgins by solemn drowning in the Murray.
The anti-Feds. in Q. are in desperate
straits. The editor of Brisbane Tkt.eoraph—an
ex-parson experienced in the art of cadging—is
personally hawking round among the local shop-
keepers for subscriptions. Calling upon a loud-
voiced and truculent provincialist the other day,
confidently expecting a big cheque, he was flabber-
gasted by the magnanimous offer of—two-and-six-
pence. Half-a-crown to save the province from
destruction 1
Seriously proposed by Neil Lewis, Tas.
M.L.A. and Conventioner, that the Parliament of
the Land of No Desire, due to expire this year,
should perpetuate itself indefinitely. Reason:
Present M’s.P. know more about arranging for
Federation than new members possibly could. Mr.
Lewis expects to be elected to the Federal Parlia-
ment ; if successful, he will probably move:
“ That, in the opinion of this House, death should
be treated as a capital offence.”
MATRIMONIAL MATRICULATION.
1ST LADY (to second lady): “Yes, me darter
wroites to tell me she has just got a degree
nizzy—I think you call it !”
Shiels, who has been in comparative retire-
ment ever since his short and miserable Premier-
ship, is reported to be coining out strong during
this Victorian session as an opponent of Old-Age
Pensions, and other innovations. Shiels is a
brilliant and useless destructionist, and he can be
against tilings in finer language and at greater
length than almost any other Australian politician.
But he never constructs anything. lie is only a
long, weedy, hired pessimist ; too scared to do
anything himself, and afraid to see any one else
doing anything. If this pleasant and graceful
back-number is against the Old-Age Pension Bill
it ought to succeed. Shiels is failure spelled short
to save two letters.
Hartnoll’s sweeping charges against Back’s
management of Tasmanian railways were almost
bound to fail for one sufficient reason. Hartnoll
was Minister of Railways in the Dobson-Henry
Cabinet, and Back was manager then, as he is
now. And when Hartnoll quitted office he left
behind him an enthusiastic minute about Back’s
splendid management. So Hartnoll was prac-
tically denouncing his own minute as a lie—which
is always an awkward thing to do.
One Q. Labor paper protests against
carrying on Federal legislation while so many
adults are still disfranchised, “imposing on them
a constitution to which their consent lias never
A LARGE ORDER.
“Please, sir, mother says could you please let her have change for a shillin' ,
an ’ she’ll send you the shillin’ to-morrer?”
been asked.” This argument would block all
legislation. It would even block the disfranchised
getting a vote, for the Parliament would have no
right to impose on men a privilege to which “their
consent had never been asked,’’ and to which also
many of them might be indifferent.
A Select Committee of the British House
of Commons has decided that an old-age pension
system is practicable, desirable, and should be
proceeded with at once. Hitherto the Australian
Tory has been wont to plead that the pension
idea was a rash experiment and contrary to the
sound, tough; well-considered policy of the dear
old mother-country. Now that the mother-
country, even under a Conservative regime, has so
definitely changed its views, only a brutally dis-
loyal Tory can stand out.
South Australia set a brilliant example
by deciding that the M.L.A. who promised
before election to distribute his salary among
local institutions was guilty of bribery. If
it is a bribe to offer money to one elector in
order to get his vote the offer of money to all the
electors is a still worse case. And if the custom
spread the Democratic principle of payment of
members might as well be abolished, for the poor
man who couldn’t afford to give away his salary
would be at a huge disadvantage as compared
with the rich man who could.
South Australia will probably soon be face
to face with a unique political crisis :
Last year the Kingston Govt, introduced into S.A. As-
sembly a measure to extend the riirht to vote for the Leg.
Council to every householder and his wife. The reform
was proposed as a remedy for continued Tory mutilation
and rejection of popular measures. The Bill passed the
Assembly in all its s ages without division. The gang of
Fatmen in the Council —who are in a small majority'—
threw out the Bill by 12 to 9, and it therefore shared a
similar fate to the dozens of other Democratic measures
which have been contemptuously rejected in that Cham-
ber during the last five years. S.A. has a law, however,
passed in ’Bl, which provides that, should a Bill pass the
Assembly, be rejected by the Council, and—a general
election having intervened—be again passed and rejected,
the Governor may adopt the alternative of dissolution
of both Houses, or the issuing of writs for the
return of eight additional members of Council, bringing
its membership up to 32. The question now troubling
S.A. democrats is, “Which is the better alternative ? ”
The Kingston Govt, has had the staunch and unswerving
support in the Assembly of a solid Radical party which
has just gone through the ordeal of an electoral cam
paign, and is prepared to carry this Council-reform
measure through again, but it naturally dislikes the
idea of fighting another election in another month or so.
On the other hand, the Tory crowd has a majority of
three in their Chamber on the Household Suffrage ques-
tion, and, in order to turn that majority into a minority,
the Government would have to capture at least six out of
the eight new seats—a formidable task. Premier King-
ston has doggedly determined that the verdict of the
people at the recent referendum on the question—they
affirmed the principle by a majority of IS,ooo—shall be
passed into law and a dissolution in the event of further
Council obstruction —which is well-uigh inevitable—is
almost certain.
The bulk of the Q. Federation agitation
seems to be falling into the willing and capable
hands of J. G. Drake, M.L.A., leader of the
Independent Opposition in Parliament. Drake,
whose name is democratically powerful, in addj.
tion to running a bright weekly Federation paper,
is doing most of the platform and organising work.
Up to now the following Labor members have
enrolled under the Federal flag : —Dawson (leader),
Dunsford, Glassey, McDonald, Browiie, Givens,
Maxwell, Higgs, Fisher, Rylands, and Hamilton.
The principal anti-Feds. of the party are the
Central Separationists.
The defeated
N.S.W. anti-Billites
just missed a chance
to raise a dust about
the referendum owing
to what might have
been but wasn’t an
informality in one big
district. Alma, Bro-
ken Hill, and Sturt by
special Act follow
S.A. standard time
in elections under the
Party Elections Act,
and all arrangements
had been made for
the booths to be open
from 8 to 6, S. A.
time. Then, on the
evening before the
vote was taken, it
was found that the
Act which had been
passed fixingthe hours
of the referendum poll
from 8 to 6 applied to
all electorates, and
meant 8 to 6 o’clock
N. S. W. standard
time. So there had
to be flying in all
directions —in some
instances away into
the backblocks —to
warn deputies and
clerks to be on hand
at what, according to
local reckoning, was
7.30. It was a nar-
row squeak, and only
a chance wire saved a
bad mess.
The little rift in
the Q. Government
lute has become very
evident at last. Mini-
ster Chataway, i n
his paper (Mackay Mkrcur'i ), denounces Federa-
tion to his heart’s content. According to
Chataway, Queensland is perfectly independent
of the other provinces, and well able to find a
market for herself any day. Queensland also
(thank Heaven !) is perfectly independent of Chat-
away and his organ, and will undoubtedly show
him so on September 2nd.
Luya, M.L.A. for South Brisbane, just
deceased, was a prominent anti-Billite. Ex-Labor-
inember Turley is backed by the local Democrats
for the seat, and is worthy of all success. Turley
is a staunch Federationist, and has advocated the
cause on the public platform. Brisbane Worker,
which recently denounced the Federal system as
the fruitful parent of every form of monopoly and
corruption, supports Turley, who has pledged him-
self to do his best endeavor to bring about the
aforesaid abominable state of things—a singular
anomaly which will bear explanation.
How the Sydney Sabbath Tipster plays
jackal to Sydney D.T.’s lion :
With the Labor party against the Government, which
is regarded as a very probable contingency, a section of
the Opposition proper, and the disaffected Govt, sup-
porters, there would be formed an alliance strong enough
to oust the Govt. At any rate, that is what certain
members of the Opposition think. An attack would be
made more readily if, as is alleged, the finances are not
in the rosy state set out by the late Treasurer.
The Sunday Shellback eggs on William John to
try and wrest the Opposition leadership from
Barton. Vain hope ! The flattened-out Parlia-
mentary Geebungs are not game to snatch at the
tainted bait, upset the Govt., and be promptly
sent to face that angry 104,000 majority.


PALING’S • PIANOS
are
rcQoWQtd
tbroOgboCit
Australia
for
PURE
SYMPATHETIC
TONE
coipbioed
witb
6RCAT
DURABILITY
CATjL ok
WRITE FOK
CATALOGUES—FREE
Hold the Latest and Best Selected Stock of MUSIC in the Colonies.
BUY
PALING
J
PIANOS
ALWAYS
3/
%
*>v
Sv>
C*
o*
—OF— v
You
Cannot
Buy
Better
PALINd’S Sole AgsiKses
STEIN WAY
BRINSMEAI)
LIPP
EEURICH
UEBEL
ECKE
VICTOR
BELLING
PIANOS
ESTEY
ORGANS
STRINGS
AND FITTINGS
FOR ALL INSTRUMENTS
W. N. P»Lm<S *C» U° 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYPNEY
Brisbane
M^WcaStfe
There is no need to come Home
in a Hansom Cab.
i
ft?
ft
m
ROADSTER . . .
when your cycle is fitted
with
MULTIPLEX
u N IQ p TVr E sl
for these tyres
are specially built for
heavy wear on rough
roads, and can be de-
pended upon under all
circumstances.
They combine Lightness
with Durability, and
Safety with Ease of De-
tachment.
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
DUHifIP Tyres
National Cash Registers.
■'l.-'
wo. 92. The Storekeeper’s Coupon-Register. 92
sums
t n«»
. -T
A Coupon Printing, Detail and
Total-adding Cash Register!
What better could be desired ?
A. record
of
Every Individual Transaction.
A Perfect Check
ON ALL
Caala Received.
YOU WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
1. Whether you lost any money last month through carelessness.
2. Which of your clerks is making the most sales.
3. In which departments of your store you are losing money.
4. Whether goods sold on credit are always charged.
6. Which of your employes, if any, is careless.
6. How to secure a complete printed record of each day’s transactions
between clerks and customers in your store.
7. How to offer inducements to cash customers without discriminating
against credit customers.
The only method in the world which will economically and quickly answer
the above questions and many others of equal importance to business
men is— -
C! National Cash Register
Over 100 Different Machines Made suited to the Requirements of all Varieties of Financial
or Commercial Business.
Full particulars, price, etc., will be given on application to the
HEAD OFFICES FOR AUSTRALIA:
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
364 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager Australasia.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
lillll. fflont de piste
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGrH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPawnbroMnff JBranch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
MOKrTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manages.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, 1500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company) : 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
fhe Banket north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bri lge Street.
Manager— bocal Director— JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... - *700,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
E “Sir m,y Sh “ re : 250,000 ... *350,00.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. I ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Public Risk Depart-
-111 Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E- N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo ndon.
’ Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty.
1 Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. JesSOp, Director. Mel-
bourne D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C.'Hassall ; Perth, A. VV
Kahoiihar J J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Buy for the Children.
PERTH, W. A. Allotments on the main
road, opposite Brookman Park, the pro-
perty of W. G. Brookman, Esq., *lO
each. Easy terms. Torrens’ Title. Eree
Deeds.
Plans E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Compg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
I )UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
It Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S DUNN Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoo 8t Laocasbir*
Fire Insurance company.
1,1 BERAL • - - PROMPT - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
Now South Wales
Branch :
}
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; F. Ho-jan, Esq., J.P.
ROBERT Kerr, managed
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, S,
AND
Ageocy Conjpagy Li nested,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £73,375 15 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ... £6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital .. .. £3,123,555 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne. _
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDMJY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Baymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Banin of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ~ .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office —Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
' —THE—%
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765— assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
N - AtTonXl T R U ST EES,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ■ W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. I). M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Gg} ces 454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
TX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mininjr Properties and
W Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject tp inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors.:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey, Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. J. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Shipping ,
thOoward smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., <Tuly 22, 12 Noon.
Batrabool, Tuesday, July 25, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday. July 29,12 ISoon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, August 8, 5 p.m.
I
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, August 8, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, -July 22, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., July 25, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 29, 2 p.i
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 22, 2 p.m.
-Konoovvarra, Tues., Julv 25, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sac., July 29, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
I,OWEST CIJUKENT FAKES TO ALE POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
-M—J by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane. |||B|
HPlluiraith, j||‘Eacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M‘ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
Jj Revolutiin in Qentistry
4:
The patients who had their aching, decayed
teeth and roots painlessly extracted, and
teeth painlessly stopped, by the aid of Mr.
J. I. MARSHALL’S (of 28 Wynyard
Square, SYDNEY) Newly -Discovered
Local Specifics for one month numbered 500.
That is equal to 6000 a year. This is un-
doubtedly the largest register of painless
dental treatments in Australia. Letters of
thanks may be seen at the Parlors, 28
Wynyard Square (permission having
been given to show them), from doctors,
clergymen, litcvati , chemists, and many
leading ladies of society.
iFORBIG-Wr STAMPS
mean
mmm
mmMim
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, Is fid ; 16 Roumania, 6d ;
8 Bootiia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Ohili
Telegraph, 3d ; 16 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
fid; 50, Is; 100,2 s fid; 150, ss. Re-
mit bv P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B BONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s T6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, Ss 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4/6,
6/6, 10/6, 12,6
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
„ ERS; 2s. per week:
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
By using l our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling our., breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 1 Ojii and 21 - per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG <St AITKEIM ,
680 GEORGE ST,. SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT ITRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Ahinga, Friday, July 21.
Connecting with S.S. Waroonga,
leaving Melbourne July 25.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, July 29.
ALBANY, A
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Allinga, Friday, July 21.
Connecting with S.S.
Waroonga, leaving Mel-
bourne July 25.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, J uly 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
July 21.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YU ILL and CO., Ltd., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, .165 to <£llo.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ C°’ B H ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via. COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to t7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles Erclish interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Seal
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAH
VIA
Queensland Forts and Fort Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S. S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
*** G T“
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, See daily
papers, or apply to
Weber Lehmann At Co.,
GenerabAgents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER. LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton. ■ •
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unriddled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH —D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


STEWART DAWSON & CO
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS! Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No. 57. —Elegant Buckle,
18c. Gold, £2.
No. 173. —Finest White
Diamond, £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 178. —Wedding Ring,
18c. Gold, R 1 Is.
No. 66. —Carved Half Hoop,
5 fine Diamonds, £lBlos.
Others from 90s.
No. 1049.—18 c. Gold and
fine Opal, Half Hoop Bing,
£2 10s.
No. 172.'—Fine White
Diamond, £4 10s to £8 10s.
No. 79. —Elegant Double
Buckle Bing, 18c. Gold,
£2 10s.
No. 367. —Silver-plated Tea Pot
(live }4-pints), £2.
Also at 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s.
No. a9772. —Best Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver Thistle Cruet, £ll2s 6d.
Best Silver-plated Afternoon Tea Pots,
21s, 22s 6d, 255.
'
No. 82233. Best Silver-plated Toast
Back, 12s 6d.
No. 368.— Electro-Silver on Nickel Tea Pot
(five £3 3s.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Bubies, £4 7s 6d.
No. 205
No. 206
No. 213
No. 214
gjessggesia
Lady’s 9c. Gold Necklets.
9s 6d
11 s 6d
18s 6d
22s Qd
No. 1033.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
v a
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, Vin. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
£ 1 7s 6d.
No. 296 a.
Solid Silver Serviette Ring,
10s 6d.
No. e 5206.— Lady’s Long Gold Muff Chain. 9c., £2 17s 6d; 15c., £5 10$.
No. 259 a Silver Cigarette Case, elegantly
engraved, £1 7s 6d; plain, £1 ss.
Size, long, wide. Undoubtedly the best
value we have ever been in a position to place before
our customers.
The
No. 100.
‘ Little Pet’s ” Brooch,
9ct. Gold, 5s 6d.
No. 294 a.
Solid Silver Napkin Ring,
8s 6d.
No. 417. —Elegant Gilt and Nickel
Nautical Clock, with enamelled flags,
BJ4in- high, £1 Is.
No. £4867. —Lady’s Long Gold Muff Chain. 9c., £3 10s ; 15c., £6 6s.
No. 309 a.
Silver-plated Pierced Trinket
Tray, 7Jin. by 4in. 7s 6d.
No. 1097.
Finest Fng-lish Out Glass, full
size, Puff Box, with ex-
quisitely chased Solid Silver
Lid, £ll7s 6d.
Also at 16s 6d, 21s, 255.
No. 272 a.
Gent’s Solid Silver Military
Hair Brush, £1 2s 6cL
Nt. el4. —Six Silver-plated Tea Spoons,
and Sugar Tongs, in case, 11s 6d.
No. E 4576. —Silver Top Salts
Bottle, 6s 6d.
No. 272 b.
Gent’s Solid Silver Hair
Brush, £1 2s 6d.
No. 1104.—Silver - mounted
Toilet Salts Bottle, 2Jin. high,
6s 6d.
No. 234.—15 c., set Opal, £1 7s 6d.
No. 233.—15 c., set Pearls, 15s 60.
No. 245.—Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s.
No. 248. —Sterling Silver Pencil, Seal End, as.
No. 242.—15 c. and Pearl Wish Bone, 10s 6d.
No. 240. —Double Shoe, set Pearls, £1 ss.
No. 102.
Electro-Silver on Nickel Egg Frame and Spoons.
Holds 12 Eggs, £3 15s.
To hold 8 Eggs, £2 12s 6d.
1
IP
m
Presentation Sets of Dessert or Fish Knives and Forks (24 pieces in
Polished Walnut Case). Pearl Handle Dessert, £4 12s 6d ;
Ivory Handle Fish, £4 10s ; Ivory Handle Dessert, £4 12s 6d.
No. 125 R.—Best Silver-plated Revolving Vegetable Dish, £5 10s.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds, 18c.
Gold, £4 17s 6d.
No. 118.—The New Long Crocodile Purse,
3 Sterling Silver Mounts, 15s 6d ; Silver
Lock only, 10s 6d.
With 3 Gold Mounts, £ll7s 6d.
No. 45.
18c. Gold, 10 fine White
■Diamonds, £8 Bs.
No. E 2114.
Solid Silver Cloth Brush, 14s 6d.
No. 36.
5 fine White Diamonds,
ISc. Gold, £5 ss.
Diamond and Ruby or
Sapphire, £3 10s.
No. 1144. —Lady’s Elegant Silver-mounted
Purse, 9s 6d ; with 3 Gold Mounts, £1 15s.
No. 167.
1 Diamond. 2 Rubies
18c. Gold, £2 ss.
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above arS engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet op Specialties (80 pages) Post Ekee.
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street, and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY.”
says
“ Most
decidedl} .
use KOKO,'
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
Hair Failing, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating.
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation Jor the
Hair, i a/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, S<ores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS GO.. LTD.
16, Be 7 is Marks, Bondon, England.
a v=-
VS-
ik
±k
i
tk
• •
• •
Bicycle Don’ts for 1899.
DON’T buy an auction or sales wheel.
DON’T buy a wheel assembled from parts which are bought at a few
shillings a set.
DON’T buy a wheel because a friend recommended it to you; the friend
gets a commission.
DON’T buy a Cycle from a factory that does not manufacture Bicycles
exclusively.
DON’T buy a Cycle from a factory new to the business, unless you’re
, paid ; let some one else do the testing.
DON’T buy a Cycle from a dealer who sells a new make every few
months (they’ve no reputation to lose).
DON’T pay higher price than £l5 for a cycle with outside joints and cup
and cone bearings unless you don’t believe in value for money.
DON’T buy a wheel without a direct factory guarantee. You want
some security for your money.
DON’T buy a Bicycle until you have had a “ RED BIRD SPECIAL ”
shown and explained to you.
The Goold Bicycle Co. Limited .
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office) ;
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. ;
234 RUNDLE ST.
Factories Brantford, Canada.
261 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.;
ADELAIDE, S.A.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Grand National meet at Flemington,
favored by sunshine each day, must have been the most
profitable winter show in V.R.O. history. Also, it was a
bright, clean show in a sporting sense, for although the
favorites as a rule went down, and Ikey Mo, layer of
“doubles," got away with nearly the whole of his re-
ceipts, some of the winning gee-gees ran true to latest
form, which was a remarkable fact as times go. Fair-
light took a couple of hurdle races and made a good try
for a third one. Residue, after winning a flat race, started
a warm favorite for the Open Hurdle last Saturday, and
duly “romped in." Benedict was twice victorious on the
flat, and if punters didn’t get on him (at 10’s) the second
time they had only themselves to blame. Talavera cap-
tured a race and was “ placed ” for another. Borderer
and Ouyen each scored a couple of “thirds,” and veteran
Domino, who carries more public confidence than any
other Vic. horse in training, was only beaten by a short
head for the G.N. Steeplechase. This was a great race.
Twenty-one starters, only six falls, no serious accidents,
and the time 6min. 42see.—just one tick below record.
How about the alleged deterioration in racing over the
sticks ?
With Domino in front at the distance-post two
or three thousand punters started to rejoice aloud. The
grey-haired one carried 12st. 101 b., but his is a brawny back,
and the weight didn’t give pause to the public, anyway.
Cheers for good old Domino ! Then the adjacent Mysore
—an unconsidered 9-st.oner with string-halt—was seen to
be troubling the leader ; the certainty grew less and less
certain, and the multitude dropped its jaw. The Mani-»
folds’ Mysore had pipped Domino on the post. Maybe
the grey lost the race through clouting some of his fences.
He is a safe conveyance, but he is apt to take foolish
liberties with the top-rails.
Mysore, by the way, had been muoh fancied on
the Wednesday for the Steeplechasers’ Flat Race, wherein
he ran fast enough to give the stable some hope that he
might just manage to win over the big jumps. Never-
theless, the “ books,” who laid 25 to 1 against Mysore,
showed wisdom in paying little heed to the S. F.R.
running as a test of Steeplechase chances. Happy Jack
had come with a triumphant rush at the end of the two
miles on the flat, yet, when called upon to go three miles,
with obstacles en route, the South Australian nag was an
un-Happ.v Jack all the time. Likewise Gladstone, of
N.S.W., seemed quite a champion among steeplechasers
on the flat, but, as a jumper, he shaped like one born to
eome to grief.
* * * *
Told of one horse in G.N. Steeplechase field
that his owner, whilst apparently very drunk, was
pressed to put a price on the animal. “ Give me a
hundred and I'll sellim,” said the owner, whereupon the
“ sharps,” thinking to take advantage of his deplor-
able condition, put down £lOO in notes. The “ jug-
gins” gathered up the hoodie with shaky hands, stuffed
it into his pocket, and said, “ Now, I’ll sellim. My price
is two-thousand blanky quid.” Here we see the awful
effects of intemperance upon people who didn't get
intoxicated !
* * * »
No first favorites got home on the Wednesday
of Flemington G.N. meeting. One was a 5 to 4on chance,
and the last to get beaten went out. at 2 to 1 against, con-
sequently followers of the “system ’’ must have had a bad
time. Working on the £lO scale—i.e.,a win of £lO clear,
at starting price, the first, time a favorite scored—the
system men would lose about £75 on the day.
* * * *
The 2-miles Steeplechasers’ Flat Race promises
to be one of the most popular sporting V.R.O. events.
Fourteen horses started for it last week, and every one of
them had backers at prices ranging from 7 to 2 to 10 or
12 to 1. A glorious betting race for the “books” this
must have been, and certainly an interesting display for
the public. Old Gladstone, from N.S. W., who carried
top-weight (list. 101 b.) into second place, was the hero of
the slow-time struggle.
* * * •
Residue won a 1J mile flat race at Flemington
in such good style that his poor show in the G.N. Hurdle
four days previously may be set down to want of stamina.
The RusBley horse jumped cleverly enough, but the dis-
tance was too long for him, perhaps.
• * • •
A good example of the insufferable gall of Ikey
Mo was furnished on the second day of the recent V.R.O.
meeting. Not a single one of the favorites for the first
four races had won (two of them, Benedict at 12 to 1, and
Rockwell at 10 to 1, absolutely unbacked), yet the books
opened betting on the fifth race at the liheral odds of even
money and 6to 4 Chokebore (who did not win), which
price, on the backing of several other horses, was eventu-
ally lengthened to 2to 1. Where, oh where, is the tote 7
* * * ' *
The howl of Ikey Mo at the unexpected good
play of one “Prosper," in the Victorian Club billiard
tournament, was quite a heartrending joke. The dark
“ Prosper,” like many other punters and bookmakers
before him, contrived to get “thrown into’’ the handi-
cap. Perhaps he played a little “ stiff ” before the event,
or, more likely, he remained genuinely out of practice
until the time came for him to get fit to do his best. Any
man who, having learned to play a decent amateur game,
allows himself to get rusty, can improve his “ form ”
fully 40 or 50 points in 100 by a month’s assiduous prac-
tice. He can bring himself almost level with one who
could give him half the game before he went into train-
ing. “Prosper” was handicapped to receive 160 (out of
250) in the tournament; his revelation of improved form
made him a “dead bird” for first prize—and, lot the
blessed club, the congregation of professional sharps, and
flats whoaspire to be sharps—complained that “ Prosper”
had imposed upon its innocence. The agitation was
started by Ikey Mo, needless to say, for, although
the handicapper laid a formal complaint before the club
committee, the fact of “Prosper” winning one or two
heats easily wouldn't have been anything of an “ outrage”
but for the'wagers he had taken. The artful novice, it
seems, secured £l5OO about his chance, at an average of
20 to 1. That 'was where his 'wickedness came in. He
played so promisingly from the outset as to paralyse the
market and give his beaky “ victims” no chance to hedge
their bets on satisfactory terms—in other words, to pass
the loss on to somebody else.' The books would have
been glad to find half-a-dozen other “ Prospers” in the
field to make speculation lively, but as there was only
the one “ good thing” in the tournament the men who
had laid 20 to 1 against it were unable to get out of their
little trouble—wherefore they howled like dingoes. By the
way, “Prosper” (real name Graham) stated that he
didn’t back himself to win more than a fifth of £l5OO, but
even though he had succeeded in breaking the Ring
he wouldn’t have been a more reprehensible schemer
than the horse-owner who plans a big handicap coup, or
the Ikey who upsets his calculations by nobbling the
jockey. When Ikey is “ had ” the angels flap their wings
for joy.
• • * •
Lilley well earned his place in the test-team
over his rival, Storer. Against the Australian XI. he has
kept wickets in six matches, and dismissed 17 batsmen,
nearly three per innings. The batting average is 25.
Storer is supposed to have a pull over Lilley in so much
that he can bowl, but this year his googlers do not seem
to have succeeded.
* * • •
With Hill out of the way, Noble scored the
first 1000 runs easily enough. Hill being 200 short of the
four figures before his temporary retirement. It must be
noted, however, that Noble has had 29 innings to Hill’s
13. The race for the first 100 wickets promises to be
exciting. Trumble is not 10 ahead of his compeers,
Jones and Howell, but the Victorian’s consistency will
probably prevent him being deprived of his present lead.
* • * *
Considering that All-England is sorely in need
of a fast bowler, one would have expected the uncertain
Lockwood to be given another show as a representative
player. Sometimes the Surrey man is very deadly with
the ball, and he often manages to make runs when
“ crack ” batsmen are failing. He scored steadily in both
innings against the Australians in their opening match at
Crystal Palace, but was not included in the Surrey team
when Billowell took the 10 wickets for 28.
• * • *
Laver never made a cipher in big matches
in Australia during his career, but he has the record in
England for the learn in scoring “ eggs.”
* • * *
The luck of the toss has been considerably in
favor of Darling’s side thus far, but the weather has been
bad for them and the gate-money not nearly so much as
they might have made, given harder wickets and a larger
proportion of attractive fixtures. Their list doesn’t in-
clude matches with the Gentlemen, the Players, the
North of England, or any semi-representative team save
“ M. 0.0. and Ground ” —Ground meaning professional
bowlers in this connection.
* • * •
Remarkable that the Essex team which so fairly
held its own against the Australians on a bowler's
wicket should have collapsed before Lockwood and Brock-
well last week. 6 wickets for 18, and 4 for 19 were the
Surrey men’s averages.
[ • • * *
Peel's inclusion against the visitors in the Truro
picnic-match came as a surprise, for, as the result of
Bobby's fracas with the Yorkshire executive, he was ex-
cluded altogether from county cricket, and he is now
engaged in coaching Essex. Yorkshire must be a difficult
team, or else there is too much starch in the manage-
ment. Jackson, their boss amateur player, recently had
a row with the committee, and Rhodes also was missing
from the county’s second match with the Australians.
* • * *
The Bananalanders fairly romped over N.S.
Welshmen at Brisbane last Sat., getting more than quits
for the licking they sustained a week before. Q. men
(vastly superior to mother province’s reps.) were aggres-
sors throughout and unlucky not to score twice the
number of points they did. Game ended 12—3. Per-
sonnel of home combination somewhat different from that
of previous Saturday—four fresh men added—hence im-
provement. As stated in Bulletin last week N.S.VV. was
not represented by anything like her proper strength,
but victory in the first match came as a big surprise.
Rev. Mullineux’s British team plays its second test-match
against Australia in Northern capital to-day (Sat.).
• • * *
English footballer-parson Mullineux charac-
terises as “provoking ” and “disagreeable” an Austra-
lian “forward’s” gentle habit of driving his elbow
violently into an opponent’s face. Suggestive of a S.M.
Herald leader “deprecating” an assassination, or of
the celebrated Irish election intimation that “ the use of
iron bars instead of sticks is undesirable.”
• * • •
Rev. Mullineux’s chin-wagging at Rockhampton
(Q-). t’other day, clinched his gradually-growing unpopu-
larity. Ranji’s experience should have been a lesson to
him. Mr. Mull, had a growl at M.L. referee Garrard,
brought over to'Sydney so that no charge of partiality
could lie ; then the Brisbane official came in for more
severe treatment —his errors (according to Mull.) being
“unpardonable.” The rev. gentleman is alleged to have
said: “This is the first match we have played in which
there has been no pointing against us. By pointing I
mean dirty little tricks from which we have suffered in
the big cities.” Which recalls that in the Sydney match
the referee and many onlookers had something to say re
the “ fairness ” with which his reverence put the ball
into the scrum.
* * * •
S.A. and Victoria meet at lacrosse, on Adelaide
Oval, on 29th, and the match, on paper, looks a gift for
the former. Last year, Victoria beat a weak team from
S.A., in Melb., by 8 goals to 1, but on their home ground
the Adelaide players are almost invincible. The game
is as popular in the city of churches as football, whereas
Melb. clubs have never been able to fight “the Aus-
tralian game.”
• • * •
Thirty (now called hurling) clubs, “Michael
Davitt”and “Robert Emmet,” supply fast and furious
fun for thousands at Tempe, near Sydney, every Sunday
afternoon. Most go by train, and Railway Department
profits accordingly. Last Sunday's game beggared the
toughest football-match or the hottest fist-fight—4ooo
people looked on. An “ Emmet ” man had his “ shkull ”
laid open, and hlood fairly gushed from a big, gaping
wound. Game went on just the same, while - women
screeched and men roared with excitement. ' Another
match is billed for this Sabbath.
* * * •
“Old Timer”: Saw the goriest of gory fights
in connection with Golden Gate club’s (Sydney) 9st.
novice tourney last Wednesday night. Campbell and De
Vere (ye gods!) fought and fought like demons; they
bashed, jabbed and thumped so that their classic mugs
were barely distinguishable through the mask of gore.
The show would have satiated the veriest glutton for
“ber-lud.” Blood bespattered the ropes, the posts, the
spectators in immediate proximity; it showed in great
daubs on the referee’s shirt and covered his hands—still
the men were strong, and the crowd looking on howled
again. Campbell stood the brunt of the battering in first
few rounds, but literally wore his man down and won.
Campbell met Riley on Saturday night in third round of
same competition. All Wednesday’s wounds were re-
opened, together with one or two more. Riley contributed
his quota to the flow of ruby, and excitement reached
bursting-point when, during some mad in fighting, Riley’s
hard-as-flint head crashed against Campbell’s chin with a
mighty crash that could be heard yards away, and Camp-
bell lay spread-eagled—a dweller in sluinberland for the
time being. The crowd cheered frantically while sturdy
seconds half-dragged, half-carried theii limp, fallen prin-
cipal to his chair. Remember, beginning of present de-
cade, Harry Beckett and Wynne fighting at old S.A.G.
club, York-street, Sydney, for middleweight amateur
championship. Both were covered with gore so thickly
that they looked as if just come out of the shambles.
Through their heads coming together in rushes, Beckett’s
forehead was opened in three places, Wynne’s in four.
Sawdust had afterwards to be thrown on the ring-floor to
soak up the blood, and the gloves, new at the beginning
of the slaughter, were saturated through and through.
Club-secretary Corbett had them hanging in his office for
months as mementoes of the goriest of battles. Beckett
won.
* * * *
The tough element in pugilism begins to show
itself with the growth of the boom. On Saturday night
last, at Golden Gate Club (Sydney), one ornament of the
profession burst into the ring and rushed towards a well-
known sporting writer screeching with maniacal fury,
“I’ll shoot the 1” pulling something from his
pocket the while. The house was packed," and those
around the scribe begged him to get away, fearing the
howling bruiser might have a pistol. The pug. was soon
overpowered, however, and hurled, frothing at the
mouth, out into the night. The incident created a sen-
sation while it lasted, and about 50 people stampeded
through the long narrow passage. Golden Gate will be
short-lived if this man’s presence is tolerated there. The
last pug. to attack a reporter in Sydney was grizzly Joe
Goddard, but a heavy fine and costs effectively weaned
him of his zest for that particular pastime.
• • * •
Safe to say no fight in N.S.W., for years past,
has created so much interest as that, at Wyalong, to-
night (Thursday), between Jack Goggin and Jack Conlon,
for £lOO a-side and £5O purse. YVyalong is Goggin’s home,
and miners will put their all on him. He is president of
the Miners’ Association, and extremely popular. A solid
contingent of Sydney sports left Tuesday and Wednesday
to rake in the shekels on their dead-sure thing—Conlon.
They might “ fall in,” but writer hardly thinks so.
m * * *
A marvellous exhibition of grit and gruel was
the fight between Tim Murphy (10.4) and Fred Preston
(12st.) at Melb. Vic. Hall last Saturday night. From the
gong the men fought like tigers, appeals for fouls came
from both corners at short intervals, and yet there was
little clinching, and no hit that was more than technically
unfair. At the end of three rounds, Murphy, who has
learnt much since his last defeat by Preston, landed his
shorter and burlier antagonist with both hands, and had
he not had a rest through an appeal for fouling, Preston
would have outed right away. As it was, the rest brought
him round, and he knocked Murphy’s head like a China
mandarin's in the next couple of rounds. Then the out-
fighting of the lathy youngster scored—he brought
Preston down in the 6th round, and in the 7th the
veteran pug had to stop, dropping “all out” into
his chair. Murphy fairly smothered the heavy man at a
distance, and, though he was badly marked at close
quarters, Australia has mighty few, and the world not
many, men at 10.4 who could whip Murphy to-day. What
a showing-up does the crookedness of the average glove-
contest get when two real-goers like these come along
and give each other enough in 18 minutes !
* * * *
Cabled that Sydney champion sprinter Jack
Hellings won Southern Counties (Eng.) 100yds. swimming
championship in lmin. ssec. Hellings has been “down
under ” about three years. He “ went off” last season,
but his latest feat means return to old form, and that
he’ll be well up with his fellow countryman, Freddy
Lane, whenever they meet. J.H. was never too good
beyond 500yds.
* * * *
Cabled that English top-notch swimmer Jarvis
won 1000yds. ohampionship at Walsall last Saturday,
and put up a new world’s record—l4m. lOsec. Previous
best (15in. 2sec.) stood in Tyers’ name. Fastest ever done
in Australia was when Bill Corbett (N.S.W.) and Wally
M’lndoe (Vic.) swam their match at then Robinson’s, now
Hellings’, baths. Domain, 17 years ago. M‘lndoe won by
6yds., after a desperate finish, in 14m. 34sec. The
swimmers turned every 50,vds. without aid of push-off.
Australasian Champion Lane should figure in English
half-mile premiership at Brighton to-day (Saturday), and
if writer is not mistaken, will swim second, should Jarvis
start —first otherwise. Also noticed in cables that that
wh te-headed little speed-merchant from WoolloomoOloo
Bay (Hellings) again won City of London championship—
this time easily. Last year he just got home, and no
more. The advent of Ids fellow-countryman, Lane, has
apparently put Jack on his mettle.
• • * *
Atop of Gray’s and Miller’s we now have
Deeble’s starting-machine, which looks the simplest and
most certain of the lot. Two uprights on either side of
track and a rope stretched between, one end supported
by an inverted hook, and other by a pin. A lever at the
pin side releases both ends instanter, and simultaneously
rope drops to ground without twist or curl, before jockeys
or horses realise what has happened. Not the remotest
risk of tripping or in any way interfering with the
animals’ legs exists. Probable that the latest invention
will be given a trial at one of the horse meetings shortly
—perhaps Moorefield next Saturday.
* • • *
The third test-match seems to have played poor
little Briggs to a finish. The epileptic fit which struck
him down has left him permanently “queer ” in the head,
it is feared, although his burly body remains sound, Is
it the cricket or the “ recreation ” off the field that does
the damage ? Didn't Scotton, the good-looking Notting-
ham stone-waller, go mad ? Midwinter died in an asylum.
Uarry Trott and now Briggs are mentally run out.
• * • *
Ex-Australian Eleven man Walter Giffen —
George’s little brother—has quite renounced the family
devotion to cricket in the hot pursuit after slugs and
“ likely shows.” His party has done very well at Blum-
berg, S.A., for the last couple of years, and was repre-
sented by Giffen and another among the first rushers
after the Centralian tellurides.
• * « *
Curious thing how records chase each other.
Long ago, in the first test-match in England, Grace put
up 152, and Murdoch promptly topped it with 153, not
out. Brown and Tunnioliffe made 378-for first wicket in
’97, beating a record that had stood for five years—and
within a fortnight Abel and Brockwell had gone just one
run better. This season Howell takes 10 for 28. No one
had taken the whole 10 since ’95 ; but within a fortnight
there are two men with 9 for 28, and in a month the-
whole 10 are bagged again.
• * * *
There must be a good market in India for smart
Australian ponies ; the price of Beccles (late Rose 1., of
Sydney renown) is just about £5OO.
* * * •
We are requested to inform Bulletin readers
that the management of the Sydney Safe Deposit (in Ash-
street, back of Paling’s, Sydney) have decided, with a
view to popularising the use of the safes, to offer a special
discount of 25 per cent, to persons paying rent for two
years in advance. At present the annual rents in advance
are from two to six guineas, and the new system will
have the effect of reducing the rents to from lj to 4£
guineas. It has also been decided to lease safes at from
15s. per quarter and 255. per half year, a further innova-
tion.*
The average person hears the alarming
word coffin-ship without a thrill. It isn’t his
coffin-ship, and he doesn’t intend it to be his
funeral. Even when he goes voyaging, he takes
stone building that everything is all right, and 99
times in 100 he is justified. The 100th time
well, this is what a Sydney Evening News re-
porter saw on a tour of inspection among active-
service steamers round Sydney harbour.
No. 1 vessel; a passenger steamer, “ which has
frequently carried many hundreds of people.” She lay
upon a slip receiving overhaul . . . The reporter
saw one plate taken otf, and as it was laid on the ground
he gently prodded it with his umbrella, spotting it with
holes as if a pencil had been jabbed into a sheet of note-
paper. There was no necessity to do this except curio-
si ty, for the plate was full of holes, varying in size from
that of a sixpence to a pin’s point. Daylight could be
seen through the plate in dozens of places, and the plate
had been worn to such a degree of thinness that pieces of
the rust-enc.rusted iron could readily be broken off by
hand with the aid of an occasional “ jab” of the umbrella
ferule. This particular plate, it may be stated, was the
second from the keel in the forepeak, and when the
vessel was afloat was well under water.
Further on, on the same vessel, a workman was
repairing a plate in situ. He—
was about to commence the making of a hole, when at
the first blow of the hammer, the chisel flew through the
plate up to the man’s fist, just as a sharp knife might be
plunged into a child’s toy drum. Another plate in the
same vessel had a big hole in it the size of a breakfast
cup.
To No. 2 vessel the reporter came too late—she
had been nicely painted up, and nothing was
visible. No. 3 was a cargo steamer—
This particular vessel, when seen by our reporter, had
been practically replated along the greater part of her
hull. Some of the old plates, however, remained, above
the water-line, bearing several large holes, and worn to
the thinness in places of a sheet of paper. Old plates
taken from this vessel were also examined, and many of
them were found to be completely riddled with holes, as
a wooden target might be if aimed at at close range with
a Nordenfeldt gun. This is only a cargo-carrier, but she
carries a crew of from 20 to 30 men.
And doubtless there are others in a similar condi-
tion, with the fossilised Marine Board blinking
cheerfully over all. Yet, when attention is
drawn to this state of things in Parlia-
ment, a steamship-owners’representative is bound
to get up and assure the public, on his honor and
his waistcoat, that Marine Board inspection is not
a farce, and that every vessel sailing out of Sydney
is as sound as a whistle—till the gale comes. Will
Premier Reid abolish the Marine Board this ses-
sion , and safeguard the public and the seamen ?
Cardinal Moran’s tirade against Protestant
missionary work in the Pacific was ill-timed.
The “ Glorious Twelfth ” just passed had
momentarily aroused the sleeping Yellow Pup,
and the chance for a snarl at Rome was too
plainly offered to resist. The accursed sec-
tarian battle cries are again being raised, and
the clumsy Cardinal is this time to blame for
startiug the row. If the Protestant missions
need condemnation the head of the opposition
shop is absolutely the very last person who
should condemn them. As charity begins
at home, it would be well for both sects
to absolutely drop their foreign missions
and attend to the crying wants of their own
local dependents, many of whom are in greater
need of counsel and salvation than the happy,
heedless, island blacks. Let the next volunteer
for China or India carefully read the deposi-
tions in the case of one John Williams, tried
for his life a few months ago in a Western
N.S.W. township, and then decide whether he
cannot devote his philanthropic energies to
civilising his own people ere embarking for the
better-advertised and more showy foreign work.
♦
The Mirquis of Tweeddale, the Grand
Panjandrum of the Eastern Telegraph Co., which
so loudly protests'against the proposed all-British
cable, comes from a stock in which the pug. ele-
ment was very strong. His father used to go
about rigged up in old, seedy clothes' searching
for “trouble,” and enjoyed a “dust-up” as
thoroughly as a bull-terrrier. Few professional
pugilists could best him, and then only after a
tough go, from which the other man never emerged
unscathed.
A London correspondent of Sydney D.T.
tells two good stories, of the Benjamin Trovato
order, about Queen Victoria. The first: —“A
young officer who had been on duty at Balmoral —
a nice-looking boy—was killed at Omdurman.
The Queen, with her faultless memory, recalled
his face, and recollected that she had heard of his
marriage some months before his death. On
inquiry, it was found that his widow, a girl of 19,
was in great trouble. Her baby, born since its
father’s death, was terribly ill. The Empress
Queen sat down and wrote a letter to
the young mother, which ended as follows:
‘ And, my dear, if you will take the advice of an
experienced mother, you will feed him on donkey’s
milk.’” The other : “ During the Sirdar’s trium-
phant progress through England after the Soudan
campaign, he, of course, went to visit the Queen.
Her Majesty was gracious to him, and it is re-
ported that the Sirdar made himself very agree-
able in return. The next day the Queen remarked
simply, ‘ I had been told he did not like women,
but he was very nice to me.’ ” •


You Don’t Need
to hunt for
level roads
if you ride a
MASSEY-HARRIS
Bicycle.
Runs Easy and
Keeps Running 1 Easy.
Established 1847.
Ma&Scy-Narris Co., Ltd.,
Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headquarters 163-169 William
Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W. Headquarters 385 Georg-e Street,
Sydney.
S.A. Headquarters—ls 2 Rundle Street.
N.Z. Headquarters—Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Queensland Headquarters Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Melbourne Depot—294 Bourke Street.
nOUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and CONSUMPTION.
THE FAMOUS REMEDV,
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in
Australia.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The “ Scientific Australian ” Office,
169 Queen St., Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman was some three years ago recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Coll ins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
69 Queen-street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36 dozen
Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our cheque to
cover amount of order.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of. A
gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
Wholesale Chemists.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
CURED IN TEN DAYS.
W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had some months ago a very severe attack of
bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken, with
immediate curative effect.—l am, my dear Sir, Yours
faithfully,
R. QUARRILL, Editor “Geelong Advertiser.”
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small size, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address,
when not obtainable locally.
Public Companies.
"VT EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
-LI D. and I. CO., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General MEETING of the Shareholders in
above Company will be held on MONDAY, 3lsb
inst., upon the Company’s premises at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors.
LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
BUSINESS :
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-
sheet.
To elect two Directors in the room of Samuel
Payten, Esq., and Edwin Chisholm,
Esq.', whose term of office expires by
effluxion of time. Both these gentlemen
are eligible for re-election, and offer them-
selves accordingly.
To elect two Auditors for the coining twelve
months. Messrs. J. B. C. Miles and J.
H. Davies are eligible, and offer them-
selves for re election.
And to transact any other business that may
be brought before the meeting in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 15th July, 1899.
XTEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PLETE
J_\ D. and I. CO., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st inst. inclusive.
LEWIS LEVY,
Manager.
Dated 15th July, 1899.
N ,w
ZEALAND
COMPANY.
INSURANCE
Shareholders in the above Company are hereby
notified that an Interim Dividend of 2/- per Share
for Half-year ended Hist May last is now payable
at the Company’s Offices, 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. A. MINNETT,
Acting Manager.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
tT. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is ... .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Offioe.
Proprietor - • GKO. W. ELLIS.
*
>
tzeizej
PERFECT Bicycle
as the name implies, has no superior.
The DOMINION
affords the best value at a low price.
*%■ APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
(Sole Distributing Agent for Australasia)
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
ioyoles, Accessories, and Material
263-2G5 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ms
: 8
BH
wsam
%
mm
•SB
m
mm
Jievet /rjind babyl Jt will soon grow now."
‘HARLEHE’
™ hair.
The very Finest D res sing.
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair,
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
■|/«, 2/6, and (triple z '6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Darlene Do.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
SK FOB
D.C.t-^ KV .
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
D.C.L.one quality only
THE BRAND
OF MERIT
UjßjJraJl
TCyy
MU
lIISIIp
mem
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
THE BEST. ALWAYS THE SAME
VISITORS TO THE
OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS. \t
Electric Light.
(Undei* Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
lnstitute, apd. In the
midst pf the FashiormbJe Quarter. :
MOD.ERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road, London. S.W.
1 1
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
dES 103.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Rest Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write nie’Vypur requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
■ Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY Queen's Bridge, MELBOURNE
AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
Second Edition. 220pp.—4s. 6d.
THE
Battery managers
IRItND
RA.HERVEY.
171
CLAREHC£,ST;,;^^
The Golden Group of the Golden West.
Every Westralian Investor should have Clark and
Co.’s Revised Map of the famous
BOULDER BELT OF THE KALGOORLIE
GOLD-BEARING MINES.
Showing Late Developments, Underground Workings
and Trend of the Lodes. Price, 10s. 6d. ’
CLARKE & CO, (A. Rubter Clarke), Adblaid*.
What surprised Best and Trenwith most
in Maoriland was to find that, contrary to the ex-
perience of all other nations, the half-castes were
superior people, and prouder of their aboriginal
strain than of the other.
“ In Memoriara ” from Melb. Argus
KLAVVS. —In loving memory of my dear old friend,
Will Klaws, who died on the 17th June, 1898, at
St. Kilda. Good old Bill, hie very presence drove
dull care away. (Inserted by Ted Jones, Kalgoor-
lie, W.A.)
The Clydesdale Centrifugal Sluicing Co. is
another project for washing up a considerable
portion of this golden continent. There are
several attractive features set forth in prospeotus,
which appears in another column, which probably
account for shares being rapidly applied for.*
The Royal Humane Society doesn’t rush
things much. Thirty-nine years ago a Vio.
miner, Wm. Fraser, rescued a couple of mates
from foul air, and was awarded a silver medal.
Next year he lost it in a snowstorm in Maoriland,
and applied for a duplicate. Last month it came
to hand—37 years' afterwards ! For 36 years he
had thought that his claim had been disallowed.
At Wantabadgery station, near Junee, a
man said he would suicide if the Commonwealth
Bill were adopted—and he did :
He quite believed the Antis who
Made prophesies so foul and grim ;
. And sought the Hell the cleric drew
To dodge the one they promised him.
The Q. anti-Feds. are making elaborate
preparations to turn the approaching South Bris-
bane (Q.) bye-election to party advantage. They
have subscribed all the expenses of the alleged
Government candidate, and hope to use the result
as a conclusive demonstration of anti-Federalism
in the metropolis. When the figures go up some-
one will be anxiously enquiring what has been
done with his money.
Henry Turley, former member of Q.
Assembly, is now a candidate for his old seat —
rendered vacant by the sudden death of Mr.
Luya. Turley, who was much handicapped at the
general elections by a weak colleague, is an ardent
Federalist and a man of brains and grit. He is a
Laborist of acknowleged strength and rectitude.
His opponent is a commonplace alderman of anti-
Federal failings and no particular parts. The
result of the election will show to what extent —if
any —the Brisbane worker is influenced by the
jeremiads of the local Telegraph.
The colored-alien-labor-loving Brisbane
Telegraph sent the Q. metropolis into uncontrol-
lable hysterics the other day by hoisting the motto,
“Queensland for Queenslanders.” The parson-
ridden rag has consistently and bellicosely
barracked for the Kanaka and Coolie and Japanee
and Afghan and Dago and every other known
form of cheap foreigner likely to enter into unfair
competition with the local white worker ; but
when the democratic Commonwealth Bill comes
upon the scene and threatens to give a big impetus
to Q. Radicalism, and proposes to take over the
question of colored-alien importation, the black-
labor prophet has the front to pose before the
masses as the apostle of “ Queensland for Queens-
landers ! ” After that -anything.
From the letter of an Australian miner
who has spent several years on the Rand :
There are three parties in the Transvaal-the old Boer
party, who want things to remain as they are ; the great
body of Uitlanders, who want a republic with equal
rights for all; and lastly, the most insignificant in point
of numbers, a blatant body of excessively loyal English-
men, who want the country to pass under British con-
trol. Seventy-five per cent, of the Uitlanders are not
British in the proper sense of the word. Even most of
those who speak the English language on the Rand are
Americans and Australians, and these men are unani-
mously in agreement with the great majority of Wtlan-
ders that if they can effect the overthrow of Kruger and
his oligarchy' they' will fight with the Boers, if necessary,
to prevent Rhodes and his gang of speculative mining
monopolists from jumping the country and making it a
place in which a white man would soon find it hard to
get a job.
Sydney receives the glad news that the
goat is an illegal animal—in the daytime, anyhow.
At all events, Hatte, the large and well-known
Newtown (Sydney) draper tried to draw attention
to his cheap sale per medium of a gaudily-attired
advertising goat which was led through the streets.
And he was fined something considerable for
illegally advertising upon a noisome animal, or
conduct calculated to lead to a breach of the
peace, or something. The law has always been
more or less of an ass, and the ass and the goat
never got on well together.
There is already a movement in Australia
—principally in N.S.W.— to send a filibustering
band to help in the prospective war against the
Transvaal. If N.S.W. does help, even in the
smallest degree, to wipe out the Boer State be-
cause it treats its aliens rather better in the
matter of the franchise than Britain does, and
because the syndicate-mongers of Johannesburg
want privileges which Britain never dreams of
granting to the Dutchman in the United King-
dom, it will be a far worse blot on this country
than the foolish ass-capture in the Soudan. And
if N.S.W. in general approves of the iniquity,
then it will be only just retribution if, some day
when she is fighting for her own existence, some
other nation sends along a gang of filibusters to
shoot the Cornstalk down from pure love of
murder.


Do you want
Consumption?
We are sure you do not. Nobody wants
it. But it conies to many thousands every
year. It comes to those who have had
coughs and colds until the throat is raw, and
the lining membrane of the lungs is in-
flamed. Stop your cough when it first ap-
pears, and you remove the great danger of
future trouble.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral
stops coughs of all kinds. It does so because
it is a soothing and healing remedy of great
power. This makes it the greatest preven-
tive to consumption. It is not a question of
many bottles and large doses. A few drops
will often make a complete cure. Don’t neg-
lect your cough: you cannot afford to run the
risk. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral will soothe your
raw throat and quiet your inflamed lungs.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is blown in the glass of
each bottle. Put up in large and small bottles.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtln constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and intereating
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* Tia* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
"SOU) BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WOULD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till deatli releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of tin* Grasshopper on a
green la! el on ach box. (Regd. oopy.rL lit).
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
& F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DJbiilf'Y CO MFBTITIOKT.
WINES “ e Best Brands only 01 SPIRITS.
<B><c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, STDIEY.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra),
near
SYDNEY.
SM ELTEES.
REFINEES.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
Hi
HI si;
at
-
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW ABRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, ju£ AD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD
INFANTS
9
sr m
Food is sold in various
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of nil Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
AND
THE ACED.
Dear Bulletin.—l have spent a weekly
hard-earned 6d. on your “ red rag ” for many
years now, and will continue to do so from habit,
like the opium-habit and other vices. I have
never written you previously, but I now rise to
ask who is George Pile and what are the pedigree
and performances of his dawg?—W.H.M.
[G. Pile is a mild-looking little Sydney man whose
ferocious anti-Federal sentiments look quite out of keep-
ing with his beaming benevolence. And his dog looks so
fierce and sour that an impression arose that he supplied
the sentiments. Writer was going home one night with
two other Federationists when the dog came out and bit
all three, whereas Mr. Pile never bit anybody. Which
convinced him that the dog was the real anti-Federalist.
And thereafter, out of a sense tf justice, when Mr. Pile
delivered a wild anti-Federal oration, this paper set it
down to Mr. Pile’s dog, who composed the speech in his
kennel the previous night. Writer lost several nights’
sleep through Mr. Pile’s dog (which lives in same street)
delivering anti-Federal addresses to writer’s demoralised
Federal cat.]
About eight years ago a cosmopolitan pro-
fessor, with an unpronouneable name, staggered
the scientific world by solidifying air. The pro-
fessor produced a solid lump of air, about the size
of a walnut, at a cost of several hundred pounds.
While experimenting with his new toy something
happened—the professor woke up a fortnight
later and asked who had hit him, and why he was
not in his own home. He was informed that his
home vvas chiefly fragments, and people were
anxious to know what new explosive he had been
dabbling with. Now, one Charles E. Tripler, of
New York, has constructed machinery which re-
duces the temperature in its innards to 312 deg.
F. below zero. At this unutterable depth of chill
air is so contracted as to become a liquid. Com-
pared with 312 below zero the ordinary atmosphere
in which we eat, drink and have our love-making
is a raging furnace, and immediately the liquefied
air comes in contact with it it starts to vaporise,
just as water does into steam when it comes into
contact with 212 deg. of heat. The expansion of
air from liquid to vapor supplies 100 tunes more
force than that of water to steam, and as the
atmosphere takes the place of the furnace, in the
industrial and mechanical application of liquid
air there will be a mighty saving in the cost of
fuel, large boilers, and all the complicated
machinery in vogue to create and conserve power.
The N. Y. man says that even with his experimental
machinery, he can make the stuff at a cost of about
lOd. per gal. And as the expansion and power-pro-
duction of one gallon of liquid air is equal to that
of lOOgals. of water, with the cost of the furnace
saved in addition, the extent to which the utilisa-
tion of liquid air will reduce the cost of produc-
tion can be put down as revolutionary. The new
substance is as full of freaks as a new woman. It
“ boils ” or vapourises with a homely-kettle song
on a block of ice, as ice is, in comparison, a slow
fire; it turns alcoholic spirits into ice, makes
mercury hard as chilled steel, renders gold, silver,
copper, and other metals as jjliable as india-
rubber, snaps brass, steel and iron like glass, eats
away diseased flesh from wounds utterly and
without pain; cotton-waste soaked in it and
ignited explodes with a force to which that of
gun-cotton is but as an elephant’s kick. Alto-
gether it seems as if the use of steam was about to
end suddenly and be succeeded by that of liquid
air. In which case a manufacturing city will
cease to he the smoky, unhealthy horror it is
to-day.


Hi!i RaSSn?(i£ScQ’& AlfaliQC Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Tears.
'■HesaeaeBaanaHBHBBHBHHnMHBBHBaBBaEaHBRDHBBKaDcmnBBBBsannnHBaBBBHHBBanMana
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe H OW to obtain Free Book, “The Natural Doctor.” Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
I
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALKALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and 1 have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALIN.E UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALKALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
Irom being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your.books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor”—sent free.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “ The Natural Doctor ’’—sent free.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Munvillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had iried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity. Yours Grate-
fully, THUS. KING. Witness Frank Gkikkkt.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
EEgPSpl'
illf
imnnmiiniiffliiuiiiiiTUfi
Hlitliillh
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
AIF ALINE VITALITY pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Aifaline BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALP ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
m
m
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
A If aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR 'RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSIXIUSSeiI,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus— f
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDTMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solenin’v and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hkrr Rass-
mossen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
For further testimonials, see my new book, “The
Natural Doctor”—sent free.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, t onsutnption, Bronchitis
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions, bottles. Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Wortos both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—Thit
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
line
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
- 547 GEORGE ST.,
SIDIE9,
BRISBANE 160 ( t ueen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 15<i Randle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z WELLINGTON ... 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W. A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOEGrARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller))
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-street (opposite F. 0.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street?


THE . . .
CiMUPHOIIE
[Continued from last week].
BEFORE going into further particulars of what
the marvellous Talking Machine can do, it
will be as well to say a few words about the discs
on which the records are etched.
They are made of rubber, hardened, and are
separate from the machine. It is on this rubber
disc that the sound wave is preserved. They are
quite flat, 7in. in diameter, and the record of
songs, etc., is etched upon them in spiral circles,
sufficiently deep to be safe from all ordinary
handling. In fact, you can give them to the
baby to play with, or use them for pitching
quoits, without fear of injury.
Owing to their shape and durability, they are
very easily posted to any part of Australasia, per
parcels post, and one having purchased a
GRAMOPHONE
an endless supply of NEW RECORDS can be
obtained ; and, as fresh supplies come, supple-
mentary catalogues are printed, and will be for-
warded to all registered addresses.
Apply for Catalogues of Records, and Price
Lists of Machines, 'to —
I. P. SyKES
227 Little Collins-st^
Melbourne.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phonograph
(Albert & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents)
Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest St.an-
dnrd. Best Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT & SON,
118 SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
Amusements.
T
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
the BroCigb Co.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JULY 20,
“The Physician.”
An Original Play in Four Acts, by Henry Arthur Jones.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Company, in
Tb€ : Merciless : World.
SATURDAY, July 22— ‘
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
OUR NATIVE HOME.”
PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
10 WN HALL, SYDNEY. 1/- “POPS.”
Every SATURDAY Evening, at 8 o'clock.
Every WEDNESDAY Afternoon, at 3 o’clock.
THE SUCCESS OF THE YEAR!
| NEWBURY-SPADA X- “POPS.”
And Last Appearances of
HERR ALBERT FRIEDENTIIAL.
A Reserved Seat at Paling’s for ONE SHILLING.
Manager ... Archibald Newbury.
J£ER MAJESTY’S
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST FOUR NIGHTS !
A TRIP TO CHINATOWN.
TUESDAY EVENING, July 25, Five Farewell Perform-
ances (four nights and one matinee) of that Light and
Sparkling Musical Comedy, THE BELLE of NEW YORK.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IDS'" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Mr. Frederic Villiers
—_ The Great War Artist and Correspondent,
will give his
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS,
“ Khartoum aa/fc Last.”
CRYSTAL THEATRE, BROKEN HILL—July 22 and 24.
TOWN HALL, ADELAIDE—JuIy 28 and 27.
TOWN HALL, PORT ADELAIDE —July 28.
Mr. WALTER PONTON.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
-—SAUCE.
!fIR sor • .f '
SIEAKS.Cpit-fr,; i.
-CHAVIt: 'jfitffi' ~
s.sjup c '
>\ m T?'7- w : j -/*x
THE BASIS of WHICH n
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
•
Lime-Fruit Juice, it b
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy : —“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
#
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
* & 00., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
• NEWCASTLE — D. Cohen & Co.,
' AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Amusements.
ORITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. M. B. CURTIS.
Entire Change of Programme.
Grand Afro-American
Minstrel Carnival.
It was said that we couldn’t, but we did.
WHAT? MAKE THEM LAUGH t
See ERNEST HOGAN , the Unbleached American.
See BILLY M'CI.AIN, in Uncle Eph’s Return.
See BLACK DANTE,
the Phenomenal Prestidigitator.
See BRONZE PATTI, America’s Colored Nightingale.
PRICES OF ADMISSION (EVENING):
Dress Circle, 4s ; Reserved Stalls, 4s ; Stalls, 3s ; Family
Circle, 2s; Gallery, Is. Children in arms not admitted.
LIONEL SOLOMON, Representative.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WONDERFUL SUCCESS OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
VIRTO and Miss IRENE.
Bessie—VALDAKES—James. Mr. R. H. DOUGLAS.
The Leslie Bros. Chas. W. Gogill.
Fanny Powers. Keenan Bros. Howard Chambers.
Fred Duncan. Jas. Mooney. Violet Bishop. Ida Holbein.
Lulu Zesch. Nita Clarke. And all our Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAUL PELHAM, England’s Comique.
THOS. and LILLY ENGLISH, Artistic Musical Team.
SPRY and AUSTIN, Duettists and Dancers.
3—KEZIAHS—3, Marvellous Lady Gymnasts.
MANUEL WOODSON, the Light ning Contortionist.
Continued Great Success of BELLMAN & MOORE,
WILL WHITBURN, and all our Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
sth WEEK 1 6tii WEEK !
ANOTHER FURORE!
“ Straight from the Heart.”
First Time in Melbourne.
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and Arthur Shirley.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SI MONSENS.
BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MEI. BOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING ; Children—SIXPENCE.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovb.
LAST NIGHTS 1
Tbe Kiog’s Marketeer.
The Famous Romantic Drama, in 5 acts, by Henry
Hamilton, founded on Dumas’ Great Romance,
“The Three Musketeers.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Athenaeum hall, Melbourne.
1/- Saturday. 22nd July. 1/-
Gigantic and Unique Entertainment. Pop. SHILLING
A Tour Through South Africa,
jar Mr. JOHN FULLER'S MYRIORAMA COMPANY.
Mr. John Fuller, the Popular English Tenor,
NEW PICTURES! .-. NEW PICTURES!
NEW ILLUSTRATED SONGS.
NEW ILLUSTRATED RECITATIONS.
NEW ARTISTS. NEW ARTISTS.
Plan at Glen’s. Booking Fee, Is.
Town hall, Melbourne.
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
£cbcr*k’S Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 46 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SOHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2a. and ONE SHILLING.
Sm Dotty Paper*. Baa Plan at Allan'*.
ABHTDO-BD PROSPBCTtra.
Clydesdale Centrifugal Sluicing Company,
CASTLEMAINE.
(To be Registered as a No Liability Company.)
CAPITAL, £15,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 7s. 6d. EACH
16,000 Shares, fully paid up, to be retained by the Vendors in full payment for the
property.
24,000 Shares are offered to the public at Is. on Application, Is. on Allotment, and the
balance in Monthly Instalments, not exceeding 6d. per Share, if required.’
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To all applicants of 50 Shares and upwards the Vendors will allot a SPECIAL BONUS of 10
PER CENT. IN ETTT.T.V PAID-UP SHARES.
The whole of the proceeds from sale of Shares will be placed to the credit of the company (less
brokerage and flotation expenses), and will be available for working capital.
NO CASH TO THE VENDORS.
DIRECTORS : To be appointed by the Shareholders at the First Meeting of the Company.
BANKERS : National Bank of Australasia, Castlemaine and Melbourne.
SOLICITORS : M‘Cay and Thwaites, Barker-street, Castlemaine.
LEGAL MANAGER and OFFICES of the COMPANY (pro tern.): Jno. Wm. Dunlop
407 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Application for Shares may be made through any registered member of the Melbourne, Ballarat
Bendigo, and Castlemaine Exchanges, or to Jno. Wm. Dunlop, 407 Collins-street.
This company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring and working a very valuable mining
property consisting of Lease No. 4244 absolutely granted (vide “ Govt rnmt-nt Gazette,” April 28, 1899),
also application for lease adjoining, comprising in all about 110 acres, taking in about one mile and a
quarter of the Jim Crow Creek, at Clydesdale, midway between Castlemaine and Daylesford, and
situate between the Pickpocket and Hardhill diggings, which were exceedingly rich; included in
these leases are very rich flats on either side of the creek, which it has been impossibe to work on
account of heavy water in the ground.
THE WHOLE OF THE GROUND FROM THE SURFACE DOWN CARRIES GOLD
AND THERE IS ADOUT sft. OF GRAVEL ON THE BOTTOM CARRYING ROUGH
GOLD.
This property will be worked on the centrifugal sluicing principle, similar to that nowin use at
Campbell’s Creek, Castlemaine, where gold to the extent of 7750 z. has already been won, from ground
that lias been turned over a great number of times during the last b 0 years, which speaks volumes for
this latest improved method of gold winning.
The machinery to be erected will be of the most modern type, similar to that now in use at Camp-
bell’s Creek, capable of treating at least 2000 tons per day of 24 hours at a cost of threepence per ton.
The system of working by centrifugal sluicing is one that aims at profitably working poor ground
by treating large quantities at a minimum cost, but in this case the ground is known to be payable,
and intending investors should not hesitate in applying for shares.
The ground immediately south of Lease No. 4244 has been worked in a small way by several
persons for some time past, all of whom have been getting splendid returns.
There is a plentiful supply of water in the creek.
Reports from Mr. W. Kershaw, M.E. (engineer in charge of the Campbell’s Creek Dredging Co.
also consulting engineer to the Livingstone Creek Gold-Dredging Co., Oineo, and Fryer’s Creek Gold-
Dredging Co., Fryerstown), Mr. T. Elliot, ex-mayor of Castlemaine; and Mr. C. Fenton, of Castle-
maine ; also affidavit sworn by James C. Strong, of Chewton, can be seen at the offices of the company,
407 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Early application for shares is necessary, as several thousand have been applied for privately.
Priority of application will be strictly adhered to.
Special Attention is Rsquested to tlie Polio wing 1 Features of this Property, viz.
Lease No. 4244 is Absolutely Granted.
Work can be Commenced without Delay, Directly
Company is Formed.
Should be Paying Dividends within Six Months
after Commencement of Operations.
No Cash to the Vendors.
Special Bonus of 10 Per Cent, in Paid-up Shares
on All Applications of 50 Shares and Up-
wards.
Full Prospectus and Application Forms can be obtained at the Offices of the Company, 407
Collinsstrect, Melbourne.
JNO. WM. DUNLOP, Manager (pro tern.)
So(i\/ci)irs of Australia!? F^dcratioi).
Registered.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2/6.
Solid Gold, 12/6.
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interrogation).
180., set with 11
First-Water Diamonds,
£8 and £9 10s.
6 Lovely Diamonds,
from £3 to £35.
Solid Gold
CURR KP'-'PER,
15/-, 2V-.
CHS)
(Tj9
18e., 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies, or 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires, 46/-.
Smaller, 30/-.
c
Solid Gold and 3 Opals,
25/-. ; Solid Gold and 1
Opal, 15/-.
9c., 10/-, 12 6, 15/-, 20/-.
16c., 20/-, 22/6, 27/6.
180., 21/-, 25/-, 30/-.
With Any Name or
Motto, 1/- extra.
WE ARE AGAIN TO TEE FORE
WITH UP-TO-DATE SOUVENIRS
GOMMEMMORATING THE GREATEST EVENT IN
AUSTRALIAN HISTORY.
SOLID SILVER HAT-PINS, 3/- ; MATCH-BOXES, 10/-, 12 6
BELT CLASPS, 13 6, 15/-.
BADGES, CHARMS, &c., IN GREAT VARIETY.
MANUFACTURED and OBTAINABLE
ONLY FROM US.
Registered.
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver, 3,6.
Solid Gold, 13/6.
1 Diamond and Ruby,
or Sapphire,
18c., £4.
2 Diamonds and Opal.
18c. Gold, 76/-.
14 Diamonds and
1 Roby.
18c. Gold, £4 4s.
Any Name or Motto,
Solid Gold, 12,6.
18c. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21/-; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 6s.
030
18c., 1 Diamond and 2
Rubies, 27,6.
2 Diamonds, 3 Rubi
from 65/- to fit).
Registered.
PLAIN BOWL, 12/6; with MOTTO in BOWL, 13/6.
•j9A[is pi [os ‘snoods JinoAnos nou'eaopaj
POST l EiuE.
PLEASE SEND
FOR OUR
Illustrated Slips
of Novelties.
Lovely Opal,
18e. Gold, 35/-.
ISC
Diamond and 18c. Gold,
40/-, (50/-, 80/-.
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, 18c., 35/-.
Diamond, 18c. Gold,
40 -, 60 -, 80/-.
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby,
18c. Gold, Jtl 15s.
6 Opals and 8 Small
Diamonds, 25/-.
Fine Diamond,
18c. Gold, t'4;
16c., Ruby or Sap-
phire, 21/-.
9-™ rat
15-carat
18-carat
GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS ... ss, 7s 6d, Ids 6d, 12s 6d each.
12s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d each.
~ ~ ~ ... 15s, 20s, 255, 32s 6d each.
SEND SIZE OF FINGER BY A PIECE OF WIRE OR Ai
HOLE IN CARDBOARD
chr'c
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
The Seddon Govt, meets Maoriland Par-
liament with a programme which includes the re-
ferendum, State accident-insurance, compensation
for workmen injured by accidents, an extension of
the State Land Bank system to towns, a reduction
of interest-rates on State Land Bank loans, and
various other reforms. This session will be an
awkward one for the Tory party. It appeals to
the country to put it in office with the promise
that it will give the existing “experimental legis-
lation ” (as it contemptuously calls it) a fair trial.
But if it opposes the new democratic legislation,
the country will know that it is as hostile as
ever to democratic legislation, and that its
“ fair trial ” won’t be worth a copper. And if it
supports the new ideas, then it is a question of
choosing between the new unreliable Democrat,
who only became a convert when he couldn’t get
office otherwise, or the old warrior who has been a
Democrat all along.


D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring,2/6;Oleaning, 2/6;. Hairspring, 2,6; Jewels,2/6;
Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed 12months.
D. S. Mair for Silver Doul le-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels, Grand Timekeepers, i7/6. Guaranteed 8 years.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold Wedding- Rings, 46. Extra
heavy,' 9/6. Solid Gold Bar Brooches, 4/6. Hall marked
D. S. jytair for Ladies’ Solid Gold Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 3 years, 35/-.
Note address— 6B4 George Street, Sydney.
A Silver Watch Free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
"and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us without delay.
With vour letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (.and stamped
envelope), for which we will send you Six of our full-
sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons, which wear like
solid real silver throughout. The watch is sent by regis-
tered post on your complying w-ith our advertisement and
the marvellous offer which we wbll send. After you
receive the Watch we.shall expect you to show it to your
friends and- call th'eir attention to this advertisement.
Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
TO LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to: 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6 6 to
£3 3s, each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever a count you desire
to spend-on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send tlo Us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they.send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. . All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. 'Sole, Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants'erigaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-082 George St.,
. SYDNEY.
New : th Wales’ Barbers’ S ,/if Iv House.
a
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
iVi
Obr©>ir»able at"all Ckemi&f&
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. ■ Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
Unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in:any. form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box lOC, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but' has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EVESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
.. SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Haarfager
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the World.
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
HAARI' AGER hurls the hair naturally and permanently
in a few hOUrs without curling tongs or pins. Will make
the strnightbst. hair curl beautifully without trouble.
HAARFAGER restores the hair and will prevent the hair
from falling out.’ All ■chemists. Price 3s. (id., postage 6d.
extra. Wholesale Atrents, ELLIOTT BROTHERS,'Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney. If not obtainable at your
chemist, send stamps or P. 0.0. to The Argyle Apothecary
Co., Old Canterbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W.
;y
I
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb-
in}f interest to MAN.
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
IRON v cV.;N-Y
NED , „, s GANG.
Iroi) Ned Kelly
His <Sai)g-
-• • •
. . . THE . . .
Only True and Personal Account
Ever Published.
CONTAINING NUMEROUS HITHERTO
UNRELATED IMPORTANT
INCIDENTS.
• • •
857 Copies Sold During First
Week of Issue.
“A Stirring Book.”
Price, Is. 6d., Post Free .
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him— are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
xe
PARK ST.,
SYDKTESY
The Life of the System.
Ennl
STINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
MINING- MACHINERY.
MINING
LOCOMOTIVES.
MINING HOISTS.
MINE HAULAGE
PLANTS.
MINING
PUMPS.
POWER
TRANSMISSION
PLANTS.
SOLE AGENTS:
NOYES BROS,
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
The London & American Supply Stores
mmmmt
L ; 'JJ
£ LONDON & AMERICAN
UPPLYI^BSSIORES
_V*v~ r -
. . FOB . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
EPURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
■ A. W. FERNE & CO„
Directors.
WILL
ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER. |p
20l) @ I(20]) ll!
CHEAP BOOKS
By Dr. E. B
POOTE.
Latest and Bea£ Edition, j?o(l ('olovetl; Plates and Engravings, 1000 pajres, post
TTKMARRTT?n’ 'c uY Thls ' vc ‘ , k contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. S. nd for a. Fube Catalogue <>-ivin<f a full descVioti. n of this
and-other similar works at lower prices. r™ 11 "" 01 lms
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc bv Robert'Heller the
Devil's Own Wizard ,1s ; post, Is 3d, Speeches and Toasts,'’ready inade! 1?6.1 post!
Kvjery Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post l/O*. The
Kelly Gang (lllus.) post 1,0. Australian Handeook of Midwifery (illus.) 26-
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is • post is ‘>d ’
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d. P
Comic Reciter, contains 150 ffenis ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of making
Money, 6d Fountain-Pens, write 30,000 words withoutTppdnl is. How to
liance, Latest Ball-100111 Guide, is. Athletics; Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs etc Is 3d
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddintrs, Dining- etc is ’
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and. Retail.
WILL A.KTDR.JVDE
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOUKKE-STKEET, MELBOURNE.
SECOND EDITION. 220 pp.-<i/e.
Fair Clirls and. O-ray Horses.”
Medical,
suspensory belt™ •
C ENTLEM E N is SIMPLY* WONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.’’
Our E'ectric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the-wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
ly the wearer through
til weak parts. HEM EM-
BER, we give a writ ten
guarantee with eai h E ec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
tloes not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances lor BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AS'ENCf,'
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A Bit of the Truth.
The most pertinent and startling question ever
asked is this “ I Vhat is truth ?
A JRoman Governor propounded it onee, under
circumstances which greatly worried and peiplexed
his official mind. And he was not the first man
or the last' —not myriads. So far as I know
there has been no satisfactory answer. Some
people (radicals and come-outers of various sorts)
fancy that in this, the tail end of a rather braggart
and conceited century,'they have flushed a fair-
sized covey of truths by firing speculative shot-
guns into every wayside bush and bog.
But have they done it? No, gentle reader, no.
They have put up crows and sparrows, the same
crows that picked the bones of the cave-dwellers,
and the same sparrows that sold two for a farthing
in the time of Pilate. There were plenty of fools
of old, and there are plenty now. The ancient
doctors, indeed, prescribed some horrible stuff's as
medicine—they used electuaries of viper’s flesh and
recommended pomegranate seeds for toothache
because those seeds resemble human teeth. Very
shallow and silly, to be sure, this sounds to us.
But if you wanted to find things that come very
near matching them in modern practice, I could
show you where to look. On my table I have a
list of about 300 new “remedies ” introduced to a
suffering world within the past twelvemonth.
“ Must be some good ones among them,” do you
say? Possibly! Time will tell. Meanwhile let
us stick to whatever we are sure of. “We learn
how to cure diseases,” said Celsus, “by experi-
ence, not by reasoning.”
“ Some of the greatest truths in medicine,” said
a learned Scotch doctor, “ came by the humblest
means ; not by synthesis or venesection, but by
the observations of peasants and the experiments
of motherly women.”
Concerning a medicine discovered by one such
woman, thousands of stories have been told and
letters written. Here is an example:—
“For many years I have suffered from indiges-
tion and weakness. I seemed to have no energy
for anything. I had a poor appetite, and what
little food I ate caused me violent pains in the
chest and between the shoulders. Frequently I
had attacks of giddiness, and when I stooped I
suffered from an unnatural rush of blood to the
head. The pain which I was called upon to bear
was often very severe ; it affected all parts of my
body, and at night I got little proper and refresh-
ing sleep on account of it.
“As time went on and the complaint grew
fixed upon me, I came to be exceedingly weak,
and now and again was obliged to take to my bed.
I lost flesh and became quite thin, living, as I
did, only on milk, beef tea, and other kinds of
liquid food. It will be understood, of course, that
I had medical care, besides attending the South
London Dispensary. Yet I received no benefit
from what was done for me.
“It happened that in January, 1889, a friend
—Mr. Pullen—told me he had suffered in a similar-
manner, and been cured by a remedy called Mother
Seigel s Syrup., Acting on his suggestion, I got a
bottle, and, after having taken it, I found great
relief. Presently my appetite returned, and food
no longer distressed me. Convinced that Mother
Seigel’s Syrup was adapted to my ailment, I con-
tinued the use of it until it was no longer needed.
My health and strength were re-established, and I
have since been well. This medicine has done
what no others had been able to do. My husband,
who suffered from biliousness, used it with the same
result. You have my free consent to publish this
brief statement, if you desire to do so.”—(Signed)
Mrs. Julia Massey, 133 Lorrimore-road, Kenning-
ton, London, S.E., January 20th, 1898.
There is no royal road to the discovery of truth
or knowledge. Anybody may find it anywhere.
It is not always he who seeks that finds. Valuable
discoveries are usually made by what, for lack of
a better word, we call accident. r l he medicine
that cures is the medicine we want, no matter
whether it is as old as the earth or was picked up
yesterday in the fields by a child. That Mother
Seigel’s Syrup cures is proved by a cloud of wit-
nesses. It is a bit of the truth. Therefore it will
not die out, arid nothing can take its place.
Catarrh COr€d
CURE YOURSELF with our In
strument and Home Treatment.
Our MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Neuralgia, Hay Fever, La Grippe,
Asthma,,. Catarrhal Deafness, Coughs
and Colds (Diseases of Head, Throat
and Lungs).
Free Treatment at Office. Complete cure
by mail, 10/-. (Postal Notes all Colonies
taken, except New Zealand, from where*
Money Orders must be sent). Hundreds
in use, giving perfect satisfaction. Write
for Booklet and Testimonials. No Agents.
Order direct from
Home Catarrh Cure Co.,
231 COLLINS STRELT,
Mention" The Bulletin' u.hen anting.
MEDICATOR


fjatfid graham m Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
WINTER "SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OP —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - -
AT REFORM
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS!
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ Winter Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blow?) out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
ECOND-HAND
AND
JJEW FURNITURE
s
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent;
to £5 Earned t
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prioes charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
CA LVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINF2 TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Cfinfates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
USB
Spooler's
Irqvalnavv dressikq
FOR
! BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS it SHOES
i; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
: DIRECI lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM.
Black Cream
For Cleaning' and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
“Common Sense
« « Ear Drums”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible....
Comfortable
Efficient....
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A pent,
C.iALMERS, 229 Collins St Melbourne
THE DRUM]
IN POSITION J
(invisible) l:
Mention “The Bulletin" when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
& OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCRASIT
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be (riven in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS: THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
The Thermal Springs District.
«w__WONDERLAND
THE
grand Hotel, ROTOROU
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
In New Zealand.
jH. V. Gardner
(late of the P. & O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find —
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel," “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager 1
will receive prompt attention.
Tl>e Federal .
Palace Hotel,
MELBOURNE,
AS A TRAVELLERS’ HOTEL,
... IS THE ...
Premier Hotel in Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMERS,
and CENTRE OE CITY.
tr ROOMS ALL PRICES, "la
Business Announcements.
A SILVER WATCH
aiVE3NT AWA.Y!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
Y\7E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
I T-E T-M- F-R E-ETO-y. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
“The Manager English Watch Co. —Wesleyan Parson-
age, Port Fairy, Vic., 29/4/’99. Dear Sir.—l beg to
acknowledge receipt of watch and chain, and am pleased
to state that both are very satisfactory.—Yours. truly,
M. Cock.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
I'll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (under cover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. «d.
Sole Agents :
Ihe Result
Craig & Ait ken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
“ Bohemian'*
FORTUNE TELLING
and Flaying Cards.
Latest Novelty l
Most Amusing and Entertaining.
Post free to any part of Australia, ONE SHILLING and
TWOPENCE (1/2).
|3F" These Cards are a Full Set and may be used as
Ordinary Playing Cards.
The “ARCADIAN” Razor : Hollow Ground, equal
to any Razor advertised. This article we guarantee,
and is stamped with our name. Post free and regis-
tered, 6/6 (Six Shillings and Sixpence).
JEt USS EJjLWI lkijs s,
RED ARCADE,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Branches—
Ipswich, Maryborough, Mackay, Warwick, Gladstone,
Townsville, and Charters Towers.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Arnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
“VTOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
-k’ Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1,6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
Hollow Ground
I#
A2ob
mi
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON.
Undermines his Health,
THEY TOLD HIM TO EFFECT
A CURE
Clements Tonic
Was a DEAD BIRD.
The Case of
Mr. Christopher Cullen.
[From thi Liverpool Herald, Aug. 18th, 1898.)
(by our own reporter).
“Please obtain full details as to his illness
and recovery, and also as to his present state
of health.” These were the instructions
received by our ( Liverpool Herald) reporter
to visit
Mr. Christopher CuHen, Atkin-
son Street, Liverpool,
Mr. Cullen is as widely known as esteemed.
He is a master painter, and the newspaper
man betook himself and discovered Mr.
tlullen on the top of a house which he was
)ainting.
“May I have a word with you about your
late illness,” asked our reporter? At which
Mr. Cullen descended, and stated, “I am
glad to get away from the paint pots for a time,
I can tell you, for a too close acquaintance
with them was the first cause of my sickness.
I got Lead Poisoning
from the paint. Pains in the limbs attacked
me, especially in the shin bones, and often I
have boon obliged to get up in middle of the
night, so intense was the suffering from this
cause. I became terribly constipated,which
was sometimes varied by severe attacks of
diarrhoea. I had always an unpleasant and
bitter taste in the mouth, and a bad breath.
I suffered from dyspepsia. There was a
tight feeling on my chest, and my food lay
still in my stomach and turned sour, and
caused belching of sour and bitter gas.”
“How was the appetite?”
“I hadn’t one. I couldn’t look at any-
thing to eat. I was, consequently, half
starved, and daily got worse and worse. A
dull, leaden pain began to come
Across the Back,
and my eyesight began to go wrong.”
“ Did it impair your eyesight ?”
Yes. Especially at night. I couldn’t go
out with safety after dark. I was con-
tinually troubled with dull, persistent
headaches, and, worst of all, my nervous
system became greatly weakened. My con-
stitution was undermined by the poison
absorbed from the paint, and my physical
strength was
Completely Run Down.”
“What started you on Clements Tonic ?’*
“Mr. Jas. Smith, who lives in this town,
hearing of the state I was in, called up to see
me.”
“ Clements Tonic will cure you, he said ?”
“ Nonsense, I replied. I’ve tried all sorts
of physic to no purpose. Mr. Smith said,“l
tell you Clements Tonic will cure you ;
It’s a Dead Bird.”
‘‘Now,all I can say is that I thank God ho
convinced me in the argument, and I started
cn Clements Tonic, and it did its work
f,teadily and thoroughly. It first did awny
with my costiveness, and the strange paini
that were in my limbs and back. My
nerves gradually improved, and 1 could soon
eat my meals like a man again. The queer
affection of my eyesight also speedily gavo
way to Clements Tonic.”
“ You must have been pleased ?”
“I was delighted. It was as much as I
could do when I was sick to walk, and no ,v
I felt inclined to run.”
“And about the lead ?”
“Clements Tonic eventually rid my blood
of every particle of lead it contained, for 1
have not had the slighest trace of the poison,
or felt any of its effects since I finished the
second bottle, and I do not believe there is
a particle of lead lurking within me. Ino w
Feel a. New Man,
and have not been troubled since my cure.
“And if you were?”
“Oh ! well, I know what to do—a fev,
doses of Clements Tonic taken in time, and -
ehould be all right?”
“This will all go in the paper, Mi
Cullen.”
“Certainly it can. It’s nothing but th
truth ; may it do some good.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Christopher CuHen, of Atkinson St., Live:,
the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly at
sincerely declare that I have carefully read ti:
vnnexed document, consisting of six folios and con
ecutively numbered from one to six, and that ii
ontains and is a true and faithful account of m;
3!ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
Sny full permission to publish the same in any way
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
.year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
•‘An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, a ••
lor the suppression of voluntary and extra judi i
Oaths and Affidavits.
Declared at Liverpool this Uth dav of July, 1593,
before iu«, FRED CHAPMAN, J.P.
A Wretched and
Hopeless Existence.
health
fully restored.
The Case of
Mrs. Elizabeth Mitchell.
(From the Windsor, N.S. W., «« Australian”),
(by our special reporter.)
News w c as brought to the office that Mrs
Elizabeth Mitchell, of March-street, Rich"
mond, N.S.W., had been afflicted with
dropsy and accessory symptoms, and had
recovered in a manner that was
As Remarkable as Complete.
In consequence a reporter was instructed to
make the closest enquiries and elicit the
full details of the case.
Mrs. Mitchell kindly volunteered to
furnish the fullest details.
“I found myself gradually losing mv
health,” said that lady. “I felt heavy
and dispirited, and
My Head always Ached.
Pains between the shoulders made them-
selves felt, and a sharp, alarming pain in
the side racked me suddenly now and then.”
“ From what did this pain in the side
arise ? ”
“ The doctor said it was from my heart,
and indeed my heart often used to flutter
strangely, and sometimes I should go quite
faint, and would nearly
Lose Consciousness Altogether
The rest I obtained at night was so dis-
turbed and deficient, and I was so weak and
fagged in the day time that I couldn’t get
through my work. Indeed, sometimes I
should be so sick and faint that I was forced
to go to bed in the middle of the day.”
“ What else, Mrs. Mitchell ? ”
“My legs began to swell. Sometimes the
swelling would extend to my foot, and I
was not able to get on my shoes. Some-
times my legs would get gradually larger
for days, and then they would decrease in
size for a time, leading me to believe that 1
was getting better; but the hope was
always disappointed, for, after a short
respite, they would commence to swell
again.”
“ What was the swelling like ?”
“ The skin was of a whitish colour, and
when a finger was pressed on the place it
would leave the mark for a long while.
When my legs were very bad it was
Very Painful to Walk,
and i often had to lie up from this cause.”
“ How was the appetite ? ”
«* Very bad ; just a little light food and a
cup of tea three times a day ; not nearly
enough to keep up my strength to fight
against my complaint.”
Well, how did you get on ? ”
Got worse all the time. I could see I
was going down hill and getting weaker
every day. I was dragging out a
Wretched and Hopeless
Existence,
I heard that one of my relatives,
was very ill, was obtaining great
it from the use of Clements Tonic,
; at once obtained some.”
Lny distinct effects ? ”
fes, upon my heart. Clements Tonic
inly
eadied the Heart’s Action,
iy heart gathered strength every day,
; was troubled no more with that feel-
>f faintness. Then I noticed, with a
• deal of satisfaction, that the swelling
y legs was gradually decreasing, and
ed no signs of growing up large again,
flesh was firmer, too, and had a
liier appearance. I kept taking
lents Tonic, and I gradually got rid of
welling altogether, and my legs became
rong and healthy as my arms.
How about your general health 1
Oh, Clements Tonic
Did Me Good All Over.
ild my rest at nights now, and come
|y meals with an appetite, and 1 was
. rid of the various ailments that had
mpanied my dropsy.” ,
I presume I have your consent to pub-
tins ? ” . „
Oh, yes ; certainly.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
■ ZAB the 'colony “’of N^ftou**Svfi£
nnly and sincerely declare that I have
r read the annexed document, comnstmg,
js and consecutively numbered from one
accountTof and' cum by Clemen*
nd also contains my full
same in anv way . and 1 make tins soiem.
ion? conscientiously believing,hetwine oh
i virtue of the provisions of an Act mam.
s,‘d in the ninth rear of the reign of hei
Miiestv intitulec). “An Act for the more
1 abolition of Oaths and Affirmatioiis4ake.
Ip in the various Departments ot the D°\eni
New South Wales, and to substitute Declai.
lieu thereof, and for the suppression
ry and extra-judicial Oaths and AtiuUvits.
ELIZABETH MITCHELL.
red at Richmond this 29th day of July,, 139 b
ae * W. SULLIVAN, I P
COLEMANE’S EUGALYPTE EXTRACT
For Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Fevers, and Chest
Complaints generally it can’t be beat.
GUARANTY”.D PORE, AND SOLD ONLY IN .02. and
ioz. BOTTLES.
Intiiui always on Colcmano’a.


Consulting and
CUT RA.TE,
Dispensing
GO
Chemists,
Corner
Wholesale and Retail-
Elizatoetli and Batlmrst Streets,
CUT-RATE PRICE LIST FORWARDED FREE ON APPLICATION.
MEDICINES FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA-
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, -fil ; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Sydney.
Wholesale and Retail-
Shots that Reach the Spot
J Clements Tonic, 2s; Cod Liver Oil, Is 3d;
l Fruit Salt, 2s; Pain Killer, Is.
Dr.
Clarkson 9 s
KEIISTVIGORATOR.
A Concentrated, Vitalising, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE and
BLOOD STIMULANT : a remedy known to Dr. Clarkson only.
We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure. Price, 7/6 per
Bottle; Three Bottles for £1 —post free any part of Australia.
Pamplxlet Post Free.
ELECTRIC BELTS
Regular Price —
One Guinea.
Restore the Weak.
Refresh the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Revive the Depressed.
Act Like a Charm.
Country Persons, save your money. Don’t squander it on quack
nostrums before trying our New Belt.
Famphlot Post Free.
EPILEPSY and PITS
Dr. HUGHES’S Celebrated Remedy, “ FITSEPILEP” has proved to be one of the wonders of the age. So successful
has this remedy proved in Epileptic Cases, Fits, etc., that it has elicited favorable and spontaneous testimony from the clergy, doctors,
gentry, and the public generally—a testimony endorsed by the Press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PILE CURE^^
The Latest Specific for Curing Haemorrhoids. The most chronic and obstinate character of Inward or Out-
ward Files readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price, 3s. 6d. per Box, or 3 for 10s.; Postage, 6d. extra.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Specialist to give ADVICE FREE to all sufferers.
Address i
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
COUNTRY TRIAL ORD€R RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
The Curing of Little Jan Tromp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thb teak-lined banks were flush with the schooner’s
upper deck. In the shadow of the grinning stone
god lay the 200 rifles, paid for by the Burmese
Revolution Committee, and delivered by Horace
and me. The Dacoits wanted guns, and we were
dead sick of trepang and Polynesia. Pearl had
“an immense future behind it ” once ; but since
they’d started a gaol down the Straits way you
couldn’t get shellers to look at chicken-oyster.
So Horace and I helped the revolution. Horace
is part owner of the Bully Hayes.
Queer place we were in—endless flats, grid-
ironed with rotting creeks, and mud that stank
till it colored the air. When the Deluge drained
the sewers of Asia, it evidently set up shop here-
abouts.
All the customs officials were absent, but the
thirteen pairs of ears, nailed to a near tamarind,
gave us a hint that the Government had been
smitten on the shoe. That afternoon an excited
patriot bore off the guns in a bullock-dray. He
farewelled us, from the mud bank, with snatches
of Burmese poetry, good in its way, no doubt,
but Horace hinted that his bullockese was sheer
drivel —a mere clustering of anaemic words.
Horace is a Bogan man.
The pagoda under the blue-jungled spur showed
a glimmer of light. It was getting dark, and
Tommy the cook was singing below to Typhoo
Shang; Typhoo responded with 36 middling
verses about a girl named Soo Lee and a number
of tame peacocks. The cook gathered himself
from the bunk and said that he objected to the
introduction of poultry into songs, and wound up
by calling the Emperor of China a “cow.”
I peeped below and saw Shang feeling for his
knife sorrowfully, and pondering the six feet of
cabin that separated him from the cook. Shang
was keener than a Malay to smell an insult. His
arm went out lazily, but there was murder dozing
in his little black eyes.
“ There’ll be no scrapping here," I said,
sharply.
“ And no bloomin’ mess to clean up,” said
Horace, flipping Shang in the eye with a banana.
Shang smiled sweetly ; the knife vanished up his
sleeve like a trick. You see, Horace had an un-
common way with him ; when he kicked you, you
understood him perfectly. The cook crawled
back to his bunk.
At this point there was an interruption a
strange voice hailed us from the shore. The three
of us leaped to the companion, like men bailed-up.
I was first on deck, and peered through the dark-
ness to eateh a glimpse of the queer marauder. A
light flickered on the pagoda-roof, and went out.
The aching silence filled us with a listening fear.
“Who called?” said I, and stepped back
sharply.
A pair of hands gripped the rail; something
dropped to the deck, salaaming in the dark.
“ Well,” I said, not taken aback. “ What’s
your particular trouble, Mr. Quick ? ”
A match fizzed above the pistol in Horace’s
hand. I looked under it at the ghostly shape, the
jewelled hands spread on the deck.
“ Salaam, sailor! Do I speak with the
master ? ”
“ That’s me,” said I. “ Rather kind of you to
look in.”
The shape sighed, and unloosened a silk slander-
dang, that trailed from neck to heel,
“ An English ship, sailor ? ”
“An Australian larrikin,” I replied. “Tea
and patent medicines up to the forehold.”
The cook staggered up with a lantern, holding
it before the Jew-faced, ear-ringed stranger.
He fingered his beard reflectively. “ Austra-
lia?”
“ Small island in the Pacific,” said I. “ Popu-
lation 150, three squatters, and the balance
mostly Chinkie and Kanaka. Lovely country ! ”
He bent forward musingly. “ I heard that it
belonged to Japan ; Yoshi Hannaken told me so,
last year, in Mandalay. Is it so ? ”
“ Bed-rock,” said I. “ That Yoshi Hannaken
is a man of parts.”
The stranger turned swiftly to the flare that
streaked the darkness above' the pagoda roof.
“ Would you run from here to Jandyong ? ” says
he.
“ Find me a cargo,” I said.
He looked at me cunningly. “ You are not a
particular man ? ” he whispered.
“ I’d run to Gehenna for lost souls and ashes if
it paid.” I’d trade that stone - god yonder
for a package of Bibles, or a hogshead of beer.
Better look in with your cargo now; there’ll be a
heathen uproar to-morrow.”
“Beer,” said Horace, dreamily.
I looked at him sternly, but he was wrapped in
thought.
The stranger turned to me with his hand on the
rail. “ Wait,” he said, and before you could
wink he had vanished in the darkness.
“He’s a mahout,” said Horace, “a king’s
mahout. He’s pinched a couple of elephants, and
you’re going to hog ’em down the settlement.
Fine pilot you’d have made —aboard the Ark.”
I said nothing, but guessed there was some
trickery afoot in the pagoda—the planting of loot,
maybe—if the king had been deposed. The light
flared again and went streaming through the
jungle. A moment later my strange visitor was
tripping amongst our shore-lines; beside him
crouched a tawny-limbed youngster, naked but
for a panther’s hide laced about his shoulders.
“ He has been to Calcutta,” said the stranger
hurriedly, “ to receive his education. There was
cholera, and we burnt his clothes. His name is
Jan Tromp ; observe how small he is, physically ;
but his mind is perfect; he is a Bachelor of Arts.”
The stranger indicated him proudly. But the
boy turned impatiently, and said: “Enough of
talk, Velarney. Ernest Mueller, who is only 13,
has done better.”
I liked him for that, and patted his panther’s
hide. He was one of those pleasant-faced little
Dutchies that you will meet anywhere between
Rangoon and Batavia.
“ Touching the passage-money ? ”
“The price of a new schooner, paid in notes on
the Bank of Bombay.”
That was good enough for me.
* * * *
By noon the following day we had left Cape
Negrais on our quarter. The night came up
clear, with a sou’-easterly driving a few ragged
clouds across the four points of mid-heaven.
Horace was in the trade - room yarning with a
beachcomber we’d picked up in Honolulu.
Typhoo Shang squatted under the bridge, and
every time I peeped over he would shake himself,
look up at the moon and spit over the clean deck.
“I’ll knock peacocks out of you,” I thought,
“ when my trick at the wheel’s over.”
Presently he said, “You eally passenger,
clap’n ? ”
“ I’ve carried pigs before to-day, you dirty son
of a comprador,” I answered.
Typhoo lit a cigarette and dozed. The wind
fell a space, and the “ Bully ” hogged in the gut of
two seas.
“Lillie passenger, him plully leper,” said
Typhoo.
“What’s that?” said I, leaning over, “say it
again.”
“Lillie Jan Tlomp, him leper. Me gotteo
bluller in Lillie Bluck-slee, him leper too. Hide
him under clabbege. Jan Tlomp leper.”
I called to a Dago hand. “ Send the passenger
to me.”
Three minutes later Velarney was standing on
the bridge. He offered me a cigar; I put it
aside.
“You’ve played it pretty low on me,” I observed.
“But I’m damned if I’ll jig lepers up and down
the ’Peligo ; it’s an outrage on my clean schooner,
sir ! ”
He stepped back, holding the rail, and the
jewels lit up his fingers as if he’d just taken them
from a kettle of phosphorus.
“ You speak of little Jan Tromp.”
“Of the leper,” said I, “ that you covered with
a panther’s skin. But ashore he goes, first rock in
the Malacca. I’d put him over now only I fear to
pollute the Almighty’s sea. I’m sorry, sir, but
I’m not running a lazaretto for the benefit of my
health.”
“Mere Caucasian prejudice,” he remarked, fir-
ing up.
“ A rose, by any other name, would smell as
sweet,” I rapped out, remembering my schooling.
“You area painfully ignorant man,” said he.
“ You come of a breed that encouraged vaccinator
Jenner —the charlatan, the pedlar, the cattle-
doctor.”
He stopped, and reached for my hand apologeti-
cally.
“ You will think me a jealons fakir ; indeed, I
am nothing more than a scientist, and within a
week the skin of Jan Tromp will be as clean as
your own.”
“I’m not acquainted with physics,” I said,
“ but I guess it takes more than a green pill to
clear a hide-bound leper. I’d like to see ye do the
trick.”
“ Trick,” says he. “By God! It is an art that
was lost in Egypt nearly 4000 years ago.”
* * * *
I landed them at the mouth of a boot-shaped
peninsula. A big surf thumped the dingey across
the sand-spit to where the reef-points threatened
us like swords. Jan Tromp leaped ashore.
Velarney beckoned us to follow. So I tramped
in their wake until we topped the rocky altar,
humped above the jungle-line. Jan Tromp ran
ahead, dodging amongst the ghostly banks-palnis,
and flapping the tail of the panther’s hide. A
solitary gull flew seaward. In the west, the
dropping sun streamed like yellow rain through
the half-lit jungle. Peering across the banded
foliage, I saw a low-roofed house cross-shaped
and pillared from wing to wing, like those queer
monkey-temples at Benares. The din of a
Burmese gong shook the painful stillness, and
suddenly, from every nook and arch, came a score
of silk-trousered, salaaming Javanese. A fat
fellow with betel-flecked lips and long hair picked
himself out of the dirt and said :
“ Welcome, Highness, welcome. Thy house
mourned for thee as dead. Every day we have
done thy bidding, keeping oil and fire in readi-
ness. Listen ! ”
The gong-clamor ceased, and from within came
a sound like the droning of a million bees.
“ Jikur,” said Velarney, “thou art indeed my
brother.”
He took the fat fellow’s hand, and pressed it.
Suddenly little Jan Tromp caught Velarney’s
sleeve, and the pair stood with bent heads in the
portico. Across the terrace came a woman, hold-
ing a lamp. I saw her naked arms, the lines of
bust and throat, the full crushed lips. I heard
the rush of silk as she mounted the steps, like
Sheba in the picture. I saw Velarney lean across
the panther’s liide, and ward her off like a blow.
“At last! my God ! at last! ”
The wind blew out her lamp ; she was on her
knees.
“ Not yet, mother—not yet,” said Velarney.
“Thy son is unclean.”
Some invisible hand flung open a brass-lined
door ; I was thrust inside with Velarney and little
Jan Tromp. The room was octagon-shaped, and
smelt like a bit of excavated Pompeii. An oblong
bath filled the centre ; three brass poles spanned
it from end to end. A Siemens dynamo
hummed in the far corner ; there were switch-
boards and a patent galvanometer attached.
Thought I, if this be the great Egyptian cure
revived, it proves that the excellent Pharaoh ha'd
more than a Cl)inky notion of science.
I heard a spl .sliing behind me, and saw Jan
Tromp emerging from a smaller bath; his
drenched body glistened with white crystals.
Velarney took a copper belt and bound him by
the waist; then he beckoned to me.
“ The boy is heavy—help me, sailor ! ”
“ I will,” said I. “ in the interests of humanity.”
I took him, head and heels, and swung him into
the big bath. Velarney fastened the belt with
wires to the centre pole; the neck and ankles
rested in loops of copper; and Jan Tromp lay
submerged in the tea-colored solution to the tips
of his nose. Velarney drew away swiftly and
touched a belt; the hand of the galvanometer
trembled across the dial ; Jan Tromp made no
sign ; his body swayed under the poles that were
licked from end to end by electric sparks. Velar-
ney’s straining eyes were fixed on the moving
finger of the dial. I looked through the lozenge-
shaped window that faced the sea ; the smoke of a
tramp blew inshore; it was almost dark, and
strange sepias were roofing all over the wide hol-
low in the east.
Velarney approached the bath like some strange
enchanter : his hands were across his breast, and I
thought, as the faint light shadowed his face,
what a model he would have made for Dore’s
Christ—the lissom body, the nervous lips that
prayed in the rift of magnificent beard, the roof of
forehead that seemed indeed a fit repository for all
the garnered wisdom of Asia.
I stepped to the bath and took a peep at little
Jan Tromp. He was motionless and rigid, and
his skin had changed to the color of orange-peel.
“I guess your leper’s gold-plated enough,” I
said to Verlaney.
A change had come over the man ; his fingers
gripped the enamelled edge of the bath, his eye 3
glowered with animal ferocity, the smooth flesh
reeved over his forehead into a thousand wrinkles.
“ God of Islam ! God of Judah !” he began.
“That’s a weak spot in the entertainment,”
said I. “ Science needs no prayers.”
He rocked forward with his back humped, until
the cone of his beard skimmed the solution.
“Silence ! thou—thou Christ-man ! ”
“ Pardon my Caucasian impulse,” I said; “ But
I have a mind to take up this leper-curing racket ;
there’s a good opening for a reliable man in Aus-
tralia. Let’s look at Jan Tromp.”
With that I broke the lashings that oound nirn
eo the pole and lifted him out. The body rustled
in my arms like tinsel; I stretched it on the tiled
floor and shook it; the golden skin cracked and


£1 will buy you a gentleman’s mackintosh of a
really decent quality, suitable for stormy weather, and
as these garments a,re made with all the latest improve-
ments, satisfactory wear and solid value are assured.
The finish is excellent, the sewings of imperishable fabric,
ensuring resistance to the effects of the changeable
climate of New South Wales. Hordern Brothers,
Federal Clothiers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Sent per parcels post, postage prepaid, to any
Post Office in New South Wales.*
blistered when I drew the arms backward, but
the flesh was hidden as completely as if he had
been moulded in brass.
“ Free from infection at least, and good to
handle. It is curious,” I said, passing my hand
over the heart region, “how the soul could have
escaped through so fine a casement.”
Velarney reached upwards, his fingers dragged
the air as if he were playing an invisible harp.
Then he fell, face-down, on the body of little Jan
Tromp. I guessed the harp-strings had snapped
somewhere in his brain.
I felt for the door and groped across the ter-
race. A dusky shape slid past; the brass-lined
door clashed. That was all.
Scrambling down the rocky altar I stopped
awhile to listen ; cry after cry pierced the jungle
overhead until every leaf seemed stirred by the
note of human misery.
“Sheba with the lamp. Sheba looking at her
son.”
An opening in the palm-lined shelves showed
me a league of surf, and the schooner’s ligh*
beyond it.
ALBA DORION.
The Jones’s Honeymoon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in the winter-time,
Yet the year seemed in its prime;
Soft and balmy was the air,
Full of rich delight and ease;
And the world was very fair;
And the branches of the trees
Swayed to a melodious tune:
’Twas the Jones’s Honeymoon.
All about the place she went,
Singing songs of sweet content;
With his eyes he followed her,
With his fond adoring eyes;
Ev’ry gesture, ev’ry stir
Was to him a new surprise—
New surprise and blessed boon :
’Twas the Jones’s Honeymoon.
Sometimes down the path they paced,
He with arm around her waist,
Calling her his Dearest One,
Rose of Joy and Heart of Gold,
While the great free-handed sun—
Lord of lovers from of old—
Framed them in a splendid noon :
’Twas the Jones’s Honeymoon.
Through that rosy haze of sense
Lovely loomed the dog-leg fence—
Looking pretty for her sake;
So she thought, sweet simple soul—
And a lone romantic lake
Seemed the muddy water hole.
She re-named it Love Lagoon,
In the Jones’s Honeymoon.
Built of slabs and roofed with tin,
Jones’s house would make you grin.
Jones’s Humpy was the name
It went by, the district through.
This the sentimental damo
Straightway changed to'Gastle Coo,
Castle. Coo in Cumbalune —
In the Jones’s Hon ymoon.
Through her small new world she Went,
With a fancy opulent,
And vocabulary title,
(Jones looked on, a blissful man)
Called the bay cow Clementine,
Called the white cow Lilian,
All the place with names was strevvn,
In the Jones’s Honeymoon.
Thus through Eden, side by side,
Went these mortals glorified.
She was scarce the prize he deemed ;
He was yellow as a quince;
Yet to each the other seemed
Fairy Princess, Fairy Prince—
In that wonder-month of June,
In the Jones’s Honeymoon.
Does he still her waist enfold ?
Call her Deafest ? Heart of gold ?
Does she yet, with fancy fine—
Making him a blissful man—
Call the bay cow Clementine?
Call the white cow Lilian ?
Call the mud-hole Love Lagoon,
As in that glad Honeymoon ?
Ask me not ! Ido not know:
But I dream that vision rare,
And, to keep that vision rare
Ever lovely, ever true,
By their house I never fare—'
Never pass by Castle Coo ;
Castle Coo in Cumbalune,
Where they kept their Hon ymoon.
CREEVE ROE.
In renouncing his rights to the Duchy of
Saxe-Coburg in favor of his nephew, the Duke of
Albany, the Duke of Connaught shows that he
“knows when to come in out of the wet,”because
otherwise he would have had to abandon his
British nationality and military position, and
take up his residence in Germany—all for th
dubious honor of figuring as a guasf-kinglet under
William the Bounder.
Glorious hunk of tinpot self-importaffce
in recent M.L. marriage announcement :
At the residence of the bride’s parents, Tauranga, by
Rev. John Headrick, Thomas Chamberlain Tims, only
surviving son of Thomas Henry Tims, Esquire, of “ Char-
leeote,” Tauranga, and Clifford Lodge, Te Puke, and
great great grandson of Thomas Timms, of Cropredy,
and great grandson of Thomas Tims, of Banbury, arid
cousin of the late William Chamberlain, Squire of Adder-
bury, Oxfordshire; and on maternal side grandson of
Henry Meyer, P.5.8.A., engraver, and great ; great
nephew of John Hoppner, R.A., to Edith Winifred
Tovey-Tennent, formerly Edith Winifred Tovey, only
daughter of Alexander Charles Hughes Tovev-Tennent,
Esquire, J.P., of “ Fairlight,” Tauranga, and Pool, Scot-
land, formerly Capt. Tovey, H.M. 70th Regiment, and
who assumed the Arms and Name of Tennent of Pool,
Lanarkshire, Scotland, on the 30th of November, 1890.
Non cadet.
The Tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The woman lolled gracefully in a quaint low ohaiv
on the verandah, and the-man,' leaning again-t a
post at a little distance, gazed out upon the garden
in moody silence. The night was bright and
clear, and the lilies—true flowers of the moon—
moved like a troop of stately and beautiful spec-
tres in the passing breeze.
She was a fair, fleecy woman of about thirty,
with an even temperature and a passion for feathers.
She admired ■ Schopenhauer and Frederick
Nietzsche immensely, and thought “-The Picture
of Dorian Gray ” the best novel ever written. She
had a certain intellectual flippancy and a clever
tongue, and had veneered her nature with a thin
coating of philosophy, and now mistook tin- veneer
for the substance. She would not under any. cir-
cumstances have been nearly as bad as she im-
agined, but most people over-estimate their capa-
city for evil, and have a fine contempt for those
sinners who fail.
He was a big, slow man with a fine head, and
would have been considered an ass had he kicked
under provocation. But he did not kick, and she
liked to have him amongst her guests because he
was so large a butt that no shaft missed him.
Hitherto she had discovered no trace of irritation
in the man, and his want of sensibility piqued
her and excited her anger. Where is the use of
wielding the lash if no one feels the sting?
“You enjoyed yourself immensely at dinner.
My God ! woman, you are the most vicious devil I
have ever met! ”
The voice was harsh, sudden, and full of male-
volence—not loud, but it struck upon the ivomah’s
ears like a thunder-clap in the still night. Mrs.
Warner, who prided herself on her delightful
repose, sat up suddenly, and peered at him with
startled eyes.
“Was that you who spoke, George ? ” she asked,
amazed ly.
“You take a fiendish delight in torture,” the
man continued in the same tone of suppressed
rage. “ I can imagine you clapping your thin
white hands at an auto da f 6. What sensations
Torquemada could have given you, you beast! ”
He approached her, and, resting against the
window-sill, leaned over her with an expression
that was almost murderous. Mrs. Warner
cowered under his eyes. She had longed for
some signs of emotion in the big animal, but this
was so disproportionate, so utterly out of reason,
it terrified her, and she was silent under the
insult.
“ You touch me over with your pale, soft
fingers, and where there is a tenderness you stab,
and stab, and burn and bite. The others—damn
them ! It is you who start the fire and heat the
irons, and show the idiots how to nip, and probe,
and singe.”
“ How dare you ! How dare you ! ” she mur-
mured in feeble protestation.
“You make me the victim of your damnable
craving for ‘sensations.’ Listen to me. You
have not enjoyed them as you might have done
had you known the truth; I will give them a
keener zest, a sweeter flavor. I love you ! Do
you hear? I love you like hell and heaven. I
long for you with every breath of me. I adore
you, and you can sting me as neither God nor
devil could sting in a whole eternity of torment.
Remember this for the future when you are work-
ing the rack and the thumbscrew. I would not
rob you of one thrill that the dear torture might
give you, you beautiful fiend ! ”
Sho arose and confronted him, white as a corpse,
and trembling in every limb. Was he mad ’ It
was the language of madness. After all, she had
only joked and jibed. His attitude was prepos-
terously melodramatic. He was certainly mad.
She ; attempted to escape, but he caught' her wrist
and held her fast.
“ You vv ant sensations—sensations—it is one of
your cant-phrases. I have given you a sensation
to night. 1 will give you another, a grander one
before many days have fled. Your bedroom
fronts on to that old gum tree; look out one of
these fine mornings, and you may see my corpse
hanging from a limb, mouthing hideously in at
your window.”
She repressed a cry with a great effort, and
other guests thronged on to the verandah lau°-h-
-mg and chattering, and under her breath she
thanked the Hod in whom she had implicitly dis-
believed for years.
Shortly after/daylight next morning Mrs. War-
ner crept from her bed, looking pale and haggard
and stole to the window. She lifted a quaking
hand to open the blind, and recoiled from the act
in terror. She was suffering from abject fear a
horror had haunted her pillow all night. Again
and again she.had heard awful movements in the
old tree, the thud of a falling body, the jerk of the
rope. The. woman approached the window again
with eyes tightly shut; she opened the blind, and
then slowly opened her eyes. A sob of relief
burst from her laboring breast, and she vve.pt in a
huddled heap on the floor. No ghastly fruit luing
from the limbs of the great gum.
During the following day Mrs. Warner laughed
at her terrors, and knew them to be absurd, but at
night, lying in the darkness, hearing the familiar
noises of the wind in the tree, the agony of dread
stole into her bones once more, and she suffered
horribly. Again and again she stole to the win-
dow to peep out. Once she w ; as deceived by a
heavy shadow amongst the leaves, and shrieked
aloud. Another night she sat for hours, cold as a
stone, watching the tree. At the end of a: week
her friends found her looking old and worn, and,
meanwhile, she had seen nothing of Oeorge Eg-
mont since the night of his strange declaration. ° .
When George called again, Mrs. Warner was in
the garden with two or three workmen ; stout
ropes were fastened to the big gum, and one man
stood by the butt, armed with a keen new axe.
George was surprised at the change in her.
“ It will ruin your beautiful garden,” he said.
She did not reply, but there was a pitiful ex*
pression in her face and an appealing light in her
eye. He approached her more closely, and
gripped the hand by his side.
“ There is another way ! ” he whispered.
They looked into each other’s faces, and Mrs.
Warner’s was that of a chained captive.
“There is another way !”
“ Tell them to stop. I—l will not destroy the
tree,” she faltered.
When Egmont was leaving the.house that night
he looked up at the tree for a moment, and.
laughed softly in his abundant beard.
EDWARD DYSON.
THE TRIALS OF A PRINCIPAL
BOY.
The Music Hall and Variety Artists’ Protection Associa-
tion is seriously considering the advisability of contesting
the right of an agent to draw commission upon an engage-
ment obtained by him when the artist is unable to fulfil it
by reason of ill-health. The case in point is not without
interest. A well-known serio-comic, whose salary ap-
proaches often between £BO and £lOO a week, recently be-
came so indisposed that she was unable to give her full
“ show,” and the management of the hall decided to deduct
a portion of her salary. Her agent, however, claimed
commission upon the full salary, and this is the point to
be fought.
That the health of the professional is a matter of the
utmost importance is beyond all question, seeing that the
public often pay lavishly in order to be present at some
MISS DAISY JAMES.
performance, and
they naturally feel
disappointed, to say
the least-, when they
read the announce-
ment that the par-
ticular artist is “in-
disposed and unable
to appear.” From
a professional point
of view the mainte-
nance of good health
is the keystone to
success, and, this
being so, the story
told by one of Lon-
don’s most promis-
ing lady artists,
Miss Daisy James,
cannot be without
interest to her ad-
mirers, who are le-
gion, and to the
public generally.
Miss James, who in
private life is Mrs.
Harry Villiers, was
formerly one of tile
sisters Fortescue,
but hard work under trying conditions told in the end, and
considerable suffering and pecuniary loss resulted. It was
not an easy matter to get this quiet, lady-like little artiste
to te>i the story of her suffering, because, she argued,’
apart from causing her friends alarm, it might militate
considerably in the matter of future engagements. How-
ever (says a Weekly Dispatch commissioner), she listened
to what I had to say, and, when I pointed out the good she’
might do from a public point of view, the objection was
withdrawn, and I was told the following story :
“ When one has been before the public professionally
for som* vonrs, t hey acre apt to be thought older than they
l eally are, but still I shall not be twenty until next May.
For some years I worked with my sister under the name of
the Sisters Fortescue. My sister is a fine, well-made girl,
but, although I have never admitted it, I have been told
that I was more developed than she. Whilst we were in
America we had to work very hard, not always under
healthy conditions, and, in spite of the
fact that I was stronger than my sister, I
soon fell ill ; in fact, I had an attack of
low fever. I managed to pull through
and get to England, but although I had
the best of advice I caught scarlet fever,
and was laid up for some time. I got
well, but I found I was thin and pale,
and sometimes felt as if I had not an
ounce of blood in the whole of my body.
I was told I was in a decline. I went to
doctor after doctor, but still to no pur-
pose ; the more medicine I had the more
ill I seemed to get.
“ About this time I began to perform
by myself, and, having some good songs
and business, I was able to find plenty
of engagements, and my agents booked
me right up. I was overjoyed at the
prospect of plenty of “turns” at good
salaries. In certain towns I had a
great reception, but I found my strength
was not equal to the task. Once, 1 re-
member, I was so weak that I had not
the strength to go on the stage and lake
an encore, and while the audience were
shouting and whistling for me, I was
lying in the arms of my dresser, begging
the manager to go on and say something
to the audience. Well, this went on for
some time, and gradually I got worse
and worse, until many friends began to
speculate as to the date of my funeral.
It’s about four months ago now that one
night my husband happened to overhear
a conversation in the dressing-room that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had
SAVED A WELL-KNOWN ACTOll’s LIFE,
and as a kind of grasp at the last straw I
determined, after what he told me, to
try.a box. I did so, and began to take
them. I assure you I felt better the fol-
lowing day. I went on with them, and
they have saved not only my professional
reputation, but almost my life. They
must really be a wonderful medicine for
all diseases of the blood and nerves,
rheumatism, bronchitis, consumption and
fevers. Since taking the pills I have
sung as many as eight or ten songs a
night. My health is so good that lam booked up till the
end of the year 1900 ; I haven’t a vacant week, but you
bet that when I go away the first thing that I pack in my
make-up case 'is a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I
always see that I get the genuine, with ‘ Dr. Williams'
Pink Pills for Pale People ’ printed in red ink on a white
wrapper. Before going to a long and tedious rehearsal
I take one of the pills, and I feel as well as possible, and I
don’t know what nervous breakdown is. I feel it is
only right to Dr. Williams that I should do what I cam
to help him in his good work, because he cures where
hundreds of doctors fail.”
Having written music-hall critiques for some year®
"THE MARIE LLOYD OF THE FUTURE.”
(concludes the Weekly Dispatch reporter), I can end —r
what Miss Daisy James states ; she is the Marie Lloyd of
the future, and her position is assured now her health is
restored.,
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, and .by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two-and-
nine per box, six boxes fifteen-and-threepence (post free).


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out impurities from the blood, brings back an
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves,
gives energy and power.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
a
w,
mm
m
f
s\
7/.
Mrs. L. Kennington, of Station St., Petersham, New South. Wales, sends us
the above portrait of herself, with the following letter :
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative.
“Some time ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of rheumatism fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible pains, could not eat or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid.
“I did not obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for ‘Sarsa-
parilla.* My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
“ I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.”
These remarkable results are not due alone to the sarsaparilla, in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. .No
other sarsaparilla contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like “ Ayer’s.” This is why the people call it
‘The World’s Greatest Family Medicine."
“ Ayer’s ” cures. You know this. You have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that.
For removing impurities from the blood, for making thin blood become
rich and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for building up the
nervous system, there is but one medicine:
AYER’S Sa! *» lia
That
It Removes Depression.
Ayer’s Pills Act on the Liver, more Bile is Secreted*
FOR
24 Years
OWBRiDGE’B LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has b 8 come
a House hold Eemedy, in all parts of the British
himpire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WB^ T YOU ASK TOE
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
for outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWRRIDGE’S EMBROCATION
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. O WBffIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold ui bottles, at Is. l§d., 2s. M., 4s. 6a.,
and lls., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses. A
copvsiohi.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PEECHAM
•p°R Bili°us and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick: Headache,
. Cxiddiness, Pulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
S 1 Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN i WENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnest]}^ i* iV j, te iL one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be vf JETH A
IiUIM pf A A. J3o3k. ’
BEECH AM S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing bade the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud or Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts ’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecharti s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
lEOMAS BEECEAM, St. Eelens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls lid, and its 9d each.
ftf)
HUf
YEARS DYEIHGr
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. ELDBIDGE & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
tST* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
BOL LOW AY’S RILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sult'erers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nnw Ox ford-sx., London. fW Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Observe the
Signature
oA
■rtSgBHMCt
HKffPUUI
2n»«iW«
'J
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
AGENTS : Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
and DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Blue Ink
U, * e *oss the Outsit
a fiper of every Bottle
SEN
‘m
m.
P£RruUE
m
Sen-Sen (?,
KINGDOM AV£NU£\
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
i SINGERS & SPEAKERS
cP
ve
per
Bonnington’s
Irish
THE MAItVELBOUS CURB 808
WINTER COUGHB
BRONCHIA
INELUENZA.


grga T HEUROE ST \
Makers
ESTABLISHED
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-KARRIS CO. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto , Canada.
Australasian Head*’rt*rs, 163-IC9 William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address S
35 Broadway, George St. West, Sydnsy
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue l ice* «u application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaida
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GBATBFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option
SPOOETS <fe
FORKS
at Till-:
y how-rooms,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
«?>HE
BBOT
iifiiai
H'ftXV
Empire Chambers, 93 York St
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ "rjE3CIS3 BT..OCB:,*’
Collins Street, MELBOBME.
riving
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping,
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM S 3 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
HO PSTERT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales daring the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Wm. Adams & Co,, Sydney ;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N S W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making 1 (which has done so much for
o \
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING- STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEFYE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATES ON, Managsr.
mmm
■
•vM-/:
:• V
m
OTTUMWA WINDING ENGINE.
Catalogues Free on Application.
31A N UFA. CTURERS & IMPORTERS
OF ALL KINDS OF
MININ* machinery,
STEA3I ENGINES
ANT)
BOILERS.
c©
S
LAUNDRY
A JfD
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
“Tl)€ R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Sole Proprietors.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourae, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK :—l4 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO. __
B.S.A.
-*■ h E LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PAN Y, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/-doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3,6, Brooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perrys
s tress SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent! cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
dat 2S°PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
■
General Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
435 Bourlte Street, Melbourne.
AmavTS FOR
The Mason Regulating Co’s
STEAM AND WATER REDUCING VALVES.
L. Schuttes & Co’s
ROUTING’S BOILER FEED INJECTORS & EJECTORS.
Blake’s
SINGLE & DUPLEX STEAM PUMPS.
J. A. Fay & Egan Co’s
WOODWORKING MACHINERY & TOOLS.
W. I\ & Jno. Barnes Co.
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & WOODWORKING MACHINERY
Always In Stock:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Lifting Tackle, &c.
