

McEWAN'S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
GrTT-A-lE?. -A.tNT’rjeslESH
COCOA. A.]\rx> EXTRACT
COCOA
OF MALT.
107 Kont
Sydney,
Street,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery Minina
E XP L O3 I VES, B gI £D EK.S. AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and " Slt ® S ’
Roller. Stsel and Special CHAINS
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W f MI-OLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss m street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agent, fcr T he Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating and Conveying- Machinery . . .
HORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
.;V.;
’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
iv:
HOBART.
— tm —
Hadleys flrient [jotel.
CJECOND-HAND
AND
TCTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
■fcl Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME or best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE I.ATIIEfr,
W_ C. IEHLIDIRXIDGKE] &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 yOK lv STltWhU’, SYi)NBJ
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irotn all the colonies promptly
attended to.
cull
oo
860,113 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PBGMEER
LEATHER
.
ffBELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address. V,
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOW, LTD.,
11*7 TUTorls: S tx-eot,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S A. USTIt ALI AN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Boomerang Brandy.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST VniNE^>
AUSTRALIA.
£3T Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER’S
CREAM” WHISKY.
' ' ' ... . ... * •" ** ' .... • i4 y; * <..
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Xiove & 00.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Voi 20.—N0. ioaaj
[Saturday, December 2, 1899.
Por-p+prafl at the Gerara! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


* /Var#lutinat!oi) a ffluinsr-on ; the habit of trltiing’-on
to the root-word oilier words and suffixes to express
different ideas or phases of idea, as 'jo-l, uodlike. Most
lamcuanrw agglutinate ; but some, like the Turkish, more
than others.
WILI. T A M S. wA I, K I*' I S.’S (“ o() O - !■’, R”)
SU( !( ’KSSRU I, t(< X) KS. Illnstrated i hroughout
by leadin'-' artists. Price—3/6. cloth ;2 6, stiff paper.
“ I Vheit the Mo poke (oils.''
The Times (London): “ A collection of Australian stories,
giving a capital idea of life on the remote oui-stations
of the eastern colonies in the last generation.” llic
Sjwctator (London - : “A brightly-written volume of the
trials and humours of colonial life some thirty years or
more back." The Worh l i Loudon): “They are full of
the sound of the vagrant, s song of freedom, and are par-
ticularly fresh and unhackneyed.” The VP, elily Sim
(London): “There is no more interesting' writer about
Australia than Mr. William IS. Walker, the well-known
‘ 000-ee.’ ”
“From the Land of the Wombat.”
The Daily Graph (London).: “ Tim stories are written
so naturally, and with such an appearance of truth, that
we are almost inclined, to believed tli t the author is
relating his own experiences rather than telling us tales
of fiction. Mr. Walker has great, knowledge of his subject,
and is able to convey to his reader a very realistic im-
pression of Australian life and character. The stories are
of greet v-riety,. and many of them haveaquaint humour
about them that i- decidedly taking.” The Guardian
(London): “Mr. Walker has done excellent work in
‘ From the Land of the Wombat.,* and he seems now to be
our finest Australian writer. He is always picturesque,
always striking.” I
“ NA L’IVU 15014 x," One Long Novel, 320 pp.
(In preparation).
London: JOHN LONG, Publisher, 6 Chandos-st., Strand;
and LONG'S COLONIAL LIBRARY at all Colonial
Booksellers.
Hudson’s Eumen!b!” (ieglstered) Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
i' ■
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. Gd. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, <J. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Province. Sydney Agent: S. Tayj.Oß, 5 and 7 Queen's Place.
tar They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpf/jl in INDIGESTION «ndDYSPEPSIA.
THE RED PAGE.
TO THE EDITOR.
With Apologies for an Unwritten Article.
I really ought to do some work to-night,
I really ought : I fear I’m growi tig lazy—
Or old, maybe. Old! I! Surely Time’s spite
Stops short at Spain ? My castles are not crazy.
My dreams are bright- I never had ambitions :
Yet . . . I bethink me Winnie’s wicked eye
Saw a gray hair to day : gray hairs have missions . • »
Well, if it must be so-my Youth, good-bye 1
These notes for slashing leaders X should do,'
I ’ll tether them again in Amy’s garter :
Did n't she hunt for it! I hunted too —
Said a mouse stole it—vowed the wretch no quarter.
It was a trophy, keepsake, what you will —•
Ten— twelve . . . O Postumus, the count’s awry l
It serves to keep my papers tidy still . . .
Yes, lam growing old ! My Youth, good-bye t
Here in the drawer naughty Jenny’s hair —
How I remember the fond night I shore it!
Close to the head —no miser’s measure there—
Ah, we would love for ever ! and we swore it
Upon that lock —she was the sweetest girl !
Such hair ! like Danae’s shower from the sky
Tumbling, to set my senses in a whirl
(That’s trite, but true) . . . O Youth, dear Youth
good-bye !
I often wish I’d cribbed a lock from each,
As Schaunard in La Vie (sigh !) de Boheme :
Sixty he had, each speaking lover’s speech,
Each ticketed with memory and name.
But I was always careless —there, of Jack,
Only that hat-pin with the butterfly :
Well,, it holds Clara’s photo in the rack—
She ’s married now .. . and so, my Youth, good-bye
And here is Lucy’s letter—little jade !
I owe her thrice as many pangs as blisses :
“ I ’ll never leave you ! ere the ink could fade
She held her mouth up for another’s kisses :
“ You are so good, so kind —don’t think I flatter!
I ’ll never love but you ! ” O Lucy, fie !
Not a week after you were . . . bah ! what matter?
’T will light my pipe. Good-bye, my Youth, good-bye !
That’s all . . . no, something rattles—Kitty’s pen 1
And, happy thought! the occasion calls for verses :
She had a tender knack of scribbling when
She chose —perchance her pen her role rehearses.
Juventa Men! you should be interred
With all due etiquette—we can but try. . .
Six stanzas on your tomb ! ’T would be absurd
,To rise again ? Good-bye, my Youth, good-bye !
Eaglehawk and Crow.
THAT, says Mr. Mathew, is a keynote of
Australian aboriginal life—the mythical
conflict for supremacy between eaglehawk
and crow; “ and a not inappropriate
name, for the south-east of Australia at least,
would be The Land of the Eaglehawk and
Crow.”
For throughout Victoria, generally speaking,
and extending with modifications into New South
Wales and South Australia, there is a division of
the aboriginal community into two leading classes,
with two class-names or totems —eaglehawk, and
crow.
The aborigines of the northern parts of Victoria believe
that the beings who created all things had severally the
form of the crow and the eagle. There had been constant
warfare between these two beings, but peace was made
at length. They agreed that the Murray blacks should
be divided into two classes, the Mokwarra or Eaglehawk,
and the Kilparra or Crow.
So Mr. Mathew (the Rev. John Mathew, M.A.,
8.D., of Coburg, Victoria) calls his new book
about the aborigines (Melville, Mullen, and Slade,
Eublishers, Melbourne), by the title of “ Eagle-
awk and Crow. ”
It is a book deserving of the warmest praise,
and it admirably fills a vacant place in local litera-
ture. For it is comprehensive; it surveys the
whole field of aboriginal history, life, and char-
acter. Hitherto, when someone asked, “ Can you
recommend a book telling all about the Australian
aborigines ? ” we have had no satisfactory answer.
There was Curr’s ‘ ‘ Australian Race ” —a very
valuable book in its day ; a valuable book still;
but a little loose, a little unwieldy, and a good
deal behind current knowledge and current methods
of enquiry. Dr. Roth’s splendid study applies
only to the comparatively small district of North-
west-central Queensland. Spencer and Gillen’s
mass of detail applies to a comparatively small
district of Centnal Australia. There are many
excellent detached studies of less importance.
But Mr. Matthew generalises; he includes all
Australia; his book is a manual for the general
reader, giving essential facts in a moderate com-
pass, and reducing nearly all that is known of the
subject to homogeneity and order.
We owe him thanks—and a suggestion. His
book is a small book, extended from a prize
essay contributed to the Royal Society of
New South Wales ; and. his survey, though ade-
quate within its scope, is necessarily cursory and
insufficient. Let him make a further extension—
base upon his general-reader’s book a book for
special readers and scientists maintain his
method while adding to his facts and increasing
his illustrations—give us a library “History oi
the Australian Aboriginal Race ” up to date.
Here is another fascinating ten years’ work for a
reverend gentleman who lives in a manse.
“ Who are these people, and whence have they
sprung?” Lady Jersey alluringly enquired. Mr.
Mathew answers, for Australians of an earlier day
than we, by counting three distinct aboriginal
peoples, whose descendants enjoy at the present
day (so far as known) the benefit of six different
languages. “ Their fundamental principle of word-
structure is agglutination; ”* and by agglutinating,
and modifying, and reduplicating his limited
vocabulary, the simple King Billy of our back-
blocks gets results which leave the slow English
tongue panting hopelessly behind. Thus the
Central Australian takes a little Verb like illcuma,
to eat, and gets 1100 different phrases out of it.
Then lie modifies the little verb, and gets a
mere trifle of 8,70'0 delightful phrases more.
An 1 then, wearying of the monotony of
fI.OJQ variations of the idea of eating, he sports
with particular moods and tenses, and gets an
additional 600 verbal phases. Then, with 9,600
expressions derived from ilknmn, to eat, he lets
that hard-worked verb rest awhik*, and proceeds
to make another 9000 variations upon tuma, to
beat— -and so on through his charming primitive
collection of verbs. And we are accustomed to
despise King Billy ! —we who say I love you and
are gravelled for lack of inflections. What would
we not do with 9(100 variations on the verb to love?
-—what abysses could we not plumb ! to what
heights could we not ascend ! Plainly, we must
revise our impressions of King Billy.
From a cave-painting discovered by George Grey in
1838, on the Glehelg River, N.W. Australia.
Iso wonder the Australian Muse is cultivated
enthusiastically, as Mr. Mathew affirms. Alas
that he. should have also to affirm that she is
cultivated unprogressively !
The native in this respect, as in all respects, is conser-
vative to the backbone, so that we have no reason to sup-
pose that his music and song of to-day are any advance
upon what they were three thousand years ago. In some
cases the words seem designed to run in rhymes ; but a
decided rhythm recurring in lines of regular length, and
invariably chanted, never recited, is the essential charac-
ter of Australian poetry. Almost every blacMfellow is a
“ maker ” of lyric verse, and whiles away the hour with
his own compositions about arty subject which lies closest
to his heart; but the man who has the talent to compose
a dramatic corroboree is a person of no small conse-
quence.
Really, the more the Australian race changes, the
more it is the same thing'. King Biily prefigures
King whoever is the leading Bulletin bard
of the moment. Almost every Australian white-
fellow is a “maker ” of verse (though King Billy’s
is probably better); but the man who has the
talent to compose an epic or dramatic poem is a
person of so much consequence that we cannot
find him anywhere.
Mr. Mathew strongly advocates his theory that
the first settlement of Australia was from the
north-east, and not, as has been contended, from
the north-west.
From a cave-painting discovered by George Grey in
1838, on the Glehelg River, N.W. Australia.
Australia was first occupied by a people, a branch of the
Papuan family, and closely related to the Negroes. They
came from the north, in all likelihood from Now Guinea,
but whether from there or any other island of the Eastern
Archipelago is a matter of indifference and impossible to
decide, as probably at the time of their arrival the
islands to the north were all inhabited by people of the
same blood. These first-coiners, the veritable Aus-
tralian aborigines, occupied all the continent, and having
spread right across to the southern shores, they crossed
what is now Bass Strait, but which at that distant date
may have been dry land, and their migration terminated
in Tasmania.
Then followed one invasion, if not two, by hostile
people. The un-Papuan element now discernible in the
Australian race is not the trace of one pure race, but is
composite, the constituents being Dravidian [the
Dravidians were ancient settlers of India] and Malay
blood. Of these the Dravidian was the first to arrive,
the Malay coming later, and in a desultory way, by de-
achnients at irreguhJr intervals.
Mr. Mathew buttresses his theory in various
ways, hut chiefly by a comparison of languages.
He shows that Australian languages converge
towards the north-east —“ there is a natural high-
way easily traversed across Australia from the
north-east to the south and south-west, by first
ascending the rivers on the north-eastern water-
shed, and then descending those on the southern
watershed until they converge about Lake
Eyre.” So that upon the north-eastern Papuan
stream of people came, Mr. Mathew thinks,
the northern stream of Dravidians, —driving
the Papuans southward till their remnant
took refuge in Tasmania,—intermarrying
with them and altering or absorbing their lan-
guage. The southern Australian legend of the
strife between eaglehawk and crow perpetuates,
Mr. Mathew considers, the strife and final union
of the two races. Then came the Malays from
north-west and north, leaving their mark upon
the language of the earlier peoples, infusing their
blood, and executing the remarkable cave-
pictures found by Grey and Bradshaw in Wes-
tralia. Two of the pictures found by Grey
are reproduced with this article, though they lose
much m losing the brilliant colours in which they
Pointed. In a very interesting passage Mr.
Mathew identifies the second drawing with
Daibattah, a Sumatran deity, and shows that the
characters written at its head are those which
represent
D A 1 B At TAB
in Sumatran writing. The Australian message-
stick, too, is referred to the old Malay practice,
prevailing at least in Sumatra, of writing upon
bamboos and rattan canes.
One’s sympathies go out always to the Tas-
manians, that race which vanished in our own .day ;
and Mr. Mathew heightens the romantic interest
attaching to them by comparing them with the
Celts driven to the extremities of the British Isles
by Saxon and Norman invaders.
The peopling of Australia, in so far as the succession
and distribution, or commingling of different races is
concerned, has been not very unlike the settlement of
Great Britain. The Celtic element in Britain is repre-
sented in Australia by the Papuan, the Saxon by the
Dravidian, the Norman by the Malay. In both cases
the population has poured in mainly on one side, the
earliest settlers gradually retiring to the farther shore.
The second race takes entire possession of the centre,
shedding the indigenes to either side. Wales and Corn-
wall might correspond to Victoria, the Isle of Man to Tas-
mania, not in relative position to the mainland, but in
isolation and racial purity ; and the Highlands of Scot-
land would represent Western Australia. In each case
from the first two races the hulk of the people is sprung,
and the vocabulary and grammar are inherited, while
the third race, sprinkled here and there over the land,
has left the slightest lingual traces of its presence.
Mr. Mathew enforces his theory with a map,
and clinches it with a comparative table of
Australian languages and dialects, the result of
much labor—a beautiful table ; for there is an intel-
lectual beauty in every piece of work deftly and
cleanly executed, in every end achieved by the
intelligent combination of means—kin with the
beauty of a Morphy chess-ending .or with the
beauty of the theory of the hyperbola.
Mr. Mathew’s style is strong and clear ; his
knowledge is full ; and his method leaves little to
be desired—he has the good mind, the combining
mind. Many predecessors have given-him stones,
but he has erected the biiilding. His book is a
real book, an honest book, a book to be proud of.
Notes.
The dedication of “ Steele Rudd’s ” book—
PIONEERS OF AUSTRALIA !
To you “ who gave our Country birth ; ” to the memory
of you whose names, whose giant enterprise, whose deeds
of fortitude and daring were never engraved on tablet or
tombstone ; to you who strove through the silences of the
Bush-lands and made them ours ; to you who delved and
toiled in loneliness through the years that have faded
away; to you who have no place in the history of our
country so far as it is yet written ; to you who have done
most for this land ; to you for whom few, in the march of
settlement, in the turmoil of busy city life, now' appear
to care ; and to you particularly, Good Old Dad, this book
is most affectionately dedicated.
There seems to be among British bards a
little jealousy of Kipling’s position as Jingo-
maehine-poet, with verses -for every occasion
“no cold-storage poetry all days laid this
morning.” Alfred Austin has writhed silently
since his Jameson's Raid doggerel sank in a,
tempest of ridicule; but Swinburne gave the
Times a sonnet on the dav war burst (a fair
polemic sonnet —worthless as literature) and foot-
noted it non-copyright. This was surely a rub
for Bud yard, whose recent pose-couplets were
announced as copyright in America.
& Jt,
By the way, America has had an authorised re-
print of Kipling’s travel-sketches—including the
Japanese and American notes, and most of “ The
City of Dreadful Night,” under the title “From
Sea to Sea ” —for six months past; and nothing is
heard of an English edition. But presumably
“From Sea to Sea ” cannot be imported to Aus-
tralia for copyright reasons.
Quatrain liv. of Fitzgerald’s “Omar” reads in
all the English editions—from Aldis Wright’s to
the “Golden Treasury
But if in vain, down on the stubborn floor
Of Earth, and np to Heaven’s unopiming Door,
You gaze To-day, while You are You how then
To-morrow, You when shall be You no more ?
Faithful Omarists are perplexed by the last line.
Shouldn’t it be-^-
To-morrow, when You shall be You no more ?
Obviously, one would s.av : even if MS.—is there
MS. ?- -defends the misplaced “You.” For
surely the other construction is too bad to be
cornpensated by any rhythmic betterment ? And
there appear to be about fourteen people on this
planet to whom the point is of greater importance
than Anything else which perplexes the human
hive.
By the way {Mem. —To avoid this tag) it is
worth any city bookfellow’s while to turn up
John Payne’s “Omar” at his public library
(if there is a copy there) and read the pre-
face (the version is stiff stuff). John Payne
(very presentable poet ; don at Persian and
Arabic—translator of the “Thousand and One
Nights ” ; translator, too, of Villon; and a
Scholar) is a good man none the less that he
realises his own goodness much more than the
multitude. And in the preface to his “Omar
Kheyyam ” (if you please—getting rid of the
accents which bother writers and damn printers’
souls) he puts Richard Burton and Fitz. emphati-
cally where they belong—with a nursed venge-
ance !
With all my appreciation of the beauties of Mr. Fitz-
gerald’s work [the villain spells him with a small g—
anathema !]. . . it seems to me to have been of late
years somewhat extravagantly overpraised and I confess
that Icannot but regard as deplorable that lack of the
sense of proportion, (a lack, alas! characteristic of our
hysterical modern society,) which leads a certain class of
literary dilettanti to speak of My. Fitzgerald, elegant and
charming versifier as he was, as a “ great poet ” and to
even him with his really great original. . .
... In no way entitled to be called a translation of the
Rubaiyat ... a pretty poem, but not Omar . . . there
is such a thing as literary conscience . . „ Icannot, for
my part, but regard the process as something of a sin
against literary morality.
There is no space to detan the accusation
against Burton (“pressed ” to the Omar galley);
but he “ had no sufficient acquaintance with
literary Arabic ”; was almost entirely destitute of
literary faculty and intuition; borrowed whole
pages from my translation ! “I have no hesitation
in asserting,” writes indignant John, “that my
version [of the Thousand-and-One Nights] is far
more accurate than any in existence —and he
italicises it. Io Payne!—heavenly natures can
nourish hate so fierce. No wonder A. P. Martin
prays for the defilement of the tombs of the
fathers of the people, who forget that “ I intro-
duced Gordon to England.”
& &
Writes V.J.D. :—“lnßoderic Quinn’s booklet
of verses I meet this statement—
The declaration comes quite naturally from a poet
by trade. Yet it seems to me unsatisfactory.
The girls that poets paint are beautiful —in books.
But on a summer afternoon of gold and blue, when
the world makes holiday, the lips of Lalage would
be as rosemary but the lips of Mary Ann as roses.
We can in light literary fancy sport with
Amaryllis in the shade or wind , the tangles of
Nemra’s hair. But when we have a real living
thrilling white-bosomed Amaryllis or Netera we lay
aside Lycidas—and in that book we read no more.
I have kept my affections well in hand, else I
should long ago have made a fool of myself over
.Rosalind. But' I saw that I had too many rivals.
All the generations of male readers since' Shake-
speare first met Rosalind in the wood of Arden
are my rivals. And that is not counting Orlando.
Some people who do not realise their heroines
would not be jealous of Orlando. I am. I have
an implacable dislike to both Orlando and Romeo.
And the dislike is all the stronger because I know
that it is impotent. Those gallant, lute-playing,
swashbuckling, serenading lovers aie worse than
dead because, as we are well aware, they never
existed. But Juliet lives. Time and space count
for nothing when one is in love with Juliet. Have
I not been in Padua in the soft Italian summm
moonlight outside the house of Capulet—playing
a guitar with seven strings that were of the seven
colours of the rainbow ‘i And, ah, the clear,
swift steel of Mercutio flashing in the light beyond
the shadow of the great house! Ah, ces beaux
jours quand j’etais si malhcureux! But worse
things have happened to me. I shall say nothing
about Gudrun or Helen —
(Fas this the face that launched a thousand ships
And burned the topless towers of Ilium ?
I knew them both. But when Marguerite de
Bourgogne grew tired of me.- -of me, remember—
and I went from the top of the Tour de JS’esle to
the bottom of the Seine in a sack, it was an evil
experience. These are the reasons why I like the
living pulsating rose-blushing girl better than the
girls that the . poets paint. Besides, she tells you
what a clever man you are. And neither Juliet
nor Rosalind ever does this. Their lips are
THE BOOKFELLOW.
Beauty kindles man’s desire,
Beauty fades and groweth faint;
But the girls who never tire
Are the girls that poets paint.


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG- & AITKEN,
680-652 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wi6ea4e4.
s9leu) Wkcodery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
EOZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,-—I have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is.
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sa. a,zidL 7s. Bed. Eacla.
HF-Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOUOHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, «fec., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAYAIS 1
most effective fn
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin: constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/that all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AM THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
THE BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT
Pm |
MalsfcHal;¥d
\ WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
L PICTIONARY* >
A Library in itself.—Besides tlie Dictionary
proper it also gives the often desired information con-
ceming eminent persons; facts concerning the countries,
cities, towns, and natural features of the globe; particu-
lars concerning noted fictitious persons and places;
translation of foreign quotations, words and pro-
verbs, etc., and a valuable Australasian supplement.
This Work is Invaluable in the household, and to
the teacher, scholar, professional man, and self-educator.
SEND FOB FREE PROSPECTUS AND SPECIMEN PAGES.
a
jG.&CsMerriam Co., Publishers, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
A LIMITED.
Offices: • 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
MOIR’S
Table-Jelly Powder
In Pint Packets. Assorted Flavours.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR St SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
BRUSH'S!
The STANDARD HARNESS
of A JJSTRATI A . . .
To-day, as hitherto, we lead the waj
reputation of 58 years for Sound,
Goods. We solicit your commands,
do so with every confidence.
t with a
Reliable
, and we
m
u
i]
m
..T::
Brush’s Fashionable CARRIAGE
BROUGHAM, TANDEM, DOG-
CART, and BUGGY Harness in
best Brass, Nickel, and Plated
Mountings.
SATIN ROSETTES for the above
harness our own manufacture
and of the latest style and pattern.
A choice assortment of perfect
Satin Rosettes are kept in stock
or made specially on the shortest
possible notice.
CRESTS AND MONOGRAMS
TO ORDER, Designs Submitted.
Seven FIRST PRIZES last year by
exhibitors using Brush’s harness
at the different shows, and with-
out any effort on our part ; and
the same NICE APPEARANCE
and FINISH which attracted the
Judge’s eyes is seen in our every-
day work.
Reliable Sulky or Buggy Harness,
in Black, and the Fashionable
Brown Leathers, with Collar and
Haines, and fitted with the most
modern furniture, from £4.
VERY SUPERIOR HARNESS,
£5 10s.
Do. Do. Part lined, £6 10s.
Do. Do. Full lined, £7 10s.
BRUSH’S TANDEM HARNESS,
from £lO 10s. up, Extra for
Improved Bars.
BRUSH’S PAIR-HORSE LANDAU, VICTORIA, or CARRIAGE HARNESS, 18 guineas and up.
BRUSH’S PAIR-HORSE BUGGY HARNESS, £5, £5 10s., £6 10s., £7 10s., and up.
A GOOD SET OF BLACK LEATHER SULKY HARNESS, with Collar and Haines, £3 16s.
Cash Orders of the value of £3 up sent Carriage Free to any Port or Railway Station in N.S.W., or 6 per eeni
discount to the adjoining colonies.
Price Lists and Illustrations and any information about harness will be sent on receipt of postcard.
THIS IS THE ADDRESS:
John Brush, Son & Go.,
403-405 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary liimited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42'- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, SI/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35'-. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32/6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15,/9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 3/8. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, eta It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
COMMON SENSE EAR BRUM ”
THE
DEAF
9EAB
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
E. V.FINCKH&CO
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants ds Importers
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. lone, f/8, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBING*
< worked up, 2/8 per oz.
\Ve are the cheapeStin lor
trails for all Hair Work
Send Color of Hair, r
W. H."Wiei«Mj
‘ 110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List-"''
Prompt attention'glvjsn to Oountry Order*
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract 9
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
earn
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
B3T- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, jggT" Pur.
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LtliE
if®
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE '
(ilcq’S Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Bud. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents—
W. H. 6LEN & CO.,
359 George Street, Sydney.
2*72 & 274 Collins Street, MelL^nrne.


TATTERSALL’S
Address s Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
SUMMER 0. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5«
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name.
Address
£ t t — —
CARRINGTON S. December 30.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
* : i ... v ' ; ' :j
Name
shares in the
£
Address
Brigbtoi) P. Ist JaOv 1900.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL. r
Please allot me _shares in above.
Name
Address __
<a€€loog c. I7tb Jao
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in above.
Address.
ANNIVERSARY H. 6th Jan.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name _
Address. ' '
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


age:
K
MARKS
Why do you
sit calmly and
just let your
hair all fall
out or get
gray and do
nothing to
stop it ? Ia
this common
sense? Not a
bit of it. No
need of losing
your hair in this way. And
there is no need of your look-
ing old before your time,
either. The hair may be
pres erved
and made
beautiful
by giving
it the food
found in—
It always
restores
color to gray or faded hair.
Tour hair may have all the
dark, rich color of early life.
Then why not have it so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.S.A.
Hair
visor
Vtv®
©°
d 0< ‘
IKlodern
milling-
machinery.
m
\
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MTT.T.S,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railwa3 r s of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ANTHOS-•-HAIR
Discoverer, Christopher Mudd, r.L.s., Prince of Welei' Botanist
Hot a Grease, purely Botanical.
Dr. J. Robert Lke, M.U.. B.S (Melb. University),
'lFoii ffn r
tiifie 1
: uin it!
f" prtvrnt
» rr t ‘
jlprm ahd
1 yon/rvillxti .
"" "sample bottle bf™"slnthoB.
Colonial Representative for the Proprietors:
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
reSfee
in irr 3t<
s ivi U hd ,
la r alliAWo jt I and u 1
lot :le >. 2fi/ r os :e 1,1/; \
0 ahil lines ano«lxpsncp t > i iliVei,
■eeeivjl fost (pOelasipaigii
GO TO HELL-
IUOI.ANT) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (food stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st.,, Sydney.
Australian Stkmtytf bcftight, pWca-
liit'if
a Sbare of tbe Profits
°* THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by effeoting
I WILL
' on pof™e, H t “ DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1899 (all bonuses vest
p.rticiprtiog Policy-holder*fortb* oingleyear I Bra,^waß£*7o^2, * mount * °“ h B °“" *»“»* “•
Tntnnriin u EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
fso as*to < rMp^the^benefiTof U thTs^ear’s n ßonus* leir applications ear, I r either d!reot or throu K h the
“ ohalrman ’
General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOE, F.LA., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HeadOfflce, 87 Pitt-st, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
® u SSies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 80/-
40/-, 70/- per Set
%3~ Send for Price List TEt
XL SILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
work*: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent*Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 Sc 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINB
PROMOTES BROWTH,
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
m
m
1
1
i
I
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD., 16, BEVIS MARKS, LONDON, ENGLAND.]
m g*-, mmm
*|S %%wH¥Mlb
-3uJB- &g s gjf a aJ
1/v
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELYETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
0
m
&
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade <fe Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Plum
nn
E^ru-xia
/'M ENTLEMEM who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated
■ • il |IS razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly '
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourTelves
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having bad them in us
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Tioo Years.
I he “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, Vs 6d.
Razoles Lightning Razor Shamener. 6d. cake.
Plum Razor A
lollow ground,
e know the
e for a number
Price
{ o- ng ! e S ;lZor ’ ! n ? tron K leather case, 10s. 6d.Pair, in beautiful
Ibmgle Razor, m ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle"
morocco 1 eather case, 2Ls.
in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
pi JReffiltered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
llease add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
iIM.S.’W. Carriage & S a cldlerv ]VT ar ,f '
Note on, Ne„ Add,e»: 193 t» 195 Clovclona.sSeM^Jf”^
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying: from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7:
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O, Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not ba
imsled by any-jirms who say they will deliver for less
2 ISA m p " y " p "
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. S
£8 18/6
IfcHrered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
An Odd.
Break, aa all vows of love that unabides,
Roll on thy strand the slow, smooth arch that
gleams
With fettered magio of the girdling tides,
And the ungathered glories of youth’s dreams ;
Pierce thy green depths on rocks that are a-cold,
Touch with thy rainbow curve this lonely shore,
But even as thou diest, oh unfold
The voices I have heard and hear no more !
O sanctuary, whose eternal foam
Drapes for thanksgiving pedestals profound,
Sunk in the depths, whose altar tops are home
For the white clouds, —shed on me what was wound
In the young years about my heart, and rolled
Through all my being, a celestial sense—
Love that still lips and shuttered eyes have told,
Smiles that elude sad Memory’s impotence.
Then thy too solemn dirge shall softly float
Upon the muted strings of Memory’s pain,
As a tired wind that fades upon a moat,
Too still to welcome its secluded rain ;
And if one tremor shall recall a throb
Long buried in old graves—oh Lord, how sweet
To feel thy benediction in a sob,
And see thee in the tears about my feet!
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
What’s in a name 1 The Westralian As-
sembly has just thrown out an Immigration Re-
striction Amendment Bill by a majority of one.
Said Bill provided for the wholesale and retail in-
troduction of cheap nigger labor-the “restric-
tion ” being that the said labor was only to be
employed in sea-faring pursuits north of latitude
The water-tight-compartment principle in
ship-building is to be carried to its logical con-
clusion in a big steamer now being built in Ger-
many, and in which one “ compartment ” will be
continued all round the outside of the vessel—
making practically a ship within a ship. It is
claimed th "t the craft, which is to have a carrying
capacity of 3,000 tons, will be unsinkable.
Ballade of the Cheerful Outlook.
Of roses and sunlight old poets sing,
Of light-clad lasses in Arcady;
And of hearts’ response to Love’s whispering
New rhymesters twitter perfervidly.
But a work-a-day world is the world we see,
Where there’s little of glamour and lots of toil;
All grisly and grey are the Things that Be—
Sing O, for the reek of the midnight oil!
We prate of the fragrance of early spring,
And of Youth’s large loveliness learnedly
We prose; and of nectar the Graces bring
We lisp at random above our tea.
Good Lord ! we’re edentate at twenty-three—
Respectable rats of a grave-greased soil;
And to call our swill nectar is blasphemy—
Sing O, for the reek of the midnight oil 1
“ epicurely, for Time’s a- wing ”
A dainty scheme—if the gods agree !
From the venomed clutch of the cares that cling
Will some leisured epicure set us free ?
In multiple-miseried murk we dree
Our weird, close-meshed in the Grey Thing’s
coil.
The blast squeals shrill through the gallows-tree
Sing O, for the reek of the midnight oil !
Pale Brothers of White Nights ! doomed are we ;
No penitence now can our souls assoil.
Set your teeth—spread your shou’ders —with feigned
glee,
Sing 0, for the reek of the Midnight Oil /
T.
FRANK MORTON.
Below the Moon.
The sunflowers dip toward the West
And prudence with the daylight dies,
And ah ! we love the wild loves best
Below the moon, Blue Eyes 1 Blue Eyes !
The dark trees twine their arms above,
Along the creek a curlew cries—
Ah ! God forgive your outlaw love
Below the moon, Blue Eyes 1 Blue Eyes !
Eor him the seal to sorrow set;
For you the shame that never dies
And all the nights of long regret
Below the moon, Blue Eyes ! Blue Eyes 1
N.S.W.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
The Dead So True!
The dead so true ! The world may lie,
The souls we love go heedless by,
But, O, the hearts beneath the mould
Are with us still—the hearts of gold ;
While mem’ry lives they do not die 1
They haunt the stars in yonder sky,
In Deep o’ Dreams they wander nigh,
Their hands again our hands enfold—
The dead so true !
O friends that live, ye turn and fly,
And, heedless all, ye hear us cry ;
Your venal bosoms, calm and cold,
Are daily bought and daily sold ;
But none may break their tender tie —
The dead so true !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


COOLALTA
Offices: 374 George-st., Sydney.] [Established 1864.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
222 CANNON ST.
lioxxdou., 3ES.C.
Established as a connecting' link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
fra-kte: jarvis
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agenoy terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland —Messrs. CORRIE & 00., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. j. Adams, Manager,
Pick out what is best in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
have Tattersall’s.
Tariff—los. per Day.
£ 3 per Wee Te.
Painless Dentistry,
THE .. ..
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mb. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
g3g— Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Zegitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. -Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY—9B KING ST., SYDNEY — ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG ]
STRAUSS >
HUNDT J
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH&CG33 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
STICK T©
SAME©
CIGARETTES
NOBEL-i?LRS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
©
c
o
<MI
RAD
SWA
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
ETJSE,
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S. W. 9 Messrs. Ealgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria ,
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
TE
%
%
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over <£looo more than any other powder. —Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
t PARVO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are speoially recommended for Rabbit and Small Gajne
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs, Briscoe & Co,; Queensland, Messrs, Brabant & Co,
TIE POUT
Which we wish to impress upon your mind is the fact that
RUBEROIP ROOFING
including WIRE NETTING and all fixings (trainage paid to any station in New South Wales)
COSTS LESS THAN IRON
It has been used in the AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES OVER THREE YEARS, and now that
HIE HIM
that it stands the Australian climate as well
as that of America, we want to have
E.RICMIO
LTD. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
yiu KM


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, (Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1033.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1890.
Prick fin.
bUR DECLINING BIRTH-RATE.
Coghlan : “ Why don’t you get
born more, you little beggar ? You’ro
imperilling the future of this great
country."
Baby : “ No, I’m on strike. You
don’t value me when I do get bom ;
you seldom or never treat me pro-
perly, and until you give me a fair
show I won’t be born any more ! ”
THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE POLICE
FORCE.
Mr. Norton moved "That, in the opinion of
this House, a Royal Commission, consisting of not
less than five persons, one of whom shall be a Supreme
Court Judge and one a member of the Legislative
Assembly, should be appointed to inquire into and
report upon the present condition, organisation, and
administration of the police force of New South
Wales.” It was, he said, a notorious fact that the
administration of the police force in Sydney was im-
perfect. He could prove that after Warrants had been
issued for the arrest of notorious criminals they had
been allowed to escape. He would prove all his
atateinents. Therefore he asked the Government to
agree to his motion
The Colonial Secretary said he would not agree
to it. There had not been a single case of maladminis-
tration or misconduct on the part of the police brought
• under hi 3 notice by the hon. member who asked for
the commission, and he (Mr. See) was head of the
department. Out of something like 3000 police there
must- cf necessity be some who were not altogether
perfect in the discharge of their duties ; but that was
not a sufficient-reason for the appointment of a Royal
Commission to inquire into the whole question of
police administration throughout the country.
L.B.M. (to returned, Lancer) : “ So you didn’t join the great Boer hunt 1 ”
I.angek : “ No, I went to England to cut lemons, not to shoot Boers ; so I have come back.’
L.B.M. : “ On the principle that ‘ He who cuts and conies away, may live to cut another dav ’
And quite right, too ! ” ' y ’
A SLIGH T VARIATION.
Norton: “ I’ve arrested him, your Wor-
ship, for being fonnd in possession of a
large terrace of houses reasonably supposed
to have been stolen.”
CARTOONLETS.


XMAS EDITION
OF
“TS)€ BCllctii)”
(1899)
Will be Published
Thursday, Dec. 7, 1899-
'Every effort will be made to make this Special Issue
Interesting and Attractive.
No Colored Supplement will be given.
Agents will be supplied at the usual price, but in
consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition no returns will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES must be applied
for in wlvance of publication.
The Bulletin
Tlie National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. ,,
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 6
Quarterly... ... ... ••• 0 6 6
77ip t/hullelxM.,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1899.
Some Imperial Prospects and
Speculations.
When the South African war is over, and
the God of the Big Battalions has again
asserted himself, and the two tiny Afrikander
republics have become, in fact if not in name,
or perhaps both in fact and in name, a part
of the British empire - what next ? There is
always a “what next” to be considered.
The huge British empire is already the
greatest empire in the world. Utterly in-
satiable as the Muscovite is in the matter
of territory, he can’t quite keep pace with
the swallowing power of Britain—the boa-
constrictor among nations. With the South
African republics out of the way, the process
of painting the map red all the way from the
Cape to Cairo, will go on faster than ever,
and the swelling of the empire will be still
further accelerated. It is quite a new empire;
its beginnings date back just about three cen-
turies. Before then there was only the little
Kingdom of England—a little kingdom with
no very unusual luck, which had acquired
great continental territories by royal mar-
riages and dynastic charges, and been sys-
tematically beaten out of them by the grow-
ing power of France. The British state is
the suddenest of all the world’s great em-
pires, mushroom Macedonia alone excepted.
It has a stupendous mass of undigested
territory. It is mainly a nigger and non-
Christian empire. It can never become
racially homogeneous, for if it did it would
become practically all nigger ; if a process
of intermarriage set in the comparative
handful of whites would be swallowed up so
completely that they would hardly leave a
streak in the great mass of blackness. It is
an empire which has to deny all semblance
of self-government to more people, and to
tax more people without representation,
than any other State on earth, China only
excepted. Its 50 millions of white popula-
tion have to keep a hold upon 290 millions
of aliens by sheer force— or else the empire
will go to pieces. It is already loaded with
responsibilities, and it is acquiring more
almost every day. It is getting further and
further away from the element where it
is invincible, and committing itself more
and more to the element where its luck, in
warfare with white men at all events, has
never been productive of permanent profit.
Time and science and dead weight are all
making difficulties for it, so—what next ?
* * • •
Britain has held the empire of the sea for
about five out of the last six centuries. The
only foreign Power which came out on top
at the end of a long sea-conflict, and block-
aded London, and practically dictated peace
to Britain, is, to all intents and purposes,
dead. It wasn’t an island like Britain, so it
had to defend itself by land as well as water,
and being taken in the rear by a bigger land
antagonist than itself, it crumpled up.
Britain is now, probably, more absolutely
the ruler of the sea than ever before except
for a few years after Trafalgar ; and, to all
appearance, is getting further and further
ahead of all possible marine enemies. Its
naval supremacy has saved it after many a dis-
astrous land campaign. WhenPniLip Augus-
tus tore up the English continental empire
built by dynastic alliances and otherwise,
he was strong enough to have followed his
retreating enemy to London—only the
Channel blocked the way. When Du
Guesclin shattered the second English em-
pire in France, and when the third one
went down before Joan ivArc, Dunois,
Richemont and Charles VII., England was
so utterly broken for the moment, so far as
military strength was concerned, that again
it was only its naval genius that prevented
an overwhelming French invasion. In the
early days of the French revolutionary war
when the British armies were driven out of
Holland by Brune, it was again only Britain’s
sea-power which prevented the victors pour-
ing into London close on the heels of the dis-
comfited royal blunderer who ran that fatal
campaign. Britain’s command of the sea
always enabled it, when defeated on land, to
retire into the safe seclusion of its island
and recuperate at leisure. After all its
tremendous war-record Britain has not
gained up to now from any white race an inch
of territory outside its own islands purely by
land-fighting—even Gibraltar was taken by
means of its naval supremacy. All the huge
foreign possessions which it gathered in
from rival states were gained because
Britain was supreme on the ocean, and could
pour in its own reinforcements while cutting
off those of the enemy.
* * * *
To all appearance the only possible begin-
ning of Britain’s troubles will be when it
meets a powerful white enemy who can make
it fight on land. In a war with France or
Germany the military supremacy of the other
party, however great, would count for abso-
lutely nothing. Britain would only have to
erush their vastly inferior fleets, then block-
ade their ports, wreck their commerce, cut
off their foreign possessions at its leisure,
and wait. It needn’t and certainly wouldn’t
attack their legions in their own element,
and the legions couldn’t swim out and bite its
floating fortresses with their teeth. But as
the empire grows larger, and means of com-
munication become faster, easier, and
cheaper, the time comes nearer when foreign
Powers can force Britain to meet them on
their own element. Britain hasn’t seriously
attempted to fight a first-class nation on land
single-handed for about 400 years. In its
last attempt at a really great land campaign
it was one of nations which spent nearly
two years over the capture of one Russian
town. But in building up the most sudden
empire on earth it has come out of the
island seclusion which served it so well in
bad times of old. The next century, if
scientific progress continues at its present
rate, should be a time when much exciting
history will be made.
* * * *
Through the spreading of the two greatest
earth-swallowers of the age, Britain and
Russia have at last met on land. The
Russian railways are getting close to the
Indian border now. Russia, with no
separated colonies or dependencies to be
seized, and very little sea-commerce to be
destroyed, is the one great opponent against
whom the grandest fleet on earth is power-
less, and the one great opponent who can
force Britain to fight on its own element.
Hitherto Britain’s African possessions
have been beyond all possibility of land-
attack by any powerful white enemy.
The British fleet commanded the Atlantic,
the Indian Ocean, and the Mediterranean,
and the whole story ended there. Now
railroads are crawling down through Syria,
and the great African possessions that are
painted red are being opened up in similar
fashion, and with the swift and perpetual
improvements in the means of land transit
the time must come when it will be a per-
fectly feasible military evolution to turn the
Mediterranean and reach that hitherto un-
reachable African property through Syria.
Even Cape Colony will be thus accessible
soon. The time must needs come, too, when
even far-off Burmah will be easily approach-
able through China. The splendid isolation
which until quite recently made India, Bur-
mah, and British Africa impregnable because
no formidable white enemy could possibly
reach them except by sea, and there Britain
was invincible, is passing away. Time and
science are both against the nation which
has shouldered a larger share of the White
Man’s Burden in proportion to her own
dimensions than any other six States put
together.
* * * *
A curious and apparently quite authentic
item of news which recently arrived from
England goes further than anything else to
illustrate how the old order changeth. It is
stated that a new gun, now being constructed
in large numbers, is of such unusual
range that it will carry a heavy shot all the
way across the Straits of Dover, from
Englanfl to France, with something to spare.
This looks like an unalloyed triumph for
Britain till it is remembered that the same
gun will evidently also carry from France to
England. Possibly the statements are ex-
aggerated, but there is no end to the achieve-
ments of science, and, if that 20-iniie gun
hasn’t arrived yet, it doubtless will arrive
before long. So, it is almost equally cer-
tain, will the 40 and 60-mile guns, of which
wo haven’t yet begun to hear. The time
when London can be bombarded with, lyddite
shells from Cape Gris Nez is probably a
great way off yet, but it will undoubtedly
come, unless science arrives somehow at a
dead stop. In the natural and geographi-
cal order of things it must come much sooner
than the time when Paris can be bombarded
from the nearest point in the Channel.
Another date, too, is obviously coming—
that when a Power that has not the com-
mand of the sea, in the ordinary naval sense,
will be able to invade the hitherto safe shores
of England—when it will be possible for
shore batteries to clear the Straits of Dover
while a force is being ferried across, if these
shore batteries are only numerous enough
and well enough handled. This is another
curious possibility in the way of transferring
the scene of warfare from the element where
Britain is unquestionably supreme to the
one where its supremacy is at least doubtful
—from the element which it knows so much
better than any possible enemy to the one
which its enemy knows equally well.
* * ♦ •
Whatever grievances Britain’s black and
brown and yellow subjects have against her
it is quite possible that they would have
much worse grievances if they passed under
the dominion of any other European Power.
Still that doesn’t prove that they would
inevitably stand by Britain in the hour of
need ; they probably would if they had pre-
vious experience of the other Power, but
they haven’t. But it is not the merits of
the case that are here under discussion—
only the possibilities. And these possi-
bilities are interesting. The situation
may be summed up thus : All that part of
the British colonial empire which was won
from other white nations was acquired by
Britain’s sea-power—unless an exception be
made in the case of Gibraltar, snatched from
a crumbling third-rate State, and even that
was acquired by the British fleet, and saved
by the fleet from re-capture. All these
territories were secured by, in the first
place, cutting off, per medium of Britain’s
conquering navy, the opponent’s supplies
and reinforcements. For all the des-
perate land campaigns fought in France,
Spain, Germany and the Netherlands there
is only this to show—that Normandy, Poitou,
the kingdom of Aquitaine, and other pos-
sessions which various Anglo-French
sovereigns brought into the partnership as
they successively ascended the English
throne, are now French, and Hanover is a
semi-annexed country with a chronic
Prussian bailiff in possession. Hanover
certainly wasn’t lost by conquest, still its
fate helps to complete and round-off the
lesson that Britain has had no luck as a
European continental Power. That is one
aspect of the case. Another is that India,
Burmah and the African colonies—an enor-
mous slice of the empire—which have
hitherto been out of reach of all land attack
by any dangerous enemy, must, through the
enormous improvement of land transit, some
day lose the advantages of this inaccessi-
bility. And a third aspect is that the
“silver streak,” which has hitherto been
wide enough to make Britain absolutely safe
from invasion so long as it had the best fleet
in the world, will almost certainly cease before
long to be a purely marine proposition; in
other words, the time is apparently corning
when a purely military power can contest
the possession of the straits which have
hitherto effectively forced Britain off from
its nearest'enemy. In short, if the opening-
up process which has gone on with such
amazing speed in the last thirty years goes
on with corresponding velocity for another
fifty, and the improvement in means of offence
travels at its present rate for the same
period, naval supremacy alone won’t be
sufficient to effectively guard any part of
Europe, Asia, or Africa, and the whole
science of empire will be revolutionised.
What will happen after that no one knows
for the race of the prophets is extinct. All
that is certain is that the loss, whatever it is,
will fall on Britain. Until very recently the
territories of all other Great Powers were
accessible to Britain without it being ac-
cessible in return. The opening up of the
world by improved land communication must
alter all this, and then the big empire, which
is heavy enough to carry now, will become a
thing of very great tonnage indeed.
The Curse of Militarism.
By the rash and ill-considered action of the
Premiers of Australia in the matter of the Trans-
vaal war of loot and revenge, Australia now
finds herself committed to a policy not only in-
consistent at all times with her true interests,
but which threatens her with disasters beyond
the reach of remedy. As Premier Lyne
phrased it in his impudent cablegram, we have
been made to “ share the duties and responsi-
bilities of the Empire”—in other words, we
have been pressed into an undertaking to send
troops to any part of the world whither
Chamberlain, or any of his successors at the
Colonial Office, may think fit to order them, in
time of war. Premier Lynk’s offer was made
without any previous solicitation or pressure
from the British Govt.; and it was made with-
out any kind of condition, stipulation, or
reservation whatever. The people who have
to find the money have not been consulted in
any manner about it; and no one dreams of
saying that the impulsive action of the Parlia-
ments, mesmerised by their impulsive Premiers,
is in any way equivalent to a vote of the con-
stituencies, taken after due time for considera-
tion.
* ¥ * *
To gauge the folly and iniquity of the pro-
ceeding, look back to the time when the local
auxiliary fleet was under discussion. Australia
was not rushed into that business as into this.
Britain invited us to send delegates to a Con-
ference in London, in order that the terms of
the bargain might be fully understood before
the bond was signed. Before these delegates
agreed to pay the smallest contribution towards
naval defence they insisted on obtaining a solid
equivalent; but for the much larger expendi-
ture on the present business who knows where
it will end?—nothing lias been asked beyond a
share in the infamy of crushing a brave little
people, fighting for independence.
* * * *
There was never any gush about “ loyalty
over the auxiliary squadron. So far from that,
it was made very clear the fleet was strictly a
matter of business, and Australia drove the
hardest bargain it could with the Admiralty.
In particular, it was stipulated that Sydney
harbor was to be a permanent naval station,
in order that the port might get the benefit of
the naval expenditure on stores and docking.
It was also stipulated that the ships were not
to be removed from the Australian station in
time of war, however much they might be
wanted elsewhere. From beginning to end,
the negotiations were carried out on strictly
business lines. That did not say much for
“ loyalty.”
* * * *
How came it, then, that while such level
heads were shown in connection with naval
defence, the Australian Premiers have acted
with such utter disregard to business on the
present occasion ? In their rivalry to pay court
to Imperialism, they loftily disdained the bare
thought of securing a quid pro quo. They gave
us away at the first chance with the liberality
of an American millionaire, donating a thou-
sand dollars to a charity. And what had they
to go upon in making their magnificent offers
of other men’s lives and fortunes ? The whole
thing originated in the offer of a few hot-
headed officers, weary of playing at soldiers in
the Centennial Park, to volunteer for service in
the Transvaal. It suited these gentlemen’s
books well enough to volunteer at other
people’s expense, and to invite their men
to follow their example. The justice or
necessity of the war itself never gave them the
smallest trouble. Naturally enough they thought
only for themselves, of the opportunities for
“ distinction ” the war might afford them, and
the prospective advantages of life in a new
world as compared with the old one. This is
the curse of Militarism. An idle soldiery has
been the means of bringing more than one
nation to the verge of ruin. If these gentlemen,
who have received their commissions for the
sole purpose of defence, are not only allowed
but encouraged to force the hands of the Govt.,
and commit Australasia to a policy of this kind
whenever England goes to war, the day is not
far off when measures will have to be taken for
dealing with the mischief. It was a clear over-
sight on the part of the Federal Convention
that nothing was said in the Draft Common-
wealth Bill on this subject. As it stands now,
it may be taken to imply a power in the Federal
Govt, to follow the evil example set by the
Premiers in this instance ; and Australians
may find themselves hopelessly pledged to take
part in every wicked war in which England may
become involved.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Broken Promise of ’77.
The dealings of Britain and the Transvaal in
South Africa have been full of complications
and surprises, and the rising up of Britain as
the defender of Representative Government,
political freedom, political equality, and the
principle of no taxation without representation,
is about the maddest surprise of all. For,
astonishing as it may seem, the only time when
representative government and political free-
dom were wholly flattened out and destroyed
in the Transvaal, and when the British subject
there was utterly deprived of a vote, and of
every shadow of political power, and represent-
ation, and self-government, and the rights of
man generally, was during the three years
when the Transvaal was British territory.
And it was mainly because Britain destroyed
all semblance of Parliamentary Government
that the Dutchmen rose in insurrection
and started their Republic afresh in
1881. When Theophilus Shepstone went
to Pretoria as a British envoy in 1877 and stag-
gered all Africa by issuing a proclamation on
his own sole and unsupported authority de-
claring the republic to be annexed to the British
empire, he partly won-over the Boers by the
solemn assurance that the Transvaal would be
a self-governing province, like Cape Colony,
Natal, New South Wales, and others. They
were to exchange their president for a British
governor, but otherwise the Boer and the
Briton in the Transvaal were to be politically
free and equal. In those days there was such
a complete absence of all the latter-day hatreds
between Boer and Briton that the Dutchmen,
once convinced that their much-loved Parlia-
mentary institutions would be preserved,
accepted their sudden absorption by the British
empire with comparative calm. But Shepstone
left and Owen Lanyon succeeded him. Lanyon
was a hopelessly arrogant and tactless soldier of
the old nigger-driving kind. He urged the
British Government to do away with the idiotic
frivolity of a Parliament (Lanyon was the
sort of man who would have abolished the
British Parliament if he could, as a needless
formality), and the tactless British Govern-
ment let him go his own road. During all the
term of British ownership, neither Boer nor
Briton had a vote ; Parliamentary institutions
were abolished, apparently for ever; the
Transvaal was a military despotism, run most
of the time by an overbearing autocrat, who
dealt out reasonable justice according to his
lights, but who made no secret of his opinion
that the Dutch settler was plain, ordinary dirt
and nothing more. All the appeals of the
Boers for the fulfilment of the broken promise
—the promise on the strength of which they
had tacitly given up their country—were un-
heeded by a kindly, stupid, fuzzy British
Government, which couldn’t understand
what a non-British race wanted a Par-
liament for, and which tried to explain to
them that such a poor ignorant crowd was
really better without it. Three years of this
withered up the friendship of the two races,
and the introduction of the British law of
usury, by which chattels were seizable for debt,
made things still worse. The Boers rose against


Britain for the same reason that the English
rose against Charles I.—for breakage of
solemn oaths, destruction of Parliamentary in-
stitutions, and abolition of political freedom.
Ever since then the Briton has been known by
the Boer as an oath-breaker and an enemy of
political freedom, and he has always been of
opinion that if the Outlander majority got into
power the military despotism of 1877-80 would
be re-established. And Britain, which, only 22
years ago, deprived everybody in the Transvaal
of the suffrage, is now at war ostensibly to force
on the Transvaal the widest suffrage on earth-
one so wide that the alien as well as the citizen
will have a vote. And its ostensible grievance
all along has been that the British resident
whom it wholly deprived of self-government
when he was a British citizen —was allowed
only very limited powers of self-government
when he was an alien ! The situation is surely
the boss irony of the century.
+
The “Temporary” Dodge.
Turner’s Government has so far weakened
over the new Vic. Shops and Factories Bill that
it agrees to limit the operation of the law to
three years, after which the matter can be
further considered. The expiring Shops and
Factories law was also a temporary three years
affair—and through this fresh surrender an
impression gains ground that the Turner spine
isn’t the stalwart backbone it used to be. If
the Fat Man was willing that the law against
forgery and embezzlement of his cash should
also be a temporary affair expiring automatic-
ally after three years unless formally renewed,
the situation might be more reasonable, but he
isn’t built that way. When a law is proposed
for guarding the Fat Man’s interests he always
points out that it is quite safe to put it perman-
ently on the Statute Book because “ it can
always be repealed if necessary.” But when
he reluctantly assents to a law in favor
of the Lean Man he always urges that it
is quite safe to make it temporary and ex-
perimental “because it can be renewed if
necessary.” The Victorian Factories Act and
Maoriland Old-Age Pensions Act are notable
cases in point. Of course, the Fat Man law
can always be repealed if necessary, and the
Lean Man law can always be renewed if neces-
sary—but the two things are very different all
the same. In one case the progressive law dies
natural death unless the Tory House assents
.to its renewal. In the other case the Tory
aw naturally remains alive, unless the Tory
House consents to its abolition. Even if the
Tory Chamber wants to pose as an enlightened
institution the temporary dodge gives stagna-
tion a long start. It can fix an illuminative
eye on the old, permanent conservative evil
and say, “ This is a bad thing and abhorrent to
the enlightened Toryism of to-day, and we will
abolish it, perhaps ten years hencfi, as soon as
the press of business admits.” And meanwhile
the evil goes on. Similarly when the tem-
porary democratic measure expires its attitude
is: “ Our progressive spirit approves this cor-
dially, and we will re-enact it when we get
time. Meanwhile you must do without it for
a little while. It won’t be long—not more
than ten years.”
♦
An Outraged Sawbones.
Any stiok is good enough for the British
Jingoes to beat the Boer dog with. Lying
accounts of outrages are persistently circulated
by the hired Rhodesian press, and cabled to
England and Australia as veritable facts. The
“women and children ” appeal of the Jamieson
Raid is being continually circulated, though
not a single charge of cruelty to women or chil-
dren has been proved against the Boers, of all
the scores sent flying on the strength of " it is
rumored ”or “ a native eyewitness reports.”
Sydney Telegraph copies a statement from
British Medical Press, which alleges that an
English doctor was boycotted because he re-
fused to attend a Boer’s child ; and the medi-
cal organ gleefully adds, “now the time seems
to have arrived when old scores will have an op-
portunity of being paid off”—welcoming the
horrors of war in revenge for the breach of
medical punctilio ! „The doctor concerned is
said to have refused attendance “ because
another medical man had charge of the case.”
Now, the medical profession is on the whole
the most benevolent profession in the world,
and The Bulletin, generally speaking, has
nothing but warm praise for its members. But
humanity comes first; and medical etiquette
does not always make for humanity. Even
doctors admit that, where a man is dissatisfied
with his child’s progress under one physician,
he has a perfect right to pay him off and
call in another. But in practice, even
in Australia, it is sometimes the most
difficult thing in the world to do, and
where the two doctors in a township are not
rivals, one of them will often demur, or refuse,
to have anything to do w’ith a case upon which
the other has been first consulted—even if the
attendance of the first doctor has been definitely
ended by the client. That may be etiquette ;
it may pay the doctors, but it does not pay the
public, who have a right to purchase medical
skill wherever it is publicly offered. And the
doctors exist for the benefit of the public—not,
as seems occasionally to be imagined, the public
for the doctors. Any stick is good enough for
Jingoes to beat the Boer dog with ; but
the particular stick which the Medical Press
has obtained from a prejudiced helper looks as
unreal and unsubstantial as most of the others.
♦
Blundering Bigjohn.
The reigning Forrest crowd had its chance to
settle the Westralian alluvial dispute ; but
instead of taking it, the crowd let the men drift
towards a defiance of the law as laid down so
far ; and then, having filled the town with
police, it promptly bagged nearly a score—in
the name of lawnorder. The dispute bad just
before this been brought down to a trifle. The
diggers had come to see that the courts were
against them, and they had practically thrown
up their claim to the alluvial—they were settl-
ing down to wait for a chance to put the law
so far beyond dispute that even a Judge could
not mistake it. But they wanted some com-
pensation for the many months’ graft they had
done (by an arrangement they had not re-
moved any of the wash they had raised) —for
the shafts sunk and the gold brought to sur-
face. The co’s. owning leases refused—un-
reasonably, as Btgjohn, for the moment off
the chain, admitted. It was thereupon
su &g este d to Bigjohn that the Government
might wind up the whole shindy by granting
compensation even if that compensation had to
be got back from the unreasonable co’s. But
the ’Groper Greyhound was on the chain by
this time ; and this was his stodgy answer :
The Govt, is not a party to the dispute. The lease-
holders contend that they, have an absolute right to all
the gold within the boundaries of their leases, and on the
other hand the alluvial miners say that they have the
right to enter upon those leases to mine for alluvial gold.
This is a matter of law. The Govt, will see that the
decisions of the courts are respected. Beyond this it can
do nothing.
All this was probably technically correct. But
(I) the law had been hacked about until nobody
knew what it meant; (2) as laid down even-
tually it took away what on the t’otherside
(and most of the diggers are t’othersiders)
is always the diggers’. In going upon
the lease, then, the latter had done no-
thing unreasonable ; for they had a fair
right to expect that if Groper law differed
from every other law, the difference should
be as clear as water, while this was less clear
than mud. Thus the Govt, was a party to the
dispute ; it, in fact, made the whole mess. So,
even though the principle of granting compen-
sation isn’t good (though that has not troubled
the Forrest crowd much when a co. has been in
question), the Govt, could at least have justified
itself in doing for the diggers what it had done
for the Ivanhoe Venture Co. That, anyhow,
would have been a cheaper and a manlier way
out than the wholesale gaoling of men for what
till doomsday they and their mates will not
regai d as a crime.
The Returning N.S.W. Lancers.
If the statements of Sydney Telegraph’s
special reporter can be relied upon, the
returning Lancers affair is even more dis-
graceful than it originally appeared. The dis-
grace is not, however, upon the side of the men
who returned; but upon that of the N.S.W.
officers and officials who misled the men
and misled the Govt.—not to say gulled
the War Office and the public. The N.S.W.
company of volunteer Lancers was sent to
England for training early in the year, in com-
mand of volunteer Captain Cox. There are no
points about this Captain to distinguish him
from any other captain, except that he seems to
possess a capacity for making peace and war on
his own account without visible reference to
his Govt.—a capacity which in the case of any
other Captain in any other military force in the
world would probably have very unpleasant re-
sults to the Captain. It appears that early in
June Captain Cox casually enquired of such of
his men as happened to be handy if they would
like to go to the Transvaal supposing war broke
out, and some of them casually said they
wouldn’t mind. At this point of the proceed-
ings the men’s yarn and the Captain’s yarn are
painfully at variance.
THE MEN’S YARN.
Several of the Lancers
were in Dublin at a tourna-
ment, and some of the
others were in the hospital.
The story of the men is that
Captain Cox said one morn-
ing to less than half the
number, “ I suppose if war
breaks out you fellow's will
offer for service with me in
the Transvaal?” Some
nodded assent, some laugh-
ingly said “Yes,” some in-
stantly and unequivocally
agreed, some made no reply.
The returning Lancers
tell you now that the ques-
tion put to them w’as never
regarded seriously; that
they had not considered it;
that they had no thought of
the war becoming a serious
reality at that time ; arid
that, considering the inter-
val which elapsed between
the remark and the final
acceptance of service by the
War Office in England, they
should have been all form-
ally consulted.
If they had been consulted
they would not have allowed
their action to be open to
any misconception, they tell
you. This is no doubt so of
a good proportion of the
men.
THE CAPTAIN’S YARN.
In his own words. “While
we were at Pavilion-hill, ’*
he said, “it was a day or
two before the 13th of June,
the men came to me and
said they were anxious to
go to the Cape. I called
them tog-ether and asked
whether it was a fact that
they were prepared to vol-
unteer. They all seemed
quite willing; none of them
said that they would not,
except Sergeant O’Sullivan.
Everybody else was appar-
ently prepared. I said to
them : ‘ If you are willing
to go, I’ll go and see about it
for you. Nobody raised
any objection. I went and
saw Lord Carrington, and
he told me to keep quiet for
a few days ; and, he added,
‘ I’ll see what can be done
for you.’ Then I wrote to
Colonel Burns, telling him
what I had done. Nothing
was said afterwards till war
was looked upon as an
actual certainty. Then I
began to move again. I did
not consult the fnen a
second time; I thought
there was no necessity to.
I saw Lord Carrington
again, and he told me to
make an official application.
1 did so. Later I got a reply
that the offer had been ac-
cepted, and that the men
were to make their prepara-
tions. All this time I did
not consult the men. I had
done so in June, and it
seemed to me that there
was no need to do it again.
It seems clear enough from these statements
that Captain Cox never asked all the men if
they would go, he only asked some of them ;
he never made it plain to them what their ser-
vice implied, or on what terms they were to
go ; he “ went and saw Lord Carrington” —he
“ saw Lord Carrington again ” —he “ made an
official application ” on behalf of the men who
had never been properly consulted, and some of
whom hadn’t been consulted at all. What has
Baron Mount Rennie to do with such a matter ?
Who authorised Captain Cox to make his ap-
plication and commit his unwilling men for ser-
vice in a foreign war ? Parliament did not; did
the Lyne Govt. ?or any Govt. ? Or is it merely
a piece of the military insolence : “Bai Jove! we
do as we damn well please, doncherknow ” ? On
Captain Cox’s own showing he took a great
deal too much upon himself. Then, when the
men kicked, he seems to have expected them
to be bound by the very casual acquiescence of
some of them months before; and the War
Office had to take its own means of getting at
the truth. For N.S. W. Agent - General
Salomons, of all people, told the public there
was no dissent —though a full third of the men
dissented, despite all the influence which could
be brought to bear upon them. Now it is
announced that the returned Lancers are to
come before Colonel Burns’ precious “court of
enquiry” and explain why they didn’t go ! If
the Lancers are well-advised- they will dis-
respectfully tell Colonel Burns to take his
“ court of enquiry ”to the devil. Quite apart
from the merits of the war, why should they
have gone any more than their comrades who
didn’t go with the local contingent ? They
were in England for training, not for war. They
were absolutely free agents. No doubt there
have been shrieking letters from London clam-
ouring for vengeance on the wretches who
proved Captain Cox a military noodle and
Agent-General Salomons a diplomatic liar—
supposing they really did and said what is
attributed to them. But if the volunteer force
of N.S. Wales is in such a condition that its
members can be bullied for doing what it was
their perfect right to do, then the sooner Par-
liament sweeps away the whole cardboard
house of military arrogance the better. Our
cat’s tail wants clipping very badly.
Plain Talk from a Returned Lancer.
Editor Bulletin. —As your paper appears to
be about the only local one that hasn’t lost its
head over this South African business, let me,
as one of the “ Returned Lancers,” make a
proposal to our detractors. For the courage of
my comrades I am not called upon to answer,
but for myself I have briefly to say that for
various reasons it suited me better to come home
than to go to South Africa ; and knowing in my
own mind that lack of physical courage was not
amongst those reasons—l have further the
moral courage to refuse to be scared out of my
personal conception of my plain duty by the
cheap heroics of irresponsible jingo vaporists.
Aud, further, as the truly brave man is never—
where there is a choice of motives—in haste to
impute cowardice, it is mostly the poltroon at
bottom who is readiest with the cry of
“ Coward ! ” And if I shall be told that
these are words and not deeds I have
to add that it is only about four
days’ steam to New Caledonia, and that,
if any of our stay-at-home mud-slingers—
Parliamentary or otherwise—will favor me with
his company thither, I shall be happy to give
him practical demonstration that a refusal to
“go to the front” need not involve any lack of
courage. For the benefit of any such I enclose
my card, and I would in advance remind him
(or them) that, as he has cried-out upon me for
not going a long w T ay off to fight in a quarrel
that is none of mine, he has no right to ridicule
the idea of going himself a much less way off, to
fight in a quarrel that shall be most distinctly
and emphatically his. —Blazed Face.
: ♦
A Terrible Blow.
The paunchy landlords of Vic. Leg. Council
have just learned, to their horror, that the
Conference of Premiers held at Hobart in ’97
resolved that Leg. Councillors are not neces-
sarily rendered “honorable” for life by ten
years of intermittent objecting to popular
measures. Her Gracious seems to have given
the Royal Assent, or something, to a very
British regulation whereby every Councillor
would have been perpetually “ honorable ”
after doing his ten years, but a majority of the
Conference decided against the scheme. No
“ long-service ” member of the Fatman clique
can carry his cheap title into private life,
unless the Government of the day—the vulgar
Lower House Government—recommends him
for the “distinction.” Premier Turner, it
appears, voted with the majority at Hobart,
and now the belated indignation of the Hnpper
Chamber rains upon his weary head. The 48
landlords are unanimously in favor of reward-
ing “ worth ” — i. e. , money’s worth—with all
the titles it can get. No dissentient voice is
heard in the Council. Donald Melville, a
comparative democrat, “ believes that the
granting of titles is a splendid policy on the
part of the State, as it keeps us in union with
the old country. ” Holy J ames Balfour also
believes in titles on earth for those whose pro-
putty and piety will ensure them distinction
on High. Davies, M.L.C., the brother of
Matthew, thinks that Premier cast
the grossest possible insult on his fat betters
when he “ bargained away this power to confer
titles without making any communication to
the Council.” Sargood de Softgoods is
shocked to think that Premier Turner'
“placed his will against the wishes of Her
Majesty.” Cornelius Job Ham (beautiful
name !) can hardly credit the story of the out-
rage, Nathaniel Levi is staggered by the
blosv, and all the other old gentlemen are
letting off suitable exclamations, such as
“ Queen ! ” “ Constitution ! ” “ Silkenbonds ! ”
and “ Monstrous ! ” From which The Bulle-
tin gathers a further and profounder dis-
respect for the titles, and a new reverence for
the distant British Government. When Judas
Chamberlain proposed to confer the per-
manent brand of “honorable” on each ten
years’ resident of any Australian Leg. Council
he knew exactly what sort of persons he was
prescribing for. His knowledge of Australia
surpasses by long chalks his knowledge of
South Africa, the couutry where the contin-
gents are about to cement those silken bonds
with gore.
The reasons assigned by N.S.W. Legislative
Council for throwing out (by 25 to 10) the Bill
fixing eight hours as a day’s work in coal mines
are not calculated to enlarge public respect for
that unreformed fossil :
Mr. Want objected because the bill was compulsory
(aren’t all laws compulsory?) and drastic. Also he
objected because it only applied to coal and shale miners
and didn’t include others (in other words because it
wasn’t drastic enough). And he said that the House
shouldn’t pass the Bill because if it did it would thereby
acknowledge that it had previously been neglecting the
miners’ interest. (On which lucid principle the House
should pass no reform at all, for every reform it passes is
an admission that it had previously neglected to pass that
reform.)
Mr. O. G. Hkydon said it was better to come to an
agreement instead of legislation. The needless multi-
plication of legislation should be avoided. (Nothing said
about avoiding the needless multiplication of agreements.)
Mr. Pilcher said the eight hours shouldn’t be imposed
by law because the men had it already therefore the Bill
would make no difference. (Why a Bill that made no
difference was worth opposing so violently wasn’t ex-
plained.)
Mr. Shepherd was against it because it made a lot of
difference and was a dangerous innovation.
Mr. Gocld remarked that if it was admitted that Par-
liament had a right to penalise a man for working more
than eight hours a day it must also be admitted that it
had a right to penalise him for not working 10 or 12 hours.
(Which wasn’t a very brilliant conclusion. If the people,
through their representatives in Parliament, want to
enact that they—the people—shall work 25 hours a day
they have a perfect right to do so.)
Then for all these diverse and contradictory
reasons the unreforrned fossils slid the Bill
downstairs with beautiful unanimity.
On 9th August last every one of the Seven
Provinces of Australasia was ruled by the
longest-lived Government on its record. By
25th November no less than three of them were
gone. On that day Dickson, of Queensland,
handed in the resignation of the old, smellful,
discredited Continuous Ministry which had
lasted under five successive Premiers (Griffith,
M'llwraith, Nelson, Byrnes, and Dickson,
for 9 years and 103 days. Dickson’s own
troubled career lasted only 1 year and 54 days,
and judged by his works he was the best of the
five Premiers. He brought Queensland into
the Commonwealth, which was a great deed,
and he did his best to abolish plural voting in
Queensland, which was also a matter to his
credit. And if lie hadn’t come into command
of the battered fag-end of a Govern-
ment he might have done more, but there
was such a load of shame and sin and
discredit on the gang he inherited that
it was a lamentable legacy to take over. The
Dickson Government perished informally on a
small matter. It was struggling to secure the
appointment of a standing committee of rail-
ways, something after the N.S. W. model, to
report on proposed new lines, and amid much
confused and demoralised log-rolling,, caused
largely by everybody’s desire to get a place on
the paid committee, things went wrong. Dick-
son found himself hanging on by a precarious
majority of one, and, like a wise auctioneer, he
let go.
Commenting on the JaMieson Raid (the other
attempt to steal the Transvaal), Reginald
Statham in the just-issued “ Paul Kruger
and His Times,” writes :
When, therefore, Mr. Chamberlain wrote his dispatch
suggesting the erection of Johannesburg and the sur-
rounding district into a separate self-governing State
owning a sort of quasi-allegiance to the Government at
Pretoria, he was acting on the suggestion of Mr. Rhodes.
... If such a change were brought into effect, Mr.
Rhodes would soon.have occupied in respect of Johannes-
burg exactly the same position which he has—since the
great, diamond-mine amalgamation—occupied in respect
of Kimberley. As De Beers diamond-mining company
swallowed up all the other amalgamated groups, so the
Consolidated Goldfields in Johannesburg would have
swallowed up the amalgamated groups-of gold-mines.
Self-government of the Rand would have been estab-
lished, no doubt, but it would have been self-govern-
ment On the principles which are in force in Kimberley,
where the great majority of the voters have to choose
between obeying the orders of De Beers or being sum-
marily dismissed from their employment, while shop-
leeepers and others who strive to preserve their political in-
dependence find their business dwindles away, Under
such conditions, self-government in Johannesburg
would be for the' benefit of the few millionaires
and entirely against the interest of the great majority
of the population, who, as a matter of fact,
live in deadly fear of being in some way as this taken
from under the Government of, Mr, Kruger and the
Volksraad, and placed under the heel of Mr. Rhodes and
his fellow-millionaires. It is because so very few
people in England are acquainted with the conditions of
existence at Kimberley that in England Mr. Rhodes is so
little understood, and is credited with Imperial and pro-
gressive sentiments which, though their assumption i,s
useful enough in the game which he plays, are totally
foreign to his nature If the views of the general
mass of the Johannesburg population could be known, it
would be found that they dread Mr. Rhodes far more than
they dread Mr. Kruger and his Volksraad. Care is taken,
however, that their views shall not be known. ■ Mr.
Rhodes and his co-millionaires own most of the news-
papers in S. Africa ; they can make their own suggestions
to telegraphic agencies : they are wealthy enough to fly
from S. Africa to Europe whenever they please, and to
come into social contact with public men in the United
Kingdom. All having the same interest—viz., the un-
limited control of wealth for their own benefit—they all
naturally back each other up.
♦
The chaplain of the Prince of Wales pro-
bably has to howl for blood for the sake
of his bread and butter. So the reverend
disciple (Rev. Arthur Robins), let off' a
famous anti-Boer sermon when the war fairly
commenced. Sample herewith :
It is on an undertaking waged as this will be that the
God of Battles breathes his benediction. It is not Great
Britain that now “ cries havoc, and lets slip the dogs of
war.” It is rather the blood hounds of the half breeds
that have had cakes and caresses at the hands of our
home-made Boers, and to whom the Little Englander
has tossed in the Kruger kennels his biscuits
and his bones. For peace, with a patience that
should have moved mountains of prejudices, we
have striven against the wiles, blasphemous and
Boer-ish, of that semi-savage who has spat on us between
his curses and his prayers, and insolently, at last, has
flung his most mad challenge in our face. He can quote
Scripture with Beezlebub, but has clean forgotten who it
was who said, “ Woe unto ye, hypocrites.” The resources
of patience at the feet of a coarse, calculating barbarian
have been exhausted. We have labored for peace with
honor all round, whilst they who leered with love behind
their lies only mads them ready to battle. Ours is
before humanity and Heaven a righteous cause. With
the crime of the provocation to this shedding of blood
our consciences are not besmirched, and our souls are not
besmeared. Soldiers of the Cross, we kneel to crave the
Lord of Hosts to bless our standards on the day of
battle, and to make us merciful in the hour of victory.
Good old Blood and Entrails ! Good old shrieker
for gore and murder, and the making of widows
and orphans, brain-scattering apostle and blood-
shedding man of peace, who believes in firing
the good tidings out of a gun, and hitting the
foreigner on the head with the butt-end of the
Terewth ! Let us now scrape the bowels and
other sundries off the Message of Peace, and
remove the ammunition of the ten beatitudes,
and start the mild and holy psalm. Also let
the sonorous plate be pounded gaily in the fore-
front of the battle, while the Meek go forth
and inherit the earth !
■ ——♦ —■
Wrote Henry Parkes at Soudan contingent
time :
There can be no greater folly than to foster a spurious
spirit of military ardor in a country like ours, where
every man is wanted to take his part, in some form or
other, in colonising work. The economic aspect of the
question presents features which would he ludicrous if
they were not suicidal. With the right hand we are ex-
pending our revenues to import able-bodied men to sub-
jugate the soil, while with the left hand we propose to
squander our revenues to deport men. . . However men
may delude themselves, this is not patriotism ; this is not
loyalty j - this is not true British sense of duty. . . Six
months hence the Colony will he ashamed of what is'now
being done. . . If a time should unhappily come when
England shall be engaged in a great conflict with a great
Pow'er, even then our first duty will be to hold inviolate
the part of the Empire where our lot is cast; and, this
sacred trus t secured, to give life and fortune freely, if we
have them to spare, beyond our shores.
Through a mediaeval survival, the £lOO
fines lately inflicted on Melb. Age and Aus-
tralasian for contempt of Parliament go, not
into, the Treasury, but into the pocket of that
comic-opera official, the Sergeant-at-Arms, who
performed the arduous duty of standing guard
over the two offending publishers, armed with »
dummy club.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898 ... ...
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ...
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MOAT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
STEAHI BOILERS
Lancashire, Cornish,
Multi tubular
and other types.
To standard sizes, or to
special specifications,
suiting all requirements.
Please state :
HORSE POWER
REQUIRED
and
CLASS OF FUEL.
The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Clyde Works,
Granville.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “Robin Hoort.”
Lyceum “ Fun on the Bristol."
Criterion “ House of Mystery."
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ Trelawney of the Wells.”
Theatre Royal “ The Power and the Ulory."
Bijod Rickards’ Variety Co.
“ Robin Hood,” staged at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday night, will presumably be
the last public act of “the Firm.” The partner-
ship of Williamson and Musgrove dissolves in two
more weeks, and thereafter it is generally under-
stood that the first-named will be a solitary pur-
veyor of harmless merriment all on his own.
It is a pity that the Firm’s closing per-
formance isn’t something a little better. In a
Eietorial sense “Robin Hood ” is lavish and very
eautiful ; John Gordon and Phil Goatcher sur-
passed themselves when they built the scenery.
In a musical sense it is good, but not un-
usually good. As for H. B. Smith, who
perpetrated the book, it can only be said
that the book is in keeping with the or-
dinary name of Smith. There is very little plot
in it, and what there is has no especial merit.
Also, though “ Robin Hood ” is a lengthy play,
there isn’t very much book; a great part of the
time the rather thin little story is suspended,
while the characters drop in singly and sing more
or less irrelevant songs about various things.
There are three episodes altogether—or two epi-
sodes and a-half. In the first place, George Lauri,
Sheriff of Nottingham and guardian to Kenning-
ham, Earl of Huntingdon, conceives and carries out
the brilliant idea of telling the young earl that he
isn’t really an earl, Sydney Bracy having pro-
mised Lauri a handsome commission on the estate
provided he gets the earldom. Whereupon Ken-
ningham becomes an outlaw and the leader of a
drinky band in tight green clothes. He is cap-
tured and put in gaol, which is episode two. And
then towards the end of the production, when
Miss Carrie Moore is about to be dragged into
marriage with the wrong earl, the right earl (who
has escaped) and his tight-green followers come
suddenly out of somewhere and kick the sheriff in
a dishonorable part —after which there is a chorus.
The dialogue consists very largely of that cry
which seems to have rung all through the British
Middle Ages—“ Ho 1 a quart of lusty ale ! ” In
those days when a man saw anything either eat-
able or drinkable he appears to have said “Ho ! ”
* • • •
“ Robin Hood ” is more remarkable for
the enthusiastic way the company casts itself into
the play than for anything remarkable about the
play after the company is in it. There is much
greenwood tree about it, and it is always bright
summer afternoon under the tree aforesaid. What
the old English outlaws did in the winter, when
the greenwood tree was bare, and the winds
howled through it, and the rains rained for eight
days consecutively on their tight green clothes,
and they had no umbrella, and the moisture
poured off their large green hats into the quart of
lusty ale which always arrived when they called
out “Ho ! ” this deponent knoweth not. But he
spent ten years in damp, damp England, and he
wouldn’t be an outlaw without an umbrella in that
country for any money.
* * * ♦
The sudden uprising of Miss Carrie Moore
into a star of no small magnitude is the most sur-
prising feature about “Robin Hood.” Miss
Moore is the heroine, Maid Marian, when things
disentangle themselves sufficiently for there to be
any heroine; and Marian is a pretty heroine,
with fine acting capacity, a good stage-presence,
and a voice that promises great things. A new
American lady, Miss Viola Gillette, presents to
the public a tall, stately figure, which looks well
in the clothes of Allan-a-dale ; also, she has a good
voice, and the audience takes her in a friendly
spirit. It does the same with Miss Florence
Perry, though that slender wisp of loveliness does
nothing very great in the part of Annabel.
Lauri does still another drunk, and the writer
states with regret that Lauri’s drunk isn’t
wholly new. There are only a limited number of
different kinds of drunks, and Lauri can’t be
drunk much oftener without using up all the
different kinds of drunk, and then there is the dis-
mal fact ahead that if he has to do many more
stage drunks he will be driven to do the same
drunk over again. Moreover Lauri, is mostly the
same drunk—a friendly, beaming inebriate, who
has leaned up against the audience before. Sydney
Bracy, Howard Vernon, Bathurst, and Kenning-
ham fill a variety of parts with considerable
ability and not much opportunity; with the ex-
ception of Bracy, their existence is largely a
monotonous cry of “Ho!” outside the public-
house beneath the greenwood tree. And there
are moments when the writer feels almost pre-
pared to murder the greenwood tree in cold
blood.
*m * *
Inasmuch as a number of alleged Aus-
tralians have gone away to shoot at total strangers
who never quarrelled with them, or did them any
harm, or even spoke to them ; and they propose
to murder these strangers if possible because our
principal creditor says they have been disrespect-
ful to him, and because it is said to be the right
thing to kill the person who is disrespectful to our
largest creditor—-on account of these things there
is to be a brilliant matinee at Her Majesty’s on
Tuesday (sth). It has been represented to the
writer that as the fund is for the benefit of the
wounded, the matter is one of pure humanity, and
no question as to the morality of shooting at the
foreign patriot enters into the case. This view so
much impressed him that he gave 10s. to
the family of a man who lately broke
sundry essential bones while following an honest
avocation. As he hasn’t money enough to assist
all the wounded he decided to give his mite in aid
of the man who was injured when he wasn’t try-
ing to needlessly kill anybody.
»* * *
“Fun on the Bristol ” is to be revived at
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday. As that happy
shriek requires no recommendation this simple
announcement will be sufficient for all purposes.
** * *
The new management at Sydney Criterion
announces the “House of Mystery” for Saturday.
Its first effort, “Buried Alive,” ran for a fortnight
—which, all things considered, wasn’t a bad record
for that confused tale of a tomb and a balloon and
a lunatic asylum and three body-snatchers. It
was mentioned in last week’s issue that the name
of the author of “Buried Alive ” would be given
if that gentleman thought he could stand the
glare of publicity, but in the absence of any com-
munication from him, nothing further will be said
—at least till the drama fairly blows over.
* * *- *
At Sydney Palace on Saturday last Miss
Amy Blackie made her debut with a ballad,
The Young Brigade.” It is sprawlingly jingo-
istic, and Miss Blackie isn’t the best singer on
record—not by a long way. Miss Elsie Golding
is another nice little lady whose singing would be
rather pleasant to listen to but for the habit she
has of taking her breath with a soul-jarring
wheeze; also, her elbows stick out aggressively
and set one thinking of a furious bayonet-charge.
These remarks are meant kindly, and nothing but
a high sense of duty compels the writer to write
them. The Costello appears in the uniform of
the Ist Australian Horse, and sings a song
entitled “ Motherland, ” in which he pledges this
continent to go bald-headed for all Britain’s
enemies. Later on he repeats the “ Sheeny Coon ”
and “Walking in the Garden,” in which last he
is a soaked individual who has been banished to
the garden on a wet night to await the arrival of
triplets. The soaked father isn’t art or poetry,
but still he is a relief after much dull, stupid,
inartistic jingo.
** * *
“ Gay Lord Quex ” brings out all the
salacious stupidity of a theatre audience. The
point that seems most gratuitously “ blue ” to the
average person in circle, stalls or am phi theatre is
really one of the keenest satires in the play. When
Sophy turns up in the morning at her manicure
rooms, and her nice-nasty girls remark her pale,
worried appearance, she blurts out “ Well, have
none of you ever slept in a strange bed ? ” It is a
quite innocent way of suggesting that she passed a
sleepless night. She is too much occupied with her
own thoughts to notice that the four spinsters put
a prurient construction on the sentence and file
out of the room with their noses in the air. One
of them comes back a minute later and stares so
hard at Sophy that she repeats the question more
petulantly than before, “ Did you never sleep in
a strange bed ? ” The damsel assumes an air of
moral disgust, and says “I am sure I don’t know
what you mean.” Author Pmero intends that the
laugh shall be turned against the uneasy virtue of
a class of girls who are always looking for imagin-
ary aspersions on their precious characters. He is
satirising the indecent “ decency ” of prim young
persons who “know how to take care of them-
selves.” But the audience joins with the manicure
girls in taking a cerulean view of Sophy’s harmless
words. The men guffaw, whilst their sisters and
wives affect to feel ashamed—at Sophy.
** * *
Melb. Paunch lodges a half-column protest
against the “unnecessary indelicacy” of the
Duchess, in “Gay Lord Quex.” She ought not to
return to her bedroom to fetch her night-gown,
thinks Paunch. Considering her state of alarm
when she leaves the room in the first instance it
would have been obviously absurd for the flustered
matron to recollect the little matter of her night-
gown. Also, it would have been strange if she
hadn't subsequently discovered that she wanted
the garment. In fact she was bound to come back
to get that night-gown, and the only blamoattaoh-
ing to the author is in his ignorance of Paunch’s
morality. But how was he to know that a
“comic ” paper regards night-gowns with a blush ?
** * *
“ The Physician,” for six nights only, is
the current effort of the Brough Co. at Melbourne
Princess’s. A play by H. A. Jones is interesting
in all cases, and gloomy as a rule, and “ The
Physician ” retains all the gloom and interest that
made it a reasonable success in Sydney some
months ago. The strong, gentlemanly figure in
the name-part wants something to spur him on
towards the unattainable. His first idea is to fly
abroad with a spangled married lady who for-
tunately has another lover in view at the moment.
The spangled syren takes an airy, heartless leave
of her serious idolator, whereupon he turns his
attention to a parson’s daughter and makes a
long unselfish attempt to wean a temper-
ance apostle from whisky for the sake of that
unsophisticated damsel. She loves the teetotal
young man, uiyder the impression that his shat-
tered condition in due to overwork in the Cause, so
the physician remains silent concerning the awful
razzle-dazzles of his patient, and acts the Good
Samaritan until the truth comes out, and the
periodical boozer expires. Then the physician
marries the girl. In the meantime, he is fre-
quently approached by the lady who broke his
heart in the first act, but the bright cynicism and
fashionable frock of his old love have lost their
power, and he rejects her warm propositions in
much the same style that Lord Quex drew back
from the duchess.
» * * *
The physician, the good girl, the rather
bad woman, and the dipsomaniacal, teetotaller,
provide four-fifths of the acting in H. A. Jones’s
play. The largest of the other characters is the
genial old parson, and he conies and goes casually
like sunshine between clouds. The lawful husband
of the Society woman, also a girl who was led
astray long ago by the wrecky dipso., are often
spoken of, but they live and die behind the scenes.
A few incidental sketches, droll and otherwise,
crop up during the tour acts, and some excellent
mounting graces the show. Joseph Carne, in the
name part, gives the strongest, performance that
Melbourne has had from him thus far. Carne is
always handicapped by his husky, strained mono-
tone, but he goes far in this play, all the same.
Mrs. Brough, as the married and widowed syren,
is more convincing than usual, and W. T. Lovell’s
unnerved inebriate deserves honorable mention.
As for Brough’s clergyman it is a joyful sugges-
tion of Parson Andrews up-to-date, and a partial
atonement for the failure of Miss Emma Temple,
who plays the all-important daughter. Miss
Temple, as a simple young yard-and-three-
quarters of muslin, asks to be taken very seriously
by the audience, but the audience didn’t seem
much impressed on Saturday night. “Trelawny
of the Wells ” follows “ The Physician.”
* #• * «
Charles Holloway’s lavish expenditure of
hard cash on the new drama at Melb. Royal, was
duly rewarded by a rush of patronage last week.
Probably the management is going to make a
handsome profit on “ The Power and the Glory,”
thanks to scenery and fittings, and notwithstand-
ing some cold damp notices in the daily press.
One respectable journal objected to the drama’s
scriptural allusions, also it felt shocked at what it
was pleased to consider the irreverent burgling of
a church, in the course of which a little girl gets
struck blind whilst defying the robbers, and her
mother suddenly arises like Lazarus from a stone
slab where she had stretched herself out for dead.
The Bulletin accepts the aforesaid church
scene as a great religious mystery, and doesn’t
wish to know why the mother is discovered on the
lonesome slab, or wherefore the dear child should
have to lose her sight in front of the holy altar.
Enough that these things happen for the best.
The child, having gone blind for the second time,
dies happy next act, otherwise she couldn’t make
a beautiful appearance in the London sky what
time the villain is struggling to throw her resur-
rected ma off the monument. Holloway’s drama
scores heavily at this point. Clint’s panorama of
the great city is a fine spectacle, and the celestial
surprise smites the public with a soulful biff. It
sends them home almost persuaded that they saw
an angel.
** * *
Actors are judged by the quality or popu-
larity of the parts they play. It is a popular
delusion in Australia that Julius Knight and Ada
Ferrar were quite brilliant artists, yet nobody
remarks that John Saunders and Dora Winton
are somewhat superior at all points to the Firm’s
late leading lady and gent. They are younger,
taller, better-looking, have better voices, are more
easy and natural, and also more powerful than
Marcus and Mercia aforesaid. But because their
talent is confined to the cheapest of melodrama
characters they get but comparatively little praise
for admirable work. The theatre-going public
loves to chatter about actors and acting, but never
brings any imagination or sense of proportion to
bear upon the subject. One hears the respectable
performances of Knight and Miss Ferrar in good
class plays overrated by admirers who have for-
gotten, if they ever knew, how uninteresting the
lucky “stars” were when they had to tackle
foolish parts in “Two Little Vagabonds.” The
same superficial critics, talking of Saunders and
Miss Winton, in blood-and-thunder business,
never try to think how convincing they would be
as the hero and heroine in, say, “Under the Red
Robe,” or “Lady of Lyons.” At present they
can do more than act up to the requirements of
the fifth-rate melodramas, and they do it in first-
class style.
** * *
Several time-worn “ turns ” at the Bijou
are getting through their farewell-nights this
week, and will make way for some new people on
Saturday. Which is glad tidings. The Rickards
show has been looking rather old and weary of
late.
** * *
Maud MacCarthy gave a couple of some-
what neglected concerts at Melb. Town Hall last
week, and will appear again on Saturday next
(2nd). The third concert should crowd the hall,
for Maud MacCarthy, late of Europe, is a remark-
able artist, with a probably great career before
her. At present the earnest young student fiddles
under the business disadvantage of being more
than a child, yet less than a woman. Her music
is strikingly clever and pure, but a little wanting
in roundness and warmth. The skill and genius
that Miss Maud displays ought to make deeper
effects. She will grow out of her teens in about
three years’ time. John Lemmone, who is
more incomparable than ever as far as Austra-
lian experience goes, contributes a solo to the pro-
gramme ; also, Miss Narelle sings fetchingly, and
Scherek, at the piano, is the one arid only Benno
qualified to play accompaniments for the rising
“ star.”
** * *
The stricken “ Aletes ” sends The Bulle-
tin his little rave :
Adieu Trebelli— tris belle chanteuse and most charming
of women ! The silence that is left us lacks the tine gold
that was—your voice. By-and-by that silence will be
broken by those who understand not the secret of song
nor the way of the singer. Let us forgive them, for how
many are there now among the makers of song who know
the secret thereof? Trebelli knew. She never put
asunder what the artist had joined. The word always
loved and was loved by its note ; through the portals of
her lips they issued forth, a procession of bridal couples.
Not in the bosom of a wild tempest was that voice horn,
nor was it rocked on the leaping waves of a passionate
sea, nor nurtured on the dark grim tragedy of life
Rather came it to birth in the heart of a full-blown rose,
whence it fell into a couch of fragrant violets, there to
grow and sweeten, lapped by nightly dews that purged it
of all dross. Thence, taking wings, it roamed the forest,
learning the ways of birds and dowers, gleaning sauciness
from the tumbling streams, and catching an accent of 8! V~'
ness and mystery from the ever-restless murmuring of the
leaves. Then, soaring aloft to the crystal azure of
Heaven, it breathed in some of its infinite tenderness, and
fell, sated, to the earth—but never again to roam, for the
soul of a comely woman entrapped the winsome sprite
and held it in bondage for the service of man. And thus,
though it startled us never to feverish ecstacy, nor
thrilled ever to madness or despair, yet it could woo us
from our sullen thoughts ; soothe us into a mood of child-
like tranquility ; set us dreaming of love and spring-time,
of warm sweet air and unkissed kisses that might yet
come into their own. It fell upon the tired spirit like a
soft caressing hand upon the brow —when the voice was
silent the music still went on, for her face, too, was a
song.
Christmas Number, 1899.
“ The Bulletin’s ” unique and brilliant
Xma: number for 1899 will be issued next
Thursday, 7th December. It will be pro-
fusely illustrated by many well-hnown
artists, and filled with stories and verse
by the best Australian authors.
At Poverty Point.
Dante, the famous conjuror, went out shooting the
other day with some friends nearDubbo(N.S. W.), and the
gun of the usual bunglesome person went off in the
usual wrong direction. When this issue went to press
the reports of Dante’s condition had got down from
“ very serious ’’ to “ hopeless,” the contents of the
bungling friend’s gun being lodged in his groin. Dr.
McCormick had gone from Sydney to attend on the
patient, and gave him a life-span of only 24 hours, which
will have more than expired before this issue reaches the
public. This world is full of pawnbrokers, jingoes and
had poets who could be spared, but the gun that goes off
promiscuously almost always shoots someone who is
everybody’s friend.
Melbourne playgoers think Mrs Brough did not do the
square thing by them in the first act of “ Gay Lord Quex.”
When pulling up her stockings she simply clutched ihem
through her skirt and hitched. There is an impression
abroad that the hosen were hauled up without subterfuge
in Sydney, and Melbournians objected to this making
flesh of one and game of the other.
“The Australian element,” writes a Bulletin' corres-
pondent from Norwich, Eng., “ is now a most important
factor in the theatrical world on this side, as witness the
constant appearance of familiar names in current play-
bills. We have just seen on tour in East Anglia the Carl
Rosa Co., which, like unto banks, has suffered from much
reconstruction. Cecily Staunton and Fred Hobbs, both
Maorilanders, and Arthur Deane, of your ancient city,
figured among the principals, and although the co. was
at a discount on the first night through the bad odor lent
by its previous history, the new co., valiantly led thereto
by the Australian contingent, leaped into popularity at
once and for the last five nights of its stay there was
standing room only. The next week we had a co. playing
‘ La Poupee,’ and there we at once singled out Walsh-
enacting the Baron with all the ease of a descendant of
the old regime. The Norwich Triennial Festival of same
week brought Albani, Edw. Lloyd, Andrew Black, Clara
Butt, Marie Brema, Bispham (American) to play their
parts. Clara Butt is known as a very free-and-easy
personage, plays tricks on conductor Cowen, and does not
at all uphold the ‘ dignity ’of the profesh. Her dresses,
too, are marvellous; one creation specially took the
masculine eye. The dress, absolutely tight-fitting every-
where, as the dress of to-day should be, was of green and
gold spangles, and every movement of the singer was
emphasised by the glitler of her frock. At the full re-
hearsal on the previous evening it was interesting to see
ltaridegger, in his workaday role, going for the band and
all and sundry who made false notes. He had quite an
argument with Albani—twice they attacked one passage
in Faust, twice Randegger stopped her and, at last, after
some argufying, he snatched her score from her hand and
went through it and then they went at it again. I no-
ticed. however, that Albani did not stay to finish the
rehearsal. The diva, who has all through her career been
a.favorite in Norwich, ts now acknowledged as having
‘ gone off.’ Old Albani-worshippers lament that she
should in her declining days throw away her grand
repute.”
According to Armidale (N.S.W.) Chronicle Philip
Newbury is touring with a strong organization “ which, in
addition to the great tenor, Madame Spada, includes a
baritone and the sensational male contralto Rhoda Perry.”
“J.T.K.” : More about the late Charles Burford.
Recollect him performing in England all hut 50 years ago
at Liverpool, under the leadership of Barry Sullivan. He
was even then known as “Old Burford,” on account of
his being nearly always cast for old-man parts, for which
his sepulchral voice and serious aspect specially adapted
him. Plays seldom had long runs in those days. High-
class dramas followed each other faster than modern
actors can realise.
“ J.G." : I was long acquainted with old Charley Bur-
ford, and belonged to a Shakespearian cluh which he
presided over. Almost to the last he read Shakespeare
with as much fervor as any youthful aspirant. Saw him
play at Sydney Gaiety with an amateur club, which he
coached, and, being short of supers, the old man, clad in
tights (it was a costume play), did not disdain to join the
rabble, but lifted his voice and flourished his sword with
the rest of them. Burford was quite in love with his pro-
fession, though so much given to girding at it.
Harry Rickards is reported (Melb. Herald) to have
stated that 'Frisco will accept with enthusiasm shows at
which Melb. and Sydney would sneer. He adds that the
audiences are not less discriminating than here, but that
the population is so large as to provide a constant supply
of playgoers, Harry should study figures. 'Frisco’s
total population does not approach that of either Mel-
bourne or Sydney, and from the gross figures a big per-
centage of Chinese must be subtracted.
Apropos of ancient mummers, there still lives in Syd-
ney a yet older than “ Johnny ” Welsh or James Hasker,
viz., Mr. Joseph llayner, who was 84 years of age last
Waterloo anniversary. He was leading tragedian to the
American actress, Mary Provost, in the sixties ; was sub-
sequently lessee of the “Old Vic.,” the Prince of Wales’,
and the Queen's, Sydney. It was suggested some time
ago that a joint benefit should be given Welsh, Hasker,
and Rayner, hut the idea was not taken up. To at least
two of the trio a “ben.’’—a genuine one—would be a
perfect godsend.


a. e. (jOldstesm,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Iloug'h.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLIMER’s
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLI.NER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
the Latest^
WSm VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR 1/-
C/C *RSJ>/
i»+sS>
Victory Gold Mining Co., Charters Towers,
Oct. 13, ’99. I have pleasure in advising that the Billetts’
Tuyeres installed at the above company’s mines have
given every satisfaction. The saving of fuel, &c., bears
out all that is claimed for this contrivance. (Signed)
Percy J. Allen, Local Secretary. Write to W. Dewhirst,
Broughton Lane, Sydney, for particulars and list of
agents, and see advt. on p. 13 of Xmas number.*
* * * *
Gilfillan and M‘Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Wilfey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for ail
classes of mining plant.*
• * * #
The Oonah Silver Mine, Zeehan, is once more
on the dividend list. During the past 12 months 1616 tons
of marketable ore and concentrates have been sold to the
Hamburg Metal Company realising £20,900. This mine
possesses a “ Luhrig” dressing plant which does excellent
work and enables ore of low grade to become a valuable
marketable product. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 506
Little Collins-street, Melbourne, agents for the Luhrig
appliances, were the contractors.*
» * * *
Scottish Critic, September, 1899: “The most
striking feature noticeable in the accounts of the Colonial
Mutual for the past few years, and especially for the past
twelve months, is the degree of stability which has been
attained by the Society.”#
* * • *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very' handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * »
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Kock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * » V
The Wilfley Concentrator is being very gener-
ally adopted in the Concentrating plants at Broken'Hill,
for the treatment of lead and zinc slimes. Mr. Greemvay,
Manager of the Block 14 and Broken Hill South Mines,
has just placed an order with the Sole Manufacturers,
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., for 10 additional
tables for the above mills. These machines are doing
excellent work on all classes of ores, and their use is
extending in all the Colonies. This branch of the Otis
Co.’s works is kept full-handed in order to meet the
demand.*
* » * •
The contract entered into last year by Mephan
Ferguson for the supply of his patent rivetless or locking-
bar pipes to the South Australian Government having
been completed, Mr. Ferguson is now removing portion
of the Adelaide machinery to Western Australia, in order
to increase the output of pipes for his Coolgardie Water
Supply contract. He is at present delivering about 400
tons of pipes per week, but expects to more than double
this quantity when the additional plant is started. Mr.
Ferguson has just left for London by the Orient steamer
Oruba to arrange with the manufacturers for larger de-
liveries of plates and bars.*
* * * *
Overflow (N.S.W.) : What has become of it?
The announcement of the sale by auction of nearly 4000
preference shares is sad news indeed. A wire from the
locality says—“ The blast furnace, after repeated trials,
has been pronounced a failure, and the erection of a
water-jacket at some indefinite date is spoken of. It is
said that the ore in Booth’s shafts is looking better than
ever, but these statements are made at regular intervals,
and, with no proof forthcoming, they are a little tiring.” ’
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zihc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Gurrie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
“ Gibraltar Con. Gold Mines, Ltd., Adelong,
N.S.W Oct. 12, ’99 : Referring to your favor re the Bil-
letts Patent Tuyere, I have pleasure in informing'you that
the five we have in use tiere have given unqualified satis-
faction. We have two blacksmith’s forges and three drill
sharpener’s forges fitted with these Tuyeres, and after a
trial extending over some months we find that they effect
a saving in coal of fully 30 per cent. Since the introduc-
tion of the Patent Tuyeres our men can sharpen 25 per
cent, more drills than with the old style. They work
equally well with either bellows or compressed air, and I
can recommend them most highly for any class of work.
(Signed) S. W. Vale, Chief Engineer.” Write to W. Dew-
hirst, Broughton Lane, Sydney, for particulars and list of
agents.*
The Wild Cat Column.
Sydney is not only going bankrupt through the
lack of courage on the part of its aldermen to raise enough
rates to keep things going; it is also becoming a ne-
glected niud-hole, a place where even in leading thorough-
fares there are lumps six inches high and sinkages six
inches deep. Sydney is getting back to the state of a bush
township. In 1893 £'ss,lit) was spent to keep the streets
in order, and they were pretty good in those days. In
’95 the expenditure was £29,073 ; in ’97 only £20,478 ; in
the first half of ’99 it was £7171, or at the rate of £14,342
for the year. Hence the mud and the orifices.
* * * •
Even the microscopic Transvaal war—a scrim-
mage with two nations that, both put together, wouldn’t
make a first-class English town—has so shaken up the
money market that any Australian province which had a
big loan falling due, would probably have to pay 4 per
cent, to get it renewed. Some day, when there is a really
big war on hand, and £10,000,01)0 of Australian loans have
to be renewed at 6 per cent., this great Loan Land will
suddenly begin to see stars.
* * * *
Reported that a London company, capital
£170,000, has been formed to work coal and other de-
posits on the Clyde River (N.S. W.). This is the sort of thing
which Bruce Smith and his cult describe as self-reliance,
as distinguished from the non-reliant and grandmotherly
policy of State interference. When the people, who are
the State, do a thing themselves per medium of their
Parliamentary representatives, it isn’t self-reliance, as
the word is spelled in the bright lexicon of Smith. And
when they lie down and wait till an English syndicate
does it for them, that is self-reliance. The curiously-in-
verted lexicon of Smith says so.
* * * »
The Bank of New South Wales, as usual, earns
enough to pay its regulation 9 per cent, dividend and a
trifle over. The trifle is somewhat larger than usual, but
not sufficiently so to interfere with the symmetry of the
good old custom. The figures compare as follows with
some previous returns :
9 per cent.
Profit. Dividend. Balance.
September, 1894 £78,615 £78,497 £llB
March, 1895 . 81,714 81,621 93
September, 1895 84,737 84,537 200
March, 1896 .. 86,460 86,330 80
September, 1896 87,661 87,458 203
March, 1897 .. 87,898 87,727 171
September, 1897 89,462 87,750 1712
March, 1898 .. 88,128 87,750 378
September, 1898 88,042 87,750 292
March, 1899 .. 88,738 87,750 988
September, 1899 89,544 87,750 1794
The B. N.S. W. pays the second largest banking dividend
in Australasia, the Westralian Bank, with its 17J per
cent., being first. The grand old institution still keeps
progressing. During the half-year deposits have increased
by another £400,000, and are now well over £19,000,000.
Cash and liquid assets have increased by £29,000 and are
now £6,715,029—equal to 30 per cent, on all liabilities to
the public. The B. N.S.W. holds more deposits and a
larger reserve of cash and liquid securities than any other
bank in Australasia, it pays away a larger sum in divi-
dends than any of its and it is the oldest Austral-
asian bank, so it has four very notable records to its credit.
* * » »
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) finished the year to 301,h September, 1899, with a
splendid profit of £18,922. It pays an 8 per cent
dividend (£3000); adds £12,500 to reserve, which is thus
raised to £25,000 ; creates a contingency fund of £2OOO
against possible depreciation of investments, and the
other £1422, added to £l4l brought from last year, leaves
£1563 to carry forward. Some past records of the
Colonial Mutual Fire Co. :
Profits. Dividends.
1892 .. .. £4,111 Nil
1893 .. .. 7,139 Nil
1894 8,192 Nil
1895 .. .. 8,584 Nil
1896 ... .. 8,790 5 per cent. = £1,875
1897 - -• 8,848 6 „ „ = 2,250
Loss.
1898 .. .. 3,987 Nil
Profit.
1899 .. .. 18,922 8 per cent. = 3,000
8 years’profits .. £60,599 8 years’di vs. £7,125
Duimg these eight years tile Colonial Mutual has risen
from being about the worst to one of the best fire offices
in Australasia. Whenever State fire-insurance is mooted
that awesome and interested liar, the “ expert,” rises to
say, in a superior manner, that it is impossible, because
State fire-insurance will be necessarily confined to one
province, and the first essential of lire business is “ a
wide diffusion of risks.” The two great Sydney mutual
offices have always thrown this alleged rule overboard
and by keeping their business in a narrow compass‘they
have prospered. The National and Standard of Maori-
land tried the wide diffusion idea years ago and only
swore off in time to escape great disaster. The Pacific
tried it and went bankrupt. The Colonial Mutual tried
it, and, in 1891, it had lost all its reserves and £l9 911
(more than half) of its capital. Since then, by swearing-
off business in remote regions, and by patience and care-
ful management, it has replaced its £19,911 of lost capi-
ta], provided £7OOO to cover depreciation of assets, built
up a reserve of £25,000, and created an unappropriated
profit balance of £1563. Its investments, judging by the
interest realised, appear to be all in good order ; its pre-
mium income (£98,000) is £BOOO more than last year ;
and another 10 years of economy, good management and
small dividends should make it one of the largest as’ well
as one of the most solid, fire offices in Australia.
* * * *
The National Fire and Marine Insurance Co. of
Maoriland, in its report and balance-sheet for year ended
30th September, 1899, shows the best results it has re-
corded for a very long time. The figures from 1892 to
date are as follows :
Profits. Dividends.
1892 .. £16,508 12£ per cent. =£12,255
1893 .. 18,359 15 ~ = 14,76 b
7894 " 13,994 15 » = 14.706
1895 .. 14,858 15 = 14,706
1896 .. 14,492 15 =l4 706
1897 .. 15,229 15 „ =l4 706
1898 .. 7,921 124 _ 12 255
1899 •• 18,515 12J „ = 12*255
8 years’ Profits £119,876 8 years’ Dividends £110,295
After paying the dividend there remains a balance of
£6260, which, with amount brought from 1898 leaves
£16,538 to carry forward. During the previous seven
years, 1892-98, the National’s profits were only £3321
over and above its dividends, so during last year the
co. made nearly twice as much progress as in all
the previous seven. The great blot on the management is
that three times in eight years (in 1894, 1896 and 1898) in
its anxiety to keep up an enormous dividend it paid away
more than its earnings. This time, fortunately, it has
been content with 124 per cent, which is handsome
enough in all conscience. The co. has a paid-up capital
of £98,037 and £115,681 of reserves (reserve fund £7O 000 •
re-insurance fund £29,143, and accumulated profit
£16,538). Its investments appear solid, and yield the very
handsome all-round return of £4 11s. per cent., and if the
National wants to emulate the two local giants, the New
Zealand and the South British, there is 110 reason why
with abstention for a time from the too-gorgeous 15 per
cent, dividend, it shouldn’t arrive there.
The North Queensland Insurance Co. has.had a
rather better year than last, though the result can’t be
regarded as really good. For the 12 months to 30th Sep-
tember, ISOS the profits were £4174. A dividend of 5
per cent, absorbs £2072, and £lOOO is added to reserve-
fund, making it £16,000. The other £602, with 1933
brought from last year, leaves £1435 to carry forward.
Recent profits and dividends of the North Queensland
Insurance Co. have been as follows :
Profits. Dividends.
1892 .. £3,920 5 per cent. = £2672
1893 .. 4,688 „ = 2672
1594 .. 3,399 „ = 2672
1895 .. 3,113 „ = 2672
Loss.
1896 .. 777 Nil.
Profits.
1897 .. 10,688 6 per cent. = 3206
1898 .. 1,089 4 „ = 2137
1899 .. 4,174 5 „ = 2672
Byears’ Profits, £30,274 S.vears’Dividends, £18,703
The North Queensland Insurance Co. though only 14
years old, has one of the largest fire and marine busi-
nesses in Australia, its gross premium income for 1899
being. £115,227—an increase of nearly £BOOO as compared
with 1898. Yet its profits, for some reason or other, are
never very large. The reserve fund, as already mentioned,
is now £16,000, and adding profit and loss balance the co.
has accumulated £17,435. But it is probable that
this sum wouldn’t do much more than cover the
premiums on unexpired risks, so in any fair sense
there is practically no reserve fund. The North
Queensland lumps “commission, interest and rent”
into one item instead of showing interest and
rent separately, therefore it is impossible to tell whether
the investments yield 4 per cent, or only 1 per cent., or
less than that, or anything between the two. In other
words, there is no reliable information from which it can
be estimated whether the investments are perfectly sound
or utterly rotten. They amount to about £67,000, and
the income from “commission, rent and interest” is £3105,
which is £55 less than last year. If £2OOO of this
is interest and rent, then it may be estimated that the
shareholders’ funds are ail intact. If only £lOO of it is
interest and rent, then there is reason to suspect that the
£67,000 (which is most of the co.’s capital and reserves)
has been so badly invested that in all probability very
little of it will ever be seen again. This writer knows
nothing to the discredit of the investments, hut a balance-
sheet which is so drawn up as to throw no light on the
question as to whether the whole capital has or has not
been lost in bad investments, isn’t a credit to any co.
“Commission, rent and interest” should really be sub-
divided into three items, in order to explain matters.
» » * »
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney) closed its year on 31st October with a
net profit of £4235. A 7 per cent, dividend accounts for
£2325 of this ; £lOOO is added to general reserve making
it £11,200 ; £5OO is added to the reserve for equalisation of
dividends, raising it to £2750 ; and the remaining £4lO,
with £2492 brought from last year, leaves £2901 to be
carried forward. The following'is a record of the Inter-
colonial’s progress for eight years past:
Profit. Dividends.
1892 .. £lOO6 nil.
1893 .. 831 „
1894 .. 1822
1895 .. . 2651 ~
1896 . 6085 10 per cent. = £3199
1897 .. 5123 10 „ = 3295
1898 .. 4916 8.1 ~ = 2786
1899 . , 4235 7 2325
8 years’ Profits £26,669 8 years’ Dividends £11,605
The earnings are steadily diminishing, still they are
equal to about. ‘ 8 16s. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds, which is a remarkably high figure.
During the last eight years the Intercolonial has provided
out of profits £4500 to cover depreciation ; has created a
dividend equalisation fund of > 2750, has added £6200 to
reserve (raising it to £11,200), and added 11614 to the
accumulated profit balance. In addition it has reduced
its liability to depositors from 1 20,9 u() to 49005, and dur-
ing the last, 12 months, it has reduced its bank overdraft
from 4;>68 to 12076. If its freehold properties and other
investments are not over-valued the position of the Inter-
colonial is remarkably good. Shareholders’total funds
are now £52,455, and all other liabilities are only 412,286.
* * « *
“ John Taeffe ”to The Bulletin : “‘A work-
ing miner lately returned from Woodlark Island ’ dis-
courses on the local gold-reefs in so disparaging and vague
a way that I am inclined to think he has never been on
the Island at all. To my knowledge, which comes from an
experience of three continuous years on Woodlark, there
are reefs on several fields, some' of which are up to 30
miles apart, and payable gold was got out of several by
pestle and mortar alone. Some I know were worked in
that way for over 12 months; they are working there
now and can get any amount of stone for a battery if it
would only come along. ‘Working Miner’ said he and
his parly did well by selling out of a surface show lease.
Where was this lease? Not on Woodlark, I think—any-
how there were no surface-shows bought there. All the
leases purchased were on account of the Woodlark I.G.M.
Co., and the Charters Towers New Guinea Co. I know
all the men who took up leases and those who didn’t, and
I know those who sold out to the co’s. and lately returned
to Australia. ‘ Miner ’is not one of them. He says Wood-
lark is an outlandish place and that it would take a
great pile of gold per ton to pay. Now Woodlark Island
is 41 miles long and 15 wide. A large area of it is gold-
bearing schist country with high ridges and mountains
up to 600 ft. above the sea ; it has a few good-sized rivers
and numerous ever-running creeks from which can be
obtained constant motive-power for machinery for all
mining purposes. IfN.S.W. or Queensland were as well
off in this respect their mining industries could he greatly
expanded. Why didn’t that lately-returned miner go
and have a look at the Ivanhoe lode if he was on Wood-
lark lately? He could there at Kulamadow see a face of
ore over 70ft. deep and 15ft. wide and thousands of tons
in sight, and see under his feet and in the face similar
stone that yielded over lOoz to the ton at Aldershot, and
ore and stone that yielded 270 z. per ton at the same
place. It is asked if the 17ewt. of stone that went 270 z.
to the ton consisted of picked specimens? No ; there was
none of it picked, nor was any that has yet been sent for
treatment from the Ivanhoe lode. That 17cwt. was the
coarser lumps of ore and quartz left after sluicing, out
the fine mineral sand over blankets. This sand is then
amalgamated, and all the free gold taken out of it that
is possible by mercury. A lot of this gold is sulphuretted,
and in consequence does not take in the amaigalji, hence
the residual concentrates have to be sent away for treat-
ment, and they have yielded up to 20oz. to the ton.
I herewith send a copy of the directors’ report of Wood-
lark Co., in which will be found a return of the ore
already treated. It also contains their manager’s estima-
tion of the whole lode which he expects to" go at least
4oz. to the ton. And from experience in working the
Woodlark P.O. for over 12 months, I have every reason
to think it will go more.”
* * * *
Concerning- Woodlark Island, it seems, from
admissions made at the recent shareholders’ meeting,
that the concern started hefore it, was readv and that
Alec. Johnson, the founder, has had to pay for options
a great deal more than was anticipated. Something
appears to have gone wrong with the contracts, and there
is a shadow of doubt as to whether the contract in con-
nection with the formation of the co. is itself now valid.
Certainly the contributing shareholders must find them-
selves in a rather uncomfortable position and so great
care will have to he exercised to bring about an equitable
adjustment of values in any new scheme of reconstruc-
tion. Writer is informed that the owners have the right
of working the deposits to the end of the year and have
a number of blacks and other men employed gouging it
out. The formation as described in some quarters is a
puzzle, the gold being found in a sort of pug containing
stones auriferous but not water-worn.
* * * *
It is pretty clear that very high official influence
in Brisbane operates (in the interest of the Ohillagoe M.
and R. Co.) in keeping back the Commissioner’s report on
the proposed Atherton-Garnet railway route. Ministerial
notice has been given of a bill “ to amend the Tramway
Act and so enable the private construction of tramways to
the mineral and agricultural areas in the northern parts
of the colony.” The bill really is a measure to grant
rights of constructing a tramway from the Ohillagoe line
to Jit. Garnet.
* * • *
“ Mainshaft ”: A recent par. rc Ohillagoe
and Mt. Garnet says: “ The public has probably
arrived at that stage when it is beginning to reckon up
the cost of getting these mines into a copper-producing
state, asking itself where the market is likely to go to in
the meantime. This month, the metal fell £3 per ton in
less than a week. What it may do before any Ohillagoe
or Mt. Garnet copper arrives goodness only knows.” If
you meant the first few lines quoted as a reason for the
slight slump in N.Q. copper stocks, you’re all out. As a
matter of fact, there is no slump in Chillagoes at all.
Just before war broke out they were 405., and, at time of
writing, they are 355. Nothing much wrong theie. And,
although Garnets are to-day 60s. buyers, and were 755.
three weeks ago, there are not many sellers. I state now,
and I defy contradiction, that Garnets are worth £B—on
the realisable value of the ore in sight a month ago.
The fall resulted from the publication and repub-
lication of six very poor assays from a very low-grade
patch in the mine. The winzes are now through this and
in good-grade sulphide again. There is no base metal
proposition in the world so cheap and easy for putting
into a producing position as Ohillagoe and Mt. Garnet—
the lodes are so big that the mining couldn’t be cheaper
anywhere. And if the copper market were to fall so low
that many of the big producers of the world would have
to close or work at a loss, Ohillagoe and Garnet, big and
rich as they are, could produce at a profit. And Jit.
Garnet copper will arrive within from six to eight months
from date, with Ohillagoe eight months after.
* * • »
Queensland Prospecting Mining Co. has more
blocks in the Ohillagoe district than it can possibly work.
Another ghastly disappointment from London. A cable
saying that negotiations for floating have again fallen
through.
• • • *
" Shenandoah (Bendigo) has an Bft. reef exposed
at 3100 ft. ; plenty of pyrites in places, but little gold
showing. Still the last return was about £oz. What with
this and a good run of stone awaiting the stamps at 1881 ft.
the co. seems to have a fairly good time ahead.
* » * *
“ Moses Moss,” of London Truth, still harping
on the greatness of the Peak Hill (Westralia) Sept. 14th :
“ Peak Hills did not react to the same extent as some of
the other leading mines, and at £7 Is. Bd. are certainly a
good purchase, the more so as Jlr. Darlington Simpson,
who is the largest shareholder, will doubtless on his
arrival here be able to communicate most satisfactorily
from the property.” Then, on 21st Sept. : “ Peak Hilis
after declining to £6 155., rallied to £7, and again
reacted, but 1 have to retract none of the favorable views
1 have at various times expressed regarding the perman-
ence of this mine and its great promise. Mr. Simpson is
expected from Australia next week and will doubtless
bring some favorable news with him. I also hear that
Mr. Simpson has some options on other properties in his
pocket.” A week later : “ Peak Hills have been at a
steady market now at £6 155., and as Mr. Darlington
Simpson, who is the largest holder of shares in the co., is
returning this week from Westralia, some important news
may shortly be expected.” At last the great man
Simpson arrives. “ October s.—Peak Hills have been sold
bv the ‘ bearers,’ £6 55., notwithstanding a div. of 2s. per
share, the warrants for which have been posted. Mr.
Simpson has now arrived in London, and will doubtless
have some important information to give concerning this
mine.” Wonderful what amount of interest M.M. is
taking in the movements of this very common or garden
man, Simpson, to w'hom he makes a complimentary
weekly allusion in that ill-named paper, Truth. JLJi.
makes no reference to the fact that the people who took
his advice on Sept. 14 to buy at £7 Is. Bd., have had the
pleasure of realising within a month at a loss of £1 a
share, and if they have still their shares, the loss of
another £1 a share is theirs. . Nor does M.M. make any
reference to Schlapp’s report, which nobody seems to
have seen. Peak Hill shares are still falling, and when
they are half of their present price they will still be con-
siderably above their intrinsic value.
* » * *
Lady Loch —a Coolgardie mine with a reputa-
tion behind it, reconstructed last year, and doing fairly
well this, by the exercise of great economy. Her Lady-
ship may yet be induced to pay a div. on 12dwt. rock.
* * * *
Bayley’s United, Coolgardie : Who would have
thought it? This will-o’-the-wisp concern of five years
ago has now come into the field as a steady producer,
giving from 3000 oz. to 4000 oz. a month from battery and
cyanide treatment. Divs. have been resumed ; said to
have at least 50,000 tons of ore reserved and a long life
before it. Acknowledged to have as good a battery as
exists in Westralia ; has been systematically opened up
for a big production ; and the only remaining point is
whether these big returns are coming from the ore bodies
as a whole, or are made up by rich patches crushed with
large quantities of barren rock. If the former, it is
as satisfactory as surprising ; if the latter, the day is not
far distant when the battery will be silent as an average
cemetery.
» « * *
Hannan's Proprietary Developing Co. has had
a crushing at last—2sloz. gold. It owns a large number
of leases and has had very hard luck in not finding some
gold before.
• * • *
W.A. Govt. Geologist Blatcnford gives a san-
guine report on Donnybrook goldfield—which some
mining men say is another Kalgoorlie. This is a far cry,
and the size, metal contents, and apparent permanence
of the lodes is more like Charters Towers at its best.
Jackson’s Block 5 is the chief producing claim, so far—a
shaft is down 105 ft., and the lode has been crosscut at the
50, 70 and 105 ft. levels. The lode is a granular quartz in-
termixed with kaolin, and 181 tons have been crushed for
5570 z., or over 3oz. to the ton. The field has only been
opened a few months, and up to date 600 tons have been
treated for over 16000 z., or over 2£oz. per ton.
« » * •
Waihi, Maoriland : Another 2s. div. Total
distribution now £468,000.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell.—Deputy-Chairman Knox told the
shareholders last week that the American copper refiners
had, owing to large copper supplies coming forward,
evinced so little anxiety to agree to terms offered or even
to discuss the renewal of the late contract, that the
Board had no option save to send Mr. Syme and Secretary
Mel'or to discuss the matter with them. As a result,
satisfactory arrangements have been made with a Balti-
more refining firm to take Mt. Lyell product. Figures
not given. Sufficient to know that Jit. Lyell is working
at a profit of £lOOO per day. The average is slowly
coming down, in copper especially, but with such an
enormous tonnage ever increasing and other avenues of
profit, also always enlarging, it has a bright outlook and
must be regarded as one of the soundest, safest mining
investments in the world.
* » * *
Mt. Bischoff : The tin-mine of the island and of
Australasia is now getting the benefit of the big price of
the metal. Last div., 15s. a share, bringing the total up
to £133 17s. 6d. per share, or £1,606,500. Has been a
consistent div.-payer for over 20 years.
Tasmania : The big gold-mine of the little
island, 1600 tons, 22840z5. Div. (171st) Is. Divs. to date,
£703,071, and has a reserve-fund on fixed deposit of
£37,500.
* * * *
B.H. Junction has been in some tight places
lately, but it might easily have got into still tighter. One
of the “ economies ” of the board, before it was reformed,
was to throw up the leases for silver and lead, and hold
the mine under the more recent lease for gold, getting a
permit from the Minister to take the silver and lead.
Probably the property was safe enough held that way ;
but if market “ bears” wanted to have a good time they
could have found plenty of room to stand on while they
scared out weak shareholders. The new board isn’t taking
that risk (the saving amounts to £lO or £l2 a year), and
so has had the lease pegged out again and reapplied for.
And to make assurance doubly sure, one of the Directors,
J. C. Fraser, arose in the dead of night and pegged out
the block under mineral leases also—to keep any other
fellow off who might be disposed that way. This is the
whole story of the “jumping” of the Junction and the
subsequent yarn of “conflicting applications” which
shook up the market one recent day.
People, by the way, begin to ask what right the
Broken Hill co.’s have to mine for zinc and sell it. Some
trouble may therefore possibly be caused them at a time
when the zinc is giving them quite enough trouble other-
wise. Still they can apparently get for the mere asking
the Minister’s permission to add zinc to the minerals for
which they originally sought authority to mine.
• » * *
Sulphide Corporation, which owns the B.H.
Central mine and the Cockle Creek works, pays its first
div. on Dec. 15—10 per cent, all round. Preference shares
(550,000, paid to £1) thus carry 2s. ; ordinaries (550,000
paid to 155.), Is. 6d. The debentures (£100,000) carry
5 per cent. Total, £101,250. And £18,905 is carried for-
ward. Compare other year’s divs.—B.H. Prop., £192,000 ;
Block 10, £62,500 ; Block 15, £20,000.
» * • *
Mt. Drysdale, N.S.W. : “An assay taken from
2ft. wide of the lode in the new find yielded at the rate of
1550 z. geld and 930 z. silver per ton. A trial lot was
shipped to Dap to this morning.” Nevertheless, shares
selling at ss. In N.S.W. once shy, always shy; but for
the horrible disappointment of four years ago on such a
strike as this shares would have gone to four times their
present value. Many remember the last rich strike in
this mine to their sorrow'. Like most bonanzas, it came
without warning, but, worse luck, the distant share-
holders received not the slightest w'arning w'hen it left.
Few mining men can tell w'hen a bonanza is appearing,
although there are some who profess to know all about it,
but the common or garden mining Juggins ought to be
able to tell w'hen one is leaving.
* * • *
Gibraltar Consolidated (N.S.W.) : 1905 tons for
the month, 9730 z. 30 tons concentrates, 2820z5. 650 z.
from tailings. Total production, 12700 z. Estimated
total cost, £3200. A great falling off. It will take a
long time, working at this rate, to return the money put
into this mine.


d
A NEW
DEPARTURE
]n Orient Suit to Measure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
£3T We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
V GP O j
SYDNEY.
A FASHIONABLE PASTlME—
photography
It is the “OPEN SESAME” into Society.
Our stock of Photographic Materials is the most
extensive and up-to-date in Australasia.
C AMEEAS of every style and size, from 5/- upwards
PLATES of all makes, and for every purpose.
CHEMICALS the latest and best.
THAMES and MOUNTS the newest
designs, and to suit the most fastidious.
Nothing required but we can supply you with
Brisbane Branch-
-34 Queen Street.
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co.,
179 Collins-street.
And Agents in all the Colonies.
HARRINGTON * CO. LTD.
PnO’SSSnSIKRCIIAN'i'S, 66 King-st., Sydney.
Call on us, send to us, or write to us for particulars. Our New
Illustrated Catalogue will be supplied free.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Who is the modest “ anonymous Aus-
tralian ” who has given, per Agent-General Salo-
mons, <£lo,ooo to the War Relief Fund in
London ? No doubt the gentleman is out
for a title though Dan. Cooper got his
baronetcy for 20 per cent, or so of the amount
mentioned. It is a maxim among showmen
that to effectively advertise you must be a bit
mysterious at first. For weeks before J. L.
Sheridan opened in Sydney the other day the
public eye met on the walls hundreds of placards
bearing the puzzle-legend:—“Don’t mind me —
it’s only Dan.” Now who is Dan of the £lO,OOO ?
We shall soon see.
* * * •
The methods of the cable-expander were
shown up by a remark, which appeared in one of
the “ great ” Australian dailies to the effect that
the Gordon Highlanders had stated that their ex-
periences at Dargai were child’s play to the gruel-
ling they received from the Boers. Very pretty-
only that the battalion of the Gordons which was
at Dargai is now in Scotland, the South African
men being the second battalion of the regiment.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Lancers had no fewer than
three bands to play them off from London. There
were, in fact, more bandsmen than troopers in the
cavalcade —about a ha’p’orth of Lancer to a ton of
big-drum—“four-and-twenty men to five-and-
thirty pipers.” And now we read that the gallant
65 have been split into two divisions serving in
two different localities —and, funniest of all, a
later cablegram gravely announces that one of
these handfuls, When having its first brush with
the enemy near Arundel, “was accompanied by a
body of the 42nd Regiment.” “Accompanied
“LIGHT AND DARKNESS.”—A SYDNEY
MATCH-SELLER.
“ Matches O! ”
by!” The N.S.W. Lancers, and —incidentally,
as it were—the world-famous 42nd Highlanders !
• * * *
The Sydney Jingoes, sore-pressed for sub-
scriptions to their bogus-patriotic fund, have
decided to have a feast of St. Barmaid on its be-
half. The fair beggars, who hitherto have been
privileged to hold but once annually a leering and
ogling match in the streets, on the occasion of Hos-
pital Saturday, are to rattle their boxes on behalf
of the fund to keen out of the benevolent asylums
such of the N.S.W. brigands as maybe disabled
while slaughtering Dutch farmers in the interests
of the South African Chartered Company.
* * * *
The Westralian Government, being a far-
sighted body with much premonition about it,
furnished to its Transvaal contingent a one-
shilling digger’s map of South Africa without the
mountains marked on it. Armed with that map
the ’groper army should do great things.
* * * »
Ex-Constable Carmichael, of Fitzroy, gets
off his chest the following loyal outburst of which
printed slips are circulated throughout Mel-
bourne :
When Carmichael was at Fitzroy watch-house he
claimed to be the laureate of the foorce, and cele-
brated every notable current event by a lengthy
epic extending over the backs of four or
five crime - reports. When he resigned, his
mantle (or jumper) descended upon Const. Con-
don, reckoned by Prof. Miller to be the smartest
fighter the Vic. police possessed. Condon’s shifty
right is consequently devoted to turning out
metrical slabs and getting them published in the
local rag. On the other side of Smith-streeet, the
boundary thoroughfare, Const. Coakley, of Col-
lingwood, slings iambics until further orders, and
the “willing” character of the triangular duel
which wages between the three poetical cops com-
pletely absorbs local interest. The recent out-
break of poesy in the ranks of the Melb. police is
so virulent and so contagious that the casual
citizen cannot walk home without encountering
X4ll on the beat with an eye in fine frenzy roll-
ing ; in fact, the average bobby giving evidence in
a larceny-case finds it hard to refrain from testify-
ing in rhyme.
* * * *
More Jingo melody. “ Dr. J. Summers,
of this city,” writes Perth (W.A.) Daily News, a
most Respectable and influential organ, “has com-
posed an Australian war song, which we publish
below. The music is of the bright martial style,
and the chorus has a splendid ‘go ’ with it, which
is certain to be popular. The song will be pub-
ished on Saturday next, and will be procurable at
the music sellers in town.” Song follows :
Two versions of cablegram :
Sydney Daily Telkgbafh,
Nov. 23.
THE WAR RELIEF FUND. 1
PATRIOTIC BRITISH
DAMES.
ARISTOCRATIC COLLECTORS.
London, Tuesday afternoon.
The ladies of the British
aristocracy have organised a
party of 300 patriotic dames
to collect donations for the
War Relief Fund.
S.M. Herald,
Nov. 23.
THE WAR RELIEF FUND.
DOG COLLECTORS.
London, Nov. 21. —Ladies
of the English aristocracy
have organised a movement
for aiding the war relief
fund by the use of 30U dogs
with collecting boxes sus-
pended from their necks.
The animals are to be known
as the “ Patriotic British
Dogs.”
Significant remark by Sydney JD.T, when
it came to a sudden and jagged gap in’its Special
War Correspondent’s letter from the front :
(At this point the message breaks off, several hundred
words descriptive of the reverse having apparently been
cut out by the press censor, as it was possibly in conflict
with the official statement afterwards made.)
And yet people accept the officially-cooked cable
news as gospel.
• • • •
Melb. bank-clerks are disgusted with Dr.
Maloney for endeavoring to have them brought
under the provisions of the Factory Act, “like
any common workin’ man, by Jove ! ” and have
taken steps to persuade Parliament to leave them
out. The idea of being anything remotely con-
nected with a factory was too much for the
equanimity of the small gold-bugs.
“Billyram ”
Having noticed in a
certain N.S.W. dis-
tricta surprising pre-
valence of deformed,
half-witted, and to-
tally idiotic persons,
I found also that in-
termarriage was lo-
cally very common.
The place contained
some awful specimens
of the human race.
For instance, one
individual who could
neither read nor
write, and whose
speech was utterly
unintelligible, used
to take a book on
retiring to bed and
“ read ” for half-an-hour
before going to sleep. He
had shared a room with a
person given to this habit,
and so learned to imitate.
♦ * *
Pearl of wisdom from Syd-
ney Domain orator : —“ Nevermind
the Boers—jist keep yer weather-
eve on Bill Lyne and the Fat Man.
Make Bill Lyne trot. (Interrup-
tion.) Early-closing ain’t Sociali-
ism ; it’s only the track as leads to
it. An’ if it was I’d say go for it.
When the State runs a post-office
ev’ryone of the big dailies sez it’s
a legy-ti-mate State function, but
if it runs a bloomin’ meat-shop it’s
a ’orrid interference with private
enterprise. Now, can any gen-
tleman present tell me why the
difference between a sausage-shop
and a post-office is so big that the
State as runs the one shouldn’t run the t’other.”
(Blank silence, no one apparently able to tell the
difference.)
* • • *
In Okaramio (M.L.) there are no less than
six pairs of twins attending the local State
school.
A soul-satisfying shindy between three
memorial-card ghouls is announced from Mel-
bourne. Two of them were the Australian
Memorial Card Co., and the third ghoul was the
Art Engraving Co. The custom of the business
is to watch the death-notices in the paper, and
hurriedly print the name and age of defunct on a
black-edged card, with a “selected verse”—some-
thing like this, perhaps :
Then the document is respectfully submitted to
the relatives by a red-eyed person in rusty black,
who asks for an order of several dozen of the
atrocity. Somehow an impression arose in the
mind of the Australian Memorial Card Co. that
the Art Engraving Co. didn’t pursue the business
honestly—on at least one occasion the Memorial
Card Co. believed that the Art Engraving Co.
took an order to supply cards by representing
that the Memorial Card Co.’s sample-card and
selected verse was its card and verse. At all
events, the Australian Memorial Card Co. struck
the Art Engraving Co. severely on the head, and
if the Art Engraving Co. hadn’t defended itself
vigorously with a ruler it is difficult to say what
the fury of the Australian Memorial Card Co.
might have led to. The law fined the Australian
Memorial Card Co. £3 and costs.
The political woman can express her con-
tempt for the other cat far more effectively than
can mere man. In Wellington (M.L.), two
bodies which had been striving for the poli-
tical love of Seddon sought amalgamation
—and failed. It became the pleasant duty
of one secretary to notify the other that
the overtures had fallen flat. For reply,
secretary No. 1 had her own letter re-
turned without comment —but torn in
two !
More about the unaccountable
Australasian female. In a small Maori-
land town recently, a young woman,
living with her father and mother in
one of the hideous wooden box-cot-
tages elevated on piles which dis-
figure that province, made a sudden
disappearance. She didn’t even take
her hat, or her best frock, or any
money; she left no letter behind to ;
say that her heart was broken and
she would be found in the tank ; she
was just there one moment and
utterly gone the next. The neighbor-
hood was turned upside-down in vain.
Then 2J days later her broken-hearted
father heard sounds through the flooring
suggestive of a female in a strong state
of repentance, and crawling under the
house with a candle he found the miss-
ing offspring. She was very weak
through hunger and through being so
long cramped up in a narrow space, but
she is to be requested to explain her remark
able conduct when she grows stronger.
It goes without saying—the ordinary pious
defaulter.
A CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK.
F ATMAN, JUN.: “ I say , I’ll get you some bread
and jam if you’ll plug that boy down there
for calling me a fat coward!”
From Tasmania :
Gov. Gormanston, 4st. lighter and six months older
than when he went away, returned to Raspberry-land
the other week. For all the fuss made over the return
of H. E., he might have swum ashore in the night, and
crept in per back way to Govt. House. Even in wide-
awake Hobart, folks appear to have discovered the
calamity by accident. A party of anglers procee ding one
evening to the haunts of the flat-head and rock-cod, were
Surprised to find a burly and somewhat disreputable-look-
ing old boy in a boat, moored over their favourite fish-
ing spot. As the party had sent a man out to “ burley ”
that particular location earlier in the day, and as the old
man in the boat was hauling up a fine lot of fish, they
began to say nasty things about poachers and pot-hunters,
and mean sportsmen generally. But the ancient said
never a word in retaliation ; seemed too busy with rod
and line. Eventually the angry anglers decided to moor
their boat right alongside the stranger’s, and arranged
to give him “ a time.” They no sooner dropped kellick
than the old chap laboriously raised his, and carefully de-
positing his full basket in the stern, rowed off without a
word, straight to the Governor’s private jetty. Not till
the grumpy old angler had landed, and was half up the
garden path, did the fishing party realise they had been
within splashing distance of the Right Honorable Jenie.o
William Joseph, Viscount Gormanston, Knight Grand
Cross of the most distinguished Order of Saint Michael
and Saint George, Governor and Commander-in-Chief in
and over the colony of Tasmania and its dependencies.
And that’s how ’twas known that the Gov’nor was back.
“BOER, BOAR, BORE—OH, LORD, HERE’S
ANOTHER!”
TO “OUR COUNTRY.”
Tune —“ Bay of Biscay.”
Australia’s sons are ready
To battle for their Queen ;
We stand all firm and steady,
To keep their honor clean
And when we meet the foe,
We’ll ne’er acknowledge failure,
Shoot and slash,
Kill and thrash.
And our battle Cry—Australia.
With shoulder close to shoulder,
Thy sons shall soon be seen,
Through Kopje and o’er boulder,
We soldiers of the Queen,
“ Advance ’’—the bugle calls,
Charge—down with Transvaalia,
Straight for the foe,
Through them we go,
Hurrah !—Victory and Australia.
Front! to the foe, our Australian boys go,
Through fire, and blood, in torrents raging,
“Up and at ’em lads ! ” “ Bang, and smash ’em, lads ! ’
Show the Boer devils what Australians can do.
To the war ! Hip-hoo-ray !
Like as of old, let your courage bold,
In safety guard the Crown and gold ;
Conquering ever, to do, and to do,
With stout hearts, valiant, brave, and true.
To the war 1 Hip-hoo-ray 1
Electric, quenchless, spirit of fire,
On their heads pour your scalding ire,
Their cannon-balls catch, and never miss,
Scatter their stumps, they’re in a fix.
To the war ! Hip-hoo-ray !
Victory crowned, for our cause was just,
The Boers gently taught how to bite the dust;
Honor and glory now fairly won,
Home again, boys, to Australia’s bright sun.
To the war ! Hip-hoo-ray 1
Likewise, yah !
O father we have missed you,
There will be an empty chair.
A tree fell on you
While shooting at a native bear.


Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
CONDY'S
Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is Magical.
All Substitutes are Inferior.
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.’’
The Cold Options $ mineral geveiopment
COMPANY. LIMITED,
Capital - - £20,000 in £1 Shares.
The Hon. A. J. GOULD, M.L.C.
DIRECTORS:
HARRIE WOOD, J.P., Esq.
JOHN J. HORROCKS, ESQ.
tassss m ess-sssssr
SYDNEV:
JEJquitabl e Building.
MELBOURNE:
245 Collins Street.
In Campbelltown (N.S.W) district are a
brother and two sisters weighing collectively 58st.
(brother 21st., sisters 19st. and 18, t.).
The departure of the Transvaal contingent
from MeJb. was an event that will be long remem-
bered and talked about. This distinction is
shared by the London and American Supply
Stores, Bourke.street, Melb., which is always re-
membered by purchasers as supplying the best
goods at the most reasonable prices, and is talked
about all over Australia for that reason. Men’s
wear of every description smart in cut and superior
in style, appearance, and quality. Send for cata-
logue, London and American Supply Stores.
Boui ke-street, Melbourne. *
Arthur Russell, Americandentist, BBourke-
street IC., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessai v. Also painless
operations,*
The first requisite towards enjoying any-
thing is the willingness to be pleased. Take Zetz
Spa Water and you will be pleased. Nature's
remedy for dyspepsia and kindred diseases. Kills
urio acid, does Zetz Spa.*
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd) PENS
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
1 he Flying J writes 200 words per dip
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
HPHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY
LASIA, Limited,
OF AUSTRA-
Offlces, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
p!lhßn!w arran^ mentB for re Snlai' shipments of
Carbide of Oalciuti). and arc now tirpmrpH n nt *
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND Drum
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
T° POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
lov- j-ricJs 1 - Se the A PP aratUB for its wse at very
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner £1 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping
Brackets, complete in in n
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide
sent post free any address ’ nin fi
Carriage Lamps, per pair ... 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
THE WRONG SHOP.
GENTILE OLD LADY (to Hebrew butcher): "I[?]
been told, Mr. Cohenson, that your kosher
meat is always sound and wholesome. I am
so afraid of tuberculosis, you know.”
COHENSON : " Kvite right, Madam. Our meat is
always goot.”
OLD LADY (beaming): “Then kindly give me a
pound of your best pork sausages."
The recent row on a point of morals be
tween Archbishop Carr and Victorian Judge
Williams gave the Archbishop a very fine chance
to make a, very fine and large mistake—and he
made it with the enthusiasm of one who is accus-
tomed to make mistakes. The centre of the
moral storm was a law case in which a husband
sued for divorce on the ground of desertion. The
wife had already borne to him eight children, and
after the birth of the eighth she claimed that she
had done her duty to the State and to her hus-
band—that she had done her best to keep up the
declining birth-rate and to supply Australia with
much-needed population. Her resolve to be in
future only a companion, and not a wife, was
alleged to constitute legal desertion. Judge
Williams, however, sensibly resolved that it
didn’t. He held that there might be a
time in a woman’s life when she could reason-
ably claim a rest from the painful burden of
child-bearing, and that she couldn’t be expected
to spend quite all her best years in the increase of
population, especially if it involved the partial
destruction of her health. Whereupon R.C.
Archbishop Carr spoke weighty words to his flock
about the sin of using “preventives,” and the
wickedness of devices for averting the increase of
population. As it happened, there was no ques-
tion of using preventives, so the reverend gentle-
man was frantically climbing up the wrong tree
so far as Judge Williams was concerned. The
lady, charged with technical “desertion,” merely
considered that a time had come when she might
fairly become a celibate like the Archbishop him-
self —the difference being that she had already
done her duty to the State, in helping to increase
the population, while the Archbishop is prepared
to swear that he hasn’t done his. A celibate
priest is about the last individual in the com-
munity who should get excited over such a case
and hit out wildly at all and sundry.
An idiotic defect in Yic. licensing legisla-
tion has just been brought to light. For 20 years
the grocers have been selling “ baby ’’ bottles of
champagne, but it now appears that their license
prohibits them from selling any bottle smaller
than the “ reputed - pint ” size. The teetotal
objection to the wine-and-spirit license for grocers
is based on the argument that it encourages drink-
ing among women. The law, whilst upholding
woman’s right to buy a bottle from the free, easy,
and accessible grocer, draws the line at the half-
pint.
“Pmglaud is sending a gigantic steam
plough with which to cut trenches when besieging
strongly fortified positions.” Not swords turned
into ploughshares, but ploughshares into swords.
* * * *
Gov. Phillip gave the space known now as
Hyde Park, and greedily coveted by a city rail-
way functionary, to the people of Sydney and
exhorted them to keep it as a racecourse or
recreation reserve for ever. The space known as
the Domain he modestly reserved for his own
family and notified it “strictly private.”
The Melb. Morgue orderly was awakened
at 4.30 the other morning by a sound as of some-
one trying to force the front-gate, and discovered
an immaculately-clad young man scaling the
fence. “ I wish to see Miss Flossley, y’know,”
explained the Johnny when asked what
he wanted. “ Awf’ly naice girl, Miss Flossley,
y’know.” “Do you know where you are?”
asked the orderly, grasping the situation.
’F course, d’ah boy ! She told me she
lived at noughty nought Yarra Bank Road.
Fetcherout, ole f’ler.” “ Look here,” said
the orderly—“you’re at the Morgue ; but,
if you insist upon being taken in, I don’t
mind accommodating you with a slab."
And then the dude scrambled back over
the fence.
The election of Sydney’s Mayor
by the citizens, now more probable than
at any previous try, is a reform that
has been intermittently fought for this
last 30 years, but has always been baulked
by those who proved nothing against it,
but “ apprehended something.” Apropos, in
Maori land and Westralia Mayors are directly
elected by the ratepayers.
* * * *
r * The first letter from the S.M. Hekald’s
Transvaal correspondent tells cheerfully how the
crowd on the train which took said correspondent
to Ladysmith got up early to hoot and groan and
yell “ German dog ! ” at a number of the German
prisoners captured at Eland’s Laagte. It is also
mentioned that the hatred against the Boers is
not so violent as that against the Germans, and so
far as the Boer prisoners were concerned there
-“re merely expressions of “ general race hatred.”
“ THE FIT-
NESS OF THINGS! ”
ENTHUSIASTIC AMATEUR
(describing “go” with the mittens): “And
then Biffer got home a tremendous left on the
nose. Oh, it was a beauty!—it landed with the
-the”-(inspiration) —“‘ the sound of a great
Amen! ’”
Now, if it was announced that the Boers
were brutal enough to similarly insult British
prisoners .
* * * *
rv That was a really smart bit of work of
Rand wick (Sydney) policeman Turhet, who having
got wind of some “ confidence-men’s ” plan to
swindle a moneyed “ mug,” disguised himself as a
gasfitter, and was actually passing in and out of
the room (in a Cooge<3 hotel) while the oracle was
being worked. Then, dramatically, as the holder
of the £l5O plunder was about to clear, he found
the stalwart “gas-man,’’ a Tasmanian of six feet
two, in the way with his back against the door.
Over a Sydney undertaker’s door is in-
scribed “ Central Booking Office.” Why not also
“Box plan on view inside”?
“Arrangements are being made by His
Excellency for leaving Victoria early in the forth-
comingyear, probably in January.” (Melb. paper.)
Should you meet a man to-morrow with a wet and wistful
eye
And a living-deathly pallor on his cheek,
Do not ask him “ Why this sorrow ? ” You can guess the
reason why,
And his heart will be a lot too full to speak.
Simply lead the pallid mourner
To a pub. around the corner
Where the whisky glass will catch the falling tear,
And in accents weak and quaking,
Whilst his nervous hand you’re shaking,
Say, “ I’ve heard it—Brassey’s going ’Ome next year.”
Brassey’s going, going ’Ome,
Play a dirge upon the comb,
And put your face in mourning for the loss that looms
ahead,
With his wife and little daughter
He will cruise across the water:
Then Waxexelleney Madden will be Governor instead.
Ah! the thought of ‘Uncle’ leaving, it is very hard to
bear!
The summer wind sighs softly ’mid the trees :
E’en the little birds are grieving, as they flutter through
the air,
And there’s trouble in the murmur of the bees.
But the pain that pangs the marrow
Of the bumble bee and sparrow.
Making all things seem so desolate and drear,
Is not altogether owing
To the fact that Brassey’s going,
Going ’Ome aboard the Sunbeam yacht next year;
Sure, the old vice-regal game
Will continue just the same,
There’ll be bitter woe to follow when the Mariner has
fled:
Melbourne citizens must languish
In a state of further anguish,
For Waxexelleney Madden will be Governor instead.
* * * *
Poor old sleepy Bowen (Q.) has its little
boom at last. Three kanaka lepers were discovered
there the other day.
* • * *
There are 167 C.E. clergymen in Sydney
diocese, and 56,080 church sittings, of which
41,847 are free. This officially-
recorded percentage of free
sittings will be news to many.
The income last year was
£>58,671; the outlay about
.£lOOO more.
The Misses Neale, of
Parramatta, are making “ a
unique royal century quilt,”
which they intend to pre-
sent to Queen Victoria to
commemorate the founda-
tion of Methodism in
N.S.W. A quilt!
An essay on Ade-
laide :
Adelaide is the neatest,
cleanest cily in Aus-
tralasia : no slums, no
road litter, and in
the public gardens
baskets hang to the
trees for the public to
put their picnic litter in.
The alleged beer is non-
intoxicating. Every young
myi belongs to the
Y.M.C.A., or looks as if he
did. The two evening
papers publish one edition
at mid-day, then the whole
staff goes home to bed by
horse-train, and arrives in time
for tea. There are five notable
persons in S. A. —Clem Hill,
Darling, Jones, Miss Spence,
and Kingston, all the rest !
There are no athletes above the
ruck at any branch of sport; or
a single literary person. Even
the racehorses have to be trained
in another province before they
can win. Adelaide has seen less
immigration of late years than any
other capital. The race-type is
pronounced—the men weedy,
undersized, characterless; the
women anamiic, white-lipped,
flat - chested, hollow - cheeked.
“Oh, my country ! if this is what
we are coming to on our own.”
The alleged immorality of the
Holy City is gross flattery, very
tew of the saints could be im-
moral if they tried.
On a recent steamer-trip
from Maori land there was
an eccentric who read all the
time, and promptly tore out
each leaf as he finished it. His
explanation was that lie thus obviated thefamiliar
difficulty of finding the place.
* * * *
John Norton’s demand for an enquiry into
N.S.W. police-organisation and methods cannot
much longer be refused. If the police aren’t bribed
wholesale how is it that such glaring distinctions
are made between the treatment dealt out
between one contiguous betting-shop and another
and one Sunday-trading public-house and another?
The favors extended by the Sydney police to the
people who subsidise them are so open as to be
absolutely comic. A case which comes right under
Ihe Bulletin’s nose is that of a woman who
keeps a hotel and is at once pounced on if she sells
after hours ; whereas another woman further up-
street can sell all round the clock from January to
December. This present scribe has heard a man
who formerly ran a tote, and who-e word is taken
unquestionably by the public—his personal repu-
tation being absolutely clean—that he had made
thousands of pounds in his time but had paid away
too much of it to the men-in-blue. If an enquiry
is not soon held, it will only show that Parliament
is as rotten as, in some respects, the police-fore*
appears to be.
• • • .
Will Sydney bread carters participate in
the benefits of early-closing legislation? The}
should. Here is the day’s work of one of thes'i
white slaves and no doubt it is typical of many
in ji o samfc occupation. 5 a.m., harness horse
and load bread into cart; delivering bread from
0.30 a.m. till 5 p.tn. ; stabling and washing horse
and cart till after 7 p.m.—l4 hours work ; pay
generally 15s. to £1 a week.
* * * *
--The joys of being a “Gentleman, One.’ :
In Melbourne, the other day, a solicitor, hauled
to court over non-payment of a judgment for
rent, proved to the satisfaction of Judg* Casey
that his entire takings from July to November
were =£l2 3s. 6d. Case dismissed, on the ground
that it is impossible to take breeks off a High-
lander.
THE COOL-HEADED KIRK.
Melbourne, Friday.—ln the Presbyterian Assembly this
evening-, the Rev. J. H. Mackav, of Bendigo, moved—
“ That the Church set apart a day for humiliation and
prayer in consequence of the unnecessary and unjust war
now being waged by Great Britain against the Transvaal.”
He supported this in a long pro-Boer speech. The Rev.
Mr, Robertson seconded as a matter of form, but de*
nounced the motion in a speech. Eventually the motion
was carried.
Dour gentlemen in black array
Whose zeal too often leads to rant,
We reach a hand to ye to-day,
Stern keepers of the Covenant.
When half Australia, mad with blare
Of trumpets, whooped against the foe.
Ye stood hard-headed and four-square
And sternly spake your grim-lipped “ No ! ”
’Twas not disloyalty that kept
Your nerves against hysteria steeled ;
Ye are the seed of men who swept
Through death on many a battlefield.
And now, when scores of pulpits ring
With Jingo sermons—maddest known
To date—ye stand—no little thing—
Rememberable—and alone.
The Empire’s Friend.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lord Almighty dwelling
Above the c-hernbim,
He heard a murmur swelling
And rising up to Him.
'Twas like the feeble twitter
Of birds ere day’s begun;
And mild it was, and bitter,
And humble—all in one.
The Lord Almighty turning
To Raphael said He,
“ What mean these whispers yearning
That seem addressed to Me ? ”
—“lt may be Satan sighing
O Lord, or—who shall tell ?
Some constellation dying
In pain,” said Raphael.
Still nearer came the noises;
A saint said in his wings—
“ They sound like ghosts of voices
Of stricken living things.”
Then Raphael said—“ Can it
Be so? Then they had birth
In that small spitfire planet
Its natives call the Earth.”
Then spake a soul new-litten
Erom earth, with visage pale,
The Boer and the Briton
Are fighting tooth-and-nail.
The Bible both take oath on—
John Bull and Uncle Paul—
That each is right, and both on
The God of Battles call.”
“ The Boers pray the hardest,
For praying is their boast,
But as against the Mahdist
The British pray the most;
They are the best beseechers
And bound to win again ;
Tnere are more British preachers
Than Boer fighting-men.
“ From ev’ry British island
To meet the Boer foe
Or bit of British dry land
The little soldiers go ;
The Empire is in danger,
They say, but they will quell
The Enemy—the stranger.”
“Who cares ?” said Raphael.
Then in the Crystal City
Spake He whom men adore :
“ The Boers have My pity—
I cannot give them more.
And it they lose the land they
Appear to hold so dear,
I hope they understand they
Are free to trek up Here.”
Said God Almighty dwelling
Above the Cherubim,
“ I hear to Me upswelling
The British Empire’s hymn.
Strong faith in Me it’s cherished,
And prays for victory.
’Twill get it ; if it perished
What would become of Me ?
CREEVE ROE.


The accompanying illustration is merely used as
a simile for Blackness.
MARK FOY
has no connection with the Prince of Darkness,
beyond the fact that the deuce is in it if Foy’S
Hosiery not as Black as Beelzebub, although
there are those who protest that his Satanic
Majesty is not of an extra inky or murky hue.
Be that as it may, Mark Foy’S Hosiery
is Of the VEST BLACK VESCBIPTION.
SEAMLESS, SURE,
ai)d LONS LASTING.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
Sparse
!
MACHINES
Write tor our illuttrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patter ns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
The widow of the Crown Prince of Austria
is about to make a love-match with an Austrian
count, whose devotion is largely due, no doubt, to
the lady’s exquisite figure. Princess Stephanie is
the eldest daughter of the King of the Belgians,
the monarch who conferred the honor of knight-
hood upon the patentee of P.D. corsets. Born
and bred within the first sphere of P.D. influence,
so to speak, the Princess’s figure has been trained
on P.D. lines, and is famous for its beauty.*
“ The Light of Asia,” which, as is well known,
was one of the principal books of its year, was an un-
doubted success, and without doubt so is the new light of
Australasia, the “ Albatross Lamp Wick. “It requires
no trimming,” emits no odour, uses less oil, prevents
smoky chimneys, and is far safer than the ordinary wick.*
W- T- WATERS & CO’S
(King and George Streets)
Re-building- Sale
XMAS MILLINERY
XMAS BLOUSES
XMAS COSTUMES
XMAS GLOVES
XMAS LINGERIE
and XMAS NOVELTIES
To suit all occasions at merely nominal prices.
W- T. WATERS <sc CO.,
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
Write at once for our NEW ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE. It’s handy to have in the house.
We know a Trial Order from you means a Perma-
nent New Customer to us.
GLOBE TEAS
have
Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 28, 1899.
My Dear Myee.—
At the present moment, it looks as if our Govt.
House was going to turn into a howling wilderness,
a sad place, peopled only by visiting-books and
’ighly superior flunkeys, and the cold and haunt-
ing memories of past glory, when handsome aides
and a carefully-distilled feminine atmosphere and
swagger governors filled the V. R. place with pur-
ple clothes and fine language (I had almost
reversed those epithets). The present guber-
natorial arrangements are getting mixed. Last
month the ladies of the party evacuated the place,
leaving four tall, thin, stoopin'? youthful bachelors
to represent Her little stout Gracious. Then one
of the four—Captain Lindsay—went off to the
Transvaal, leaving three thin young men to stand
alone against the endearments of all the Points.
And now another is seceding. Mr. Victor
Corkran resigns his Private Secretaryship on
16th December, and sails for a gaudy appoint-
ment in Ireland. Yea, even Fenia, rather than
the unspeakable unutterableness of life in Syd-
ney, and just as he was getting into the marked
good graces of everybody. Two aides in six
months, and one leaving for bloodshed and one for
Fenia. Evidently it isn’t all roses and cream up
there.
Between ourselves, I have heard whisperings—
more than once —that three of these four thin
young men failed to hit things off, and that the
aides’ room was often not a happy place when
more than one aide sat inviting the wrong people
to his Ex.’s hops and strawberry - struggles.
Strangely enough, the only one of the three who
really looked bludgeons is the one who isn’t going
to leave, Captain Smith ; or perhaps I really
ought to say there, naturally enough. Captain
Lindsay was the least known of the three, and the
best-looking, when he wasn’t turning a Klondyke
stare on his brother aides. But Mr. Corkran was
the only one of the trio that Sydney had —well,
grown used to —and everyone who got a blue
ticket for the balls sincerely laments his departure.
So Government House will now be filled only
with two long-waisted beings who will wander
desolately under the magnolias in the evening
when there’s nothing on. William and Wilfred—
somehow these cognomens don’t suggest a wildly-
merry Xmas at Govt. House this year.
What an artist —an intuitive, inevitable artist,
who could hardly be otherwise if she tried—is
Antoinette Trebelli ! Listening to her is a moral
lesson worth impressing on girls with voices like
bellows, namely, that it isn’t necessary to have an
enormous organ to be a superb singer. The
reverse of that may be picked up at all the other
concerts given locally, for greater voices, than
Trebelli’s are all around us, but where is the
singer who gives the eye a delightful feast, keeps
the emotions in a happy and not too tempestuous
state of excitement, and always satisfies the com-
mon as well as the artistic sense 1
In fact, I almost agree with a correspondent,
who has evidently got it bad. He breaks out to
The Bulletin thusly : “Have you ever felt as if
you would like to cry out to God on a lovely morn-
ing—early morning—just cry out to God for pure
joy ? That is how I felt when Trebelli sang, song
after song. God, what a woman, what a voice !
Every time she came on the stage was a glorious
sunrise.”
Hard lines on Trebelli —considering the large
houses ready to welcome her—and harder on the
Sydney public, that she could only fit in three
concerts for us. The third and last came off on
Tuesday, and was the smartest and biggest house
seen here since Albani. The number of people
turned away from the all-too-small Centenary
Hall would have been enough for an ordinary con-
cert. Trebelli’s frocking was pale gold brocade,
with a tunic of Cluny lace, and boldly touched up
with turquoise-blue velvet shoulder-straps oyer
her right arm, and a big blue knot on the" skirt.
The concert went off like an inspiration. Prouse
and Trebelli, Trebelli and Prouse. There may
have been people who missed the prodigy in white
that fills in the five numbers at ordinary concerts,
and the evergreen young lady contralto in pink,
brought along to give the weight , of contrast to
the star soprano, and the fiddler, and the ’cellist,
whom we nearly always find in our programmes;
and the pupil of a friend of the manager's with a
Liszt rhapsody to air, who has somebody to turn
her leaves, and another somebody to lead her on,
and somebody else to lead her off, and breaks
down in spite of all; but I was not one of these.
lam glad to say that Trebelli returns to Sydney
in a few months.
I had a peep at Miss Una Russell’s wedding-
garments, the other day. Her marriage with S.A.
ex-Attorney-General John Downer, Q.C., comes
off to-morrow (Wednesday), too late for this
epistle; but you may like to hear a little about
her frocks beforehand. The wedding-dress is
built of heavy white duchesse, with a flounce of
real lace creeping about the skirt. The bodice is
draped with more of this beautiful lace—all the
handiwork of her mother, the late Mrs. H. E.
Russell—and has a transparent yoke and elbow-
sleeves of the same. To fasten her bridal veil is a
diamond star, a present from the bridegroom.
Her going-away dress is of: very pale grey voile
over silk, with fixings of black baby velvet, and a
big grey feather hat. Her three bridesmaids, Miss
Ethel and Miss Enid Russell, and Miss “Muffy”
Barton, Toby’s eldest daughter, are going to wear
simple white muslin frocks and big white hats
with touches of heliotrope. The Russell family
being in recent mourning, and the bridegroom
being a matter of 55 or thereabouts, the wedding
will be comparatively secluded, and the happy
couple journey straight off to Adelaide afterwards.
In response to Lady Randolph Churchill’s
cable appealing for assistance for her American
Hospital Ship, Mr. Williamson is energetically
working up a benefit matinee. I hear that the
rank-and-file Americans in Sydney—as distin-
guished from the Americans of “position” with
a business axe to grind—don’t take very wildly
to their opportunities to assist, and am not sur-
prised to see that Mr. Williamson advertises the
ben. to be divided between the Patriotic Fund,
now being raised in Sydney, and Lady Churchill.
“ Oh, Promise Me ! ” is what Reginald de Koven
is best known by over here, so nobody was sur-
prised to find that sweet, sad, amorous ballad
interpolated into “Robin Hood” on Saturday.
To Miss Viola Gillette—a big, fine-looking, golden-
haired girl with a sharp Yankee accent —fell the
honor of this song. But the mise-en-scene, and
the trappings generally were all against the
tender, moonlit, wave-lapped ballad. Miss Gil-
lette, dressed in green tights, and a jaunty green
cap with red feathers, and a lot of gold braiding,
rested one long, shapely leg in a long, brown,
shapely boot on a bench, put one hand on her hip,
and in that unromantic, unmoonlit, unwave-
washed attitude warbled about “ those first sweet
violets of early spring.” Alas, so irresistibly is
this song connected with a soulful young man in a
black moustache and an immaculate shirt-front,
that the house didn’t take the Promise seriously
and soulfully, as one ought to take it.
Carrie Moore—who yesterday seemed but a
child —is playing Maid Marian to Kenningham’s
Robin Hood, and bursts out into a dark-haired
edition of Nellie Stewart; the same pretty,
piquant mouth, and very much the same ways,
only not so many of them, yet. For smartness,
and chic, and general effectiveness she easily
passed all the other women in the production.
She has acquired a dashing way of wearing her
frocks. Her most special toilette is a leaf-green
velvet skirt, made long and flowing, topped with
a jaunty little jacket of buff-colored satin. From
her shoulders a cape of colored lace mixed with
dull green hangs loosely back, and a big green
velvet hat smothered in wjhite feathers falling over
the brim in front sets off her piquant face to
perfection. In the wedding-scene she wears a
white silk closely embroidered in silver, cut a
long way off the shoulders in that low round
delightful sweep that no cut of decollete evening-
frocks has ever improved on.
Florence Perry’s little ways are tied up in blue
and white. She is supposed to be a flirtatious little
person named Annabel, who allures Robin Hood
into serenading her on moonlit nights, but she is
very much the same old Florence, with two ges-
tures, and only two—-a throwing, of her little hands
together in a clasp, and a sudden throwing of her
little hands outwards with a jerk. She looked
tiny and nice in a sea-blue velvet corselet over a
little white flowered foulard.
By the way, on Saturday, at “Robin Hood,
one'of the sights in the d.c. was a certain fair-
liaired little comic-opera star in white, with a
black velvet ribbon round her neck, leaning over
the red-velvet railing and clapping long and furi-
ously when Florence Perry appeared, and clapping,
and still clapping, long after everyone else had
subsided into a listening attitude, and clapping
still a little longer. Now, if it had been Maid
Marian, bearing off all the honors, she had been
clapping—but there, one can t arrange things like
that for other people.
And a stage incident that the author of “ Robin
Hood ” wasn’t responsible for was Fred. Young’s
likeness to Lauri. It deceived the house for quite
two minutes. The amiable audience pounced on
him as he entered as Friar Tuck and poured out
on him the wild, hot whistling and cheering recep-
tion that always means Lauri. When he had
smiled three times the house was doubtful. It
was like Lauri’s toothy grin, but there was more
of it than anyone had ever seen before except
Lauri’s dentist. Then he spoke, and the heavy
calibre of his voice gave him away rapidly.
“Buried Alive” dies a natural death this Friday,
and pretty tall Hope Mayne will cease to watch
from the wings her own short stout corpse getting
hauled across the stage. Miss Roxy Barton gives
up the lead in this company on Friday, and goes
over to play with the Holloway Co., in Melbourne.
Lawn-tennis, until lately looked upon by the
general public as a game invented for girls and
girly males, is fast getting into line with the
sports of the day, and should increase its popu-
larity in consequence. At a recent championship
struggle between two lady cracks both were at
intervals dosed by their respective parties with
stiff nips Of whisky, whilst on a wet court during
the just-concluded Vic. tournament, many players,
male and female, removed their shoes and played
in stockinged feet—and the average tennis foot
isn’t a thing of beauty. Also, the tennis crack of
to-day wants more condition and staying-power
than a footballer. At aforesaid tournament,
Sydney player Goddard had to play no less than
92 games in one day, whilst 70 or 80 games daily
is quite a common thing.
An anonymous correspondent has persistently
kept me posted up about London musical
affairs for some time, intermixed with every pos-
sible and impossible piece of news about Madame
Alva, and the great furore that goes on in Lon-
don over her singing. Melba is quite out of it with
Alva.' So is everybody. The rest of the long
letters are filled with remarks about a well-known
local flautist, not complimentary remarks natur-
ally, as the letters are almost anonymous. Quite
accidentally I have discovered the author—a Lon-
don litterateur, who came out here to chaperone
and write letters to the D.T. for , but you’ve
guessed already.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“As soon as Lord Brassey evacuates Govern-
ment House in January, the big place will be put
in the hands of decorators and furnishers to be
thoroughly overhauled and done up in readiness
for the first Governor-General. It is hardly likely,
therefore, that the Maddens will get their noses
into it during the waxen one’s term as Acting-
Governor. This will be a grief to them, as they
do so like to play at Vice-royalty.
“At last the secret of the un labelled champagne
is out. A former Governor, with the impetuosity
of youth, and the idea of encouraging the local
wine industry, bought up 500 bottles of very new
“ popsie ” from a certain Vic. vigneron. H. Ex.
had the lot stored away in the V. R. cellars under
a long sentence of solitary confinement. When
his tenure of greatness had expired, he left the 500
bottles to his successor.
“At her first Melbourne concert (Nov 23) Maud
McCarthy looked quite the little woman, despite
her simple frock, visible area of slim ankle in flesh-
colored hose, and silky yellow hair smoothed down
her back. She has a fuller, rounder face than our
own musical maiden Una Bourne, though there
are points of resemblance. Neither of these gifted
girls, masquerade in knee-high pinafore-frocks or
tangled top-thatch. Both, in the stress of perfor-
mance, look careful and troubled. Una’s delicate
face grows worn and subtle till, with narrowed
eyes and thin compressed lips, she’s exactly like
some meagre, elderly, foreign savant. The
Bourne’s platform countenance depicts mental
effort, but Maud McCarthy, with eyes closed
and that Irish mouth of hers, alternately
eager, peevish and sad, seems wrestling to express
the emotion and ‘ long, long thoughts of youth,’
through the medium of a fiddle-bow wielded by
her frail little hand and arm. Hearers dis-
appointed in the Sydneyite’s achievement should
read her intentions in her face and make allowance
for the ‘ spirit in prison ’ —-a willing spirit cabined
in weak flesh. With closed eyes she seems to
ponder, beforehand, the execution of every bar,
while her quivering mouth testifies to spiritual
communion with her theme. Between two stools,
the conscientious artiste comes to the ground.
Her interpretations, on the whole, are more
feminine, tame and girly than one expected, but
the culprit, I guess, is not a faint heart but a frail
body:
“ But the dignity of Art got a painful shock
when blonde Maud MacCarthy and her
brunette ‘ ma ’ were beheld in the south
balcony, during the interval, talking to
Lady Brassey and his Ex. The front-seated vice-
regal party—seven souls, all told—had the broad
expanse of balcony to themselves, consequently
Maud and her maternal caretaker, as they sat
behind Lady B. and leaned forward to receive
patronage, were most conspicuously out of place.
They ought to have been holding their own in the
artists’ room below, and the Brasseys, if they
wanted to say something nice, should have gone
downstairs to pay the compliment.
“ Miss Narelle recalls Maggie Stirling. There
is the same tall, robust figure, the amiable round-
ing of the shoulder, the same result of good dress-
ing minus anything in style : also the same stand
on the platform. The Sydney soprano with her
strong rough sympathetic voice and roguish pair
of sparkling eyes, made a capital first impression
at the Thursday concert. Her gown was of white
satin, showing a profuse glitter of crystals and
pearls down the front.
“ Softgoods de Sargood gave one of his big
luncheon parties last week to the whole of the
members of the Leg. Council and a cartload of
officials. Sargood does these functions sumptu-
ously. His place, Rippon Lea, was very much
enlarged when he was last in England, and is now
a rich man’s paradise. He has a big waterfall,
lakes, wide lawns, and gardens, a great concert-
hall with stage and organ, and a picture-gallery.
Of late years Sargood has been the prince of
Melbourne’s entertainers, and people who value
social favors would rather be asked to Rippon Lea
than to Government House. Oddly, too, he has
also grown rather more Liberal in politics. He
virtually piloted Peacock’s revolutionary Factory
Bill through the Council, persuaded the Fatmen
into accepting the ‘ one man one vote, ’ and has
seconded YVnxon’s Compensation Bill.
“ The sweet Limerick lace which the Mayoress
wore over pale-blue silk at a Guv’ment-House
ball was made in Melbourne, if you please. The
Abbotsford lace-workers achieved that triumph of
‘tambour ’ —a useful advt., it ought to be, for an
industry that is profitable enough when it gets the
patronage it deserves.
“A medical member of a certain mysterious and
unmentionable syndicate was actually sitting in
the choir of the church after singing the Ave
Maria on the Sunday when Archbishop Carr, with
closed eyes, and an intensely pained expression,
stigmatised the syndicate aforesaid as a moral
cancer, and a reversion to Paganism. It must
have been a bad quarter of an hour for the Doc.,
after piping holy strains in the choir, to find him-
self on the holy rack. Ave Maria, indeed. What
a humorist!
“It was after a recent Melb. Liedertafel re-
hearsal that Madame Wiedeimain gave sage
advice to a young soprano fiom the eonserva-
torium : ‘Now, my dear, eat \ ell, sleep well, and
drink plenty of good stoudt.’ M .dame evidently
believes in the old-school system of feeding the
voice. There is a tradition that Teresa Tietjens,
the famous fleshy prima-donna whom the Age
critic selected as Amy Castles’s prototype, always
made a point of consuming a dozen oysters and a
large bottle of ‘stoudt ’ between the acts of ‘ lhe
Huguenots,’ or any other opera in which the
heroine needed ‘ keeping up.’
“ Another Victorian girl student at the Ecole
Marchesi is Miss Olive Kingston, of Melb., a very
artistic mezzo-soprano who went on a trip to
Europe with her parents some months ago.
Madame thinks highly of Miss O. K.’s sym-
pathetic voice, and told the damsel she could do
well in opera. As there is no family intention of
running the quiet little lady as ‘ another Melba,
she will study under Marchesi for 18 months, and
qualify herself to take to the concert platform in
Australia, should she feel so disposed. Of all the
promising young Melb. singers Miss Kingston is
perhaps the least self-assertive.
“ Melbourne’s gilded inner circle seems to have
quite made up its little mind that a certain first-
prize damsel has said “Yes ” to the Gordon Lyon
of three seasons. The beau is as much like the
ideal hero of Ladies’ Journalism as anything we
have in these parts. He made a pile out West,
followed by a lucky hit in Tasmanian scrip, last
year, and then was said to have lost a whole for-
tune a few months ago. At any rate, the gallant
Gordon went off prospecting up North, and
remained in Bananaland awhile. Popping up
again at the Cup Carnival, he drew the prize, it is
said. ,
“ The pampered vanity of stage worldlings was
strikingly illustrated at a doll-sale held on the
stage at Melb. Princess’s the other week, lhe
auctioneer stated that Miss Florence Perry—one
of the nicest and least assuming little ladies in the
profession—had spent forty shillings, and about
twice as many hours, on the task of dressing a
doll in an exact likeness of herself.
“ The average she-play-goer, saint or sinner, is
a shocking hypocrite. Knowing perfectly well
what to expect from ‘Lord Quex,’ thanks to
sensational press notices, in fact prepared for
worse than the reality, she provides herself with a
blush-hiding fan and powerful opera-glass and
treks to the Princess’s in sure and certain hope of
spicy developments. Having beheld rather less
than she came out for to see, the fair deceiver
promptly tacks into shocked, embarrassed, out-
raged condemnation of the ‘disgusting play,
presumably to hide her disappointment at receiving
fizz when she had expected absinthe.
“Me the Baron von Mueller pyramid fund.
Why don’t those to whom the veteran scientist
presented 2x3 framed portraits of himself con-
tribute ? At least 150 dining-rooms in Toorak,
South Yarra, and Armadale, have photographs of
the old master on their walls. Ferdinand (by the
the grace of the Kaiser —baron) had a child-like
strain of vanity. A woman had only to giggle
and say—‘O, Baron, I should love to have your
photograph,’to get one. He thought the i° ve )
was due to sympathy for ‘my grade vork.
Through one administration he was known at
Govt. House as ‘ Hortus Siccus ! ’ Jo the press
the little man was most reverential. Its humblest
bondslaves, who chronicled Mrs. Pure Merino s
gowns, have collections of letters from him. -tor
the Argus man who is now in the r l ransvaal, he
had intense admiration, and whenever he met that
pressman’s wife, would beg her ‘ to remember him
to her illusdrious consort.’
“Melb. Presbyterian Assembly waxes wroth over
the Argus publishing the speech of one of its par-
sons in which he said the church paid him XI a
week, out of which he had to part 235. for rent of
parsonage. The Moderator, seeing how the
church would be shown up, asked that the fact be
suppressed, but the Argus properly blazoned it
forth with headlines. The result is that the re-
porters have been excluded, much to their delight.
“The story goes that when Councillor Gillptt
(the defeated candidate) and several of the City
Fathers presented themselves before Mrs.
McEacharn to pour forth their congratulations
on a third year of Mayoral manna, the over-
wrought lady turned aside and burst into tears.
Of course this may have been the expression of
courteous sympathy for the disappointed hopes of
Councillor Gillott, or just a mere plain ordinary
soft womanly burst of sentiment suitable for the
occasion. But some people (who ought to know)
take these tears to be an expression of sorrow at
another long term of uncongenial toil.
Y ours afieetionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
Lorim er’s
Compound Syrup of Hypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Solk Agent for N.S.W. :
0. E, Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’sMilk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers.
o
y .
_ hIU
z couj
<UJUJQ£
OtthlL
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Taper.]
HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excellent flavor, which, while
maintaining ali the due stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been mellowed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
Zealous to prove a boon which nature gave ;
Envy of all importers;
Try it, for doctors bills you’ll save ;
Zetz Spa—the King of Natural Waters.*
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers*
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Three Vic. M’s.L.A. have died within one
month.
The successful tenderer for Vic. Govt,
funerals during the year 1900 is undertaker Apps.
The Great Perapps.
Aug. 25 was the centenary of the birth of
the Australian patriot, John Dunmore Lang, who
died in 1878, aged 79 years.
A brother of Rev. Joseph Parker, of Lon-
don City Temple, and “ Damn the Sultan ! ”
fame, is a bill-poster in Melbourne.
Tas. ex - Premier Braddon
spent some 30 years in India
growing indigo, shooting tigers,
and filling many more or less
important official positions.
Had several close shaves for
his life—swam a dangerously
swollen river with despatches
once, and has been at close
quarters with tigers when a
trembling hand meant death.
Was reckoned a great tiger-
hunter by his contemporaries,
and was certainly keen at the
sport. Told of him that when
in a district where a Brahmin
superstition made tiger-slaying
a crime, he blazed away until
there was hardly a tiger left
about the place, precious little
superstition, and not many
Brahmins.
Rev. Dr. Moulton, who re-
signs from Newington College,
Stanmore, Sydney, to return to
Tonga, is member of a peculiarly scholastic
family. There are four brothers and all are
“Doctors.” One is a D.D., another an LL.D.,
another a Ph.D., and the last a D.C.L. Three
took to teaching and one to politics, the politician
holding at present a seat in the House of
Commons.
The ancient custom that a Q.C. should not
appear in court without a junior to be dis-
regarded in the case of N.S.W. ex-Premier Reid,
who recently appeared without the assistance of
“ stuff.”
Cardinal Moran has determined to go on
foot from house to house in Sydney and suburbs
soliciting fuhds for the completion of St. Mary’s
Cathedral. A modern Peter the Hermit. But
there’s money in the idea, if his corns let it be
worked out.
Five members of the late N.S.W. Ministry
were pronouncedly in favor of liquor-prohibition ;
two pronouncedly against. The Lyne Ministry as
a body pronounces openly against prohibition;
only two Ministers are abstainers, and one of
these abstains not on general but personal grounds.
Pinero, with an eye to past legal worries,
makes a special study of the names of his
characters, his main object being to get fitting
names (particularly for flighty ladies) that nobody
is likely to lay claim to. Yet in Melbourne Quex
appears on a carpenter’s sign, Strode is a suburban
builder, and Fullgarney crops up in an advt.
There is a plucky mine-manager at
Charters Towers. The other day four miners
were overpowered in the Rainbow and Peabody
shaft and the manager went down to save them.
Became overpowered himself and was drawn up
again. Ordered the air-compressor to be put on,
descended once more and saved the men.
Lionel Weiss, originator of the great
Perth protest against the injustice of the Dreyfus
conviction, cabled to Mme. Dreyfus the Swan
River Settlement’s sympathy. The Settlement
kindly let him in for the price of the wire. Talk
is cheap, and “enthusiasm” is cheap. Spon-
taneous cold cash is the only real measure of
earnestness.
One of the late John Hancock’s neatest
hits was made during a speech by Murray Smith.
“ Not that I object to the working classes being
represented in Parliament,” said the Tory ; “ I am
glad to see my honorable friends here. But what
I object to is that they are class representatives.”
“First-class representatives,” replied Hancock in
his boisterous way.
There were at latest 13 members of Tas.
Assembly down with influenza —exactly r. quorum
of the House. One of them is Treas. Bird, who
has never been in the House since lie was sworn in
after being re-eleoted on taking office. He is 59
years old. Curiously enough not one of the old
persons in the “ Upper ” House has been seized
with the epidemic.
On Nov. 29 Judge Darley completed his
thirteenth year of office as Chief-J ustice of N.S.W.
In two years more he will be entitled to retire on
a pension equal to seven-tenths of his salary, i.e.,
£2450 per annum, and then he will be at the same
age as that at which Chief-Justice Stephen retired.
The C J. is nowin his 70th year; Martin, C.J.,
died at 66; Dowling, C. J., at 57; and Alfred
Stephen at 93.
Downes Carter, the Melb. grog-merchant,
who intends vacating his city seat in Vic. As-
sembly, is only awaiting Mayor M‘Eaeharn’s con-
venience. The idea is to wedge Mac. into the
House and make him at home there ere the one-
man-one-vote lawcomesintooperation. M'Eaoharn
is a man of little political ability and no sym-
pathy, and it would be hard to find a place for
him outside the city, where his pompous egotism
is mistaken for force ; but he suspects himself of
being a tremendous influence, and from his paltry
eminence, entrenched behind the boiled turkey,
hurles menaces at Governments and what-not.
He is one of the eternal procession of “coming
men ” who never arrive anywhere worth men-
tioning.
“ Baloo ”: James Stiffe, the man who
wrote Punch’s famous “Advice to those about to
marry,” and who was lately alluded to in print as
still alive, died at Hawthorn, Melbourne, about
six months ago, aged 82. He was for years on
the staff of the Argus, went through three for-
tunes, and was noted as a gay old dog generally.
The late E. L. Zox had one curious fad.
A slow, twangv speaker, he reckoned himself re-
markable for his flawless English. After making
a speech he many a time inquired of his friend
“ The Vagabond,” “Now, Julian, would Professor
Morris have done that better?” or, “Don’t I
speak the Queen’s English as well as Professor
Morris ? ”
IN A SYDNEY
BOOKSHOP.
BOOKSELLER: “Here
is another of Mere-
dith's novels—
‘Beauchamp's
Career. ’”
MADAME:
“Is it long,
or docs he
get mar-
ried in the
last chapter? ”
Died at Auckland, Dr. Philson, the oldest
medical practitioner in Maoriland. A wiry, lean,
shaven man, with a face like the gargoyle demon
of Notre Dame, and an incurable thirst for out o’
th’ way surgical cases that 60 years of practice bad
not assuaged. He had been an army surgeon, and
had a thinly veiled contempt for the “ new
school.” In the capacity of coroner, he “ sat on ”
countless corpses. He disdained as effeminate the
use of a buggy, and rode to his cases when well
over three score and ten.
Desperate efforts are being made to induce
Minister Crick to withdraw his opposition to the
appointment of Mr. C. G. Heydon, as a N.S.W.
District Court Judge, but so far Crick, it is under-
stood, has proved inexorable. And no wonder.
A story current in legal circles is that failing Mr.
Heydon (who is strenuously backed by the Car-
dinal and Co.) the Ministry will appoint that
acute lawyer, the somewhat ascetic Mr. Pring.
Also, there is talk of seeking to induce Bruce
Smith to accept the post.
“Smiler” Hales, for a brief while the
press dictator of the Sydney scrapping halls, has
“ been banquetted prior to his departure from
Kalgoorlie (where he has been pub.-keeping) as
war correspondent for some Australian papers.”
This makes the 16th or so “Australian war corres-
pondent ” —in spite of the announcement that
Buffer ukases that provision shall be made for only
a dozen correspondents all told. But it is safe to
bet that the whole lot will send striking stories of
the brave things they saw (and probably did) in
the front.
Maoriland Speaker Maurice O’Rorke, he
of the rich brogue and imposing manner, has seen
40 sessions of Maoriland’s Talkinghouse. He tops
the list by seven years. Rolleston has seen 28 ses-
sions, Major Steward 27, and Captain of Opposition
Russell 26. Premier Seddon has represented
his West Coast constituency for 25 sessions.
Clutha Thomson’s record is 24 sessions ; Railways
Cadman and Lands M‘Kenzie have each been
there on 22 occasions, and Cadman doesn’t want
to be there any more, No less than 22 other
members have double-figure scores.
. Maoriland ex-Treasurer and ex-insolvent
Joseph Ward has risen from his financial ashes
and paid all his creditors (barring the late
lamented Colonial Bank of M.L.) in full, and
Premier Seddon states that he will rejoin the
Ministry. If there is any Ministry to rejoin after
the 6th, Ward should be a tower of strength. The
weakness of the tail of that Ministry of late—the
ordinariness of Tommy Thompson and Hyphen-
ated Jones—was wearing out the public loyalty.
No Premier should take a hyphenated man into
his Ministry. A man with two wives is often
safer than a man with one hyphen.
Maoriland Parliament has voted £l5OO
(Premier Seddon proposed fiSOtO, hut the
House of Representatives wouldn’t go beyond
half the amount) to the widow and daughter of
the province’s old-time god, Vogel. The onee-
great Julius died poor, as most politicians
do; in fact, he died so utterly stone-broke, that
his assets were only some £5O. But, on the other
hand, the wealth of Potosi, in its best days, would
hardly have kept Vogel from dying poor. He
was the most incurable variety of the gambling
Jew, and when the Jew takes to gambling he
goes the whole—well, he doesn’t eat the animal.
“The Duke of Leeds, who has two or
three times been mentioned in connection with
Australian Governorships, and is now understood
to be one of the aspirants for the Federal Vice-
Royalty, met last week with a serious accident
whilst cub-hunting,” says a London letter to
Sydney D.T. Who on earth is the Duke of
Leeds ; and why does he think he should be in-
lioted on this long-suffering country? The British
aristocracy are evidently as numerous as rabbits
in a time of good grass. The Bulletin has been
reading the English papers for about 30 years and
it never took up a “ society ” print without en-
countering the name of a lord, a lordling or a
“lady ” of whom it had never heard before.
Rev. Edward Williams, dead at York
(W. A.), arrived in Sydney, with Bishop Tyrell,
52 years ago. The bishop had been appointed
first Bishop of Newcastle (N.S.W.), and had taken
with him a little band of clergy, 10 in all, to work
up the infant diocese. The Rev. Williams put
energy into his share of the business, and, his
health giving way, he returned to England. On
recovery, he thought of Australia again, and
threw in his lot with Westralia. Bishop Tyrell
held on in the coal-city for 32 years, during the
last three or four of which he was almost disabled
by paralysis. He was an extremely successful
speculator, and died at 72 worth about half a
million sterling, £250, 000 of which he bequeathed
to Newcastle diocese as a sustentation-fund.
“Mick” Stapleton, the Vic. M.P. who
died the other day, had filled more parts than
most men at 45. A miner at Ballarat, he early
reached the highest office in the Miners’ Associa-
tion, and represented it on the board which made
that unfortunate investment of the Vic. Mine
Accident Fund. By many miners he was reckoned
to know as much about the Ballarat goldfield as
any of them, and this led him to some good work
as a mining reporter. From that he passed to
mine management, and was the authority of
Dundis in the days of the Zeehan boom. But
that sloppy region killed him; he returned to
Vic. a physical wreck, and was little better than
a dying man when Grenville sent him to the
Assembly a couple of years ago.
Vic. Assembly is losing its humorists
John Hancock follows Ephraim Zox. But, unlike
Zox, big John possessed the real attic salt. His
imitation of a speech by the oratorically halt and
lame Gov. Brassey was fine comedy, and his
fun was genuine and spontaneous. “ A man who
has moved long in political circles is supposed to
be like an old whim-horse—nobody expects him to
go straight,” said John, but he kept a moral bee-
line himself. A distinguished visitor, mentioning a
roomy M.L.C., said : “I have only seen him once,
but I take him to be a man of great capacity.”
“Ah,” said Hancock, “you saw him at a
banquet.” Of a jingoistic, toad-eating, itchy
M.L. A., Hancock remarked : “ He is really from
the North of Ireland, but he hopes by continual
scratching to be mistaken for a good Scotchman.”
Wyman Brown, who died in Sydney
lately, was the warden of Silvorton and Broken
Hill in the early days of the silverfield. Al-
ways the warden of a new field is a good
deal of a Czar; and Wyman Brown,
stationed so far from Sydney,
was more of a Czar than usual.
Few men could have filled the
bill so well as be. He did
not know a great deal of law,
but be did not let that worry
him ; what he actually did was
to take infinite pains to have
“the fair thing” done, and
the whole field respected his de-
cisions accordingly. Over the
pegging and sale of Broken
Hill town blocks the Govt,
made mistakes that more than
once looked like ending in riots;
it was Brown who straightened
matters. In an evil moment,
however, be was lured into politics ;
he was sent to Parliament, practi-
cally without opposition, as
the first M.P. for Broken
Hill. But lie failed badly ;
especially the refusal of the
Govt, to carry out State
water-works was debited to
him. He thus fell an easy
victim to the first wave in
favor of a Labor-party. The
district Would have welcomed him back as war-
den ; but a couple of years in Parliament had, he
believed, unfitted him for the work, and so he
passed into obscurity.
A Tasmanian obituary :
By the death of Janies Backhouse Walker, Hobart
loses a good citizen, and Australia a scholar. True, his
scholarship was embraced within narrow limits; Tas-
manian history, bibliography, and science are not sub-
jects of vast range. But it is not the subject, or the
massed facts relating to the subject, which make the
scholar; and with everything in which sound culture
and true scholarship consists—the unerring instinct for
truth, the fine sense of proportion, the sanity of view,
the unhasting research for fact—the descendant of
George Walker, one of the famous Quaker missionaries to
Australia in the brutal days of “ The System,” and the
namesake of Walker’s colleague, Janies Backhouse, was
splendidly endowed. His method was essentially scien-
tific, and his scattered writings can never cease, there-
fore, to be indispensable to the future historians of Van
Demonia and the Continental Australias. There was
much in the man just dead reminiscent of his ancestry.
And he, were he alive, would esteem this remark as the
highest compliment that could be paid him.
A Bill for the suppression of Sleath, M.P.,
the awful bore from Wilcannia, is again most
urgently called for. This remarkable person
broke loose during the debate on the African con-
tingent proposal, and by joining the Jingo
shriekers got himself reported by the “great”
papers. Now the public is paying for it; for put
of the vast stores of his ignorance he begins to talk
again at stupefying length on every subject that
comes before N.S.W. Assembly. At one recent sit-
ting he buzzed out speeches on the proposed sus-
pension of a standing order, the Sydney Exhibition
project (nearly balf-an-hour), Sydney Corporation
Bill (just under an hour), and a railway bill
(though it was a formal matter), thus missing only
one subject; but he got even with a long-suffering
public by buzzing again for 20 minutes on the
adjournment—with a point of order or two
thrown in.
“ The Queen has ordered 100,000 tins of
chocolate to be sent to South Africa, as her per-
sonal Christmas gift, for distribution among the
soldiers engaged in the campaign (100,000 bottles
of good beer would have roused much warmer
gratitude). This special Xmas present is to be
distributed among members of the colonial con-
tingents, as well as among the soldiers of the
Imperial army.”— (Cable.)
Shillingstone, killed in the Last Chance
mine by an explosion, was to have married a Bal-
larat girl in a few days. Two years back she was
to have married another young man—who was
killed in the same mine in the same way. The
long arm !
A TIN OF CHOCOLATE.
’Tis O ! to be a soldier boy
A-waging Hingland’s war;
’Tis O ! to know the holy joy
Of bringing down a Boer ;
’Tis O ! to serve a royal dame
Who represents the State,
And feeds the patriotic flame
With tins of chocolate.
This hard, engaged in shedding ink,
This wielder of the pen,
Would fain exchange a silent wink
With all rion-fighting men,
The while he sings in Jingo strain
A song to celebrate
The crowning of a Record Reign
With tins of chocolate.
He pictures, doth the smoking hard,
A Christmas battle-scene—
A wounded “ troop” is staring hard
At where his leg had been ;
His ashen brow is damp with dew
That tells his hapless fate,
But thankfully he starts to chew
His tin of chocolate.
Another, lying on his face—
As loafers lie asleep,
Has run his English-speaking race,
And left a wife to weep ;
A comrade lifts a passive limb
(’Tis like a leaden weight)
And mutters, with expression grim,
“ He’U need no chocolate 1”
How nice to send a Royal gift
To new colonial troops ;
Cheap Christmas tokens serve to lift
A spirit when it droops.
’Tis fine to die ; but life is sweet
To them who ’sassinate—
Let’s hope our chaps will live to eat
Their tins of chocolate.
PREPARING FOR THE INEVITABLE.
INEBRIATED PARTY: “Can mu direct me (hie)
to the tel'graph office, constable —want to shend
wire to m' old fren' Boltjer to come an’ bail
to’ out mornin' (hie).”
CONSTABLE: “ Bail you out? But, man, you
ain’t in the lock-up .”
I.P.: “ Cer’nly not. But” (enthusiastically)“ by
gad! I WILL be ’fore the night's over.”


jit
M
j s
J
1 . 8
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents f r New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS , LIMITED, SYDNEY.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
.0n...
Mr. Fraok Seoior,
Of 246 George-Et., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Chemist.
ttip Favorite and Best Summer Drink is—-
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET
Look for
Genuine.
FRANZ JOSEF
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
This was inland from Port Onslow, W.A. :
An indentured nigger belonging to Parson Brown
ran away and clave to “ Cookie” Smith s niggers,
with whom he worked many days to Smith’s
extreme satisfaction. The nig. was a good grafter,
and Smith an ungodly man. After a zealous hunt
the Parson caught his quarry, took him up in the
buggy beside him and drove away. Cookie was
from home at the moment, but he rode after and
overtook the buggy, and in heavily-flounced
language said, “Give me back my nigger;” he
eithir did not know that the runaway was a
slave black, or he was bluffing. “He is not
your nigger,” replied the Parson, and showed
paper proof. “Well,” urged Cookie, calming
suddenly, “ Gimme back my pants. Them’s my
pants he’s wearin’ ?’’ Parson remonstrated. They
would pass whites' houses on the road, might meet
white women, and the nig. had but the one gar-
ment. But Cockie was obdurato. Finally Parson
Brown wailed, “ Put a price on the rag and let
the man keep it.” Cockie, after deep and anxious
thought: “They’re worth every penny of eighteen-
pence.”
,** * *
An alleged story-writer named Basil
Martian is doing “ Australian ” stories for Strand
Magazine. According to Marnan the hero
of his latest yarn struck into the heart of the
Gippsland bush and found Geelong—“ then but
a village.” Geelong in those days was built on
the lakes, and the hero’s nearest neighbor was
“ four days’ trek distant through the blue haze of
stately gums.” After that the hero “struck the
spoor of the bushrangers ” and captured the
bandits. But any “Australian literature” was
possible after D. B. W. Sladen and Guy Boothby. •
* * * *
“Rus” : Has Prof. Morris got the word
“ bandicooting ”in his book ? It is a well-known
term all over Western Vic. potato-land. The
LOCAL ITEM.
SQUATTER (to shearer applying for a stand): “No, I can’t employ you, I engage none but
local men.”
SHEARER (enraged) . “ Local men, be hanged, you oughter give some of the fellows in the district
a show! These local men are beggaring the country.”
bandicooter goes at night to a field of ripe potatoes
and carefully extracts the tubers from the roots
without disturbing the tops or haulms. The
owner, of course, is ignorant of the mischief till
he commences to dig, so the bandicooter often “gets
in” a fortnight’s operations undetected. I saw
nearly an acre once which had been thoroughly
exploited by a large party of men who were with a
stonecrusher. The men were miles away when
the disgusted owner discovered his loss.^
“ Trotter ” : he “ Drummer’s ” coach ex-
perience from Wilcannia to Cobar. Writer- had
the misfortune to travel by coach 200 miles be-
tween two other out-back towns, taking from 10
a.m. Saturday till 4 p.m. Monday to do the jour-
ney. The coach was miserably dirty, and filled
with bags of chaff. After four hours, we stopped
at a wretched shanty for a coarse feed of hard
salt-beef, bread, and tea (no milk or butter).
Forty miles further on we had to wait two hours,
at a halting-place, for the down-coach. Arrived
afc next halt at 5.30 next morning and again had
to wait. At next halt we changed the wretched
h()l . sps that had done t |, e j r p,O miles—the poor
brutes being completely exhausted. (For. cruelty
to animals, this back country licks creation.) We
had two more waits—one and a-half and two
hours--before we could find ourselves in the hotel
of another hamlet, consuming bad whisky and
worse grub. For the remaining 20 miles of the
weary journey, the ground was so heavy after
rain that we had to do nearly the whole distance
at a walk, and for all this joy we had to pay o£4
10s. We had only four changes of horses in
200 miles, and the driver told me it was quite
common for a horse to die on the road ; in fact,
he pointed out two equine skeletons on the track,
* » * •
“ A.E.G.” : In the bush I knew three
brofchers lnan . ie d to three sisters, and living on
adjacenfc farms . When the children grew up
started to marry amongst themselves. Old
Jin ', B Jim niarrie d old Bill’s Mary, and old Bill’s
Bi]l married o]d Bob - s Kate _ Tben o j d Mrs.
Bjn , s nephevv marri ed another of the girls, and
bbe confusion got awful. I often wondered why
the parson—who visited fortnightly and did the
marrying—didn’t speak up. I had to teach about
20 of the third generation, but I might as well
have tried to impart knowledge to bandicoots,
Last I heard of ’em, the original Bill’s third
generation was marrying into old Bob’s fourth,
q>[ ie third crowd had long, sloping foreheads, and
mouths like jew-lizards. Strange that people
who know so much about the desirability of
“crossing” their cattle, should know so little
about themselves!
• * • *
Printed, that “ when a certain Australian
Governor was lately visiting a way-back mining
field, they met in a pub. one Milligan, a tank-
sinker, whom an M.P. of the party asked to have
a drink. Milligan took whisky with the rest.
Then His Ex. shouted, and again all drank
whisky. Then Milligan invited them to drink
with him, whereupon champagne was called
for. Milligan’s shout thus cost him a lovely ten-
ner.” Bulletin doesn’t swallow this yarn. Firstly,
it is unlikely that any Governor would be so
mean as to wittingly take part in such a trick ;
secondly, no Governor would ever drink two bush
whiskies at a sitting.
* * * *
A well-to-do and a struggler owned
adjoining allotments at Goulburn. They met, in
the township, and tried to deal. Said the rich
one: “ What’s your lot worth?” “.£120,” said
the other. “ Well, mine is worth the same, and
I’ll toss you to see who takes the two.” It was a
big risk for the small man, but he took it, and—
didn't win 1
“ V.K.’ :
I was taking
a lesson in
the manu-
facture of
bogus tracks
the other,
day, ft um
an ancient
blackfellow,
clad in no-
thing but a
tattered
shirt. The
ocular de-
ni o n s t r a-
tions were
made on a
cold ash-
heap, and
marvellous
indeed was
the ingenui-
ty of the nig.
A pressure
with the
clench e d
hand thumb
u p vv a r d s,
and light
ditto with
the finger,
and a baby’s
bare foot-
mark was
accomplish-
ed. Kanga-
roo, walla-
by, emu,
and other
tracks, he
pro d uce d
with equal
facility and
fidelity, till at last T thought to stagger his re-
sources by asking him: “Now you make him
track a-longa camel!’’ He pondered for a
minute, and then, lifting the tail of his shirt, sat
emphatically down on the ashes, and, arising,
pointed triumphantly to the not-by-any-means-
improbable counterfeit of the flabby footprint
peculiar to the ship of the desert.
* • * •
Bishop Stone Wigg, of Papua, who is just
now visiting Brisbane, gives some very interesting
patches of discourse re New Guinea customs.
Concerning cannibalism, the native argument inns
in this Wise : “ The Government say it is wrong ;
the missionaries say it is wrong ; but they have
not tried it; it is very good indeed ! ’ the log o
of this is unanswerable. According to the bishop,
the custom of burying the live child with the dead
mother is very common in Papua. What we call
purity in morals is there absolutely unknown. An
ordinance has been enacted against adultery,
but it is never put in force. The native descrip-
tion of a man who comes as a friend runs
thusly : “His footsteps must be clean and his
voice is soft.” The bishop’s dictum re health in
New Guinea w ill stagger many a N. Queenslander.
“ There is no reason,” he says, “ why a youngman
with a sound constitution, who takes the ordinary
precautions, should not get entirely acclimatised
and live as healthy a life there as in Queensland.
Finally the right rev. gentleman wants to know
why a country that can send 2000 men to the
Transvaal cannot spare him 50 to go as mission-
aries to Papua. Suggests pertinently that it is
probably because it is easier “to cut a man s
throat than to build up his character. Alto-
gether the Bishop strikes one as being an emin-
ently healthy sort of Christian —with a keen eye
of his own.
* * * *
The manager of Warrong Station (Mara-
noa, near Mitchell) tells in the Brisbane papeis
how a hailstorm occurred at his station, which
left banks of hail all along the river for four miles.
The hailstones were piled up “from 6 to 8 feet
deep across the dry bed of the river, and it was
quite possible to ride on horseback over the river
on the bridge of hailstones.” Remarkable feature
was that the hail seemed to fall just along the
bed of the river, as the trees there were stripped
of foliage and those at a short distance untouched.
* • * *
Harry Stockdale writes
According to the introduction to Spencer and Gillen's
work on the natives of Centralia (page 20), “ it takes an
exceptionally good man to kill or disable (with the
at more than 20 yards.” This might be true of the
natives the authors came in contact with, but f hear
about with me an injury to the left hip inflicted by a
stone-headed spear thrown over 50yds., and to my per-
tain knowledge the light reed-spear can easily be thrown
by the natives 150yds. Indeed, I have myself often
thrown it over 130yds. These spears are sent with great
accuracy and force up to 80yds., at which distance the
missile will penetrate 2in. into a hardwood tree momen-
tum enough to drive it clean through a human bod}*.
The North Australians are very expert with the spear,
using neither shield nor boomerangs ; but even they vary
much in their throwing and “dodging” skill, home-
through their extreme agility, quickness of eye, and
ner ve it is almost impossible to strike with a spear at
any reasonable distance, even when thrown-at simultan-
eously by two or even three men. It would open the eyes
of the “pug” fraternity to see the facility with which
the head is swerved, a shoulder drooped, a leg lifted, or
even the ribs drawn in, just enough (and no more) to let
the snear pass. Black men, however, differ just as much
as whites in their special aptitudes. .^ or , . ln ® ta " ce > ln .
tracking one native will easily run a trail which others of
the same tribe can barely distinguish. It is a great mis-
take to suppose ail aboriginals are adepts in tracking.
Writing of the Narrinyeri tribe, Rev. George Taplin ob-
serves • “ With Ihe reed-spear—shaft of stout reed and
r,oint of heavy wood-1 have known a man to be killed at
90yds., and the weapon passed through his bark shield,
too." . .
“ Wal ” : Be horse eating feed-box.
Writer owned a perfect glutton at the game, and
stopped him dead by simply plastering the edges
of his manger with common yellow soap.
* * *
“ Puyyaka ” : Be the xylophagous horse
mentioned in 8., 21/10/’99 Writer once owned a
moke that ate all the softwood portions of his
stable. Vainly tried various ways of curing him,
PREMIER SEDDON AND MINISTER THOMPSON.-A RECENT PHOTO.
Photo, by F.C. East.
including the use of iron-bound or metal boxes,
but this only damages a horse’s teeth without
breaking him of the habit. A “crib-biter” is
usually short-lived, his health being affected by
the dental injury and the indigestibility of the
substances swallowed. A horses temper and
“condition” depend largely on the state of his
teeth, and many a bolter and kicker could be
cured by the removal of a sore tooth on which the
bit presses.
* * * •
The camels have arrived in numbers out
West Queensland way, and the white folks are, of
course, duly jubilant. Strings of huge ungainly
beasts, with big raw patches on their backs,
stitched over with sheepskin, appear daily in cer-
tain Western towns, laden with wool. And the
squatters declare that the advent of the animals
has just saved the country again.
* • « »
Description of a bakblox aboriginal wed-
ding, in a Northern paper :
The bride was tastefully attired in a Trilby print, and
wore a fishbone through her nose, tlie gift of the bride-
groom. After taking a good drink of water at the court-
house tank, the bridal couple left for bake Kenellan.
Simple, quaint, and picturesque.
“ F.A.R. ” : Re aboriginal’s personal mark-
ings :
I once had a black boy whose hair was long and curly,
but, having allowed him to go to a big fight, he came
back with his hair like the pad of an old saddle, full of
grease and parrots' feathers. T had to take a butcher’s
knife and run it down, as you would a horse’s tail; and,
in doing so, I happened to cut him slightly between the
shoulders with the point of the knife. About six months
after, when he was swimming one day, I noticed in that
spot a lump as big as a good-sized marble, and, examining
it, found it was just hanging by a small neck of flesh or
skin. He was very proud of this, which in time attained
the size of a duck s egg, and had much the appearance of
a ribbed tomato. This youth never underwent the
native “ man-making” process, as the blacks considered
the mark 1 had accidentally put on him was sufficient. I
am certain no foreign substance was used to cause this
strange overgrowth, and am of opinion that any cut on a
black will heal with a ridge.
“ Puyyaka ” comments on above :
The growth mentioned was probably the fatty skin-
tumor, known as lipoma, which might have arisen either
naturally or as a result of the knife - scratch. Such
growths are fairly common among both whites and blacks,
and have the peculiarity of occasionally shifting their
position—slipping, stalk and all, over the structures
beneath. Allied is the skin-growth in which huge stalked
masses develop, sometimes to a weight of 401 b., and this
again is related to Elephantiasis arabum, the whole
series being probably due to some mechanical blocking of
lymph-ducts. In ancient days, the locomotive capabili-
ties of the lipoma were looked upon with awe, as a result
of witchcraft. Lipoma also figured in the list of “ witches’
marks,” and is mentioned in this connection by his en-
lightened majesty James I.
It looks ridiculous to see carriers on the
W. Queensland roads competing with railways.
Compete with them they do, and successfully, on
account of the absurd incidence of railway tariffs
in certain districts, The cargo carried is mostly
kerosene and beer—two articles much in demand
at every Western pub. and shanty.
• « • *
On a Northern field a leaseholder took a
buyer from the South to see a particularly hard-
case mine which he wanted to sell. The shaft had
not been worked for some time and the windlass
had been removed ; so the leaseholder stood on
the brace and threw stones at various points of the
shaft to illustrate where the lode had come in, and
gone out again. Something furry stirred at the
bottom of the shaft. “A ’possum,” said the
buyer, and flung a stone. The fur moved and
showed its spots. It was a wild cat. Evidently
fallen into the shaft the previous night. No sale.


“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese ” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S. W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a" large amount of their reserves of
£40u,000 is invested in the colony. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
WATCHES
FROM
Manufacturers Direct to the User.
P. & A. Guye’s “London-made” English
Levers know no superior for strength in rough
wear and riding; for reliable, perpetual accu-
racy under every change of temperature.
We are their Sole Agents. One of their Silver Hunting Levers, extra jewelled, costs £5 6s.
-ta.—.FAIRFAX if> ROBERTS^—a-
Jewellers by Appointment to His Excellency Earl Beauchamp, K.C.M.G., Governor of Hew South Wales,
23 Hunter Street (Only), Sydney.
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
KOI! ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltcl., Sydney.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
For a Christmas stay
The Australia has charming attractions without
number. In the hottest summer day, the hand-
some drawing and dining rooms are as cool as
early spring. The telegraph office is inside the
hotel. The attendance is unsurpassable in
London or New York. The hotel is situated on
a hill site, so that it catches every evening breeze
in summer, thus ensuring visitors perfect night’s
rest. The hotel is perfectly fire-proof, and its
table has made Australia, lamous. Sara Bern-
hardt wrote —“May I always be as happy as I
was at The Australia.”
11. KDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Uastlereagh St,., Sydney.
• •
ja^er.
o
“ Crow-eater”: Recently
spent a couple of days at Mt.
Mary, the bleak, desolate rail-
way-"siding where Ward mur-
dered the Indian hawker—
probably to keep himself warm,
for there isn’t much in cutting
and carting irmllee at 2s. 6d. a
ton, when the railway authori-
ties charge 7s. Gd. for trucking
to Adelaide. The average
cooky can’t afford to work at
this, aiid plough, sow, and
reap his seed again ; so the 17-
year-old daughters shoulder
five-pound axes and “knock
down ” the mallee ; the small
boys cart the wood in German
waggons, and truck the same.
A small farmer thereabout
got married a year or two ago.
Said he didn’t particularly
want to get spliced, but he
couldn’t afford to keep a man, and his wife
being a tip-top axewoman he killed two
birds with one stone.
A station manager out Hillston way pro-
posed to exchange a horse for one owned by the
mailman. “Saddle him up,” said the latter,
“ and have a trial.” The manager jumped on,
stuck spurs in, and off the neddy cantered for
about 40yds.—then ! down he went. Dp and off
again another 50yds., then down once more.
Then up and back to the mailman. “I’m satis-
fied,” said the manager, “Is it a deal? “All
right !’’said the wondering mailman; “but I’m
surprised at your taking a horse that falls like
that! ” “ Oh, that’s all right ! ” said the manager,
“Mine falls too —but yours has got a lot the
better style of getting up again l ”
* • • •
A Big Scrub timber-getter lately got a
nasty spill from a young horse, and two cookies,
having examined him, declared that he had put
his shoulder out, and that they’d soon put it in
again—if he could stand a little pain. He could.
Right. They tied him to a tree, and hauled away
at his arm. The t.g. howled with agony, and
begged to be allowed to consult the doctor at Two-
wharves. “ Wot rot! ” said one ; “ a couple a
more good pulls ; and we’ll ’ave ya arm uz good
uz ever.” The t.g. protested, but they took hold
again and tug-of-warred till the victim fainted.
When he eame-to, he went to the doctor. Had
only a broken collar-bone. First-aid with a ven-
geance l
“ Nicko ” : He the disposal of earth
by rabbits when making their burrows.
Writer lately spent a day over the subject
in company with a pick, and the conclusion
arrived at was that the earth is removed at
the main entrance and trodden down by the
constant passage of the occupants. A new
burrow shows a fairly large mound ; an old
one, very little. The rabbit is an energetic
worker, and the soil is scattered over a fairly
wide area, while the heap immediately in
front of the entrance is pounded to almost
the consistency of concrete. The bolt-holes
being dug from within show no earth-
mounds, all the refuse being deposited at
the front door, where it serves partly as a
protection against the entrance of water
and partly, perhaps, as a kind of beacon for
the occupants in the event of a hasty re-
turn from a distance. This latter conjec-
ture, however, is very problematical, as the
upturned white tails are intended for the
guidance of stragglers on an alarm being
given, each bunny following the danger
signal hoisted in front of him.
• * » »
“Ghost” : Has anyone remarked
upon the peculiar power our aboriginals
possess of throwing their voices over long
distances? They string their sentences on
one after another with hardly a pause be-
tween, but put their energies into-ending up
each with a high note—equivalent to the
fulipoint. I have known them often carry
on long conversations (without shouting)
with half-a-mile and more separating the
speakers.
“Jep” : I have seen an old battler suc-
cessfully use for baking-powder some ashes of a
burnt tree.
* * * *
“Fred. B.” : Travelling the Darling back-
blocks once called at a German fencer’s camp. He
and his wife were out at work, but the daughters
persuaded me to stay and have something to eat.
Eldest (about 14) said she would make a loaf.
Goes outside, swills out wash hand-basin with
about a gill of water, dabs in a few handfuls of
flour, adds water, and starts to mix. Suddenly
recollects something ; goes to the fireplace, takes
the lid off the camp-oven, strains the cold fat
through her fingers, and puts it in the slush-lamp.
Then places the open camp-oven in the door-way,
and goes on with her kneading. Family of pups
meanwhile clean out the oven, and when the girl,
having finished her loaf, is going to put it therein.
I tell her the pups have been licking it out. “ I
know,” she says, calmly ; “that’s what I put it
there for ” 1
ENOUGH SAID.
MAGISTRATE: “My good woman, do you unde.
stand the nature of an oath?”
THE LADY : “ Well, yer Worship, I've bin 21
years married to a bullock-driver."
Christmas Number, 1899.
“The Bulletin’s" unique and brilliaul
Xmas number for 1899 vn l be issued next
Thursday , 7th December. It will be pro-
fusely illustrated by many null-known
artists, and filled with stories and verse
by the best Australian authors.
One of the four officers representing Vie
toria in the Transvaal slay is not “ British born,”
it seems, but the son of a German father. Where-
at there is some dissatisfaction in the local
military circle. Why did the authorities select
for this buccaneering expedition a soldier of our
German Queen who is only twice as British as the
Prince of Wales ?
He curious finds inside of fish. In a
“silver drummer,” recently caught at Long Bay,
near Sydney, were found a Jubilee 3d. piece and
four links of a gold chain.
MISS ELSIE HALL, AUSTRALIA’S BEST
NATIVE-BORN PIANIST.
Photo., T. Humphrey & Co., Melb.
£lO,OOO a-piece is to be the cost of the 450
12-inoh steel-wire guns under order by the British
Admiralty—.£4,soo,ooo for the lot. These guns
will have a range of 20 miles, which will probably
mean that the missile will be five miles up in the
air at the top of its trajectory !
Public opinion is at the back of Affleck,
M.L. A., in his persistent attempts to burst up the
scandalous N.S.W. railway-free-pass-abuse. As
the Railways Act stands, a free-pass for life issues
to a Lieutenant-Governor, to a Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly, and to a President of the
Legislative Council, after one year’s _ service
respectively in these capacities ; to a Premier after
two years of office, to a Chief Justice after three,
and to members of the Executive Council after
four—four of the late Reid Ministry having,
in this way, a hand permanently in the country's
pocket. A free-pass is also issued to any “dis-
tinguished visitor” —said d.v. being mostly
a" person who, with good ’Ome introductions to
Government House and plenty of front, has
also plenty of money, and is, therefore, a
specially unsuitable recipient of the concession.
The whole thing, in tact, is public robbery pure
and simple, and The Bulletin notes with satis-
faction that AfHeck’s bill to deal with the impu-
dent swindle has at last obtained a sweeping
majority in favor of its introduction.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
W.A.B. : Thanks ; but we shall be obliged if
you will spend 2d. in posting to us a detailed list of
“the crimes” we have advocated, quoting dates and
places. We shall not be afraid to publish the list. We
absolutely thirst for information Domino: Jockeys
take the chances of the game. Their accidents and
deaths are no more pathetic than the misadventures of
other people. And doesn’t the average jockey get his
silk clothes frequently reported in the press? Pico:
Nonsense 1 Rose Bay as its stands, is an absolutely
shelterless place, where, when the tide is low, the odor
of decaying seaweed poisons the air. When the tide is
high, visitors have not room to move upon the narrow
strip of land—l 2 or 14ft. wide—which constitutes all the
“ park ” available E.A. : On Barton’s retirement from
N.S.W. Speakership, Parkes, then Premier, urged G. H.
Reid to accept the Chair, promising the solid vote of the
Assembly Freetraders. Reid declined, and Potato Young
got the vote ...H.S.T. : As to the statement that the Boers
deliberately shelled the Sanatorium at Ladysmith, it’s
not at all likely that they knowingly wasted good ammu-
nition upon invalids, when there were able-bodied sol-
diers to pot at. The cable only goes to show how hard-
pressed the Rhodes-Chamberlain cable agency is for
news calculated to show what hopeless rutfi ins the
meek and lowly Jingo Bull has been forced to fight
Anti-Humbug : Even Tub Bulletin draws a distinction
between a spieler and a registered Ikey Mo. The spieler
is “ run in ” for being a person who never gambles with
his victims, but simply robs them every time .. Sub. :
Innocent man !—to believe that the Boer, who has fought
so many gallant battles against odds, is addicted to
striking babies-in-arms and spitting in women’s faces.
Such pitiable credulity enables the J. Bull cable-agencies
to tow you and your fellow softies at the end of a string
all the time. You are the sort of person w’ho habitually
swallows every woman’s police-court assault-story, and
who will solemnly take in the yarn said to be told
by a number of the women-refugees from Johannes-
burg that certain black marks on their bodies
were caused by blows from Boer officials
Henry Joseph : But Australian Federation did not bring
about the Transvaal Contingent infamy. It couldn’t,
for there is no Federatian yet. That awful Imperialist
snobbery was one of the results of the still-existing pro-
vincialist system, which you want to maintain —so that it
may lead to more Imperialist snobbery hereafter. Pro-
vincialist Australia made a far worse idiot of itself than
Federated Canada, and it was the anti-Federal push in
N.S.W. —the two Heydons, Dibits, Knox, the Daily Tele-
graph crowd, Want, Neild and co.—who advocated this
Contingent business most heartily. Do you want to put
the Soudan business down to Federation also ? And you
say the standard of public life has been lowered since the
days of Parkes, Abigail, G irrett, and Cocky Burns!! 1
.1. J. Mac.': Impossible to say. Graham Berry delivered
some more powerful speeches than either of those you
mention. So did Wentworth, Lowe, Griffith, Aspinall,
Higinbotham, and many more. Lots of fine speeches
have; 'ft no record . Behvyn : Promise in them, but too
slight HH. : “Pleasure' Trip’’ good idea not veil
enough treated. And no man, horse or vehicle will
“ wend its way’’ in this paper. “Wend” is one of life’s
convention d miseries F.M. : Can’t stand the “ Final
Word” Backslid r: Factorv-inade humor ....S.B. :
Your diatribe is all beside the question. In the first
place, the Lancers are not necessary “for the Empire," in-
asmuch as they are volunteers specially enrolled for the
defence of Australia, and who may not, without their own
consent, serve outside Australia. They did not leave
Australia for the purpose of servmgin South Africa : they
went to England for a certain specified time to receive
certain military training, and they got it. They did not
all volunteer for active service, and they were perfectly
entitled to decline to do the dirty work of London Slock
Exchange. Also they were perfectly entitled to refrain
from volunteering without giving any reason whatsoever...
E.S.S. : “Tihooburra,” will consider. “Question,’ too
clumsily versed. “Ditto," yarn palaeolithic J.M.D. :
Raises an interesting question, but you haven’t handled
tiie story strongly enough. A (S.A.) : Hardly in-
terest enough. . E.K. F. : Well-written in a lifeless way.
You grievously lack magnetism F.C.S. : Not enough
in it. .. .’. M’Quire : Wrong.. Tim big Melbourne racing
clubs bid fm- the female vote by giving the women plenty
of opportunity to flash their drapery, and lots of time for
getting looked at by the men . Lorero : The returned
Lancer in question is quite entitled to contemptuously
disregard the taunts made under cover of Parliamentary
privilege by a self-convicted slanderer and self-confessed
liar. W.’s.K. : A sufficient answer is that out of the
65 N.S.W. Lancers who did go to the Transvaal, at
least 17 have Irish - R.C. names.... Pinks: Thanks.
Merioro : Bulletin doesn’t want what you call
“scribbles”; it wants carefully-written matter, and
lias too much work on hand to give any attention to
M.S. puzzles Victor (Cool.) :Wi 11, your first communi-
cation would, if printed, cost somebody about, £5OOO, and
probably get. us a well-earned six-months into the bar-
gain Issa : Don’t remember it. What was the subject?
Snak'■juice : That quatrain doesn’t date from Penin-
sular-war time. It was first printed in London Punch in
1870, during the Franco-German struggle .... Emu :
Can't read the name of your locality. “ Bullot Dilah ”
>r what ? The curse of newspapers is the man who
loesn’t write names plainly.... B. : “ Champion,” tidy
verse. Both may see the light P.Q.R. : Ends pretty
well, but otherwise flat and flabby... Egotist: Not
quality enough ... Merewa : Two tyro-ish Zionist:
Painfully long and dreary Cramp A. : May sharpen up
and use W.M.VV. : Too grandiloquent and wobbly
Garry : Too much “ nick-of-time ”in it. Mustn't strain
probability too far Tom W. : But “ analysis ” serves
only to remove faults of syntax ; it can never supply the
positives of style. Also, when you find a good writer's
sentence that you can’t analyse— cherchez l’ellipsis
J.D. (Hillgrove) : Hutchens met Samuels first (January
17, *B7), and Malone a week later M. Leigh : Yes, War
God came fourth, and 25 ’osses came behind him
Vox : May print as much of your letter as isn’t due
either to personal animus against the official in question
or to the fact that you are yourself a survival of the
brutal old Botany Bay “System.” Albemarle: More
mysterious than ever. Please send address, or specify
what you refer to H.S.M'K. : Only worth a par
Cecil: Better conceived than executed E.R.N. : Too
long and cumbersome M.A.0.: Not strongly enough
handled.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
T. O’B. (G.) : Memo, posted ...:Yorkshire : Will u5e.....
J. Augustus J. : An old wheeze ... G.B. (Catnb.) : Will
use your pictorial comparison... Mo. : Good idea, but
lacks' execution. . W.T.C. : One or two may serve as
motifs. Material all right. Memo, posted Secotto :
Can’t say ; you should write your name plainly on back
of each drawing, and at beginning and end of each MS.
J.P.S. : One as a suggestion .. S.F.v.A. : Hardly
emugh in idea Walter C. : Joke not within cannon-
shot of anything humorous Unavailable : H.R. (P.P.),
Mary, L.-M., N.T.S., E.P.S., C.J.M., R.E.L., W.H.
(G.D.G.).
WITH DEATH'S PROPHETIC EAR.
Lay my rifle here beside me, set my Bible on my breast,
For a moment let the wailing: bugles cease ;
As the century is closing, I am going to my rest,
Lord, Iettest Thou Thy servant go in peace.
But loud through all the bugles rings a cadence in mine
ear,
And on the winds my hopes of peace are stowed ;
Those winds that waft the voices that already I oan
hear —
Of the rooi-baatje* singing on the road.
Yes, the red-coats are returning : I can hear the steady
tramp.
After twenty years of waiting, lulled to sleep,
Since rank and file at Potcbefstroom we hemmed them in
their camp,
Anri cut them up at Bronkerspruit like sheep.
They shelled us at Ingngo, hut we galloped into range,
And we shot the British gunners where they showed ;
I guessed they would return to us—I knew the chance
must change—
Hark ! The rooi-baatje singing on the road 1
But now from snow-swept Canada, from India’s torrid
plains,
From lone Australian outposts, hither led,
Obeying their commando, as they heatd the bugle’s
strains,
The men in brown have joined the men in red.
They came to find the colors at Majuba left and lost,
They came to pay us back the debt they owed ;
And I hear new voices lifted, and I see strange colors
tossed,
’Mid the rooi-baatje singing on the road.
The old, old faiths must falter, the old, old creeds must
fail—
I hear it in that distant murmur low—
The old, old order changes, and ’tis vain for us to rail,
The great world does not want us—we must go.
And veld, and spruit, and kopje lo the stranger will be-
long,
No more to trek before him we shall load.
Too well, too well, I know it, for t hear if in the song
Of the rooi-baatje singing on the road.
[•The rooi-baatje is the r d clad soldier.]
L.J.C.B., in a Ca/ietown paper.
N.S.W. District Court Judge Harris lately
fined B. T. B. Gaden <£10 for non-attendance as
deputy sheriff at Wellington (N.S. W.). A few days
later Deputy Sheriff Gaden received a warrant
directing him to arrest E. T. B. Gaden for non-
payment of the fine. E. T. B. Gaden duly
arrested himself, and sitting as J.P., remanded
himself to next sessions, fixing bail at two sureties
of £20 each. Which is fairly up to Gilbert ioi
standard.
QUEENSLAND LABOR-LEADER DAWSON.
Over 1000 foxes have been destroyed in
Warrnambool (Vio.) district this year.
Thus Sydney Catholic Press :
ANOTHER FLUNKEY.
The Bulletin has taken up a sheepish yes-no altitude
on the war. Their leading 1 article last week was a miser-
able crawl before local jingoism. Somehow the spirit of
the English flunkey has entered The Bulletin. They
howl themselves sick over Suffielrl’s death, and ihey pat
“ John Bull,” or the British and South African boodlers,
on the back for going out (o slaughter without any cause
a band of sturdy pioneers, who have founded a Republic
with a system' of laws, and buill cities, and defended
their homes and farms all within the life-time of one man.
Australia can take a hand in this disgraceful business,
and The Bulletin that is always prating about its hatred
of injustice is not manly enough to raise a strong protest.
Somebody on the Catholic Press must be severe-
ly addicted to Drink.


THE TITLE OF HONOURABLE
ACTION BY THE PREMIER.
SPIRITED DISCUSSION IN THE *
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. 1
The first' motion for adjournment was
the result of a question by Mr. Balfour as-j
to whether the Solicitor-General had Com-l<
plied with bis promise to recommend too
the Cabinet that steps be taken to enable,;
Mr Buchanan, who had been a member oi-j
the Council for 23 years, to retain the
pf ‘‘honourable ” in his retirement. Sirt
Henry Cuthbert replied that he had
his promise, but had been informed by the;
Premier that at a conference of the Pre-|
,miers of all the Australasian colonies atij
Hobart in 1897, he was one of four Pre-,;
miers constituting the majority who votedj
against the proposal to give effect to the-
Queen's reg-.Jation concerning the reten-j
tion of the title “honourable'' In members;
of the Legislative Council after li> rears’
continuous service.
This statement surprised and shocked-
the House, especially as it was learned for
the first time that the Premier had bar-
gained away” a privilege of the Chamber
i without consulting it beforehand or in-
forming it afterwards.
HELB ARGUS
A WELL-EARNED REWARD.
FATMAN: “Do I understand you to say that 10 years, of per intent obstruction in the Hupper ’Ouse doesn't entitle me to honorable distinction?"


What England thinks of Kruger,
judging by the number of men
sent to fight him.
THE ACTUAL FIGHT.
"Kruger (Transvaal) about
100,000 altogether.
Nicholas (Crimea) 25,000.
Napoleon (Waterloo) 23,000.’
“ Now tell us all about the war,
And what they killed each other for.”
“ The naval and colonial contin-
gents will share in the distribution of
, the Queen’s gift of 100.000 tins _of
chocolate.”
A nevr terror for the over-cadged citizen. There is to be a “ Patriotic”
Saturday with a collection to match.
THE EED CROSS MOVEMENT.
TO ALLEVIATE MISERY.
munificent gifts
LONDON, Friday Afternoon.—The Red
Cross movement has been warmly taken up
in Great Britain, where subscriptions pour
in daily for the alleviation of suffering and
misery on the field of battle and afterwards.
Messrs. D. O. and \V. H. Wills, tne weu-
kuown tobacco merchants, have presented
500,000 cigarettes for;, the use of the wound-
ed, and Messrs. Bewlay, of .London, 21,000
cigars for the British troops engaged in the
gbutfi 'African campaign.
Think of the “ moral effect ” of our contingent ...
■being permitted to munch chocolate caramels shoulder to snoulder with seasoned
Imperial troops !
/ Fatman (pointing the finger of
scorn at returned Lancer): “ Yah!
Yes-No soldier! ”
To “ alleviate misery ” is good !
Boer soldiers rifling the pockets of the slain.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


A.
They are “Lovely,” and Prices Right.
A. Saunders,
BUTTERS, as above, 15s 6d
Large size, 20s.
Guaranteed Quality.
CRUETS, 4-bottle. Square
Bottles, 30s. Similar, 21s, 255, 355.
Four o’clock TEA SET, with COVERS, prilt inside, pure
Silver-plated. 20 years’ guaranteed.
£2 10s ; worth £4 4s. Other styles, 355, £2.
LADIES —KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR DISPLAY.
A- Saunders.
Hot Water TEA KETTLE, 33s 6d ;
Embossed, £2. Others charge £2 10s
and £3 for same article.
We guarantee the quality.
V-J
£
v i'k'
- - - s
fv<M?
as
83£P&£2s
...
A. Saunders’
Four o’clock TEASPOONS and TONGS,
15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons, without case, ss, 7s 6d half-dozen.
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255.
With Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
CAKE BASKET, chased, 18s Gd; plain, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, -12, and JE2 10s.
We guarantee the quality. Send for Illustration.
A. Saunders.
OAK BTSCUIT, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 15s 6d;
Fluted Bands, 20s;
Shield only, 12s 6cL
We
wn
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
Pure Silver-plated Rim and Knife, 21s.
Other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
Useful and Handsome Presents
A. Saunders-
Pure Silver-plated SUGAR SCUTTLE,
16a 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
Handsome and Useful Presents.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12 6,15 s, 20s, 255, 355, 12.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
EGG CRUET, 4 Cups, gilt, inside, and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated on hard
White Metal, 21s, 255, 30s, and 355.
Almost Half-price.
BREAKFAST CRUETS,
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d.
Other styles, 10s Cd, 12s Od, 15s, 20s.
TRY US.
SPOONS and FORKS. Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons and Forks, 4s half-dozen.
Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-plate, on hard White Metal, Table Spoons
and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s : Tea, 6s 6d. These are guaranteed to
give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 6s and 8s 6d half-dozen ;
the very best Sheffield steel. TRY THEM.
BUTTER KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s.
Pearl Handle, 3s 6d ; extra mounted, 6s 6d.
JAM SPOONS, same price. Two in case, 7s 6d and 10s.
ENTREE DISHES, 4 pieces, pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6<L
Others charge you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES nowadags want to see a Display and Assort-
ment worth seeing. The Old-Time Prices and Small
Stocks are a thing of the past. LADIES , we can show
you £20,000 ivorth of Jewellery and Silver-plate—a
display seldom seen like it.
A PERSONAL VISIT ONLY WILL CONVINCE YOU OF THE MAGNITUDE OF OUR STOCK. DO COME.
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller,
WILL
PROVE IT.
815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite Railway Station).
AL BEMEDY!
Has
Cured
Thousands
✓
Anti
Will
Cure
You
Is Obtainable Everywhere , ss. (id. and 3s. 6d .
HERD INSTITUTE : 47 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A TRULY WONDERFUL TESTIMONY.
A SUFFERER FOR MANY YEARS NOW A NEW MAN.
[Abbreviated from Original.']
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Orroroo, South Australia, 17th April, 1899.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me pleasure to certify to the great benefit I received from Vitadatio. In 1891, April 25th, I was taken ill. My lodge doctor told me I was
suffering from congestion of the lungs and liver, and after a fortnight’s treatment I showed him a swelling in the abdomen, which he probed ; but could discover nothing.
He ordered me to bed again, and after another fortnight’s treatment, I got worse. In all, I consulted nine doctors (not counting the staff of the hospital), but still no
better. A large swelling in the abdomen and across the region of the heart stayed me from even stooping to lace my boots. I went into the hospital again, but the
only conclusion the surgeons could come to was that I was suffering from a muscular swelling. One doctor in particular said I might never be able to work again. I
came home on the 10th of October, 1892 ; I consulted a doctor at Carrieton, who in less than five minutes told me I was suffering from Hydatids. To prove this, he in-
serted a needle and drew a quantity of fluid, and I have now got in writing from him that my case was very chronic. When I knew that I had Hydatids T went to the
Adelaide Hospital, and on November 16th, 1892, went under an operation, which proved successful as far as taking the cyst away, but only patched me up for a short
time. I grew worse, and went under another operation, with no better results. About a fortnight before Christmas, 1898, I had another bad attack, two fainting fits
in half an hour, and a large swelling under the heart, which gave me great pain. I could neither eat nor sleep, and in fact life did not seem worth living.
I made up my mind to go away for a change. Before going, I consulted another doctor about an operation ;he told me nothing could be done for me. Mj
friends advised me to try Vitadatio as a last resource. lat first refused, as I thought nothing could cure me. After a great deal of persuasion, 1 took it, and began to
improve ; and since taking Vitadatio I have passed away eight lots of skins, which I have by me in spirits, the result of taking ten large and one small bottle of Vita-
datio. I can assure you if it had not been for this great remedy, Vitadatio, I should have been in my grave. When I left home to go south, several gentlemen said that
I would never come back alive to Orroroo again ; but, thank Cod, Vitadatio has done for me what no doctor could do. It has saved my life and cured my disease, an
I can eat and sleep, and do a hard day’s work as well as anyone. I feel nothing wrong in health, but can truthfully say I nevei felt bbttei in my life than Ido now.
You are at liberty to use this testimonial as you think best for the benefit of others. —Yours faithfully,
Witnesses : GEO. MATTHEWS, H. WALKER. (Signed) 11. 0. IVES, Painter, &c., Orroroo.
Extract from Mr. Ives’ letter of sth June, 1899 :—“I am now in splendid fettle, and working hard.”
S. A. PALMER, AGENT GENERAL EOR AUSTRALASIA, INDIA, CEYLON, AND JAPAN.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer, W. W€BBER, Elizabeth-st., Launceston, Tasmania.
SYDNEY INSTITUTE - 181 PITT STHEET (next her majesty’s theatre).


The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
V,
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies oi
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labour required. Anyone can learn to operate
the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Davlesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is
perfect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the
best speculation I have entered into since I joined the
Licensed Victuallers.—Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan
Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says : It is worth
its weight in gold.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Hotelkeeper, Coolgardie, W.A., says:
Profits saved by making my own supplies of Aerated
Wateis with the Machine purchased from you, pay the
RENT OF MY HOTEL.”
Mr. Lewis, of Old England Hotel, Heidelberg, says
“ I have iiow had one of your Aerated Water Machines in
use for three years, and have made thousands of dozens
of the best Aerated Waters with -it, and it has not
required sixpence worth of repairs. No Hotelkeeper
should be without one of these Machines.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Hotelkeeper, Yalgoo, W.A., says: —“My
Aerated Water account was formerly £3O per month.
Since getting one of your Machines, and making my own
s ift stuff, I have saved the price of the Machine ten times
over.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in manj T
small centres of population, where a deeply-felt want
exists FOR A GOOD QUALITY. OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERA r E
the profits. Call and see these Machines, or write for
Circular describing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Henburn Mineral Water 00.
107 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
Opals, Pearls Sappljir^S
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN .
A. BCNJAmTiT apd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
MEMORY
MEMORY^
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. C. Hall. Student, St. Kilda, Yic. : “To those learn-
ing languages it is invaluable, for the whole dictionary
may be mastered by it in a remarkably short time.”
Rev. VV. H. Beck, Nelson, New Zealand : “ . . . It is
easy, siiuvl , complete, and reliable. The ease and
rapidity with which dates, names, &c., can be memorised
is astonishing, and these come to me with the utmost
certainty. . . .”
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
4?:)
/"<ATARRII is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammalion is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and stneli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal boi es of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
MEDICATOR
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuraliria, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Hofpe Catarrh CCirc Co.,
■231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
SLEEVE LINKS.
Any Design.
Chain Connection.
2s. 6d.
Ladies’ Muff Chains, Is and 2s 6d
Chain Bracelets, 3s Cd and 5s 6d
Paris Diamond Studs (Front or
Collar), Is and 2s Gd
Nickel Watch and Chain, 5s (one
year’s guarantee)
Alarm Clocks, 2s Gd
Musical ~ 15s
LUCKY CHARM.
Spider, Shamrock or
Heather, Is 3d.
All the Rage !
Twin Swallow
Brooch,
with Bell or Stone
Pendant, 2s 6d.
Bar Brooch, with Amethyst and African
Diamond. Remarkable Value. 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone.
2s 6d.
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2s 6d.
fW Mention Thb Bulletin .
thousands of other Designs. Call or Write.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
C. O’BRIEN & CO.
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for =£3 10s
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALLS.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Ducliess’e Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rad, and Cane Chair, .£6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double--wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, £3 15s.
60 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated burnishing Guide Post Free.
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
HOMOCEA
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PART.
For all Deep-seated rvid Persistent Pains use HQMOCEA
EMBROCATION. Soici in Collapsible Tubes.
Of all Storekeepers, General jfyealers, and Chemists.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPROFA I,TIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
5 DOW RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
£lizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE
••I ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I’rlcc, 10s. fid.
Sole Agents :
9
r
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitk on. 6Bo*BB2 George-st., Sydney
The ways of many waters
By E. J. Brady.
Tbi Bulletin N«w«. 00-, George-si
COX ON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
.11
9
zsMsmm
m
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d: ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d;
ditLo Paragon ditto, 20s
Od ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Uoxmi’s Dulqet ACCOR-
I)EON’S, 6s 9d; ditto, i
stops, 8s Od ; dit to Faunt-
lero.v ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Aeeotdeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues;
MANGI.ES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
PHONOGRAPHS
255.
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . .
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case,
/IS h ili t/-sl. f Sj/ilurf/.
Manufacture rs of the
famous BOOM lilt ANG
Mouth Oij-aus.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
Catalogues of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Record-,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Polyphone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
“M OTIIING so quickly cures Coughs, Cobls, Qronchii is
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest us
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dos.e
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cur s.
This is the best expectorant now in use; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name <f
the proprietor, JAMES BUINSMEAD, Cheniist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper
By post 16 and 2 6. if not obtainable locally.
KI ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread hy placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline’~thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boot making is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
iLuliM
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASURE
14/6
Orders, accompanied by remittance
seven daj's, and CARRIAGE PAID,
cheques (Is.) Note the Address:
, executed within
Add exchange on
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
686 GEORGE STREET
BRICKFIELD HILL
and at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
30 Bays' Trial.
WE GRANT EVERY PURCHASER
of our
Electric Belts
and Appliances
a Trial of 30 days before
pyment.
Our
Electric Belts
will
CURE ALL
DISEASES
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to
ROBUST
HEALTH!
Address :
Electric Appliance Agency,
83 Elizabeth Steket, SYD'NEY.


TftE FAVORITE
WHISKEY.
Ceo. Roe &C?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER &C?
82 A -PITT ST.'
SYDNEY-.,
ASK
FOR
*
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADL6Y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strip*
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331 - per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioatioo
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ P. O. ” —Particeps Criminis.
Up to date the Boer losses (by cable) are
about 1,053,268 men. With an entire population
°t'Only about 150,000, both republics included,
this is most serious.
There are two golden rules. One is, “Do
unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
The other golden rule is that Britain has a right
to rule every country where there is gold.
An unemployed deputation which recently
waited on N.S. YV. Premier Lyne solemnly alleged
that there were 76,102 men registered as in want
of work at N.S.W. Labor Bureau! Is this in-
credible-looking-statement true? It seems to
pass all human belief.
On a recent division in N.S.W. Leg. As-
sembly ex-Premier Reid, after a vigorous speech
m favor of his amendment, found himself followed
by a scratch company of five members ! And so
short a time back 70 enthusiasts followed the
crack of his whip !
The Jingo argument, as" stated by Prof.
Wood of Sydney University : “If we see
Englishmen engaged (as it seems to us) in robbing
and murdering foreigners, Patriotism demands
that we should do all we can to assist them to
complete the robbery and murder. ”
just here and there an Australian
paper has admitted to its columns a statement of
the ideas of an Australian miner returned from
the Transvaal. But English papers published in
the mining districts where most of the Rand
miners came from—Cornwall especially—have
been full of interviews. And the accounts have
been all the same—“ We were quite satisfied with
things as they were. We didn’t want the fran-
chise ; we were there to make a * rise,’ and were
making it—too fast to suit the companies. Hence,
in part, this row.” The bona-fide workman from
the Rand tells only one story.
A PORTABLE SEPULCHRE.
NEW MISSIONARY (to native teacher): “My friend, show me the grave of my
dear predecessor so that I may shed a tear over it!”
N.T. (pointing to rather over-nourished party): “ Then you shed tear on HIM.”
The wily Mac Paterson, M.L.A. for Bris-
bane North, is the champion rail-sitter of Q.
politics. During the Federation campaign Mac.
lay discreetly low waiting for the cat to jump.
T’other day, when all was ready for the division
on Dickson’s Railway Bill, the only absentee was
Patef-son. He was known to be handy, but both
whips were afraid to bring him up to the House.
Be the mission of Yic. Minister Isaacs to
London, the Argus pertinently asks “If the
Tramway Co. is at liberty to employ the Attorney-
General to conduct its appeals (against the Mel-
bourne municipal ratings) in Great Britain, is it
at liberty also to employ the Premier, who is a
solicitor, to act on its behalf in the preparation of
the case?” In short, are the lawyer-ministers—
and there are four of them in the Yic. Cabinet—
entitled to accept fat fees to which a suspicion of
“ squaring ” naturally attaches ?
Out of 29 members present in W.A. As-
sembly, 13 voted for throwing Federation over-
board altogether. The whole 13 represent 2031
electors, and 12 of them only represent 1237 —103
voters each. The votes of sheep and cattle supply
the Anti-Federal element in Westralia.
S.A. political parties are so mixed that
the Kingston Ministry may be defeated any day.
Several Labor-Ms.P., notably Price and Roberts,
are openly hostile. In addition, because Kingston
will not abandon his threat of a double dissolution
in the event of Household-suffrage being beaten in
the Council, certain Govt, supporters who hold
shaky seats have practically determined to vote
against him. If Kingston is defeated defeat will
come from renegade Liberals, and not because of an
increase in Opposition strength.
In the “ semi-barbarous ” Transvaal Re-
public there is what Australia is not yet advanced
enough and fair enough to provide—a public de-
fender as well as a public prosecutor ; and his ser-
vices have been available to British aliens as well
as to Boer burghers. Also, there is an officer
whose duty it is to, in certain cases, explain even to
the alien who appeals to him what the law is. In
Australia the alien’s best chance of finding out
what the law is is by standing behind spikes and
listening to the remarks of a Judge to a jury.
Thomas Glassey, erstwhile enthusiastic
Radical, is playing some queer political capers of
late. The other day he posed in Q. Assembly as
the apologist for Ricardo—Ricardo of strike-
suppression notoriety ; subsequently, he rose and
defended Tozer, lauded his ability, humanity and
so forth ; distinguished himself further by eulo-
gising the valor of the Q. Transvaal contingent
and deprecating the attacks made on Dickson’s
action in the matter by the Q. Labor members.
Altogether T. Glassey will stand watching care-
fully.
Of the seven record Ministries of Austra-
lasia, three (Reid’s, Braddon’s, and Dickson’s)
have gone within a few weeks. In S.A. the Oppo-
sition, led by Solomon the Unwise, thinks that it
at last sees its way to upset Kingston, and cer-
tainly that potentate looks less secure in
his seat than usual, though Solomon has
sounded so many false alarms that it is hard to
say what may happen. Seddon has a general elec-
tion on this month, and anything may occur,
and Bigjohn of Westralia is obviously nearing his
political end. On the other hand, Tucker’s motion
of censure on Turner (of Victoria) over Attorney-
General Isaacs’ conduct in holding a brief against
the community, and on behalf of the Tramway
Co., was so utterly licked in one round that there
wasn’t even a division. Also, the Best-Jackson
trouble appears to have died out, and Turner has
apparently sanded his hands, and got a fresh grip
of the greasy portfolio which was sliding away.
S.A. Govt,
has again
brought in its
Bill to authorise
the building of
a railway from
Leigh’s Creek to
Innamincka a
dread and lone-
some spot on the
Q. border, close
to where Burke
and Wills died
in ’6l, at the
far-back limits
of every place,
beyond God and
man and dog. It
is mentioned in
the gazetteer as
a town of no
population, 700
miles N. of Ade-
laide. Still, the
one would be
cheap to build,
and there are
said to be 100,000
sq. miles of good
mineral and pas-
toral land up
that way—there
certainly are
100,000 miles of
some kind of
land. And
when, some day
or other, the line
from Brisbane
crawled but to
meet the exten-
sion, another
step in the
bridging of Aus-
tralia would be
accomplished.
More than
one N. S. W.
newspaper
suffers through
the Lyne edict
that no member
of either House
of Parliament
shall receive public money other than that autho-
rised by Parliament. In the good old days some
M.’sP. who were in terested in country newspapers
did excellent business in Govt, advertisements.
The new Tasmanian Chief Secretary rose
the other day to state that the time had come
“ when they should discuss the principle of paying
for repairs and renewals out of revenue instead of
out of loans.” Think of the political and financial
rottenness of a country where such a principle
requires “ discussion ! ” The opinion of the new
Chief See. was that'the thing dught to be put off.
Por this year he suggested charging the patches
and repairs to posterity just as usual, and next
year Tas. Parliament is to sit down and think
really hard over the question whether a new roof
for an old unpaid-for gaol is, or is not, a “ perma-
nent and reproductive work,” and as such justly
chargeable to loan funds.
Significant London Times cable, dated
Pretoria, Oct. 11:
Many British subjects here take up a strong position
against the war, and some have applied to be naturalised
and sent to the front.”
How carefully all such items are excluded from
the messages of the Australian syndicate press !
UNDER OTHER CONDITIONS.
PRIVATE MIMURPHY (sadly): “ Moike Casey's
gone to th’ Transvalley , Kathleen
MRS. M'MURPHY : “An’ well he moight. He
hasn’t anny woife to support ’IM.”
P. M‘MURPHY : “If Oi was a single mahn
mesclf, Oi’d lay down me loife for the 'anner
an’ gloory of me woife an’ chitder.”
Queensland Govt, has been considering a
scheme for straightening the Brisbane River in
order to prevent its low-lying capital from being
drowned out. Estimated cost, £1,500,000 —though
as estimates are always wrong it will probably be
.£2,000,000 at least. Money to be borrowed, of
course—which means .£50,000 or £60,000 a year
permanently for interest. If this was charged to
Brisbane it would involve an extra rate of ss. in
the £ —but Brisbane doesn’t feel that way. It
proposes to charge the bill for this purely local
work to Queensland at large.
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s correspondent
on the landing of the N.S. W. Lancers at Cape
town :
An immense crowd had assembled on the wharves, and
lined the streets, but it was a passive, courteous crowd —
a crowd that wasted no cheers, and allowed the men to
tramp through the streets to fight their battles as though
they had been only a new kind of circus. The remarks
of a Cape volunteer to one of the returning Lancers, that
they were unable at the Cape to understand what should
bring Australians there, may have been the general feel-
ing among the spectators.
In short, a sort of what-the-devil-do-you-want-
here-mind-your-own-business reception.
Auckland (M.L.) Star says with pride
that “ the exploits of the Gordon Highlanders and
other British corps at the two big fights on the
Natal frontier shows that the old dashing spirit
which won Fontenoy has not vanished from the
army.” The accuracy of the Jingo paper’s know-
ledge of Transvaal history may be estimated by
its blank ignorance of the records of its own
country. Its ill-luck is even worse than its ignor-
ance. To grope wildly among the dimly-remem:
bered names of battles, and drop on disastrous
Fontenoy at the first try, was six different kinds
of awful.
On the last night of the debate in W.A*
Assembly, re Premier Forrest’s motion that two
varieties of Federal Constitution —the one that
exists and the one that doesn’t—should be sub-
mitted to the people, the dreadful Harper got up
with an amendment that Federation should be
dropped without any vote of the people at all. It
was supported by all the Ministry save Forrest
and another, and was lost by only three votes, It
is an open secret that Forrest wanted it to be car-
ried without him voting for it, for then the
tangled-up Oom John could have posed as the
man who tried to get Federation, and who wasn’t
responsible for the failure. Now Oom John has
to depend on the Leg, Council to throw out the
Commonwealth Bill, and by all report the Council
is going to do it with enthusiasm and both feet.
S.A. Council’s debate on the Household
Suffrage Bill has been long and slow and weary,
and the brightest idea it has evoked is the lament
of Stirling, M.L.C., that “the enlargement of
the Council suffrage would make one House a
reflex of the other.” The Tory can’t get rid of
the idea that if one House represents the will of
the people the other one shouldn’t, and if one
House does something the other should undo it,
and that if two soldiers are marching together
they should be strictly prohibited from keeping
step, and if one officer tells the regiment to ad-
vance another should immediately order it to
retreat —lest they should be a reflex of each other.
The Tory’s horror of .being a “reflex ” is pathetic.
If he was driving a two-horse vehicle he would
hitch a horse at each end, tail to tail, and make
them pull opposite ways, lest one horse should be
a reflex of the other horse.
“ The cable was very careful to tell us that
the Rev. Hugh Price Hughes had advocated war.
It was very careful not to tell us . . . that the
Rev. Hugh Price Hughes was the only prominent
Nonconformist minister who had not advocated
peace.”—Prof. Wood, of Sydney University.
Caldwell, M.P., is moving in S.A. As-
sembly for the appointment
annually of a com-
mittee of Ms.P. to
audit the public ac-
counts and, presum-
ably, find out how
much of the Treasur-
er’s annual financial
statement is fake
and misrepresenta -
tion, and whether
the alleged surplus
isn’t really a big de-
ficit. The flaw in
Caldwell’s idea is the
appointment of politicians
for the job. The committee
may consist of ex-Treasurers
who have had financial
ghosts of their own, and
the possibility of disin-
terring the corpse there-
of would prevent im-
partial enquiry.
Considering all the
bellicose afterdinorat-
ing there has recently
been about the “ re-
union of the Anglo-
Saxon races, ” it would
be interesting to have a
straight answer to this
question : “ Are the Re-
union crowd actually wil-
ling to have the capital of
re-united Anglo-Saxondom
, at Washington ; to make
London a provincial town ;
to have Britain bossed per-
haps by American officials; to burn the Union
Jack; and to see their beloved Queen fired
out to make room for Silas P. Slocum of
Chicago, President?” Because, if Britain and
the United States re-unite, the majority must
rule in the end, and decide on the form of govern-
ment, and locate the capital where it pleases.
And the majority is west of the Atlantic nob
east. The re-union is a great idea ; it is also a
great conspiracy against Queen Victoria, and all
painfully loyal subjects should keep an eye on it.
Apropos of Holman’s recent plunge in
N.S.W. Parliament, Charles James Fox, who is
not usually accounted a disloyal person, but who
thought Pitt’s war with Napoleon an unholy one,
wrote in 1801 (vide Rosebery’s “ Pitt,” p. 29): —
The triumph of the French Government over the
English does, in fact, afford me a degree of pleasure
which it is difficult to disguise.
This blunt and unqualified statement would have
given the N.S.W. Parliament a collective fit if
uttered in the recent discussion of a war to which
the war against Buonaparte was holy by com-
parison—nay, even respectable by comparison.
“An early-closing law which shut all shops
at 6 p.m. would unjustly divert trade,” was one of
the arguments advanced at a recent met ting of the
Sydney Long-Hour Brigade. But aren’t there
circumstances under which trade should be
diverted? At present some humane traders close
at 6 p.m. five days in the week and 2 p.m. Satur-
days, and the reward of their kindliness has been
that part of their trade was diverted to the late-
hour sweaters, who worked their employes till
well on towards midnight. If all shops in the
same line were closed by law at the same hour,
the present diversion of trade to the greedy and
the unfeeling would cease. The trade wouldn’t
necessarily be diverted back again, but at least
the good employer would cease to be penalised,
and everybody would be on the same footing.
Warner’s Safe Cure has restored me to health after years
of suffering with disordered liver and kidneys.”— Mr.
P. E. A. Dickson, 'Stewart-street, Dunedin,
A few years ago I was troubled with gravel, and tried
had % T UI '
rence of it. —G. W. Gillies, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Re the value of Warner’s Safe Cr.ie. J 3
it has undoubtedly relieved m a permanently of my
troubles.”—Jwßerrie,TheOlen, West-st. North,Sydney,
Not afraid to sign my name as a guarantee that Warner’s
Safe Cure is what it is represented to be.”—James
Healey, Mayor, Glen innes, N.s.w.
Excellent medicine fmygeneral debility,and for toning up
the constitution. I have always recommended it for
the same. B. H. Babbidge, ex-Mayor of Brisbane,
Results more satisfactoiy were obtained from prescribing
’ Warner s Safe Cure than any formulae of my own nre-
scribing.-Robert Siiaw, L.D.S., M. 8., D.A., Rock-
hampton, Queensland.
Suffering for the last ten years from a variety of com-
plaints, including- insomnia, I did not get any per-
manent relief until I tried Warner’s Safe Cure.”—Ed-
i w ydne^
Suffering with my liver and kidneys, I took Warner s
Safe Cuve an(l imUs, with the result that I am perfectly
and permanently cured.”—A. A. Whifp, 23 Hawks-
burn Rd., Hawksburn.
Affected to such a degree that at times I was compelled
t 0 .By up, and now, after taking three bottles, I am
recovered. -A. Nici,olson ’ 18 Stanle J’ Chambers,
For years I was a terrible sufferer with my liver. I de-
termined to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and was com-
Wagga Wagga.
Energy and health thoroughly regained after the use of a
few bottles.”—G. Tessier, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel
Metropole, Sydney.
Can only in fairness add my testimony to the many others-
wheeler? PhrenologiscHigh-'rtreel Dunedfm' A ' E '
Unable to stand long at my easel until I took Warner’s-
Safe Cure, which effectually cured me after I had suf-
fered for years from liver and. kidney complaint.” —
Mr. Alec Nicols, 377 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Recommend it conhdently as a reliable remedy for diges-
tive disorders. —C. A. Hood, Ex-Station master, West-
bu“ Tasnian j a .
Even from the first bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure I felt
relief, and continuing taking it I became perfectly
cured, and am now in good health.”—F. G. Browne,
Silver Plater, Melbourne.


N«rs Si IKS
’53- _
PALING’S
PIANOS
are
unequalled
in
all
the
requirements
of
FINE
PIANO
CONSTRUCTION.
AND
THE PRICES ARE RIGHT.
PALING’S
BANP
ORCiI ASTRAL
AND ALL OTHEB
INSTRUMENTS
Are as perfect as
Skill
Ingenuity and
Good Workmanship
can make them.
AND
THE TRICES ARE RIGHT.
CALL OR WRITE EOR CATALOGUES—THEY ARE EREE.
W. H. PALIM6 *C° L ro 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYPNEY
And at
Brisbafye
Newcastle
«&sy v 7"
?v
SB
«* i*^. " , j*r
• :<**?
‘ > ¥i r *%
ww
V-- L,J*-,’~~ .A
* if .'
jjpjfl ■
J3L
FS-
*
i -
; ;
r 1
. -A
- - >r . fil
- . : . Jk|
'« - :-ig jpjjjy
<-*- . ,- "T" - " ,"> ™. '-i
Y-AY
>o*Cf
V s
f % -m
mHIS photograph of the camel laden with typewriters on the goldfields ofWestraliia
1 of the push and penetration of the United Typewriter and Supplies Co. Illustiated Catalogues posted on
application to any of the undermentioned addresses.
Ufyited Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
H 4 pixT ST., SYDNEY ; 362 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
Aceneies— Queensland • Webster & Co., Brisbane. Adelaide: Reeves & Co., King William-street. Hobart .
ASe vVa*ch S & Sons?” Launceston : Hedley-Button. Auckland : J. H. Col will Queen-street. Dunedin:
Garrett, Princes-st. Wellington : W. R. White, 12 Featherstone-st. Christchutch ■ J. O. Bainatd, lleietord st
The recent marriages of Lily Langtry and
Madame Patti are but symptoms of the latest
London craze—the Cult of the Mature.” “The
woman of 40,” savs the World, “has taken the
place of the girl of 18.” The soft, creamy ideal is
under a cloud, and the London clubman now likes
his matron almost as much decayed as his game.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Missing Friends.
THOMAS W. J. CORRIGAN.
IF the aboveriamed Thomas W. J. Corrigan (Son of
Thomas Corriiran, late of High Onsrar, in the County
of Essex. England, Yeoman, deceased), who left England
for Australia in the year 1855, and was last heard of as
being in Sydney about 20 years ago, or, if dead, his Legal
Personal Representatives, will apply to the undersigned
Solicitors, he or they will hear of something’ to his or
their advantage. GIBSON & BOND,
Solicitors, Ougar, Essex, England.
FEDERAL
PALAC€
HOT€L
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can he paid tor separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
£2
■c.;;
mSSSSm
m
%
It
is
Embossed
LOOK
for
this
Trade
on every Dunlop Cover and Tube,
and affords Cyclists an easy means
of distinguishing
from the imitation tyres offered as “ on the
Dunlop principle.”
Don’t
be put off with the explanation that the tyres “ are
as good as Dunlop’s,” for experience has proven that
no tyres are so well suited to Colonial ro ids
as the MULTIFLEX DUNLOP, and no nr
will give the same satisfaction either for
Comfort, Speed or Durability.
Moadster Tyres Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
£he §unlop gneumatic gyre <§o. of (Australasia gimitid,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
MONEY LENT
f.•.ON . , .
All Classes of Security.
Wont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
■7 4 CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 A.
SYDNEY '
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER month:.
BTLLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department *zr
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
lB79.*£#
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 G-eorge Street ( facin s ßrid g est -) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Ijiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED ... 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
>» 2 Years, 5%
>i >• 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loqcloq & LaocaSbir?
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
NeW B S ,“ l c h h"' , ‘' es } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank nf north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
United losdraocc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Loir.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD jTlfllTH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE’!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
.Leura, Sat., December 2, i 2 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., Dec. 9, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAKOO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., December 26, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., December 26, 5
p.m.
I BRISBANE -v
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON f
BUNDABERG J
Peregrine, Sat., December 2, 2 p.m.
Barwah, Tues., Dec. 5, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Dec. 9, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., December 2, 2 p.m.
Deura, Sat., December 9, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
f
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passei gsrs and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Petnrn new" ?^ ket , s Available for Six Months.
K p“ L?p ets In^r lcha with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & 00. or Messrs. M‘Uwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
B " ,ldln **' ~ “ a
Wharves-Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TV TrGst€€s, €*€c<itorS,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
SSK": ••• • •
“*8 ' •
and Clients, 30th June, 189 D ... £6,386,057 8 11
trustee VenCy Department > Mr - L ■ J - Barker registered
«iil r K eC^ OrS : ®i Godfre y- Esq., Chairman :R. Murray
ll^ p E t?' G ’L M • L ' A -> Vlce Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. , C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager,
xr Am n EREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collms-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2 000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. . _ 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 50oj)00
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. _ £3,150,574 15 0
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, MLC •
Hon. N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Her >n
Inspectors: John MtNall, R. H. M'Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsfjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES'
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Baymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong) New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices » - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman;' Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 Pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen Esq
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.’
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Hon. Richard Jones, MLC '•
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humphkry, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager, and Chifef Inspector ;' A. J
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tile.y, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
. (Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Si’dney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 11,984 tons, February.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
Tor rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
AMERI 0 A
VIA
by the
American & Australian Line
CA. & A. LIND).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding- alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
Leave
Auckland.
Dec.
Arrive at
San
Franoisco,
25 Jan.
22 Feb.
19 March
auie untu usea, and Saloon
.Passengers can break their iourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
a I £ t !i er information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z. Ltd. Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
ffl‘iluiraith,|Q‘|;acharn&(;o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Qnotal ions, apply *
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ „ ~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL-
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
WILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in, Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
&3T MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE <fc AGENCY 00., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES h DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. 0. YOUNG & CO.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian.
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Cintra, Friday, Dec. 1.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, Dec. 5.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to l
VASSE, DONGARRA, |
bunbury, geraldton
And all North West Forts. J
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, Dec. 6.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, Dec. 5.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullara, Friday,
December X.
S.S. Adelaide, Saturday,
December 2.
Best A Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
C. S. \ [JILL and CO., f/j’D., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
““ alwve Company will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports '
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
INDIA
VICTORIA
AUSTRALIA
ARCADIA ..
ROME
Commander.
(Sydney,
! Noon
7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. Dec.
6527 E. Crewe ... ... n ec
7000 1. Reeves ... ... Dec
6603 A. C Loggin ... ...'Jan.
5615 .1. Cowie, R.N.R. : .. Jan!
£ nd thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money .- LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Mestein Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
tow™™? for passages from England. EDWARD
TRLLAWNV J _Agent,_No, 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
, Parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA-
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S. S. Co. Ltd.
cJ h - e „ fo 'v IO Mi n / favorite passenger steamers,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAI AN PORTS at regular intervals—
£! !X r?. 1 !i RN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gil)t)Sj Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHEE
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to J
Weber Lohmann SB Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI■ Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Boiven, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Oooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bomhay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing- their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
The ways of many
By E. J. Brady. Price 5/-.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is in valuable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COU6HS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at. once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
■ J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN. '
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
imall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Viol et Town, Viotori a.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katung'a, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them." The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite w 11, hud walked into
town and hack without feeling any f digue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling'stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearrie’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. _ I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could,do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years' Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne,—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as lam now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced toltry Hearr.e’i
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of thir
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l havt
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states 1 :—" I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
«Tin ti n g Co. of Australia
W I iff (LIMITED),
DA.PTO (T.a.lre Zllawarra), aear SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
• • • •
TOODUCBRS
OF
FINE SILVER.
f
Will
■i
|
saw
mm
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
.AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
. . BRAND OP. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
urchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PEICES PAID FOE OEES.
LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD
INFANTS
9
Food is sold in various sizejjp
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Mouses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
raCKD'S
NEW BREWS (1899) NOW READY.
FINEST OF TABLE BEERS.
PALE ALE (EMU BRAND)
AUSTRALIA BITTER ALE
MELBOURN E


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
IpflQgpza CoOgf).
DO YOU want to ride with the Leaders or flock,
with the Followers? Better
RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS and keep in front.
Factories ToJ°ti to, Gan ada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches Melbourne. Sydney, Dunedin ltrishani l Adel tide
Agencies ajmust everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free ou application.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples,, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Vv ithin three days of the cabled announce-
ment that an Australian had anonymously given
£lO,OOO towards the British war relief fund, comes
news that the modest and shrinking donor is Mr.
Robert Luoas Tooth, the Sydneyite whose big pile
comes out of the Kent Brewery. Ar se Sir Lucas
booth, of Tanglefoot Castle, baronet!
With the hot weather now approaching,
the new butter-cooler, which is worked by the
capillary action of water and is being introduced
by Messrs. Brandt Bros., of 236 Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, from 3s. 6d. to 15s. each, should be very
serviceable, as it only requires a little water to
maintain it. Their newly invented ice-cream
freezers, which require no turning of handle, at
15s. each, and hand ice-making machine which pro-
duces ice in 10 min., at 50s. each, are splendid,*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SVIAIX
I GOODS
{ TOYS
I PRESENTS
£lO,OOO worth of Toys ready for your inspection
anc * selection in our New Xmas Department.
(Take the Lift.)
Christmas and
Hew Year Cards
FOR 1899 and 1900.
rpo come to business at once, here is our PRICE
IST of CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR
CARDS, CALENDARS, &c.
NO. 1 Box contains 6 Beautiful Cards and
Envelopes. Post Free, Bd.
NO. 2 Box contains 9 Artistic Folding Cards
and Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 6d.
r, 3 Box contains 9 Exquisitely Designed
Elding Cards and Envelopes. Po-t Free, Is. 6d
NO. 4 Box contains 12 Choice F< Id ng Auto-
graph Cards and Envelopes. Post 1 re,, Is. 6d.
5 Box contains 20 Specially Selected High-
class Cards. Post Free, Is. 6d.
, 6 Box contains 8 Well-assorted Cards
(Black and White) and Envelopes. Post Free,
tt 1 ? 0- LP 0X conta iis 10 Cards of Exceptional
Value (Black and White) and Envelopes. Post
Tree, 2s. 6d.
THE “ COMMONWEALTH ” Box of 20 Cards
and Booklets, with Envelopes. Post Free 3s.
THE CABINET ” of 25 Cards. Post Free,
Is. 4d. :
‘‘CHRISTMAS MESSAGES’’Box of 10 Cards
and Booklets, with Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 4d.
THE “ CHIMING BELLS ” Packet of 25 Cards. ;
Post Free, Bd. :
II. J MERRY BELLS ” Packet of 50 Cards. •
Post Free, Is. 4d. ;
LOOSE CARDS, 6d., Is., 25.,35.,45., 65., 9s. and ;
12s. per dozen. Post Free. '
AUTOGRAPH CARDS, 8 in a box, with (
Envelopes. Post Free, Bd. 10 in a box, with (
Envelopes. Post Free, Is. 3d. ;
VIEWS OF SYDNEY. Post Free, 6d. (
THE BOOKLET OF THE YEAR.-“Austral’s y
Sunny Climes. Charming Vignette Views in y
Black and White, each with artistic border and 3
appropriate Christmas and New Year Mottoes for i
friends abroad. The whole enclosed in an i
embossed cover, cream and gold, with half-tone >
illustration, “An Australian River Scene,” and y
neatly tied with silk cord and tassel. No. 1 's
New South Wales; No. 2, Victoria; No 3’ ,
Queensland. Price, Is. each. Post Free ’ y
Calendars for 1960 from 2d. to 10s. 6d. each. i
Customers writing from a distance can send \
stamps. New South Wales stamps will do. 3
Hordern Brothers, f
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney f
EYE
DISEASES
The Remedy
of the Age
For Sore Eyes,
Sandy Blight, In-
flammation, &c.
CURED!
Hickson’s Celebrated Eye Water
A safe, sure, and speedy remedy for all diseases of the
eye. Highest testimonials. Price, 25., posted 2s. 6d.
If not obtainable locally send stamps or postal note to
Proprietor, R. HICKSON, Rockdale, N.S.W.
T(ed jsird Quality.
Found oijly on
1900 JUodel
Red Birds.
A high-grade bicycle must be high-grade in all parts; but bow many cycles
can stand a really close inspection. Here is one point! Examine their
pedals and you will find them cheap rattle-traps riveted and pressed to-
gether. Compare them with the Red Bird pedal, with its solid steel centre
and corrugated, indestructible side plates which may be adjusted to fit the
shoe. Ours cost twice as much as other pedals to make: but cost isn’f
taken into consideration in building Red Birds.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by
Che 6oold Bicycle Co., Ctd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
f ’ everywhere.
Australasian Branches: 64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia
261 Coluns-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
WE WILL TAKE YOUR OLD MACHINE IN EXCHANGE AT A LIBERAL VALUATION.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney trainer “Sam ” Fielder’s luck sticks to
him. His splendid-looking colt Commander, by Projec-
tile from Hirondelle, bought for 150 gs. at last‘Autumn
sales, ran unbacked at Warwick Farm on Saturday week,
but finished well. In Moorefield Nursery Stakes, last
Saturday, he beat a numerous field from start to finish
winning 1 easily, tor a big ’un, Commander begins very
quickly and be gallops beautifully; he bids fair to give
the best two-year-olds of the season a great shaking up—
Hautboy and YVigelmar of eour.se included. An otfer of
IOOOgs. for Commander after his win elicited the response
‘Nit for sale.” He is entered for A.J.C. December and
Champagne Stakes (no penalty), Derby, St. Leger, Ascot
n a m Delb .V'. Spring Stakes and St. L -ger, also
Caulfield Guineas. Cute ‘‘ Sain” has thus seen to it that
his promising two-year-old is exceedingly well engaged.
Cast Iron, Iron Hoop, and Hoop Iron wore
among entries for Moorefield (Sydney) Race, Saturday
last, but none of them turned out “*»:ood iron” for
punters.
• * * *
Totalisator opponents argue that the introduc-
tion of the machine into M.L. sent several clink-
ing horses 'Ome. Victoria and N.S.YV. haven’t
vet got the tote, but Carbine, Abercorn, Aurum, Trento'n
Patron, Cranberry, Australian Star, Chesney, Maluma.
Survivor, and numbers of others, are either “down
under ’or moving in that direction. The truth is that
owners get bigger money for their nags in England than
here.
• » • •
Turf scribes have been puzzled re cable that
Australian nag and Sydney Summer Cup winner Tornado,
„. t .®^' vin , nl "l; two events (J. E. Brewer up) at Hawthorn
tliil (England) was disqualified through “ insufficient des-
oriptwn. ’ English rules provide that “ a horse foaled out.
of the United Kingdom shall not be qualified to start
until a foreign certificate and a certificate of age has been
lodged at the registry office,” &c„ &e. This was proba-
bly overlooked. Apropos. Tornado’s purchase was the
result of a toss whether buyer should give £5O or nothing;
seller won. 6 ’
• • • •
Victoria Turf Club (Geraldton, W.A.) pub-
lished programme for Nov. 9 and 11 is before writer.
Conditions of Y’ictoria Cup (handicap) are : “ Prize £BO
being sweepstake of 1 sov. with 70 sovs. added, second
„°'" se frm " stake. Nomination £2, acceptance £2.”
Where does ‘BO come in if added money is only £7O ?
Does the club reckon on no more nor less than 10 entries
to provide the extra tenner per medium of the sweep-
stake? In any case, should half-a-seore of nags accept
owners will subscribe 50 sovs. of 80 given. Mark the
conditions of Geraldton Cup (second dav) : “ Prize £l2O
a sweepstake of 2 sovs. with 100sovs. added, second
horse £2O from stake. Nomination £3, acceptance £3.”
f e / e tb e absolutely-10 nags come in again to supply the
extra £2O, and we have owners contributing £BO of the
money (£100) offered for winning horse. Truly have the
Western turfites hit upon a new and extremely profitable
manner of dealing with prize-money. Usually an owner’s
liability extends no further than paying nomination and
acceptance fees, and the sweepstakes go to the winner—
not to make up shortage in added money.
• • • •
Rarely are a mare and her four-year-old son
seen competing in the same race, as ha opened recently in
M.L.. when the old Sydney trotting mare. Yum Yum,
and her son Waitekaun, competed. Yum Yum scored a
win on each day of Auckland meeting. Mr. “Bob”
»Sn W h h iH USed fc ° °'l7 > Yuu ' Yum in Sydney, is now a
station-holder near Cooma (N.S.YV.). He still loves a
and hls bu Sk r .V-horse, a big, raking, black
of JU,li ° r ’ ** C ° nSidered the crack
««•*•* • •
Billy Miller, Australian trainer and vet.
aentist who has done some surprising things with race-
horses teeth, came home last week by the Omrah after*
10 months m Yankeeland and Britain. Most of the time
was spent in Chicago where he qualified for a diploma.
He brings excellent credentials from the crack ’Ome
trainer and vet. Day, whose sick horses Day says Miller
did wonders with “Billy” tells that erstwhile light-
weight Australian champion pug -“Gentleman ” George
Dawson—is stdl m Chicago with a big bank credit and
several solid investments ; he measures 45in. round the
chest and scales 14£st., all as hard as nails. George gives
lessons in physical culture after the style of Sandow and
Co., and makes good money. Griffo—still confined in
Dunning Lunatic Asylum-was mending, though at one
period considered beyond cure, and promised to be about
again before the year ended. Grizzly Joe Goddard had
acquired a big pub. and plenty of funds. Other Aus-
tralians were doing well.
* * * *
A ¥’ L \ b ™ is , er > Otto Cribb, at Golden Gate
~ (Sydney), Monday night scored another win, landing
Rivfl- i^f ate /xr o n ?,A‘ rood Btake ( £5I) ) thereby. YVhiiom
Riverstone (N.S.YV.) meat-works butcher, Jack Tuckwell,
is Cribb s latest victim, and promised to be the stiffest
contract Otto had taken on, but he wasn’t anything like
as tough as the “ Poet,” Tuckwell has the deepest chest
writer ever saw and is a mass of muscle ; he got down so
low, spread his legs so wide apart and shaped in such a
w’a.V as to bring the queer old engravings of pugs of 150
years back before one’s mind’s eye. Cribb showed im-
provement on previous form, and was in better condition
than on the occasion of any of his seven or eight preced-
ing successes; he needed it, too, for the other man
fought desperately and strongely. Bashing began in the
second round w hen the M. L. man-eater got Jack on the
chin and following up made a mess of his face ; and kept
on doing it throughout the next 3min. Tuckwell stood
up, game to the core, taking it all, t hough bewildered and
b ind at times. Midway in the fourth round Police-In-
spector Collins signalled to desist, and Cribb got the deci-
sion without showing a bruise or a spot of blood Otto
stopped several swings witli his chin, neck and face
generally, but they left no impression -might as well
punch at the trunk of a tree. Said that the “point”
with him is rendered invulnerable owing to the fact that
he spends half-an-hour every morning punching at either
side wuth both hands.
* * • •
Australian feather Cox and Kaffir Essler met a
second time at Golden Gate, A.C. (Sydney) on Saturday
ntght. Weights were announced as-Cox 8.8, Essler
8.4. Former appeared 81b. heavier and latter was
afterwards found to be 51b. lighter. Nine sa
rounds were fought. About the middle of the
tenth Cox s left made heavy impact with the point, rattl-
ing the black badly. Cox was going in to finish when
referee McDonald called a halt and declared against
Ess er. YVinner hits hard and is quick on his feet, but
w'nter wants to see him up against some kn nvn good ’un
near his own weight ere venting an opinion as to his
capabilities. He looked like shirking it once or twice
when hotly pressed, especially after an accidental butt
from the Kaffir s tough cranium, which gashed the left
eyebrow and brought blood. There was little merit in
the win, for the Kaffir was at least a stone lighter half-a-
foot shorter in stature and many inches in reach. Both
v ?, 1 7 «Pe"—Sssler particularly so. Cox should have
won with his left alone and never received a punch.
By Saturday’s Yankee mail-boat, Moana, comes
news that Joe Choynski beat Australian Jem Rvan at
New York, Oct. 20, in seventh round after giving him no
hope from time. Same two had met previously, when
Kyan made a good showing ; sports consequently watered
rounds th FfL h n ld au I rvive the stipulated half-score of
fhP world y ~ a u KOI ? d a boxer as ever shed a singlet
the class (middle-weight), and with all
rin/wss plp ll b “r neces sary towards success in the
A , unreliable. Same night, but at Baltimore,
rain in fi l° Do " ne11 tackled and settled Jake Kil-
tU hi ?hitd i S Vu Steve cou 'dn’t land a glove on Jake
the fofirlh ho u' K , tben . on,y o,lc e or twice slightly. In
the fourth he had the American, badly dazed. Kilrain is
J h [ "slml-m f fo ' , H! lt 80 rounds (prize-ring rules) with
and latpr w the world’s championship, years back,
Frank nde^ fco (N.S. W.) blacksmith,
ati-lv pvi-iti> ’ 1,1 e il v y 2', k ’• af£er nine rounds of desper-
Kilrairl is *4 "'this'y ear. m S,avin that time.
* * • •
l aBfc we fk tllat bruisers Corbett and
about Sem1 e p e v n r ma Che l t 0 Hf'l't —probably in Paris-
T ,^ X K* , ' ear * ame old game-only worse. J.
more than stv , ml«*n Qn, u in^ orai ' ies never Bxed a match
do YalkelZml I th ® ahead ‘ J effries and Corbett will
wave off ad oil; df ‘f e " tlmeB over now as “ actors” and
engacld-ti, cb V' "77 a u n,afcch with “ w e’re already
It s anv nddlll m at the be £ lnnin fi’ of next century.”
isalitUefpt , t ,l y f l U ,e - ernieet ’ and fchat the “match’*
a yelland^tn7ap°p e^^ r ;Z,’?” keepoUt ° f fche biz ' for
T * .* * •
Vi„:, ja^ ky ex-champion Bob Fitzsimmons got into
lishma1 a ilff n Th ChlCa ' 0 ’ 7 fc - 28, vvhen he punched Eng-
f -ppIiII f Jeff . T f h °rue out in less than a minute. The
best k itvl'i a C nH • reak J? said to have shaped quite in his
hemuh,?| nd r enTho o e ri ° hope from the moment
he ll tPd ihp o 8 i' P i administering the quietus,
he lifted the punched-out bruiser bodily from Hie floor
Sam C Eit r 7 n d f h -"1 to . h ' B C 4 ° rner while thousands applauded.
MatlaiidfNsw’fh 6 A K US i ra ' ia " C °met,” an erstwhile
him a Lert N,S ' W ' } man ’ had Thonie in ha nd, and thought
* • • *
a,;alhi77L‘‘, M 1 d l’- Bish ° P ave a taste of his
fSvdnPvMp.t « y l B - band,c aP at Farmer’s Domain Baths
n T, e l last Sat urday, when he dashed over the course
best fn s r Ti;7sT rd ' • World’s champion Fred Lane's
fraction th dlstance 111 sal,le lj atlis was 25 and some
* * * .
The 150 yds. swimming championship of Lon-
thlmblVp°lf1 y t he httle Sydneyite Jack Hellings about
millhioH t- f las t month Two years’ residence in London
qualified him. Jack had been laid up for some time
before, and consequently was not too fit, but still the race
mVfn 1 SL’ He finished five yds ahead-easing off-
Tsri ixr , 5 j ’ w,llcil eclipses Green’s record (1-47), The
and Londl-dlltilibt tiUer PioriBhipS ° f ° ity ° f L ° nd °‘ l
* * * *
Englishmen claim to have in D. Billington the
boy champion swimmer of the world. Last month at
Bacup he beat Wildgoose in a 1000yds. scratch-race by
half-a-yard. Time, 14min. 50sec. This lowers Tvers’
Venn , 15l “ ln ’ 2s ® c -)> P ufc II P in ’94. Wildgoose won the
1000yds. Eng. championship at Southport last Aug., and
was second m long-distance and mile premiership of same
Prev, °usly Billington had filled second place
in 1000yds. supremacy of Britain. y
* * • *
atTh? ; str , on £ tennis-team sent to represent
W - a t the recent Vic. tournament brings back the
bulk of the tin-plate competed for. The team won every
championship but the singles, but ex-Victorians, in Irvin"*
ana Miss Howitt, had a hand in them all. Sturdy Miss
Howitt, who must by now have enough tinware to' stock
a S Vu P 7 a A e ,Y e( l in the ladies ’ singles, the ladies’doubles
(with Miss Clift), and the mixed doubles with Gaden.
The surprise of the meeting was the defeat of the
hitherto-invincible combination, Rice and Gaden by
Irving and the improving Goddard. N.S.W. won the all-
round team championship by only three points.
* • • *
Looks as if the cricket trouble between S A
and N.S.W. will be settled shortly, if former is genuine
m professed desire, hut Sydneyites are suspicious that
such is not the case. N.S.W. offered S.A. £lOO towards
exes, of a team to Sydney, but this was refused, and a
suggestion made that two delegates from each province
with full power to arrange matters, be sent to'Melb to-
day. At a meeting of N.S.W.C.A., on Monday nioht the
proposal found favor, “ so that,” as “ Dick ” Shute piit it
the South Australians should not be allowed to wriggle
out of what they never really wanted to enter into”
During the debate, it was pointed out that, if the SA
suggestion had been in force since the series of matches
be H a c’* Se 'l en years a #°> N -S. W. would have netted £1226
ana o.a. Jbi^yo.
Waverley (Sydney) has developed a ‘promising
young howler, S. Howard, who gets a deal of twist on the
best wickets, and is second only to MoKibbin in this
respect. Told that when he played with Woollahra
against Crown-street (public schools), Trumper was one
of latter team, and Howard scattered his stumps first
ball. Both were top-notchers in their departments—
hence it was champion against champion.
* • * *
The recent eight-oar race, rowed in Melbourne
was, lo say the least of it, badly managed. It rained
hard and cold, and whilst the N.S.W. and S A crews
rowed to the start Vic. and Q. drove cosily down, leaving
N.S.W. and S.A. shivering.on the water for fully an hour
after the agreed-upon time of starting.
* * * *
A few years back the King River was noted as
one of the bestTas. fishing streams, but when operations
began at the Mt. Lyell smelters, fish seem to have de-
serted the King, though in the Gordon and other rivers
flowing into Macquarie Harbour, fishing is as good
as ever. The drainage from Queentown and vicinitv
runs into the King river. J
•->■•*
“Cue”: Billiard item. One night, in a N.S.W.
country town, I was playing billiards with a prominent civil
servant, when a lady strode into the room, and planked a
year old baby on the table. She said nothing, hut she
looked an awful lot, I had a break on at the time and
was “ nursing” ’em nicely, but babs knocked the balls all
over the sh >p. The civil servant took the youm-ster
away, and returned and finished the game, but I don’t
think he ever played again. Tim lady was his wife I
could never find out what she did it for, hut to plank an
infant on top of all three balls just when one has got them
into an excellent position is exactly the sort of thins- a
woman would do. ®
* * * *
“N”: Bill was playing fan-tan. Four times
no 2 came up, each time Bill doubled on the deuce At
last, a small heap was on the table. Before the cover was
on the discs and while the Chinese were rowing I counted
them. There were 18, therefore the 2 must come up
Yet Gje Sam See and I saw him deliberately sweep six
aW fn’ -, 1 b ! ooked his ha,ld > with a yell from all the Chows.
All u , he said, “fair fella,” and continued countin'** as
he put the 2 back again. He lifted the cover The
wmnmgnumber was 4. Outside Bill cursed me for a fool.
that Chow, ’ he said, “ was our cook at Dagworth, and
idTot” red hIUI With bal£ wi,lnin KS. You spoilt me, you
* * * »
Coloeynth : Funniest thing present writer has
seen for a long time hangs in the bar of a pub. in Oxford-
street, Sydney. It is a gaudily-illuminated ode in a
costly frame, congratulating Boniface on his success in
backing the right horse in a recent big race.
* • * *
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables -plate
jewellery, papers, etc.—at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (hack of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. VVe would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
Between Auckland (M.L.) and Great Barrier
Island pigeons are now used for carrying messages.
Record time each way, 50min. (60 miles).
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Inventor Marconi, it is cabled, has sold to
a Yankee syndicate the patent rights of wireless
telegraphy for two millions sterling.
Quite in the highest style of “ Minerva
Press” romance was the suicide of two lovers who
recently drowned themselves near Brisbane. The
bodies were found united by a fastening at the
wrists, and the pair had left a written statement
of their determination to die together.
The success of the. motion in S.A. Assem-
bly providing that members of the Federal Parlia-
ment shall not represent constituencies in the
local legislature, has spurred to concerted action
several members of N.S.W. Labor-party. In
S.A. the motion passed on the voices, and it is
anticipated a similar motion would carry a large
majority in N.S.W. The advantage such a motion
offers is that, if carried, the small-fry N.S.W.
member would be better able to read his Parlia-
mentary horoscope.
Apropos the Vic. parson who married to
an unsuspecting swain the girl whom he (the
parson) had seduced, and who was about to be-
come a mother. What a cheek that gentle
shepherd must have had to formally inquire, when
reading the marriage-ceremony, whether anyone
present knew of any just cause or impediment,
&c. ! Picture the good clergyman bidden by con-
science to “marry the girl ” and promptly marry-
ing her—to another fellow. And—the irony of it
all!—the child, having been born in wedlock, is
legitimate.
A crank writing to Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, revives the old craze about the English
being identical with the Lost Ten Tribes. He
strikes solid fact, however, in this sentence
“Mr. H. S. S. Bond, whom I know and respect,
would not have written as he did in your issue of
this day had he realised that this war was evi-
dently a part of the great plan for giving the
whole world to the seed of Abraham, as is re-
peatedly reiterated in the Scriptures of truth.”
Grainger, of Wallaroo, has a motion on
the notice paper that the work of dividing S. A.
into Parliamentary constituencies for the first
■Federal election should be undertaken at once.
Query : How many constituencies ? If Westralia
comes in, S.A. will have seven members, and
needs to be divided into seven constituencies. If
Westralia doesn’t come in, S.A. will have only six-
members. Westralia’s adherence will add six
members to the Senate and consequently 12 to
the Federal House of Representatives, for the
latter is to be twice the size of the Senate. But
while Westralia will have the whole six additional
senators it will only have five of the 12 additional
representatives, the remaining seven being divided
among the other provinces. This arithmetical
problem appears to be beyond the scope of the
average M.P.
The oppression of British subjects in W. A.
(that is the good old anti-Boer phrase) grows worse
as Com Forrest blunders along. Last week about
a dozen alluvial diggers (the Outlanders who
under Oom Forrest's government, are taxed prac-
tically without representation, and who supply at
least four-fifths of the revenue, and constitute
two-thirds of the population, while having about
one-twentieth of the political authority) were
arrested for ‘‘ stealing ore ” —the ore which they
fP 6 themselves, only Oom Forrest and his
\\ A. Boers confiscated it by Act of Parliament.
I hey were brought up at Kalgoorlie police court
at 7 a.m.j when they were necessarily unrepre-
sented by counsel, for all the legal talent, was in
bed. I hen they were hustled off to Fremantle
hundreds of miles away, for trial. At Fremantle
the Oom John Ministry can get a conviction
against nearly anybody if it is in dead earnest
about it. When is that Contingent going to be
raised to relieve the oppressed and practically-dis-
fianclnsed British subject in WAA. from the
tyranny of Oom John ?
Miss Elsie Stanley Hall, daughter of Mrs.
W. Stanley Hall, of Toowoomba, Queensland
whose portrait appears in this number, has very
fair grounds for being considered the most finished
woman piamste that Australia has yet added to
the comparatively little list of women who can
play the piano almost to the top of its limi-
tations. A gentle nature, combined with
that blessed gift of the gods, the temperament for
taking infinite pains ; an energetic mamma always
beside her to prompt the gentleness into a fair
state of activity ; a genuine, talent that just isn’t
genius perhaps ; and an exquisite, if strictly
feminine and angelic touch ; these are what
make Elsie Stanley Hall a delight to lovers of good
music. In many ways—in every one of the above
enumerated in fact, not omitting the energetic
mamma-Elsie Hall resembles Maud MaeCarthy
the girl violiniste. The business strain that in-
duces artists to feel the temper of the house and
feed it with the food it wants, is lacking in these
girlish players, who delight in playing over the
heads of the back rows and have neither of them,
yet, made great financial successes in Australia. ’
In ancient days, when grabbing land,
The Hebrew used his own right hand ;
And with that same right hand did smite
The God-acoursed Atnalekite,
And other sons of Shem;
But modern Jew's are wiser quite,
And now they let the Gentiles fight
To w'in the world for them.
The crowds may cheer at news of war.
The Jews don’t care a d n,
But Isaac, with a knowing leer,
Goes whispering in Jacob’s ear—
“ Another glorious victory for
The seed of Abraham ! ”
WHOSE SHAME?
. The returned Lancers who refused to go Boer-stickinjr
in the Transvaal, and who are now quarantined in Mel-
bourne—a judgment, of course—are said to be “ very
dubious about the reception thev will have when they
come to Sydney. They are probably not far out in their
Sr premonitions. There are asses enough in the
Jn.S.YV. metropolis to bray down anything and anybody.
A forecast in rhyme
Snug' in the thick of the crowd,
Raucous of voice and lend,
Men who had nothing to fear
Most of them hold with beer,
Cried when the Laucers came—
“ Shame to your country ! Shame ! ”
Peaceable draper-lads,
Bank-clerks, and humble cads,
Adipose men who ne’er
Saw e’en the glint of a spear,
Glint of a spear or sword,
Gathered in jackal-horde—
Hooted when the Lancers came—
“ Shame to your country ! Shame ! ”
Claim of the sire on son,
Duty that had to be done,
Reasons that no man need
Rubbish for fools to read—
These, and many beside,
Moved not the mob who cried—
Cried when the Lancers came—
“ Shame to your country ! Shame ! ”


After the Ball”
SMOKE
DCRDT
TOBACCO.
It is more than a pipe
of peace—lt relieves,
soothes, pleases, and
gratifies
Ask for “DERBY” Tobacco.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musjrrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Last, Three Weeks and Final Performances by Messrs.
Williamson & Musgrove’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
ROBIN HOOD,
AN UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
Matinee Performance —Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
Plan, Nicholson’s. g'W PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
Q RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY^
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 2,
First Production in Australia of
4 Tljs NoCiSs of WyStsry/
A Domestic Drama by Frank Harvey
(in Four Acts).
PRICES AS USUAL—3s, 2s, Is. Commence 7.45.
Business Manager and Treasurer, Harrie Skinner.
LTCE UM Til EA T RE, SY DNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
JOHN F. SHERIDAN “ Little Christopher
JOHN F. SHERIDAN Columbus.”
GRACIE WHITEFORD By George R. Sims and
GRACIE WHITEFORD Cecil Raleigh.
SATURDAY, November 2—“ FUN ON THE BRISTOL.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
RAND CONCERT. ~
Y.M.C.A. Hall, Thursday, Nov. 30.
G
ffliss Ethel Oagmar Barnett.
THE AUSTRALIAN PIANISTE.
Plan and Tickets at Paling’s. J. E. SYKES, Manager.
P ALACE TII E A 'l' RE. SVI)N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Another Great. Success. A Brilliant Triumph.
Mr. TOM COSTELLO’S new and original patriotic song,
“ MOTHERLAND.”
HOWARD & ST. CLATR.
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, Frank Rowen,
Wallace King, Arthur Hahn, J. Watts, Elsie Golding,
Lulu Zesch, Alice Jeffery, Alf. Lawton, Thorne and Dell.
POPE and SAYLES, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
TJIJOU Til EATRE, M ELBOUKNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Entire Change of Programme by
G- eo. AA7. KCnriLter.
Last Four Nights of MR. PAUL PELHAM. Sivroni.
Last Two Nights of the VALDARES.
VTRTO and IRENE, Howard Chambers, Fred Duncan,
Geo. Dean, Will Whitburn, Neva Carr Glynn, Lorrie St.
George, Little Fannie Powers, Keenan Bros., Chas.
W. Cogill, Clarence Sisters, and all our Brilliant Co.
Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
H EATRE ROY AL, M ELROITRNIi. ‘
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING !
Tbe afyd tbs Calory.
Attracting Crowded Audiences Nightly,
And Acknowledged bv Everybody to be the GRANDEST
and MOST COMPLETE STAGE PRODUCTION ever
WITNESSED in MELBOURNE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mrsouovn.
Sub-lessee, Mr. Robert Brough.
LAST FIFTEEN NIGHTS of the
Tbc BroCigb Conjcdy Coy.
FOR THREE NIGHTS ONLY
“ The Jr’liysicia.rL,”
SATURDAY, Dec. 2—TRELAWNEY OF THE WELLS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
S - Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close traws, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(nee BOLGER).
Warner’s
fwa
J
I Cure
tor all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT S DISEASE
H.H.WARNER S C°’L T i“
IMELBOURNE, AUST.
FOR
j)uck Shooting
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORB GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Ilacltham’s Doff and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS—
PMEIi BUS. ® RISC» [td.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
rJIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South IValet' Barbers’ Supply House.
WHAT KRUGER WANTS BADLY
(Just Now)
A Cool Head!
LIKE MOST PEOPLE THIS HOT WEATHER. To be
obtained by using
Federal Sbarppoo Freezer
(A Dry Shampoo). Ask Chemists and Barbers for it.
Elliott Bros., Agents, Sydney.
*
A
£ > £RF£&
n
THE
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEY
Sole Pistribfttios Ageo*
for AOStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street, Sydney .
noRTi Quesnsiino nance comping umiToo.
Balance Sheet
DR. AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1899-
£
a. d. £ a. d.
To Capital Account—
-Ist issue 100,000 at
±T each £lOO,OOO
Less Uncalled ... 60,000
60,000 0 0
2nd Issue 13,750 at
£1 each ... £13,750 0 0
Less Uncalled 10,312 10 0
• 3,487 10
~ Reserve Fund
~ Amounts owing for Re-insurance
~ Sundry Creditors
~ Unadjusted Claims
~ Revenue Account
0
—53,437 10 0
. 15,000 0 0
. 5,438 13 6
. 3,835 13 9
. 3,633 0 0
. 6,107 0 6
£86,451 17 8
By Deposits at Call
„ Fixed Deposits
„ Freehold Property
„ Mortgage Loans
„ Debentures ...
& s. d.
... 5,000 0 0
...29,093 12 1
...27,874 8 8
... 300 0 0
... 120 0 0
Queensland Government
Savings Bank Stock ... 5,050 0 0
Cash on hand and at
Bankers 2,816 13 6
„ Sundry Debtors
„ Bills Receivable
„ Branch and Agency Balances
„ Premiums Outstanding
„ Reinsurance Claims and Return Pre-
miums Outstanding
„ Office Furniture
£ d.
70,254 14 8
627 18 4
733 5 0
8,063 7 1
3,535 17 3
2,602 11 6
734 3 9
£86,451 17 8
REVEKTXJB ACCOUNT
£ s. d.
To Losses 33,362 11 7
„ Reinsurance and Return Premiums ... 69,976 15 5
~ Charges (including Salaries, Rent, Direc-
tors’ Fees, Af-ency Commission, Legal
and all other Expenses) 20,818 6 5
~ Balance carried down 4,173 14 2
118,331 7 7
To Balance
~£6,107 0 6
By Premiums
„ Commission, Bent and Interest.
£ s. d.
116,226 14 3
3,104 13 4
By Balance brought down
„ Balance from last year
£118,331 7 7
... 4,173 14 2
933 6 3
£5,107 0 6
RESERVE FXTKT 3D
£ s. d.
15,000 0 0
To Balance 30th September, 1899 ...
£15,000 0 0
By Balance at 80th September, 1898
£ 8. d.
... 16,000 0 C
£16,000 0 0
Sydney, 20th November, 1899. CHARLES DANVERS, General Manager.
1 the undersigned, certify that having compared the balances with the amounts shown in the books,
examined all Vouchers and Securities, find the above Balance Sheet and Revenue Account to be correct.
A. R. TROUP, F.S.I.A. Auditor.
Aggregated
Balance Sheet
» Tbe Baijk of New SoGtb Wales
SEPTEMBER 30, 1899.
LIABILITIES. £ s. d. £ 8. d-
Notes in Circulation ... 833,454 0 0
Deposits and Accrued
Interest. 19,099,321 2 5
.. 19,932,775 2 5
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
inelud Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at credit of Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident
Fund)' 2,406,763 4 0
Paid up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
R. serve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 114,396 13 9
3,264,396 13 9
£25,603,935 0 2
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits and Endorse-
ments, as per contra 199,176 18 6
£25,803,111 18 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances
Money at Short Call in
London
British and Colonial Gov-
ernment Securities ...
Municipal and other
Securities
Queensland Government
Notes
Notes of other Banks ...
Due by other Banks ...
£ s. <L
4,761,552 2 0
585,008 4 fi
979,965 1 9
137,124 7 11
139,700 0 0
16,646 0 0
95,032 18 9
£ s. d
6,715,028 14 10
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit 3,053,861 9 1
Loans and Advances to Customers... 16,187,544 16 3
Bank Premises ... ... 647,500 0 0
£25,603,935 0 2
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts as per
Contra ...' ... 199,176 18 6
£25.803,111 18 8
PROFIT AND LOSS, SEPTEMBER 30, 1899.
£ s. d.
1899.
Sept. 30.
To Rebate (at current rates)
on Bills Discounted not
due at this date 6,630 4 9
„ Dividend at the rate of 9
per cent, per annum ... 87,750 0 0
~ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Loss,” New Account 20,016 9 0
£114,396 13 9
1899. £ s. d.
Mar. 31. By Amount from last Account 18,222 12 4
Sept. 30. „ Balance of Half-year's Pro-
fits after providing for
Bad and Doubtful Debts,
reducing the Valuation
of Hank Premises, and in-
cluding recoveries from >
Debts previously written
ofl as Bad 96,174 ,i 6
£114,396 13 9
RESERVE FUND, SEPTEMBER 30, 1899.
1899.
Sept. 30.
V
/.•/ .
y .
■
'//
fth .
& s. d.
To Balance 1,200,000 0 0
(of which £600,000 is in-
vested in British Govern-
ment Securities, and the
balance is employed in the
business of the Bank)
£1,200,000 0 0
1899.
Mar. SI. By Balance
1899.
Sept. 30. By Balance
£ s. d.
... 1,200,000 0 0
£1,200,000 0 0
.. £1,200,000 0 0
i. RUSSELL FRENCH, Guuuui> Manaqxr.


CbristnjaS Presets.
N*w Year (Sifts-
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
ENDLESS VARIETY
UNEQUALLED VALUE
No. Es72l.—Elegant Bild Brooch,
Whole Pearl, 15c.' Gold, £llss.
mßm
No. 155.— Artistic Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 8 Sapphires,
m ios.
No. E 2448. —New Design, Bird and Amethyst
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 12s. 6d.
No. 660. —Elegant Brooch, 21 Fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £8 7s 6d.
No. E 5629. —New Lucky Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 146. —15c. Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds 2 Sapphires,
,' . . £4 los.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s. 6d ;
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 206.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, 11s 6d.
No. 214.—Neck Chain, 9c. 18s 6d ; 15c. £llss.
No. 213. —9c. Gold Neck Chain, £1 2s 6d.
Mo. 215.—Pearl ar.d
Ruby Heart, 9c. Gold!,;
16s 6d
m
Jfo. 141a. —9c. Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2 10s.
No. E5206.~9e. Gold “ Prince of Wales ** Long Muff Chain.
Finest make, £2 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
No. 282.—Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s 6d.
Shoe Lift to match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
No. E 5203. —9c. Gold Long Muff Chain, £3 5s ;
15c. Gold, ±‘s 15s.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Hair Brushes,
20s, 22s 6dj 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355.
As Illustration, £1 2s 6d.
Silver Mounted Combs,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d.
As Illustration, 10s ed.
9c. Peai'l Initial Brooch,
any Letter, 6s 6d.
No. 271a.—Solid Silver Hat Brush,
61in. long, 11s 6d.
Glove Stretcher, Solid Silver Handles, Ivory Points,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d.
As Illustration, ±1 2 6d.
No. 173.—Finest White
Diamond, £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 162.
8 fine Diamonds, 18c.,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 261. —Medal.
9c. Gold, £1 Is ; 15c. £ll7s 6d
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 168a.—18c. Band
Ring, set Fine Diamond,
from £3 to £6 10s.
No. 171a.—18c. Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
No. 220.—Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £4 10 6 15c. Gold, £7 10 0 Silver, 14s 6d
9c. Double, 615 0 15s. Double, 10 15 0 Double, 20s.
No. 179a.—Set Links.
9c. Golden Is. 15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s 6d.
Silver Plated Serviette
Rings, hexagon
design, ss.
No. 193.—Set Links.
Sc., 15s 6d ; 15c„ £1 10s.
Silver, 4s. Gd.
Nq. 142.—Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9c. Gold, £8 3s ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller Sizes in 9c., 35s and 50s.
Smaller Sizes in 15c., 65s and 87s 6d.
Gent’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £3 17 6
Dc. Double, 6 6 0
15c. Gold, £6 6 0
15c. Double, 9 10 0
Silver, 15s 6d
Double, 21s.
No. 175.—Carved Half
Hoop, 5 Fine Diamonds,
£l7 10s, £22, £25 to £5O.
18c. Gold Wedding
Rings,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 50s.
No. 231 a —lsc. Gold Locket,
set with 3 Diamonds and
4 Sapphires, £4 10s.
No. 182. Marquise
Rings, Fine White
Diamonds, v
£lslos, .£2O, £25-£4O
No. 167.—1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 ss.
Gent's Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £2 17 6, £3 3 0 15c. Gold, £4 17 6, £5 17 6 Silver, 8/6
9c. Double, 317 6, £4 15 0 15c. Double, 615 0, 10 10 0 Double, 12 6
No. 196a.— Set Links.
9c. Gold, 17s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llss. Silver, 4/6
Silver Plated Serviette
Bing, semi-circular or tri-
angular designs, ss.
No. 200a.— Set Links.
9c. Gold, 18s 6d. 15c. Gold,
LI 15s. Silver, 5s 6d.
Fine Silver-Plated Shaving- Mug and
Brush, 358.
New Design Toast Rack, Silver I' " i.
lfis
sgaraatfi;
m.
m
Finest Out-Glass, Silver
Top, 14sj6d, 21s, 30s,- /
37s 6d.
Pair Silver-Plated Knife Rests, 21s.
Silver-Plated Out-Glass
Butter Dish, with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. KG4I3. —Silver Mounted Cloth Brush.
> Elaborately chased, 12J4in. long, £2 10s.
Handsome Toilet Set.
Finest Cut-Glass and Solid Silver Mounts, 5 Pieces, £lO.
i-
fS$S
. lift
I? S
f&w;
■*27>
£-2&
w&<?-
r • - ■ i '•*
' „-j!.
KgMmi€m>
mm.
i±j>Bi.-s!
Hull Set Combination Brushes and Manicure Instruments,
Solid Silver, Mounted in Handsome Case, £S.
v~V
wmQiM®'.
SSHBi
m
D
Ml
No. B3732.—Combination Spirit-Stand and, Cigar Cabinet.
Handsome Oak Frame, Nickel Silver Mounts, Finest Cut-Glass Bottles, £5.
Dainty Serviette Holders,
Solid Silver, 8s 6d. Silver-Plated, Is.
Silver-Plated Egg Frame, 255.
No. E 4086. —Silver-Plated Sugar Bowl, with
Sifter, 15s Cd.
Marmalade Jar and Spoon
Out-Glass and Silver-
Plated, 6s 6d.
Cut-Glass Scents,
Silver Top, 11s 6d,
21s, 255, 30s.
Silver Fruit Knives, Pearl Handles,
: (id, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each.
I
as
No. 340. —Elegant Silver-Plated Ink Stand, llin. long, 2 Cut-
Crystal Bottles'; Emu, Kangaroo, or Horse, in centre, £2 10s.
NOTE. -The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the: new twjl exquisite fiaracter of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free. t
DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street, and Strand,
LONDOM, IMELBOXIRWrE, AXTCKLA-ND, PERTH.
STEWART
Sydney, N.S.W.


N": RaSSnjOSSco’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
a
'
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALIb E UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleamed the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but tc
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oeH-efit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very trulv,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THUS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST OFp|
v TOjltmCTmDiiimililfTi11 11 l
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Alfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A if aline BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. anrl 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere-
!>
■
V
\
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Hate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
•WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his' branches the
addresses ■of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADYICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGLSTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head •
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—•
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
■ mmi&m —am mm lu i mm m —— a—ks
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
MPORTANT.
ADVICE FREE.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I. TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many* remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS. Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free ,
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Kheumatisip, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for ouglis, Colds, • onsumption, hrom-hitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujuhes-Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful f >r Beautifying the Complexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
A fa'in 3 Electric Suspender Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herrßassmussen’s Head Office 4 547 GEORGE ST., SUOnE!)
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS : * f
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Slienton-street (opposite P. 0.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassinusaen’a advt. on Dace
27 of this issue.*
FASHION ABLE TAILORING
—AT—
■A Moderate Price »
TF one wants to dress well (and, of course, everyone
does), the tailor's bill is a somewhat serious item of
personal expenditure. There is a great difference be-
tween paying two or three guineas for a suit and four or
five. The difference amounts to an extra suit a year, and
an extra suit will enable you to appear always dressed
like a gentleman. By patronising 0. O. HATTE, of New-
town (Sydney), you may always be well dressed whilst
your tailors bill will be no greater than before, when
you had to continue using the old garments after their
beauty and freshness had departed.
For some time past HATTE has made a special
feature of his Tailoring Department. Ilis Home buyers
forward regular shipments of the newest and most
seasonable goods, bought direct from the manufac-
turers, so that you have an immense assortment for
selection.
Special Rooms have been fitted up at his establishment
for the carrying on of this large and increasing depart-
ment ; and as all the garments are made on the pre-
mises, there is no slop or factory work, but everything
Is turned out in the best possible style.
Hatte has also engaged one of the crack outters in
the colony, so that a perfect fit may be relied on. In this
way you secure the choicest materials, the most fashion-
able style, and the finest finish, at prices at least thirty
per cent.’ under those charged by ordinary city houses.
His Two-Guinea Suits (including extra pair of trousers)
are a marvel of cheapness, and hundreds are turned out
every week, giving unqualified satisfaction. Try one.
They are just the thing for the present season.
If you live at a distance and cannot pay a personal
visit, write for patterns and self-measurement forms and
your orders will be completed equally well and satisfac-
torily. You will get no such value anywhere else.
CST" Carriage paid by Rail or Boat in N.S. VV.
C G. HATTE,
NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
flre you Run Down ?
The present summer promises to he a
Severe one. Weak people, therefore,
Should fortify themselves by taking a
bourse of
Minerva Tonic
For promoting an appetite, strengthen-
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINEKVA as “an
admirable tonic, ” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australia.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
E.H., Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
GOOD KAIR FOR. ALL!
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has pained a World wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. ed. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul, & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT H. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
The Life of the System.
HELD
WE recommend these Bitters to be taken two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children, For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, and Cutaneous
Affections. The action of Dandelion, more especially upon the liver and kidneys, is more reliable
for removing all impure secretions than any other medicinal plant known. Persons suffering
from Skin Diseases will find these Bitters invaluable. Directions for Use : One wineglass-
ful three times a day after meals, diluted with same quantity of water. Eor young people, about
half the quantity twice a day.
PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
READ WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row A Co.—With thanks for forwarding' me a bottle of your Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and
consider them most excellent, and superior to many others that I have previously tried.
Port Adelaide, Oct. 30, 1886. Yours faithfully, Hknry Charles Curtis, M.R.C.S., England.
CAUTION—Ask for
Row’s Dandelion Bitters
AND TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
SYDNEY.
B
Mil
m
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
if
Sold Throughout the Wond.
N.B, ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
\
rtSK for
f 3
COMBINES
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
WHISKY
3
£V£ ?
t/u*
Rational Cash Registers.
Storekeepers’ CoCipoo Register -*■
BTo. 02.
USERS . .
OPINIONS .
" All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
‘‘Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and (\)„
14 Toowoomba, Q.”
»j
mm B
BENEFITS
OF USE.
o
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
e
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
•
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
• The Only True $ Effective Coupon System •
Full particulars, prices, eto.,
on application to
liNatiooal Casb Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE.—Our ONLY Australian Address—9 o KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid
Silver,
I Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d.
AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG BROOCH.
novelty Music Brooch.
Solid Gold, 10s; Sterling Silver, 2s Od.
Lucky
Moonstone.
Latest
Novelty.
BUTTERFLY BAR BROOCH, 6s 6cL
TiHCrLibßOJid^
WRTCH=O
ARZiABSEM
'/BETWEEN
ICNEMPQM
MAiNiomHmim
m
Solid Gold Cross, Mizpah and Ivy, 12s Od.
S Lucky Bells, Chain and Bamboo, 10s 6d.
2 Gold Bars, set with 2 Diamonds, 17s 6d.
2 Gold Doves
and Heart, 8s (Id.
16a., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 42s
wm
w 1
Solid Silver HAT PINS.
Length Tin.
Any Initial, 3s each.
Please Send
for OUR
Illustrated
Slips of
Novelties.
POST
FREE
Garnet PENDANT
and Gold Bird
SAFETY PIN, 5s Od.
Bird Safety Pin,
9c. Gold, 3s.
Silver Gilt, Is 3d.
Registered.
m
km
Siilisf
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Cold, 12s 6d.
Solid Gold
and
Shark’s-tooth
Pendant
BROOCH,
13s 6d.
Solid Gold
Mounted
Shark's-tooth
PENDANT,
6s 6d.
T 9 SOI ‘HOOOIia pvaj jßq-3 pjof)
JRl-
g;
a ll •
Gold Buckle 2-bar Brooch, Pearls and
Red or Blue Stones, 17s Cd.
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s.
3 Gold Bars, set with 6 Pearls.
9c., 15s; 15c., 22s 6d.
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s Cd.
O"
15c. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds & 1 Ruby,
or 2 Dinrnonfls &
1 Sapp;. re, 30s.
rx
wm.
v:
m
Bells,
i
Bells
4s 6d.
Gold, , Bell, lus 0d ; 3i
Silver, with 1 Bell, 3s 6d ; 3 .
16c., 5 Diamonds & 2 Rubies, Sapphires orOpals, 7qs.


ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
FULL SETS, £2 10s.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without itealth, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £6.
Thorough MasticatingPowerand beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
D.S.MAIR
Hit-
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/0.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold engraved Bar Brooches,
English Hall Marked, Name engraved free, 5/-; usual
price, 7/6.
D. S. Mair for Solid 15 carat gold, and first-olass Opal
Dress Ring, £1 17/6 ; usual price, £2 10/-.
D. S. Mair for Silver Hunting Keyless Watches, 16/-;
guaranteed 3 years.
Note address— 6B4: George Street, Sydney.
Xmas Gift Parcel!—A Monster
Gold Mine!!
rpO introduce our new Illustrated Catalogue, to obtain
New Customers, and make ourselves talked about,
we will send our Monster Gift Parcel, which contains all
of the following articles and a free gift for ss. ; carriage
paid in N.S.W., ss. Bd. ; any other colony, ss. lid.
Money refunded if not more than satisfied :—3O Good
Xmas and New Year Cards, 1 Cabinet of Beautifully
Embossed Stationery-, 4 Handsome Motto Pictures (2
large and 2 small), 1 Set of Draughts in Box, 1 Guide
Book to the Scientific Game of Draughts, 1 Bottle of good
Fiench Scent, 1 Magnifying Glass which will make a
“ Flea ” look the size of a “ Fly,” 1 Good Mouth Organ in
Case, 4 Meteor Balloons which display- Brilliant Meteors
and Fire Balls as they- ascend, 6 Sheets of Good Transfer
Pictures for decorating Walls, Mirrors, Ornaments, etc.,
12 assorted colored Crayon Pencils in Case, 1 Patent
Pencil Sharpener, 1 Amateur Fortune Teller (will tell
anybody’s fortune), 1 Miniature Book on Queen Victoria’s
Record Reign, 1 Golden Egg filled with Lollies, 1 Specimen
of the Celebrated Queensland “Tick” (very amusing,
his antics cause roars of laughter), and our New Illus-
trated Catalogue, which contains 4 pages of Up-to-date
Tricks and Puzzles, including the Great Transvaal War
Trick ; also as a Free Gift to all our new as well as old
Customers, we will send in each Parcel half-a-dozen good
quality Cambric Handkerchiefs. Carriagepaid in N.S.W.,
ss. Bd.; other Colonies, ss. lid. In return for the Won-
derful Value we give we certainly expect you to show
your friends the whole lot, introduce our Catalogue, and
give our name and address.
6 6 —A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6.
J
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for os. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
The B. ai)d N.Treatnjeijt
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying: to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring: Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing-memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
< ■
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
The Australian Widows’ Fend [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rPHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
- 1 - which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. ,1. K. Oldershaw, Manager .
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood 1{
ioton.
C bo
&)
4
r'.csj
rrmrn
f
'Qi'rcj
I
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
■ Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
\ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
t THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
i LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
! They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and |
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. I
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 I
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory-
attachments 330 |
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and (
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —; |
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
REGISTERED
HKSIWi™
_ «
Bucht Inflamed Eyes&lids
Weak Eyes dimness E t - s
nmm
531 GEORGE ST .
SYDNEY./^
stablishep tasgaH
o*l
mk !
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —i—
ROSES
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifie Shooters and Professional Men of all Clouet »
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only oj
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Washington H. Soul
and Co.,
GREAT DRUG EMPORIUM,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Largest, Most Varied Stock of Patent Medicines,
Chemists’ and Druggists’ Sundries, and Surgical Appli-
ances in the Southern Hemisphere. Nothing but best
quality of Goods kept. Prices are the LOWEST in the
city.
WE EARNESTLY COMMEND to all who wish to
build up their system, banish sleeplessness, give tone to
the Digestive Organs, and receive energy and capacity
for persistent efforts of mind, the Health Invigorator,
Dr. Pettifer’s Compound Syrup
of Hypophosphites,
Small Bottles, Is. 9d. each, postage, Bd.; Large Bottle,
3s. each, postage, Is. 2d.
NO OTHERSYRUP CAN BE COMPARED TO IT—
it is SUPERBLY SUPERIOR in every respect.
ENCOURAGED by this enormous success, after care-
ful consideration, and the strictest analysis by the
most competent authorities, w’e have been induced
to place on the market, ALSO AT A REDUCED
PRICE,
DR. SYMES’ EMULSION OF COD
LIVER OIL,
with HYPOPHOSPHITES of LIME and SODA,
a most Nourishing Preparation for chest and lung com-
plaints, Is 6d and 2s 6d per Bottle.
CURE TOR CORPULENCY.
Prepared by P. C. RUSSELL, of Woburn House,
London.
DOUBLE STRENGTH. Packed absolutely free from
observation, unlabelled, and at London Price.
21s per Bottle ; postage, Is 2d.
Spartan Tonic
will be found a Wonderful Blood Purifier and Stimulator.
Prices, 2s 6d and 4s.
SPARTAN LITTLE LIVER PILLS, to be taken with the
above, Is box.
SPARTAN BLOOD PILLS, to enrich the blood, Is box.
YAALA, for Indigestion, a marvellous cure, price 2s
bottle.
CITRATE OF MAGNESIA, Is bottle.
ITALIAN FRUIT POWDER, 2s.
LONDON HOSPITAL PILE OINTMENT, unapproach-
able, Is 6d per pot.
Dr. ALLEN’S OBESITY TABLETS—an absolute Cure
for Stoutness ; 5s box, guaranteed.
Dr. BUMSTEAD’S COMPOUND EXTRACT OF SARSA-
PARILLA, for Cleansing and Purifying the Blood,
Producing Bone and Muscle, 4s bottle.
CLAYTON’S INSECT POWDER, 6d and Is Tin.
WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, a splendid preparation for pro-
moting the growth of the hair ; price per bottle, Is.
ALABASTER CREAM OF BEAUTY for removing freckles
and improving the complexion ; price per bottle, 2s.
Eczene for Eczema,
An Absolute Cure. Price, 2s 6d, postage 3d extra.
Dr. Pettifer’s Fluid Magnesia,
8d and Is fid.
Crimpoline for the Hair, Is.
KEEPS THE HAIR IN EVERLASTING CURL.
Clayton’s Hair Dye, 2s 6d and 4s.
DR. FIELD’S BRAIN and NERVE PILLS, price 2s 6d,
postage 2d.
DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER and LIQUID sweetens
the breath and whitens the teeth, Is fid.
RICHARDSON’S HAIR RESTORER, 2s.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and CUCUMBER, for freckles,
etc., Is.
CLAYTON’S AMERICAN BAY RUM, Is.
THE LATEST IN PATENT NIGHT LIGHTS, 10 in a box
price Bd.
SPONGES, SPONGES, SPONGES, for everyone, all prices,
best value.
We offer the best value in
Real Badger-hair Shaving Brushes, Is fid each, usual
price 3s 6d, bought under exceptionally advantageous
circumstances. Shaving Soaps and Creams, all the best
makes.
Razors.— A beautiful assortment, best hollow-ground,
white ivory handles, highest price 10s 6d ; some at 4s 6d,
5s 6d, 6s fid, 7s 6d. We stock only the best.
Suaving Stands, with adjustable Mirrors, Cups and
Brush Rack nickel-plated, exceptional quality. Shaving
Pots every make and design, recherche patterns, in
Limoges ware, hand-painted.
Razor Strops, the best value in the city.
Military Hair Brushes, with or without Leather
Cases, Swing Mirrors, with Hair and Clothes Brush
attached.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Dressing Cases, all prices.
Xylonite Puff Boxes; Menthol, in glass-stoppered bot-
tles ; Bath Brushes, Magnifying Mirrors, Smelling Salts
Jars.
RAINBOW SILVER-MOUNTED SMELLING SALTS
I BOTTLES, the latest novelty.
Sponge Bags in all the latest patterns.
Yet another Large Shipment of Sure Catch Fly
Papers. Catch ’em alive, oh. 12 sheets for 3d.
REAL TURKEY CANARY SEED and Mixed Bird
Seeds, 61b. for Is.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
THE PREMIER CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
160 AND 268 PITT-ST-, SYDNEY,
CHURCH-STREET, PARRAMATTA,
HUNTER-STREET, NEWCASTLE.
All Letters of Inquiry Must Have
Stamps for Keply Enclosed.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and AO UNO.
X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles*
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
I’hotograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
71634 and 718 George-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send for a FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Saie Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIGH GDNS.,IONOON,ENO,


flellular ‘Vertex”
S*or Ease,
Health and
Comfort
Underwear.
*** DURING SUMMER*
TS»
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
S&S* «£:• suk «»■!
cotton, quk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, eto.
tT C , E ?V L ? LAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ Co.,
73 & 75
King'-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
of°£l U rZ r J? lian * 0 ?, Company by payment
I £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
ONCOST to .& CoTsumen 00116 ' te 001,116016(1 FREE
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
RA.HERVEY.
171 C LARENCE ST
Liqtior Habit.
INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
■L*- Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
EOcrasy
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N.B.— Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
[i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
are
Row’s Ctybrocatioi?.
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Flinders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenue, London E.O.
BALLs WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
PRAPCRS * FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
DUNCAN’S PATCNT
SLIMES
Treatment Plant
AS USED BY
PUNCANS NOYES A CO., Wyaloog, et^
3
LICENSES GRANTED.
AGENTS: '
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne .
FOREIGN STAMPS.
A RRANGED in Continents—-grand value i
50 Africa (all different), Is 3d ; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, Is 6d ; 100 Asia, 5s ;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, ss; 100
Europe, 3s. Many rarities in the larger
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for (id; 250
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. Remit P. 0.0.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
Wm. Ackland, 6 MELBOURNE. eet ’
FOREIGItf STAMPS
OEDKCaSHI
QETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, Cd ;
60 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, 6s.
Remit, by P. 0.0. P.N. Ulus, catalogues of albums and
stanips post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
Books. Books. Books.
TDOPULAR EDUCATOR —£S for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for Al. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, 10 vols.,
• 10s. for A 2 159. The History of Australian Bushranpr-
lner, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.'
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereaph street, Sydney.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES.
PARIS, FRANCE
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
“SCARLET * BLUE”
Grand Patriotic Song, by Lindsay Lennox.
Sung Nightly, with unbounded applause, by Mr. Arthur
Hahn, at the Bijou Theatre.
Also,
“SABBATH EVENING CHIMES"
AND
"THE SMILE ”-P.F.
By Willie Pape.
Played by Special Command of H.R.H Princess of Wales.
Of all Music-sellers.
W. PAXTON A CO., Publishers, London. & Melbourne.
Catalogues Post Free.
X I. L XT s TR A TED
y/M
Address, PRIVATE,
TS/"ITH numerous anatomical
' r colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ivnorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
2S-
ILLUSTRATED
■ BOOKLET °Boollf
Post Free for Oije Staipp
MADAME PANZA
Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOP/EDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts. The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
I o love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
to., Commercial Chamber*, Sydney. N.b.W. Mention this
paper when writing
BY
ROYAL WARRANT OF
APPOINTMENT
TO “ THE QUEEN.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky agd
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, & c .
Ask for
Brai)dy at)d
%cbweppe
SUPPLIED
10 ALL THE LEADING HOTJ LS, 01 ÜBS, AND
STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
INDIGESTION * EMACIATION
A Queensland Tribute,
XTEIIE! DOCTOR OIRIDiHiIRIHDD HIM TO 17ATTDT! CLEMENTS TONIC
Ho Obeyed and has Cause to be Thankful.
The Case of
ML JAMES STEPHEN POTTER.
(BY OUR SPECIAL REPORTER )
In consequence of information received
th 3 other morning, our reporter drove to
Mount Joy-street, South Brisbane. It did
not take long to find Mr. James Stephen
l °tter, who is well and favourably known
c”. Portion of Queensland’s capital city.
Sitting under the front verandah of the
nouse, the following conversation ensued,
and was faithfully taken down in the
newspaper man’s note book.
You have been ill, I am informed?”
was the first question.
“ Y . eB »” replied Mr. Potter; “ I suffered
from indigestion and a wasting away of my
flesh. I couldn’t manage my meals, and it
lias always been a bad sign with me when
my appetite goes off. A most unpleasant
And bitter taste was always on my tongue
*nd the roof of my mouth. I had a dull
feeling in the head, and, generally speaking,
I was all out of order, and when I went
up to be examined by the doctor for the
friendly society, of which I wished to
MCome a member, that medical man refused
to pass me. The nature of my employment
causes me considerable confinement, and I
thought, perhaps, want of exercise was the
cause of my illness. I now started with
dumb-bell exercise, and persisted in that for
some, time, but all this was as useless as the
physic I took. I began to fall away in
flesh. I couldn’t sleep at night, but lay
in bed awake „iree parts of my time longing
for the morning light, and when the °day
returned I felt dull, depressed, and weary,
and quite unfit to tackle the duties of the
day. ”
“ How long did all this last ? ”
“ Oh, for some w f eeks. I was getting
about tired of it. I grew weaker and
thinner all the time.”
“ What were the doctor’s orders ? ”
“ The doctor’s orders were to take Cle-
ments Tonic, and 1 only wish I had known
about the recuperative powers of that
remedy when I first fell ill Not to take up
your time too much, I may tell you that I
purchased some Clements Tonic, and at
about the same time I read an account of
the case of a man that w r as cured of indiges-
tion in a Brisbane paper. I noticed with
some interest that the symptoms described
in the newspaper paragraph were v«jrv
similar to those that affected me I
Started taking Clement* Tonio as the
doctor had ordered. In two or three days’
time I found a marked difference in
my health. I once had a feeling of
heaviness in the chest after eating,
lliis I now found was giving way
under the influence of the Clements
Tonic. I soon found that my suffer-
ings were being cured just in the
way that I had read of in the newspaper,
.then as to appetite. Whereas once I could
hardly look at food, and only made a light
meal now and then, I now found 1 was
getting quite an appetite and always came
quite hungry to my meals. My food now
had quite a different taste, and was no
longer a weight upon my chest making me
heavy, tired, and drowsy in the day time,
but nourished me and gave me strength and
vitality.”
“ How did you get on ? ”
“Splendidly. I continued the doses of
Clements Tonic, and soon lost all the
disagreeable symptoms of my malady.
Once more I slept a wholesome, dreamless
sleep, and awoke refreshed and cheerful in
the morning ready for my day’s duties.”
“ Hid you gain admission to the club ? ”
“ Yes ; 1 went before the doctor again
and he passed me immediately, and con-
gratulated me on my recovery. lam as
sound as a l,ell, and my digestion is In
perfect order now, the credit for which is
due to Clemente Tonic. lam pleased to
know that if anything ever goes wrong with
me in future that I have a remedy at hand
that will put me right.”
“ With your permission I shall publish
this interview ?”
“ Certainly ; you have my full permis-
sion,” said Mr. Potter, shaking hands and
bidding good-day.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, James Stephen Potter, of Mount Joy-street,
South Brisbane, in the Colony of Queensland, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully, read the annexed document, consisting Of
three folios and consecutively numbered from one
to three, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission eo
publish the same in any way ; and I make this
solemn declaration, voluntarily and without receiv-
ing any payment, conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of “2 he
Oatht Act, 1867 ”
Declared at South Brisbane this 16th day of July,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, befoi i
«*>e. THOS. UEASLOP, J.p,


The Uitlanders wanted the franchise.
Well, J. B. Robinson, the Rand millionaire, had
it. And how Kruger must have chuckled as he
issued to this good burgher notice to take
up the natural responsibilities pf citizenship-
said responsibilities being represented by a
Mauser ! The alternative, of course, is forfeiture
of his wealth. No wonder, then, that J. B.
Robinson, safe in London, is sooling on J. Bull all
he knows. His millions depend on it. And yet
they interview this man as a “disinterested”
person, rather prejudiced in favor of t,He;Boers, if
anything, since he is a fellow-citizen of theirs J
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE. ;
H. Nevvman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal>
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian Kerns.*
(OR IKrPLXTEKrZ -A..)
THE TERROR OF MODERN DAYS YIELDS TO THE INFLUENCE
OF
PILLS
WHAT IT IS, AND HOW TREATED.
La Grippe is another of the fierce dragons of disease that has been vanquished by this marvellous remedv
that the iL °“ es cla “§ er , ous beoause i V s I n , ot properl y treated - 1,10111 the hi s' lest scientific and medical authorities it is conceded
leedle aUlre same Ct propa S ated b y ‘ ba * millions might pass through the eye of a cambrio
in ani^ e f are the cause, brought into existence by certain climatic conditions which introduce or brin" about changes
Ltruc“ eC ° nomy ° aUSe g ’ U the SySt6m b6ComeS> S ° t 0 s P eak ’ ckar S ed with these minute germs oflife and
This dreaded malady has hitherto defied all medical skill. No circumstances in life no climate nr *«.* onny „ a l
assumes full Tf “f ihie l dill g +] from its te ™ble effects. It is a foe which once admitted into the citadeloAlmbodv
assumes full control, and greedily undermines the most powerful constitution. But Dr. Morse’s Indian i 7
f n not^r lloU nl eCt r ia . clea “ si “S the T*?m and fortifying the constitution that they effectuatly off tte nvadef anl even
awav the tel Un ti l I® 'V « 6 OT and the s y m P toms alread y developed, still their efficacy is such that they specdUv swlen
away JjirggW the vital forces has won this widespread disease the striking and a^opriatVnaZ
»^;«b
Dr. j orse s Indian Root Pills are a positive cure for Biliousness, Indigestion
yspepsia. Constipation, Foul Breath, Liver Complaint, Sallow Com-
plexion, Sick Headache, Kidney Troubles, and Female Ailments ■ also a
Perfect Blood Purifier—Curing- Skin Disease, such as Eczema, Pimples and
Blotches. Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers, price Is. lid. per bottle, or six bottles 6s 6d
If unable to procure where you reside, The W. H. CWock Go.. Limited, M PUMreet
Sydney, will forward same upon receipt of price. ’
Horomona's Fall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My soul is distressed about Horomona, who dis-
graced his Christian profession, and fell grievously
from grace ” (As a matter of fact, it was only a
three-foot drop.)
Thus the Rev. Strange Beetell wrote in his
annual report. “But,” he added, “I will not
pain you with the details, which could only be a
hindrance to the cause and a stumbling-block to
the scoffer.”
And that is where the reverend gentleman was
wrong —the story of Horomona is a psychological
study.
* • • •
The Government, in its strictly paternal
character, had appointed a commission to investi-
gate the grievances of the Awaroa natives “on
the spot.”
There was Judge Yanderdick ; Podgson, the
Commissioner of Crown Lands; Wipstaff, Re-
ceiver of Land Revenue —magnates in the Provin-
cial District of Bether, and constituting a com-
petent commission. And they employed Waghorn,
who lived in Awaroa with his native wife, as their
interpreter.
The Commission opened with proper ceremony,
in the white “ tohunga’s ” school, and was con-
fronted by the bland and beaming face of Horo-
mona, the chief of Awaroa, who had placed his
enormous bulk in front of the Judge.
At lunch-time—roast pork and kumaras—
Horomona “chumined up” to the Commission,
and gave gratuitous advice to the Judge. And so
did Ripeka, Airioho’s wife —but she offered some-
thing more than advice.
* * * •
No one was ever known to question the virtue
of Judge Vanderdiek. Podgson was a pious person,
who distributed tracts in the kainja and took a
“practical interest in the Maoris.” Wipstaff was
the unregenerate member of the trio ; a lean and
frivolous being, who, when first he saw Ripeka,
had said, “ Fine woman. Saw you wink at her,
Judge! And Podgson squeezed her hand—he’s
taking a religious interest in her, and will cut you
out, Judge.”
* * * *
It was a dark and drizzling night, but the Com
missioners’ whare, the best in the kainga, was full
of light.
The Judge sat on his blankets, and smoked a
cigar; Podgson reclined near the candle, and
studied “ Williams’s Maori Dictionary”; Wip-
staff, Horomona, and old Amoho squatted in a
group near the door, and played cut-throat euchre.
The whisky stood between Wipstaff’s knees.
I think,’ said Podgson, “you might subdue
yourself, Wipstaff. You might set a better
example to the natives —you’re behaving like a
pakeha-M.aor\ ! ”
“ But you act as my antidote, Podgson. Your
say, Horomona. You make it ‘ spades ’ ? Good,
Amoho’s ‘trick.’ Now, Horomona—ah, there’s
* *left-hower ’ on your ‘king.’ Careful,
Amoho ; be careful, and we’ll euchre the chief.”
<* mi/^ 1 it! ” exclaimed the pious Podgson.
lhis is more than I can stand ! ” and, rising
from the floor, he left the whare.
Hi ! Podgson,” Wipstaff called, “ we’ll play
quietly-1 give you my word. Hi ! ” But Podg-
son had pone beyond recall. “ Bah ! ” said Wip-
Btatf, “ he doesn t know enough to come in out of
the rain.”
“Perhaps,” said the Judge, “Podgson will find
it quieter in another whare. There are better
ways of learning Maori than from Williams’s Dic-
tionary.”
“Ho! ho! good for you, Judge. So there
are!” Wipstaff got up, and looked out at the
door, “’ihere’re not many people awake,” he
said \ “ I can only see a light in one whare.”
“ That my missis waitin’ for me,” said Amoho,
“ I take her some wai piro by-an’-by.” And the
old rascal looked significantly at the whisky-
bottle.
“ Come on, boss,” said Horomona ; “we play
another game.”
But before they recommenced, they had a drink
all round.
The Judge had rolled himself up in his blankets.
“Your lead, Horomona,” said Wipstaff. The
game began again, and presently the Judge fell
asleep—and the players had another drink all
round.
When the game was finished, Amoho lay back
to take a doze. The other two talked.
At last Horomona got up. “ I think I go,”
he said; “I werry sleepy. Aloe tonu—takoto
marie,” he said to Amoho, and the old man did
not stir. “1 hat feller too fond wai piro ,” said
Horomona. “So long, boss,” and the big Maori
shook hands with Wipstaff, smiled his broadest,
and left the hut.
“ Amoho ! ” said Wipstaff, shaking the sleeper,
“are you going to camp here for the night ?”
The old man sat up and rubbed his eyes. “I
think I have another drink,” he said—and helped
himself from the bottle.
“Werry good!” he murmured. “Ka pai.
Ah ! ” And he lay back and went to sleep again.
Wipstaff re-lit his pipe and smoked contem-
platively. “ Evidently I shall have to drag the
old fool to his hut,” he said. “ No, no; on second
thoughts, I won’t—it’ll be a treat for Podgson.”
When Wipstaff had rolled himself up in his
blankets, blown out the light, and was in his
beauty-sleep, Podgson came in, tripped over
Amoho, and fell on top of the Receiver of Land
Revenues.
“ Hullo ! Confound ! ” cried Wipstaff. “ That
you, Podgson ? Get off. I’m ashamed ; is this
the state in which the missionary sends you
home?”
“ Who’s that lying near the door ? ”
“ Amoho,” said YVipstaff.
“ No, it can’t be Amoho.”
“ It’s him all right.”
“But I’ve just left Amoho asleep in his hut.
His wife asked me not to wake him.”
■‘Eh?—what? Podgson! I wouldn’t have
thought it!”
“You—you mistake me; you misjudge me.
The kainoa was all dark, and I went into the hut
by mistake.”
“ Ahem ! that’s a lovely yarn. Where’s my
matches? Ah!” Wipstaff struck a light.
“ There’s your Amoho. Look how innocently he
sleeps.”
“ This is inexplicable,” said Podgson, “but I’ll
send him home at once.”
“ You’ll do no such thing. Podgson, just get
into your blankets, and leave Amoho’s matri-
monial matters to look after themselves.”
* * * *
Awakened at dawn by Amoho bundling himself
out of the hut, the Judge, dressed in shoes, hat,
and pyjamas, stepped out of the frowsy whare into
the fresh morning air, laden with scents of the
bush.
Arnoho was shambling across the marae of the
pa, but no sooner had he entered his hut than the
sound of high-pitched voices reached the Judge
and above all could be distinguished the shrill
accents of a woman. Then followed unmistakable
sounds of a “ row,” and out of Amoho's hut burst
the bulky Horomona, closely followed by the
owner of the whare.
As the two men rushed by him, Judge Vander-
dick observed that Horomona was dressed only in
his shirt and one unlaced boot, and that the in-
furiated Amoho flourished a revengeful tomahawk.
The younger man, though seventeen stone in
weight, outstripped his pursuer, and, rushing
through the gate of the pa, fled into the dense
bush, on the outskirts of which the village stood.
Turning to contemplate an excited pa, the
Judge was confronted by Waghorn, the pakeha-
Maon.
Judge,’ he said, “don’t gauge our character
by a commonplace incident like this. If you
hadn’t been here I’ve no doubt Ripeka and her
flame would have tf tukitukied ,J the old man in
the whare. Rut we’re growing abominably
civilised.”
• * • •
The Commission continued to sit; the Judge
taking voluminous notes, Podgson seriously con-
sidering all the evidence, Wipstaff suffering bore-
dom beyond belief, and all three missing the
stimulation of Horomona’s smile.
lor three days the chief had been absent, but
on the fourth he came out of the bush, lean and
hungry. Scarcely had he set foot inside the
village when Amoho rushed at him with an eight-
foot spear, as sharp as a bayonet.
Horomona thought to escape as before, but the
gate was blocked by a dozen men. So he made
for the palisades, over which he was scrambling
ignomimously, when Amoho came behind him
with his spear. Plunk ! and the weapon had
pinned Horomona’s hand to the barrier.
At once, the breathless suspense of all who
watched was turned into a hubbub. Pour men
seized Amoho, and others extricated Horomona
from the fence.
“Enough!” they cried. “Make an end of
this, Amoho —you have had your utu .”
It was of no use for the old man to expostulate
that he intended to kill Horomona; he was told
that he had had his chance and should have used
it better. The matter was at an end.
More than that, a canoe was launched, pro-
visioned, and manned, and Amoho and Ripeka
were ordered to get into it.
“Now, Amoho,” they said, “you go back to
your kainr/a in Whanganui, and take your wahine
puremu. with you. Since she came here we have
had nothing but puretanga and trouble. There
will be no peace till she is gone.”
Next day Horomona sat beamingly watching
the proceedings of the Commission, and answer-
ing every glance of the Judge’s eye with a smile
that displayed his teeth as far back as the bicus-
pids. His left hand was tied up and slung in a
red handkerchief.
The ignominious end of his intrigue appeared to
cause Horomona no shame whatever ; he renewed
his familiarity with the Judge and the pious Podg-
son as if nothing had happened.
“ When you make a time w’t me, Tchudge ? ”
he asked. “ When you make a talk ’bout my
biz’ness ?”
The Judge was puzzled ; he could think of no
occasion for inquiring into Horomona’s affairs.
“ Oh, that’ll be all right,” he said. “ By-and-
denco "° W ° °° m ° t 0 We ’ JJ take your evi-
But this did not seem to satisfy Horomona, He
went and bothered VVipstaff.
“ Before I forget it, Judge,” said Wipstaff, as
they paced the marae, “ lloroinona seems anxious
to bring something forward. I thought it best to
encourage him, and appointed ten o’clock to-
morrow.
“Perfectly correct,” said the Judge. “He
shall have a hearing.
* * * *
At the appointed time the Commissioners sat,
but by half-past ten Horomona had not put in an
appearance.
“Very strange,” said the Judge. “He ex-
pressly made the appointment.”
“ Can he have taken to the bush again ? ” sug-
gested Podgson.
“Wouldn't it be as well to search all the
whare-punis’ in the kainyal” was Wipstaff’s
remark.
“ Here’s the missionary-man running like a
pukclco,” said the interpreter, who sat near the
window. “Perhaps he’ll tell us.”
Scattering the Maoris at the door, the white
tohunya burst upon the Commission, and ex-
claimed between his gasps for breath :
“1 here’s been murder!—horrible murder I
Come with me—all of you—hanging from a beam
in my church—oh [ dear, oh! dear—l couldn't
cut him down—Horomona, hanging in thechuroh
—in the church / ”
* * * *
They were discussing matters.
“ Perhaps his conscience smote him about that
man’s wife,” Podgson was saying.
“And he acted on the maxim of ‘if your eye
offend,’ ” said Wipstaff. “At that rate we’d soon
all be blind men.”
“If you will look at your notes,” said the
Judge, “you will see Horomona was in the habit
of receiving the rents of the Wakatu Native
Reserve, none of which appear to have been paid
over to the tribe.”
“Ah!” said Waghorn, who ought to have
known, “ that explains it all—he wanted to die
before he lost his niana .”
M.L.
ALFRED A. GRACE.


THE TRAIL OF INFLUENZA.
What a harvest of backache and misery the dread disease of Influenza is leaving in
its wake ! The kidneys weak and the system run down. The first advance of the Grim
Enemy with the Scythe is felt hy an ache in the back. The extra strain put upon the
kidneys by the accumulation of poisons in the blood is too much
for them. It’s little wonder they break down and cry for help.
That s what the backache is—-the cry of the kidneys for help.
And you must give the help or suffer the consequences—Kidney
Complaints, Bright’s Disease or Diabetes, then DEATH !
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
give just the strength and vigor that is needed by the system.
They throw off the terrible after effects of Influenza hy making
weak kidneys strong —helping them to do the work Nature in-
tended them to do. They never fail to do so. What proof?
Plenty of it, right here in Sydney. People you know. Your
own neighbors and friends. No occasion to doubt their testi-
mony. Read these straightforward statements :
<u
Mrs. Hugh McDonald, 64 Wellington-sb., Chippendale, this city,
.-states “ About eighteen months ago my husband caught a cold in the
kidneys. He had been fishing one wet night, and came home feeling very
bad. In a short time it developed into inflammation of the kidneys, and
he took to his bed. We called a doctor in, but, under this gentleman’s
treatment, he grew worse, and his condition became so alarming that
I lost no time in sending for one of the best Sydney doctors. The
pains in the poor fellow’s back were frightful, and they also Btruck
into his hips, and, being unable to get ease from his agony, the moans
and groans of him were terrible to hear. He had to lie on his
face all the time. The medical man we oalled in arrested the progress
of this terrible illness, but somehow he grew no better. After a time I
saw an advertisement telling about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I
went dawn town and procured a box at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. Then I induced him to take a dose, after that he went on with
them, and they put him on his feet again. He still kept on with them and
at length returned to his work a cured man. That happened over 12
months ago, and he kept in the best of health until a month or two ago
when he got wot and the cold settled in his kidneys. He took some
of the pills as soon as he felt himself getting bad and that dose cured
him. He says he would not be without them in the house.”
Mr. P. Smith, No. 1 Oheltenham-street, Balmain, this city, says
“ Over twelve months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kid-
ney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under
three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no good. I
used to be so bad that I would have to be carried home in a cart if an
attack came on when working or in the street. Sometimes when walking
I have been taken bad and would be taken to the hospital. My wife
said she never expected I would live through some of these bad turns. I
suffered with a kind of biliousness, vomiting egg-like stuff. My secretions
were'in a frightful state. I could never bend my back or move at all
when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines,
and recommended rubbing in liniments; but it was no use; they did
me no good. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Baokache Kidney
Pills, stating that these Pills had cured Mr. Dunn, and knowing him,
led me to procure this remedy. I kept on using them, and they cured
me. When I had finished them I started work and have worked ever
since. These pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was
almost instantaneous. I might state that since then I have had a bad
attack of lumbago, which laid me up one month. I tried several cures,
but never thought Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were good for this
complaint until the other remedies failed. I had a few in a box, and not
having any other medicine in the house, I tried them. They cured me.
I procured these marvellous pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in iiing-street.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (Sole Proprietors). Branches : 292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King William-street,
Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane (c/o Elliott Bros.) ; St. John-street, Launceston (c/o Fairthorne and Son).
BUT BE SUEE THEY AEE DOAN’S.
The Dogs of War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Endless cry of a Christian creed
Surges up from the stately shrine;
Endless tale of the gentle deed
Stirs our soul to a glow benign;
Endless fire of the foeman’s line
Mows the ranks on a distant shore ;
Breaking in o’er the rolling brine,
Hark to the Bay of the Dogs of War!
See yon Cross for the Christs who plead ;
Mark yon Crown for the bandit fine;
Hear the roll of the Drums of Greed ;
Mark the gleam of the swords a-shine ;
Tell me then of that faith of thine
Bending all to its gentle lore—
Tell it softly . . . and, Comrade Mine,
Hark to the Bay of the Dogs of War 1
Still we struggle and still we bleed ;
Truth we tread in the dust supine $
Men are but as the olden breed,
Lusting all for the blood-red wine.
True, their brows have a godly sign,
As did Cain’s in the days of yore;
True, they bend when the prayers entwine,
Bend and bay—do the Dogs of War!
Envoi.
Puling creeds—ye may peak and pine;
Wild are we at the inmost core;
List to the swell of a song divine—
Hark—to the Bay of the Dogs of War !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
Typical yell from Canterbury Press
(Maoriland): —
It is not for the Boers to complain about British in-
humanity, The “ men,” if men they can be called, who
spat at the faces of the unfortunate Johannesburg women
as they stood herded together in the cattle-trucks which
were to convey them to Natal and the Cape Colony, the
men who made coarse jokes when three of these women,
mad with terror, actually gave birth to children on the
trains, the men who threw dirty water at them as the
train stood at the Pretoria station, these men should
surely not cant about the inhumanity of using Lyddite.
My only regret, after reading of the scenes which took
place as the refugees left the Transvaal, is that there
were no Lyddite shells thrown among the crowds of these
women-insulting brutes.
The Briton always says that “ British fair play is
proverbial he says so himself, and he ought
to know; but in a case like this, the idea
of supending judgment till the other side
can be heard (as communication with the Trans-
vaal is cut off, it hasn’t been much heard yet),
never strikes him. Premier Schreiner, of Cape
Colony, by the way, made a statement on the
subject, but though it appeared in London papers,
it seems to have been carefully suppressed in Aus-
tralasia. Schreiner’s picture represents the rail-
way stations as practically unguarded, owing to
the great exodus of men to the seat of war, and
train-loads of miners and city larrikins, more or
less intoxicated, taking possession and playing
up gaily. But as the miner never drinks or fights
and there are no larrikins, this is probably
Schreiner’s calumny.
Roast Pig.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The island was under three controls —First, there
was Monsieur Beauvais, the French “ Resident ”
(for it was nominally a French possession) ; he
held the political control. Next there was the
Rev.. Mr. Smith, an English missionary; the
spiritual control was in his hands. The actual
control rested with Duggan, a trader, who, with
more firmness than Smith, and less brutality
than Beauvais, managed the natives admirably.
These three men, wholly different in temperament
and habits as they were, had formed an alliance.
An alliance to prevent the news of a certain dis-
covery they had made from spreading.
One day a native brought into the station a
piece of sandalwood, the presence of which on the
island had never before been suspected. Duggan
and Beauvais almost went mad with excitement,
and the missionary, with a sigh of regret, turned
sadly away.
“Don’t cry, Mister,” said Duggan, “We can
fix this up.”
“ How?”
“By jest keeping our mouths shut,” said the
trader.
The missionary thought it out. He knew well
enough that inside three months after the arrival
of the first sandal wooder his school would be de-
moralised and the work of years undone. So far
they had escaped the unwelcome visits, owing not
only to the supposed absence of the wood but to
the facts that far-stretching, intricate reefs pro-
tected the coast-line, and the people were “ the
biggest damn loafers in the Pacific.”
Yet this wouldn’t stop a sandalwooder, who, as
Duggan said, “ would steer into Hell and plunder
Old Nick’s woodheap for a log of it.”
“All right, men,” Smith agreed.
Duggan said, “That’s sensible!” Beauvais
said “ C’est bien.” And so it was settled.
Duggan and the Frenchman put up sheds on
the far side of the slope, out of sight of the stray
visitor, and started accumulating the wood. They
proposed to wait until the sheds were full, and
then charter a schooner at Noumea to carry the
cargo across.
The cocoanut groves were neglected and copra
was at a discount. The whole population joined
in the search for the wood ; even the missionary’s
pupils were infected, and he was glad indeed
when Duggan called up at the school to inform
him that both sheds were full.
“I’ve got something else to talk about,” said
Duggan.
“ What is it ? ” asked Mr. Smith.
“ You know old ‘ Coshun ’ ?” (cochon).
“ I suppose you mean Monsieur Beauvais.”
“ Yes—l calls him ‘ Coshun ’ jest to rile him ; I
don’t know what it means, but I sailed with a
Frenchman once, and you oughter seen him per-
form when we called him that.”
“ Well ? ” said the missionary.
“ It’s jest this —he wants Nerene.”
The missionary was startled. “He can’t have
her,”, he said, emphatically. “She is my most
promising candidate for admission to the church.”
“ I oan’t help that,” answered Duggan. “ Yer
see, if he don’t get the girl, he gives the sandal-
wood business away.”
“ That will do himself harm,” said Mr. Smith.
“ He don’t oare—he’s set on her.”
“Well, tell him he shan’t have her—that is all
I have to say ! ” cried the missionary, angrily,
“But yer school .”
“ I’ll risk that.”
“ What’s the girl say ? ”
“Here, Nerene,” called the missionary. A
fine young girl came to the doorway. “ The
Frenchman has sent for you. I say you will not
go.”
The girl looked at Duggan, and laughed de-
risively.
“It’s no laughin’matter, young’un,” said the
trader. “ Coshun is in earnest.”
“ You be hanged ! ” said the maiden, turning
on her heel and walking out.
“ That’s a nice lass for a Sunday-school,” said
Duggan, with a grin.
The missionary was shocked, but he answered,
“ You have my reply—leave me ! ”
* * • *
“It’s no go, Frenchy,” said Duggan on his re-
turn ; “the parson won’t hear of it, and the girl’s
not struck on you.”
“ I am going to have her in any event.”
“ Big contract, but jest you lie low until I get
my wood out of the island ; I don’t want a row
with the niggers before then.”
“I’ll make her,” mumbled the Resident—
drunk, as usual, and vainly trying to upend a
cask for a seat.
“ Try it on—here she is ! ” said Duggan. Just
then Nerene. tripped in, her loose, white mission
gown fluttering in the breeze and her hair tumb-
ling in long ringlets over her shoulders.
“What’s up, my little picture?” asked the
trader.
“Want some nails,” she answered.
“Right-oh ! but don’t you see your sweet-
heart ? ”
The girl glanced disdainfully at the Frenchman,
who, having half-tilted the cask, was support-
ing himself against it and looking unutterable
wickedness through half-closed eyes. “ You know
you’ve got to live with him.”
The girl laughed, then catching up the nails,
kicked away her lover’s support and bounded out
on to the verandah. The Frenchman fell, of
course, but, regaining his feet, he rolled towards
the door just in time to meet the girl, who, re-
gardless of safety, had returned to see the fun.
He clutched her dress. She wrenched herself
free—leaving, however, part of it in his hands.
Her laughter died away then. Her most precious
possession destroyed ! With a cry of rage she
dashed the heavy parcel of nails in his face and
struck him senseless to the ground.
“Hoa, my little beauty,” said Duggan, pulling
her aside, “here is the rest of your pettiooat— get
away home.”
* * • •
“ What’s this you say?” cried Duggan. “Some-
one been stealing your wood ?”
“ Yes ! ” howled Beauvais. “There’s a big hole
in one side of my pile.”
“Nonsense, man,” said Duggan. “You mean
you’ve got a big hole in your head where the little
’un hit you with the nails yesterday.”
But there was no mistaking the distress and
rage of the Frenchman—it was real, and his pile
had evidently been tampered with.
“ Well,” said Duggan, at length, “ this is very
strange. I s’pose they will take my heap to-night.
Bring your gun up and we will watch.”
At nightfall the two stole quietly out of the
village, Duggan dragging Beauvais, who was very
drunk. On the slope near the mission station
they met Nerene. She was twisting some cocoa-
nut fibres into a torch as she walked. Duggan
saluted her, but she gave them a sullen look, and
slipped out of the way. “Come on, Frenchy;
tread light, and don’t fall over the wood.”
Beauvais staggered blindly into his shed, and
Duggan, leaving him there, buried in a drunken
sleep and snoring loudly, went to his own pile,
about 50 yards off.
* * * *
The trader waited patiently in the darkness,
until he heard a crackling sound outside. Then he
took up his rifle and prepared to receive the thieves.
The crackling continued, but seemed to come no
nearer.
They must be giving Frenchy another turn,
he told himself. Then, creeping to the door, he
opened it and looked out. He saw what was up,
in an instant—the Frenchman’s shed was blazing.’
The missionary and all the villagers were soon
on the scene, but there was no water.
“ Nerene says Beauvais is in there. Cannot we
save him ?” cried the missionary.
“No chance, Mister,” said Duggan, “Coshun
is cooked ; save the wood.”
They saved some of the wood, and Nerene was
pleased.
WINDA.
In the River.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was quite sure he was tired of life; sure he did
not fear death ; sure he had no dread of the wrath
of gods or the malignant humor of devils. But he
had visited this Yarra bridge before on the same
mission, and had survived it. There was some-
thing had terrors for him, and that was annihila-
tion, absolute effacement. He had considered the
problem of complete nothingness, watching the
dark tide sliding greasily below him, and had re-
coiled from the prospect of being utterly nothing,
but the loss of six consecutive meals reconciled
him even to that.
He lingered awhile, steeping himself in his
misery, thinking of his efforts and his failures, of
his sicknesses, his struggles, his sufferings, the
animal callousness of old friends, the hate of his
relations. Ah, he had reasons enough ; there was
satisfaction in gloating over them. He felt like
a man going on a pleasure trip as he dropped
from the parapet.
It was a long fall, and he struck the water with
his feet, going under like a plummet. He was
perfectly conscious of every action, every sensa-
tion. His feet touched something yielding, which
rolled a little, and then rose with him, and seemed
to range itself by his side.
They came to the surface together. He turned
towards it and grappled the fearful thing. Above
the dark ooze a white corpse-face stared question-
ingly into his in the moonlight.
The man shrieked, and dashing the thing from
him, dragged himself wildly through the water
with nervous strokes. Gaining the bank, he
scrambled up the grassy slope by the saplings, and
springing to his feet, ran like a madman _back to
the streets —the haunts of men.
E. D.


“Given up for Dead.
Restored to Perfect Health”
Only three bottles cure severe lameness from
rheumatism, flesh is regained, eyesight improved,
and natural health returns.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
"'X
/A
&
&
w
\
\
w
"I have been a great sufferer from rheumatism and liver complaint, and
was very lame.
“My brother, who was very ill, was given up for dead by the doctors. But
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla put new life in him, and he and my father, hearing I was so
ill, recommended this medicine to me. Before I had’taken three bottles I felt
improved. My lameness began to leave me and I began to feel like a new
woman. I also regained much flesh which I had lost. Strange though it may
seem, my eyesight, which had become weak, gradually became stronger, until it
was perfectly natural.”
This testimony from Mrs. Mary Bright (whose portrait is here given), of Cor-
nish Town, Cobar, New South Wales, must strongly impress all who read it.
It tells of the wonderful power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to drive disease out of
the system.
How could a testimonial tell more? How could a remedy do more? Put
your confidence in Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
"The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because other medicines have failed should not discourage you. One great
medicine is left for you—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It acts directly on the blood,
takes out all impurities.
AYER’S SarK*.
It Makes the Blood Pure, Rich, and Red.
Ayer’s Pills are Gentle Laxatives, Produce Natural Action.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE
BT Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the’information etn-
' - need in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
ci.’th-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestlino, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
.Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chhvabse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget. Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is fld posted.
NOTE.—SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, *6 Park Street, SYDNEY.
WILL
ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS!
m
PLAIN NOHE TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, soo Colored Plates and JUnpravings, 1000 pages, post
tree any A-Here, 7s Od. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving- a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Kveky- Man His Own Builder, 224 illustrations, Is 6d ; Metal Working for
Amateurs, brazing-, soldering, gas fitting, brass casting, etc., illus., Is6d.
Electrical Apparatus for Amateurs, Telephones, Electric Light, Coils, etc.
illustrated, Is Gd. How to write Signs, Tickets and Posters, 170 illustrations, Is 6d"’
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller the
Tito it's Own Wizard, is ; post., Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is Gd, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or,'How to Educate Oneself, post 1/g'. The
Kki.i.y (Jang (illus.) post, 10. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6 •
post., 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is'2d. ’
Comic Reciter, contains lfiO gems ; post Is Bd. Athletics, Dumb-bells Indian
Clubs, etc., is 3d.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Ways of Many Waters.
By B. J. BRADY.
A collection of Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
OVER 6)Ooo,ooo BOIES SOED OEMS.
' l - -
<%
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE as A B C.
B€€cnam’s Pills
Have been Tried for Over 50 Years.
There is a reason for everything, and the reason for
the popularity of Beecham’s Pills is, that they fill all the
requirements of a general antidote in a more satisfactory
manner than any proprietary medicine ever placed before
the public. “ You may lead a horse to the water , but you
cannot make it drink ” Beecham’s Pills are brought before
your notice, and, whether you require them or not —if not
to-day, you may to-morrow —when the necessity arises,
you should, in your own interest, take them. The reason
for their need is often best known to yourself, but be that
as it may, you will show good reason by taking them in
reasonable doses, and doing so is as simple as A B C.
TN€R€ IS ONLY ON€!
Piano. there is only one
UNTa.i3.oi3. Piano. there is only one
Poniscli Piano. there is only one
Beciisteln Piano
fkp ShTa Ao-An+«t **“' Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
W e are xne aoie Agems . 0r Liberal Discount for Cash.
— ’ gii ■
NICHOLSON & 00.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
SB!
W&
mm Em
ttmm
m
wm
m
• 'tfttviit
m
Sen*Sen (?.
EARRINGDONAVEI
loncoN.
INVALUABLE 10
, SINGERS & SPEAKERS
IS
w
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
9
s
OSS
Instant Relief
Speedy Cure.


TENNISjGrOODS.
Slazensrer AT London prices.
_ _ La Belle, 6/-; Bens haw, 10/6;
Rackets - Pastime, 15/-; Whitehouse, 21/-:
EG M, 25/-; Boodie, 25-.
Slazen&rer *§99 Balls—Uncovered, 6/6;
Covered, 13/-.
Ayres - « 1899 Balls Uncovered, 7/6 ;
Covered, 14/-.
(Association Rates to Members.)
Tennis
Shoes
Special Quality Rubber on all our
Shoes.
Prices from 4/- to 25/-.
liubber Goods of all Descriptions .
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTI!, ACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
!je and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
The IHost pouierfil Driving Belt in the (Ifsrid.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India.
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works ,
W.
Wholesale Depots:
LON DOM Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
: m
r_r-
--
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
Biers PfITEIIT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents t —-«««»>
Wm, Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
LATEST TYPE OIL ENGINE
— .. :
■■ • - t K - • "
r-’m :
REPRESENTED BY
BENNIE, TEARS & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, and Coolgardie.
OIL, STEAM
and. GAS
TANG YES
m
FOR.
LIFT
DUTY.
an.dL
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & I
LTD
BUTTER
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
Cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored blitter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. it would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send yOlir Orders to US, and we will deliver it at vour doors
Good butter such as we have described is appieciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-s treet, Sydney.
m
$
£
THE VERY FACT THAT
23.500 BOM BRILLS
Have been made and sold.by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
500 at the Anaconda Mines, Butte. Mont. 80 at the Homestake Lead, South Dakota.
14 by Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J.
BT ew Ingcrsoll
is the embodiment of all that there is good in
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
ROCK DRILLS
Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads.
AIR COM PREBSORS
12 Standard Types and
many Special Patterns.
Agents:
PARKE & LACY
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers.
60 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS’ —*
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTH INuTQN.
TRADE MARK.
mm
BOILER PEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
