

GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
USE
FRY’S HALTED COCOA
*T3LT**T* A TE* ZSL TVTriB LB-tii ■ % ~ ”
GRJA.RA.KrT'BBD FI7RE COCOA. AMD EXTRACT
OF MALT.
Sydney,
107 Kent Street,
_. . —FOB—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Reonioitoa
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. yUlalM!S ’
Roller. Steel and Special CHAINS
w'h,
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
wm PO L K'S GEORGE HOTEL, oppositeSti
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C o, Bs put street, SYDNEY.
Detachable Ohain Bplting, Steel Cable Conveyors. Seamless Steel UllpvofA** <*i • r . .
Grain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing anAlming MachiMr£? r-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN , TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
w
:
HOBART.
ffa
Hadley’s Orient [jotel.
(SECOND-HAND
AND
WTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
.SAVE 60 PER CENTS.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned i
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-stA SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE RADIES.
w.
C- rEUmDIRIIDGKE] Sc GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS;
YORK SI’KEET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Countiy Orders by post ironi all the coloniespromvtlv
attended, to. "
40
a// {
co
9
——— ****&** p WBBMm VB9I 1
3gO ! XX3 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTIN
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and. Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGI 5c SON, LTD.,
117 IST ork Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
Ct
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
Post Is.
JOSHUA’S AUSTMALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,- *
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS t
Joshua’s Boomerang’ Brandy.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WINEAS2-
AUSTRALIA.
tSS" Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHERS “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
s}
SOLE AGENTS
_ t -w *
Flummer Love & Co.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 20.—N0. 1027. J
[Saturday, October 21, 1899.
P postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


udson’s “Eumentho!” (Registered)
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
JViJVJB'tS
L®
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. 6d. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, Q. HUDSON. Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Province. Sydney Agent: S. Tayi.ob, 5 and 7 Queens 1 lace.
They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
UNDER THE GUMTREE
Newer French Poetry.
VII. —HENRI DE REGNIER
([?] 1864).
A FAVOURITE game with
the Parisian journalists
was to pick up a sym-
bolist booklet and to
exclaim at its slimness, “As-
suredly these- gentlemen will
never bury us under the weight
of their work ! ” carefully for-
getting that with Such a booklet
every year or two the weight
of work is soon there. . Here,
is Henri de Regnier at 34 with
14 years work behind him, three
compact volumes of collected
verse, two volumes of prose
tales, his first novel in the press,
and confessing to the influence
of Mallarme, so “sterilizing,”
after the legend. Add to this the gifts of
fortune, aristocratic birth and appearance, a
.beautiful aud talented wife, the daughter of
Heredia —and the rewards of honest work, in-
creasing recognition, access to all reviews, even
that of Two Worlds, and in near prospect,
to the Academy—and you will understand why
the youngest of the young are clamouring to de-
vour those who, after all, are themselves yet
too young to have committed the crime of being
their parents. But why should they call the
generation of 1886 “a generation of failures ”?
There is a picture by the otherwise indifferent
Hans Thom a. Twilight in the Beeches : on the edge
of a beechen wood, while shadows fall fast, a faun
flutes with face turned towards the secrets of the
forest; outside in the last'light a harnessed knight
rides by. Imagine him returning from futile
quests, having learned that all quest of glory is
vain, to give himself up to regretful musing
jn the home he forsook with hope, and
you will have a perfect symbol of de Reg-
nier’s poetry. It springs directly out of the
Renascence fusion of classic and seignorial
imagery which set Tritons in the waters of the
formal gardens of the 16th century : it is, perhaps,
above all an expression of aristocratic decay, and
not the least characteristic note in it is the re-
habilitation of Versailles : not the Versailles that
Hugo damned in 1828, but the Versailles that
lives on, a forlorn ghost of departed glory.
The first volume of his verse need not detain us.
Personal poetry, exercises in the symbolist habit
of embodying a mood in a landscape, exercises in
his own individual theme of heraldic and chivalric
imagery, all in rather rigid Parnassian verse
whatever is distinctive in these recurs, more skil-
fully handled, in the second volume, containing
the Poems of antique and romantic legend of 181 >O,
and that finest of all books written according to
the symbolist formula, th is Tel qu'en.songe (As in
dream) of 1892. These two are closely con-
nected, representing two aspects of a single mood,
a mood that dominates likewise all his first
volume of prose.
In the earlier of these two de Regnier first
breaks with the stiff Parnassian form, without
achieving real suppleness either in the vers libre
or in the alexandrine, which latter is here too
patently imitated from Mallarme. The hook is
informed with a mood of disappointment. Life
has failed to satisfy the desire of heroic grandeur.
As ashes in the wind
Doom of disaster and sterility
is shed over all the-fabulous land evoked before
us : from the arid shore where the Ariadnes mourn
for ever, to the castle where the Beauty shall never
be awakened, to the place of ruins that recalls only
regretful memories of a former life and some
Helen then loved, to the city where the despairing
pilgrims pass by the closed windows. Only the
enchanted forest is left where the foiled knight
finds the magic gem of illusion.
The worst of life is, not that it fails to fulfil th©
heroic dream, but that it tarnishes the early bright-
ness of the soul that was as the clear blue steel.
What remains? To disdain it, and in silence, and
secrecy, to seek again, by meditation, that ancient
candour. This is the mood of Tel qu ’ en songe—
the return into the self, with a lingering look of
regret on the life that was once so shining with
hope. The theme is treated mythically in four
long poems : 'The Bird, where a knight rides, his
casque burdened with an obscene fowl, into the
mysterious forest, there to perish in unknown
fight, and at his death there soars from his helmet,
into the sunset sky,
A blazing bird of azure, gems, and gold :
The Guardian of the Hearth, where the warrior
returns to her whom he had left, in the home of
yore ; and two entitled The, Home and The Thres-
hold, of more meditative form. Between these are
set four groups of lyrics wherein, over the twilit
waters of the garden, Someone dreams (so the sug-
gestive titles run) of dawn and shadow, of twilight
and of hope, of hours and years, oi shadow and
oblivion. Here is the third of the first series ; an
exquisite little piece in which a mood is delicately
hinted in a fragment of decor:
A rose smiles wan, expiritvj languidly
Above the blood-red rim of porphyry
And under shows more pale
In the dead water glass'd, only to fail,
Still smiling, to a pallid wistfulness
That dreams itself to death
Where the wave reddens from the porphyry
Around a Triton’s sun-gilt ■nakedness
Lau hiny, whose conch writhes to his urgent breath.
The evening steals from tree to tree with steps of
shade,
The crossing noises gleet and fail,
The,first haf fads, the last, bird Hies away ;
The rose is shed upon the wave,
Tin gulden Triton, shrinks to a rugged block of
bronze,
A th rra-lehi.no shade,
That silent grins into his concn,
The rose is shed upon the wave
Where only a petal-drift recalls its vanish’d face ;
The evening steals from tree to tree with steps of
shade. .
A rose was smiling on its wave-glass’d face.
With Tel qu’en songe de Regnier has beoome
master of his style : lie has created his own variety
of the vers Libre, and his own variation on the
alexandrine, fluid, dreamy, and suggestive. His
third volume shows greater skill, if the matter is
no longer so authentic ; and presents the finest
single poem written in the symbolist manner, The
Man and the Siren. This drama of the black-robed
thinker meeting the wayward daughter of the
waves, and, in the attempt to create in her a soul
after his own thought, finding only death, is true
symbolism, in that it is no rigid allegory but a
harmony of infinite suggestion : it may be inter-
preted of man and woman, of thought and feeling,
of any tragedy arising from a refusal to accept the
gift of life as life offers it. Around this drama are
grouped, in the series entitled Arethusa, delightful
motives of dream, Flutes of April and September,
wherein we find a tactful re-invention of antique
imagery with a strain of personal emotion flowing
in and out of the scenes ©yoked, sometimes more
direct in expression, sometimes evanescent, so that
a charming doubt is left whether the poet has
evoked these images for the expression of his own
feeling or for their own beauty’s sake.
Henri de Regnier is the greatest man of letters,
the finest craftsman of his generation. He has a
vast vocabulary, an inexhaustible stock of
images, an infinite science of rhythm at his
command, that permit him to say anything, to
distinguish clearly, for instance, almost indefinable
nuances of reverie. His power of mere writing
is amazing; none can equal him in the develop-
ment of vast verse-paragraphs, where the phrase
seems always just on the point of being lost in an
undergrowth of incidents, and is always surely
caught hack into the main track at the right mo-
ment. He has thus been able to set at nought the
conventions of the French sentence. In the first
stanza of the little piece translated from Tel qu’
en songe there are no less than six relatives de-
pendent one on the other (a complication which it
seems impossible to represent in English) ; and
note the art whereby this elaborate syntax is ap-
plied to the dream-fusion of the rose and its
shadow ; whereas, in the second stanza, a succes-
sion of simple phrases pictures the shedding of the
petals.
A doubt, however, remains. In de Regnier’s
most personal work, the period from 1890 to 1895,
covering the whole second volume of his verse and
the whole first volume of his prose, one often asks
whether the symbols are not too particular, too
dated, for the mood : is the poet really dealing
with fundamental human disappointment or only
with a special aristocratic languor ? Is there not
at times a note of elemental wailing that should
come over vaster waters than those of any garden?
And in the later poems, if the art is surer, is there
not a lack of personality in the rheme ? is the
attitude towards life certain? is it not influ-
enced by other poets? It is a danger,
too, that de Regnier’s prose is so perfect.
His last volume of tales, The White Trefoil,
is a masterpiece : will the forthcoming novel
mark him less poet than romancer, as Aphrodite
did Pierre Lnuys ? In a word, is his instinct that
of the poet or that of the ecrivain , the skilled man
of letters ? In any case, we may be sure that
Henri de Regnier’s contribution to French letters
will be of high quality, if not of the best: if not :
the true rose of poetry it will not be far from it,
like the work of that other great man of letters,
Gautier.
Foreign Letters.
[Many Australians have friends or relatives in foreign
countries, whose letters—or portions of them - would be
valuable and entertaining reading for Australians at
home. A man in the Transvaal just now, for example—
with an eye for the picturesque and some skill with the
pen—should make a capital correspondent. Tim Billk-
tin will at all times he glad to look at interesting letters
from Australians beyond Australia. It is of little import-
ance how they are written as long as the matter is
first-hand and intrinsically worth print.]
Arthur Streeton in Cairo.
9 Waghe-el-birghet, Cairo.
Dear ,
I’ve been so excited endeavouring to get some of
the Cairo brightness in my work that I let every-
thing else slide—my liver got its first touch here
too, so I never drink any more whisky. No, nice
Chianti or the filtered water from the old Nile,
with its edges bordered with lovely old boats and
date palms and minarets—and everything else
that used to constitute the playground of Cleo-
patra. I’ve stayed in three different hotels, and
at last got into this cosy apartment with the
Italian Consul. Just on the side of the window is
a court —with windows all round where is the
residence of about twenty ladies—they make it
pretty lively in their rooms at night. Just now
there is a sewing-machine kicking up a row ; a
canary sings; waiters shout the Italian orders in
the cafe, and the turn-turn-pom of the tambourine
slides through it all. Some are singing Italian
opera ; and the great hot wind from the Desert—
the lihamxeen— -blows through everything, and
deposits a fine film of dust on the Egyptian cat
that sleeps on the bricks through it all. Every-
body sleeps in the day-time here, from about 11.30
till 1; and all the cafes are buzzing till about 2
a. m., and often long after that.
’Tis a wonderful land, this Egypt ! I’ve been
time after time through the slipjier, brass and
bronze, jewellery, perfume, silks, ring, curios
bazaars —and yesterday with another artist I did
a quick sketch in tile spice bizaar; and the alley
was simply ehoqk-a-block all the time—hundreds
of Arabs standing round. The word passed round
that we were English, and they were fairly kind
and considerate, which would not have been so if
we were Greeks. The Greeks, 1 think, are the
largest foreign population here—and are appar-
ently disliked. They are the money-lenders, I
believe.
And now, would you care to drive to the
Ghezarieh Palace Hotel and have a little whisky
at a couple of bob per nip ?—to the sulphur baths
of Heli van ? to the tombs of the Mamelukes—or
a drive through the, Cairo slums? Well, I'll go,
too. Here, Ottoman Ali ! come aboard ! We
are seated, in a comfortable victoria with fares
printed (a.id bis number 1005) in English and
French, and, I think, Arabic. Off we go ! Right
up the main street, past the luxurious and expen-
sive Sliepheard’s Hotel—winding in and out of
the swell new quarters, past a most lovely modern
Arabesque house—one of the very best —the
French Ambassador’s house; past others with
beautifully carved projecting windows with wee
little openings from which the lovely ladies of the
harem may spy you at their ease. O, most com-
comfortable-looking places . . . Ha !ha !
(Now, look here, if you are reading this in some
bran-new, business-like, unsympathetic, electric-
lighted office, you’d best put this in your jiocket
and read at home, or in some comfortable soft-
lighted little bar, with the odour of Persian attar
of roses, or, at least, a nice cigar).
Well, we’re past that fascinating architecture;
and now—by .Jove ! we are rather early, and the
Nile bridge is not open (let me see! it’s about
1.45 p.m.) . . . and the bridge is swinging round,
as you see, to allow the high-waisted spectresque
Nile boats to swoop with their lovely sails and
rudder (made of a stable-door) down the-old river.
I think quite 700 or 800 are waiting with us for
the bridge to open. On the left scores of grey and
oehre-ooloured camels (and something very putrid)
wait with their varied loads —as they’ve waited
thousands of years before. Arabs, Egyptians,
Berbers, Copts, and all sorts wait quietly —their
long gowns of a dozen degrees of blue —women sit
on donkeys, or squat on their dark haunches,
dark-robed against the oranges they sell. On the
right-hand side of our vehicle is a long building
the British barracks—windows open, and the fair-
haired, fresh-com plexioned soldier-boys of the
Empire lean out and smoke and overlook the
whole party patiently watching the section of the
bridge as (worked by hand) it moves its heavy
length round to the chain.
We get into our vehicle and bowl across that
bridge at considerable pace—dozens of donkeys,
victorias, and a few bikes, and plenty of gaunt
camels and hundreds of dark pedestrians —all on
the rush—and simultaneously from the other end
of the bridge comes a mass, also in a hurry—just
like the meeting''of two strong winds. We only
see one collision —one chap bowled clean off his pins
—lie looks badly hurt, too —never mind ! can t see
him now. Over the bridge and past the great
lions perched at the entrance, where the road
divides. Left turn ; to the natty palace built by
Imail Pasha (and near the Great Museum of
Gizeh). The other leads under great old acacias ;
and on the right with us runs the old Nile, bor-
dered with giant date-palms. Between the palms
and us are great squares of land under cultivation
—cut up like a draught-board—all the water is
pumped up and flows over the land in shallow
ditches for vegetables—and all sorts of queer beasts
of burden knocking about. At last the Ghezarieh
Palace Hotel—truly a palace, with noble grounds
and its casino and lakes—truly a regal palace,
with esplanade overlooking the Nile. And now
we’ve had our 2s. nip of whisky—look at the
Casino, the gravel walks, and the floor around all
rose and red and purple and yellow with the (con-
fetti, do you call ’em ?) coloured paper cut small—
they’ve been shying it all over the show. To-day
is the Battle of Flowers. Sit' here and have more
whisky and see the crowd. Ye gods ! how swell
they iook, yet this is the day when the lords,
peers, countesses, &c., don’t come about—only the
common people, shopkeepers, &c.
Back to the hotel. Table d’hote—all stiff and
dignified too—five or six old maids ; one or two
old ladies and their daughters. A Frenchman,
wife, and pretty little girl who sits next me, and
little girl will persist in telling all the table how
she in her pyjamas watched the islands of the Red
Sea from a port-hole, and also that I in my
pyjamas looked-out of the same port with her—
she is only six years old—and the husband, who
joined the ship at Port Said, gives me rather a
look of interrogation. Then the fat Cingalese—
speaking perfect English and the rest.
And now a smoke—where to go to-night?—
damme ! We’ll drive though the fish-market—all
aboard—a victoria again—up the narrow alley
behind the hotel and under an archway. We are
there !—winding in and out of a perfect maze of
Eastern slum and (no smells) no damned little
shops selling all sorts of mucks to eat, people
hammering away making brass and copper wares,
tailors and embroiderers at work, little cafes where
Mahometans meet and play games like back-
gammon, and drink real coffee, and behind them
again the tum-tuin-pow of tambourining and the
girl dancing. No white people about here ; and
we feel rather strange —this our first trip. On we
go winding round, and all the time our driver
calls Arabic. It sounds like Au-arr-rigla, Ay-
arr-rigla, incessantly: and it means “Mind your
feet! ” Marvellous how he guides the vehicle
around the little corners (a quarter the width of
Little Bourke-street, and all along each side you
see low windows (three feet from the ground)—
bars over them, and three or four girls inside lie
down on their stomachs, and with their heads
Eressed against the bars, attract your attention
y a certain hiss —hiss—hiss, just like adders.
And yet one sees the red coat of Tommy Atkins
about—which may lie good for Egypt—for think
of the victory of the Abyssinians over the Italians
—due, they say, to the fact that Atkins had been
years ago larking about in Abyssinia—and mdae
the Abyssinians a conquering race. However,
you’ve heard that before.
One evening since I have driven through the fish
market, with a lady in the carriage next me; and
it excited her intensely to view these hundreds of
women with dark stuff rubbed round their eyes,
and spots of black about the brow and chin, re-
clining in the most dreadfully seductive attitudes
(or otherwise). It somewhat astonished the lady
to see some of them stand up and wriggle as we
passed (within hand reach). I think their being
behind the bars is a police regulation, otherwise
the feminine hordes would mob and reduce one to
a jelly.
One afternoon I tried a walk through these
slums alone, and it wasn’t pleasant —the guilty,
murderous-looking denizen with one eye all rotten
with ophthalmia, and the flies bucking into the
other as fast as they could—oh) he was a beast!
One little wench of 15 rushed from behind the
bars and held me with one arm. Eventually,
with the fiend and ophthalmia at my elbow 1 got
bushed, and still kept trying to look as though I’d
been through hundreds of times, not heeding the
persistent invitations of the fiend to come for a
few piastres and see a donkey-riding exhibition.
At last virtue (of course) triumphed, and I found
the thread which led out of the cave.
It isn’t difficult to be virtuous or goody-goody
here, I’m sorry" to say. On entering Cairo the
first time an aroma greeted me I never was con-
scious of before —from the donkeys, I think —and
it gave such a suggestion of an old, old, Oriental
city—and the long-continued bellowing of the
donkeys was just like the creaking and groaning
of a heavy waggon down hill—and then the smells
for the first time in the bazaars ! Oh, it’s inde-
scribable : foods, spices, and queer things one
never dreams of. On one side an Arab bare to the
waist pounds spice with a heavy pestle and a mor-
tar of solid stone four feet high and weighing half
a ton. Next him a shop full of beautitui lam s
for mosques ; and then a wee little bov sits, and
with a few lines of string and a bit of stick for a
loom works incessantly a lovely piece of tapestry
—a mass of design and varied color. Ihe piece is
many yards long ; he is about 12 years old ; and
two or three bits of string and a bit of wood for
tools. Then the perfume bazaar, and the wily
merchants who sit in their booths two yards
square and read, then hand the rarest attar of
roses from Persia, &c. Then the slipper bazaar—
thousands and thousands of red and bun and
lemon-colored slippers hanging like an exhibition
of scarlet herrings or capsicums. And the bronze
and brass and silver work bazaars ! and the
jewellery bazaar —each little shanty with its
great iron safe. Then the Persian carpets and
the silk wares, and the silk carpets !
All are orientals here—Arabs arid Copts, with
many a grand old face. Princely-looking chaps a
few of them (1 write this with a stick of mcense
burning under my nose, the mosquitoes are very
bad). These bazaars are the sight of Cairo, with
the grand large design of some of the 'mosques and
the fine arches and fastnesses of the city. Ihe
English hold the city by the citadel on the rise of
a neighboring hill, and with their guns could m a
few minutes shell the palaces, mosques in fact
the whole place. A mosque next the “ Sultan
Hassan ” one was left with the top unfinished, be-
cause the intended top would block out the Khe-
dive’s palace from the guns (so Mr. Atkins told
me). Ha, ha !
Little by little the French official markings
about the city are being taken down, and the
notices, directions, etc., printed in plain English
and Arabic. It must annoy the French very
much, to see the place held by a few English
troops—who, by the way, are all waiting ready—-
and police too—to make a dash, and nip a revolu-
tion in the bud, or a rising of the Moslems against
the much-disliked Greeks (I dislike Mahometans,
and the Greeks especially), who disport them-
selves with a gaudy display of revolvers in their
belts, and serve ’em right if the quiet-looking
Arabs do rise and give them a doing.
The entrance to the Khedive’s palace is a very
jerry-built looking concern —all pretentious, and
with cheap Italian decorations and oil-painted
columns of marble (haven’t been in his grounds
and don’t want to). The: eunuch is the most
hideous, wretched-looking devil on earth, they
still buy boys, and the majority die from the
effects. They arc, I understand, -kept standing in
sand to prevent ncemorage (can't spell hcemorrage
—no— d -d if I can). Yes, the Mahometan law
(the Koran) says you may marry four wives and
you can keep as many as you can afford ; and often
the beasts choose out of their 200 women an ugly
negro Nubian who is favourite, and is waited
on by the dear, fair-skinned and sad-eyed Cir-
cassian women—:and if the boss doesn’t like one
or a dozen, the bloody eunuch promptly strangles
her and drops her down the well (there are some
wells in the fish-market if you happen to be
robbed). . . . Yes, this silent cure and cold horror
goes on through Cairo as I write, and will till the
Sultan and Constantinople are squashed, and
police are free to enter these Moslem prisons. It
never rains in Egypt; there are no drains ; and
each house in the city has an underground chasm
to hold all -the refuse' that may go down —all the
hotels the same.
ARTHUR STREETON.
THE TRIOLET.
Fit for moonlit dells are you,
For you ’re the Muses’ violet;
Shy and sweet and known to few
Fit for moonlit dells are you—
Fair girl-eyes of fairest blue
And Austral stars !—Sweet Triolet!
Fit for moonlit dells are you,
For you ’re the Muses’ violet.
PHIL. F.
THE TRlOLET.— ANOTHER WAY.
Miserable Triolet,
I have tried you. All in vain !
You the Muses’ Violet —
Miserable Triolet !
Make the poor book-fellow sweat •
Grind his teeth at your refrain !
M iserable Triolet,
I have tried you ! All in vain.
PHIL. F.
VITA BREVIS.
Some wattle—then a skull,
And Life is over.
Some pleasures —then a lull ;
Some wattle—then a skull—
Some sins, some virtues dull,
And Death shall hover.
Some wattle —then a skull,
And Life is over.
G.L.
BINS' BATTERED IDYLL.
This is a tale of blurred blisses -
Love’s little game and a check.
Binks wooed Mike Battersby’s m issus
(This is a tale of blurred blisses) -
Mike—who’s a “ pug,”— saw the kisses :
Caught little Binks —by tue neck . . .
This is a tale of blurred blisses—:
Love’s little game . . . and a cheque !
F.M.
MARGERY.
Dull life .has its leaven
When Margery, sings—
Varan !a!i at. seven !
'Dull life has its leaven
Of gold harps and heaven
And angels in wings—
Dull life has its leaven
When Margery sings 1
W.H.O.


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turnincr prey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE llAili-
n'a.sir. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color ,\ou desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
zfkin WkeaM.
s9leu) Wkcotiery
* tK £igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGrMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YE4RS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“ YVoolloston House, Castleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1893.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, And remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM N€N3YMALYON,
31 anvfacturinq ( h e in ist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD lIM METAL BOXES.
ss. and Vs. 6d. iffacli.
ZW*' Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney •
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUSHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its bov.-t recomnmndation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blinglh, constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
t .. fi — debilitated children.
LANCET, A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.- */! Aas nil
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion.and
it does not blacken the teeth ”
. CHFMIHTS au - thf worn d ovfr.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
THOUSANDS IN USE!
W. J NO. BAKER’S
Standard Sheffield Razors
Are made by the Pick of the Skilled Razor Forgers
and Grinders of SHEFFIELD. Every Razor is Tested and Set
Ready for Use by my Cutlers before despatch.
They Recommend Themselves. % inch wide, 5/-. Post Free.
Two of my STANDARD Hollow-Ground Razors, with ivory Handles, in handsome %<> *> ® • •» »
silk and velvet-lined Case, 21/- per Case, post free. % » » "»• » •»
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
John Hunter 5 Son’s (Ltd,)
SHOE STORES.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes—Central Whakf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers,
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Life of the System.
rush
OPfSIHi
mm
Intending- Travellers by Sea or Lane’
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 George-street, SYDNEY
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for ou
Goods are:-LONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE.
BRUSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 33 36
£6 6s £6 15s £7 7b
BRUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 18 20 22 24
Lined jean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
~ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH'S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
leather.
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 55s
I)RUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT CASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size 20in. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d each. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
'.RUSH’S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap-
sible, a splendid hag for hard usage and rough
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Prices from
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH’S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
Size lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
Price 3s 6d 4s 6d 5s 6d 6s 6d
Better quality 5s 6d 6s 6d 7s 6d 8s 6d
BRUSH S OVERLAND TRUNKS, English leather, hand
stitched.
Size 27in.
Price 63s
Riveted edges 90s
30in. 33in. 36in.
67s 6d 70s 75s
100 s 110 s 120 s
33in. 36in.
42s 45s
LADIES’ DRESS TRUNKS.
Size 30in.
37s 6d
40in.
50s
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value c
55s up. Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps • 6d. to b
added to country cheques for exchange,
-PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.
MANUFACTURERS
IMPORTERS . . ,
a si
403-405 Goorsre-street, SYDMEY
W- JllO. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter - street, Sydney
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splend.d Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 34 '-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £.5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Ridingllabits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 211, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13, '6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, ’9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants Js Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
■ilk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drawings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 eaota
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOin. long, f/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBING®
ttOrised up, per oz.
We are the eheapettin
trail a for all Hair Work
Send Color of Hair.
W. N."Wigz«ll.>
110 William Street, ,
corner of Palmer-street, /
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Doot..
Send stamps for full Price LleO'-
Prouipt attention triven to Conn try Orders
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agknts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
cun
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
1 Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 william STREET. MELBOURNE
CnAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZAoETH STREET, BRISBANE 1
6kp’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Hud. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents
W. H.
&
■j
359 Creorg-e Street, Sydney.
292 & 294 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
MELBOURNE C. Nov. 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ATT,
Please allot me shares
Nov. 7.
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
shares in the
MELBOURNE C. (Special)
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
Drawn Morning 1 of the Race
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : shares in above.
N ame
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


Never
Look
Old
HAIR
L
There is no need
of it. You can
look at thirty as if
you are sixteen.
Then why look as
if you are sixty ?
Thick and glossy hair belongs to
youth. Thin and faded hair to old age.
Aven
Hair
visor
will make your
hair soft and,
glossy, rich
and abundant.
It will keep
your scalp free
from dandruff,
and will surely
prevent your
hair from fall-
ing out.
It Never Fails to Restore the
Natural Color to the Hair
It gives to the hair that soft, glossy
appearance so natural to early life. For
men, this means the look of strength
and power. For women, it is the one
ornament of youthful beauty.
Remember that pimples, rashes, and like
disfigurements of the face may be thoroughly
removed by taking a course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make the skin
smooth and the blood rich.
Prepared by Dr. .1. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
PAKSoT
Brakes
mmr
Gl Lf©rV
la
» xMM ATir
y>Vj AT ir*.
■WINS IyoUNDC
C oU (©ipj ic J
Of
/MITATIO^S
Modern
Milling
Machinery.
:
\
IVs'
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines.. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMINC,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imper,al Lubricating Oils; as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FOR THE
(Melb. University).
Df 1 AntKtVi ’ fo\ ffii r
lndreSseH gro'dt i
Disooverer, Christopher Mudd, f. 1.5., Prince of Wales 1 Botanist
Not a Grease, purely Botanical
Dr. J. Robert Lee, M. 8.. B.S. (Melb. Universit
vvflTe&\—“/J?!lei\obderJii gTe: ults
tnofiiMi3 am/shtisfie i it nnrrotfs!)
j i lienaif ifi du&ni it Y is w< 11 U silterigthJ’ [” . \|
| “Antnot'' prevent) Hair aluniyojt, I'aid Til
inti Irr tajtio i f lot ties. 2JM fos :e 1,; 1/1V ;
drd/thls aopptm and VBIO shillings and|siiejJnce 1 b < ddrci s
, helW, and you/will \{eceiv« pqr post U i lttrg b
''samplcßOTtle of""wnthoß.” — r v_r
Colonial Representative for the Proprietors:
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne.
CBM
■OATI/VPiS
GO TO TTTiT.T-
IGOL A N I > for Prolty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred, §*Jag€Q,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY is prepared to LEND in any amounts,
at lowest current rates, upon-FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods. '
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona fides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
- The Societ .V is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3t Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
mm
TRADE MARK
BEGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
6/1
Qju
2 S'* 1 lf<jb.
|l
jffc rft-so < TAj t (Xasi j A/o
°U: hujjfuo VkjL <2ax^,
/U>-Qm^.
&C44
Z\ UjUU^AZ
KOKO
AIR
Eradicates S:urf and Danir'ff, Prevents Hair Failing, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimony Is prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, A Invigorating. i/-, a/6 A 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Stores Ac. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD., 16. Bevis Marks, LONDON, ENG.
Plum
pin
TUB
• F>l\jlxx± 9
(1 ENTLEMEbI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor &
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
0
&k
0
0
o
fic9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
-'VA/'. Carriage & Satidlery ]%d[ajxif Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Sprinjr Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S 1 T'DLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Prce List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
sent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
oun SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A word to parsons who think of taking up
the anti-danoing “ cause ”: Rev. Gladstone,
the Nathalian apostle, told the Vic. Church of
England Synod that his screw had got down to
<6120 a year. This was by way of interjection
while a venerable Archdeacon was picturing a
poor proposed bishop (of Bendigo) starving on
=6550 a year.
“ Hermes ” on one aspect of the medical
struggle for a crust :
It is very easy to start a medical benefit and industrial
insurance society in N.S.W. Writer while holding a
position under the Crown became acquainted with a
medico. Medico was in the office the day writer got the
sudden sack, and immediately asked him to step down
to the surgery. His poor practice refused to increase,
and he had determined to start a medical benefit society.
He had a number of prospectuses printed which stated
that the Bolus and Coffin Medical Benefit Society had
decided to commence operations in Sydney on the lines
that had proved so successful in the large English pro-
vincial towns, and had engaged that eminent physician
and surgeon, Dr. Smug, F.R.0.5., L.R.C.P., &c. The
society was willing to enroll members, subject to ex-
amination, for Is. entrance-fee, and 6di per week after-
wards for a man and wife and two children. For Is. per
week members’ wives would be attended at accouchment.
(That point was to be strongly dwelt upon with young
couples when canvassing). If the family consisted of
more than four there was a slight increase. Medicine
was included for the money, but members would have to
bring their own bottles. Writer went out to canvass.
First door that opened revealed a forbidding-looking
harridan who sternly demanded what the devil he
wanted. 'Explained the aims and objects of the society
to her. She seemed interested. She was a dreadful
female, and writer had not much trouble in screwing up
his courage to mention the accouchment clause. She
grew affable and invited him inside : “ Say that again ?”
Clause re-read. “Are yous any relations to that man
Sheridan wot was hanged? ’Cos if yer aren t it's soon ye
will be—get out of ine house ye biaggard !To come talk-
ing about midwifery to a lone woman when her husband’s
out.” Most people thought the show had some connec-
tion with Sheridan, who had just been executed, and
sternly refused to have any dealings with it. Struggled
on for a fortnight, and was just beginning to get some
hope of doing business, when the medico informed me
one night that his wife had been out and got 16 members
in one afternoon. “ You didn’t go strong enough on the
accouchment clause. Mrs. found that that brought
’em every time.” Then he sacked me, and I went away.
When I came back to Sydney, about the first person I saw
was the medico, driving down George-street in a flash
turn-out, with an elegant groom. Whether his medical
benefit society flourished I kn w not; hut, if it didn’t, it
ought to have done so. Writer, and two other canvassers
he had, were instructed, when returning to report the
day’s success, to ask every man, woman, and Chinaman
the way to Dr. ’s, and mention the fa,c.t that it wa
said he was very clever—could do anything short o
resurrect the dead. One day, about 15 superim-lookingf
unemployed "’ere hived to wander round the blocks
adjacent to the surgery and make the same enquiries,
and tell of the wonderful cures they heard he had
effected.
Seven Honest Men.
Their faith in one another it was wonderfully
great,
But their claim it hadn’t paid a decent dividend
of late;
And so in solemn meeting they decided they
would sell
If the ‘ ‘ wash ” then in the puddles failed to pan-
out very well.
They knew their claim was envied, and rejoiced
that it was so ;
That fact it could be fairly worked to advertise
the show.
But never thought of “salting” struck the com -
pany just then,
For O ! they loved the shining truth, those seven
honest men.
Then it’s set the water moving,
And it’s soak the mullock well,
And while the yield’s improving
’Tis a foolish thing to sell.
And keep the old horse going
Till the slurry is no more,
And gold is freely showing
All around the puddling-floor.
Now, one man of the party thought that, as they
meant to sell,
A very simple plan of his would help to do it
well;
And in manner surreptitious then a “ rather tidy
weight ”
He dropped into the puddler when the night was
very late.
But O ! that inspiration didn’t come to him alone,
For each man of the seven struck the notion “ on
his own; ”
Though none the awful secret brought within the
others’ ken,
For O ! the truth was sacred to those seven honest
men.
Then it’s keep the water going
Till the “ ripples ” overflow,
And shining specks are glowing
As the pebbles rolling go.
Watch the boulders and the rough ones,
They may carry gold away ;
We can only wash the stuff once
Or the claim will never pay.
They had a splendid “cleaning-up” that day
upon the flat,
And never thought of selling for a moment after
that.
They mended up the windlass, and they “sol-
diered up ” with care,
And opened out upon the wash, and “ drove her ”
here and there.
And in a fortnight after had a pyramid in sight
Of wash-dirt for the puddler ; for they’d grafted
day and night.
But 0 ! what language picturesque succeeded
silence, when
They panned-off half-a-penny weight, those seven
honest men.
BEN SUN.


NOTE
WEI/L
THIS
MARK.
I
SSiiiiHa
m
'm.
WMm
>AvS
V.va
Ml
/■■Jr.w.v.'
mm
■mm
The word FOX is a GUARANTEE of Soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all Worsted Coatings,
Vicunas, Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume Cloths,
on which it is Stamped.
Trade
FOX
Mark
FOX BROTHERS & Go., Ltd.,
<v> Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas, Serges, Tweeds, Tennis, and Costume Cloths.
Contractors to the English Admiralty, War Office, Mia Office, Crown Colonies, and Metropolitan police.
THEIR Mills are capable of an annual production of 2,000,000 yards of material, and find employment for 1,200 hands. Reliable
records show that the business at Wellington was founded early in the eighteenth century, and the present Company have in
their possession a balance sheet dated 1733.
FOXS’ PURE INDIGO.
As the result of many years of experience, FOX£ PURE INDIGO DYE is recognised as the best in the Market. The superiority of Pure Indigo over other
dyes may be briefly summed up as follows :
FASTNESS OF THE DYE.—lndigotine, the colouring principle of Indigo, is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and dilute acids, and alkalies either hot or
cold, hence its extreme fastness for all conditions of ordinary wear and tear. It is also quite fast to Sunlight, and for an all-round dye there is nothing superior to
it. There is no need to point out the advantage there is in a perfectly fast dye, as compared with one which may be fast to light, but will not stand perspiration, or
washing, or vice versa. .
STRENGTH AND HANDLE.—CIoth dyed Pure Indigo is stronger and tougher than the same cloth dyed in other ways, owing to the dye-bath being at
a comparatively low temperature, and the absence of any injurious chemicals or mordaunts. In almost all other dyes, the cloth is first boiled in the mordaunt and
then in the dye for some hours altogether. This always impoverishes the wool fibre, and destroys much of its natural lustre and softness, whereas the Indigo Vat
with its soft, mellow liquor, adds to the fulness and richness of the fabric. Indigo Dyeing being a mechanical process rather than a chemical one, actually feeds the cloth.
JHLII their standard cloths are stamped every two yards on the hack,
FO2S: x»xj£&£s iroieo,
. . and without this stamp are not Genuine.
These Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Australian Colonies.
See foi? yourselves that the Serge is stamped—FOX PURE INDIGO,-as many dealers for the sake of an
extra profit try to sell inferior-dyed cloths, remarking “that they are just as good as Pure Indigo.”
wm
\LrV-
rs
__ t
i &
" .-: s
.if in ■ ll 'Sat S«V- ■-■ - -
fiJ ~V. I ' '-t'.'.j---. .. -_^4j-'.
•uni
HMIj
Jinn
lit*!'
MSiW
S'
FOX BROS. & Co., litd.,
carry out every process themselves, from buying the Wool to making
and selling the Goods, and can therefore guarantee the soundness of the
material and quality of the dye.
BROS. <& Co.,
being the largest Government Serge Contractor in England, can
recommend their Pure Indigo Government Serges for real hard wear.
Their Pure Indigo Dress Serges have everlasting wear. Can be
cleaned again and again, then turned and made up equal to new. Their
Tennis Cloths are quiet in style, and most comfortable as Suitings.
FOX BROS. Co., X*td.,
have during the past year brought out an entirely novel Elastic Worsted
Cloth (made from Colonial Wool), registered in England as “ FOBRO.
“ FOBRO ” has special qualities as follows: Elasticity and Porosity,
but being woven by a special process will not fray or ravel, no matter
how it is cut. With these special qualities it is particularly adapted for
Shooting, Cycling, Walking, Etc.
Australian Agents for tho Wholesale Trade only-
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &
-/y • . .. ■ /.
422, George St., Sydney.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Core
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Tl lio have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
S< th» Chest experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soreness m 4 rr ;tation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop,
neve? been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. ’
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Consumption has
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
B€WAR€ OF COUcSNS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
jfr W G Hearne. —Dear Sir,-I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
mv case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got woise,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this staye
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent- to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Heame.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always’keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to ray mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMERi
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured rue. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTTMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from.
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
a ured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states : —“ I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Sn.nl! Size, 2g 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold hy Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
DA.PTO
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illa,warra),
SYUKTEY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS.
3PRODXJCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
■ '
.
MAKERS OP
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AEBA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food f °r
Infants
9
m
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
Books! Books! Books!
Hist ory of Australian Bush ranging:, by C. White. Frank
Gardiner, the King of the Road, and his Gang, Is 3d ;
Ben Hall and his Gang, Is 3d ; The Caloola Robbers and
other startling incidents, Is 3d.
The New South Wales Banditti, or Donohoe, Under-
wood, Webber, Clarke, and their Gangs, Is 3d. I have
three very choice books Is 6d each. Popular Educator,
in6vols., £5 for 255. Write for Catalogues; all books
sent post free. It. W . SKINNER, Second-hand Book-
seller, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Valuable Books.
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOR 6d. IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
W. N. J€i)kii)&,
41 Stephen Street,
. Melbourne.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st-, Sydney.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
London ,
E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FRAKriE JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded m placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bliirh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CO ERIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria- JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia —O. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
:
TatterSall’S Hotels
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. j. Adam*, Manager,
Pick out what is best
in all the other Sydney
hotels, and you have
Tattersall’s.
Terms on Application to
Manager.
jPainless Dentistry,
THE ....
[ondonflental
r . Institute.
Dit. ,8. LEVEIt, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mb. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
IW J " Modem. Dentistry in all its branches
Legitimately Practised,.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKH&COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
STICK T©
eftME© n
CIGARETTES
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BRLLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTUBE.
*:lE>
TE
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLXSTXTE won over <£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over .£lOOO more than any other powder.—Fide Field, June 24,’99.
PAEVO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
I AGENTS:
N. S. W. 9 Messrs. Italy ety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. liriscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Erdbant & Co.
V
fj//
CHEAPER THAKT IROM !
im mini
Laid over Wire KTetting.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
ROOFING IS A DECIDED
IMPORXAKTX.
Box 22, G.P.0., Sydney, 18181‘99.
Messrs. E. RI6H & CO.; Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, •
In the construction of roofs when timber is costly 1 have toith marked
success used toire netting as a foundation upon which to lay Ruberoid.
In the roof framing the' rafters need not be less than 4ft- apart, and
upon these should be placed broad side up battens or purlins, say, 4 by l\in.
sunk flush with the face of the rafters spaced 2ft. Bin. apart from centre to
centre, and over the whole should be tightly stretched from eaves to ridge wire-
netting, say, 16 gauge by 3or fin. mesh firmly secured at the ends. The
Width of the netting should be such that the edges can be nailed on to the centre
of each rafter.
Over the top of the wire-netting the sheets of Ruberoid should be placed,
commencing at the caves batten on to which it should be tacked down per-
manen'ly, the second sheet should then be placed so as to overlap the first by
4in. (after using the usual paint, of course), and the bottom of this and the
top of the first sheet securely nailed to the second batten, and so on until
completed.
The Ruberoid should also be nailed to the rafters for additional safety.
If ordinary care is used, any handy man can in this way construct a neat,
serviceable, light, substantial and inexpensive roof.
Yours truly, 0. M‘MASTER.
[copy] Albury, 10th December, 1898.
Messrs. E. RICH ds CO., Ltd., Merchants,
O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
TTe have built an office of your RUBEROID and find it is from 23
to 27 degrees cooler than our old office built of iron and wood lining, under
similar conditions.
Yours faithfully,
HAYES BROS, Millers, Albury.
'j.
First (SPECIAL) Award at the INTERNATIONAL MINING EXHIBITION, Coolgardie, W.A.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, jor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20. Ko. 1027.
SATURDAY. OCTOBER 21, 1890.
Prick Gn.
Joe Chamberlain, (to J. Bull, who has dropped in to,
see how the war preparations are progressing): “ See /
here, old fellow; there is no need of you and I /
worrying our heads over this Boer business. Those beastly /
colonials have taken the matter out of our hands. /
\. Let them and the Boers fight it out! ’’ /
Col. Slocum (grocer, and Commander of'the Ring-Tail Rangers) : -“Mariar,
my country cries (of help. X hear the bugle-call to arms, and the tramp, tramp of
my comrades marching to the fray. Shall they go without a leader? Unlock. that
door, and tell me where you have
hidden my sword and military pants ?’•
Mariar : “ And I hear somebody
calling * Shop ! ’ You mind the baby,
and I’ll go and see what’s wanted.”
“ Anr.ther offer was made to
Mr. St a yesterday. It came frcwb
]>r. Green, Anglican Bishop of
the diocese of Grafton and Armi-
dale, through the Archbishop. He
asks to be allowed to go to the
Transvaal as chaplain to the N.S.
Wales forces. Mr. See says that
if it should be decided to send
troops from the province, the offer
. made by Bishop Green will be
gladly accepted.”
Wellington, Sunday. —At a church-parade of the
l ransvaa! Contingent to-day, the Bishop of Wellington
wished the Contingent success in carrying out Christ’s
message to protect the weak. He hoped God would
bless their arms, and bring them safe back.”
WANTED, A MISSIONARY.
And, by-the-bye, apropos of the last blasphemous par.
Have the celestial authorities run out of lightning 1
5 5 ..
A „•■>? *. *0
a «P A°
i? tr •<• r <?
$ N J*
/A?//
£?W
‘• A g
&
Departure of the N.S.W. Contingent. They see the hand-
writing on the wall as they pass the Heads.
Betsy Pr.ia .■ “ ’Ullo, Sairey, where are you off to 1 ”
Sairky Gamp : “ I’m off to Mr. Chamberlain to hoffer my ser-
vices as nuss in the Tranksvale as ever was ! ”
Betsy Piuo (with ill-concealed envy) : “ The Trankswale ! W’y.
they can’t have no use for the likes o’ you in the harmy.”
Saibey G. : “ An’ well I know it, Betsy, but as I says to Mrs.
Harris, think of the moral effeck of the hoffer ' ‘
A PATRIOTIC OFFER.
"Melbourne, Saturday.—Fitzgerald Bros., the
well-known circup' proprietors, have given 12
splendid horses for the use of the mounted men of
. the Victorian contingent. Before being handed
over, the horses will bo trained to romstin quiet under fire, to lie down at the word of com-
mand, and do many other things which would prove of service in campaigning."
Messrs. Fitzgerald might then take the Soudan Donkey in hand—teach him a
few amusing tricka, and the Transvaal Circus Co., Ltd., would be complete.
WAR!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** A. jstralia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published.by William Maoi.eod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bit letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie Olfice of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
Bn sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postal/e added where required —
which you may pay by Post Oliice Order, Postal n ote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tun Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed:to William Maclkod, Managing O,rector.
Literary Communications to be addressea «». F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aclmdwledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings All
communications will be regarded as strictly conjidenttaL .
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendinn MS. to distinctly undei stand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiif. Bulletin original h umorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit,
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS 11 00l hxc 1 '" we,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circin ; S eel
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.—Die Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.—if. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
anil Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape. Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in I ictoria, S. Australia,
Westralia an<l Hfaorilan.fl.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial N eivspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the. subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The' Bulletin to Queensland will be. £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted bythe Queensland Post Office, a special Thyme-
paper edition o/ The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1899.
The First Federal Premier and His
Programme.
The Bulletin had a dream the other night ;
it dreamt that it was appointed Premier of
the first Federal Ministry in Australia.
And in view of that vision it has prepared
the following programme, which is the kind
of programme it would lay before Parlia-
ment if it were Federal Premier. Having
no expectation of that billet it is the one
which it proposes to urge upon the Premier,
whoever he may be :
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE TWO HOUSES OF THE
PARLIAMENT OF AUSTRALIA :
The first Commonwealth Ministry, having secured its
billet, and hung up its hat, and shaken down to some
extent into its new position, desires to lay before you Lhe
following propositions :
(1) The Legislature is occupying temporary quarters in
Melbourne, but as it is essential that it should have a
home of its own at the earliest possible date it is pro-
posed that a committee shall be appointed to visit pro-
pose I sites for a permanent capital and report on those
most suitable. A cooi, elevated and well-watered region
is essential, so the committee will deal with the N.S.W.
table-land only, and not waste its time in the lowlands.
(2) It. is specified in clause 125 of this Constitution that
the capital must be located on a.Federal territory of not
less than 100 square miles. A great effort will he made,
however, to secure a suitable Federal territory of some-
thing approaching 5000 square miles. All Crown lands
on this territory will be handed over to the Federal
Government free of cost. You will be invited toauthorise
the compulsory purchase of all private lainls on the
Federal territory ; to establish a board of arbitration to
fix the price in case of dispute ; and to vote the neces-
sary funds. A measure will also be submitted to you de-
claring that none of the land of the Federal territory in
question shall be sold under any circumstances whatever,
and that the freehold thereof and the income derived
therefrom shall be the inalienable property of the Com-
monwealth. , ...
(3) You will be invited to consider a scheme for leasing
the land of the Federal territory, on equitable terms, the
great object being to secure for the Commonwealth the
whole benefit of the increased. values created by the
establishment of a Federal city. It is also for this reason
that it is proposed, if possible, to build that city in the
centre of a territory of 5000 square miles, whereof the
Commonwealth is both sovereign and sole ground land-
lord. On a much smaller territory a great deal of the
increased values created by the construction of a Federal
city would go to enrich private landlords outside the
Federal border. .... .. ,
(4) It is proposed to lay out on this territory an ideal
capital with tree-lined streets 100 feet wide, and abundant
reserves, and governed by rigid building laws to prevent
the erection of unsightly structures. Even a hoot-factory
or a bone-mill will have to be a work devoid of archi-
tectural hideousness.
• • * •
(5) Partly with a view to raising the money for these-
works without interest, and partly as an essential feature
of a uniform Australian hanking law, which will be
brought forward at an early date, it is proposed to adopt
the principle so successfully applied in Canada whereby
the banks are required to hold at least 40 per cent, of
their cash reserves in Slate paper currency. This will
give the Federal Government command of (say)
£10,000,000 as a perpetual loan absolutely free of interest,
and more later on. Out of this fund it is proposed to
purchase all private lands inside the Federal territory,
to erect Parliament Houses and public offices, construct
roads, bridges, and water and sewerage works, and other
needful undertakings.
(6) The rentals derived from all lands inside the
Federal territory shall not be treated as ordinary revenue,
but shall be set aside as a public works fund, and used
for that purpose only.
(7) Two great works which it is proposed to make a first
charge upon the fund are a railway to connect the Wes-
tralian railway system with that of the eastern States,
and the completion of the transcontinental line between
Adelaide and Port Darwin.
(8) It is considered essential that the Northern Terri-
tory, with all its assets and liabilities, be surrendered by
South Australia and taken over by the Federal Govern-
ment. Until its population grows sufficiently large to
enable it to support a State Government of its own it will
be administered as Federal territory by a special depart-
ment. A separate account will be kept of its debt, re-
venue, and expenditure. It is anticipated that the Terri-
tory lands will become a very profitable asset when
railway connection is established between that hitherto
lost province and the South. Any surplus revenue
derived from them will be applied—one-half in reduction
of the Territory’s debt; the remainder to public works
within the Territory. Meanwhile land-jobbers and cheap-
labor syndicates are warned off.
(9) You will be invited to consider a uniform Protective
Federal tariff, calculated to raise about £7,000,000 or
£7,500,000 annually.
* * * *
(10) You will be invited to consider the advisability of
levying a Federal income-tax on the following basis:
Exemption up to £250 ; 4d. in the £ on the first £lOOO
after that,; 6d. in the £ on the second £lOOO ; Bd. on all
further income. This scale to apply only to incomes
derived from personal exertion. On incomes derived
from property the rate to be doubled. Also a Federal
land-tax, on the following scale : Exemption up to
£5OO ; after that the tax to be Id. in the £ on
all estates up to £7500 in value ; estates worth
over £7500 and under £15,000 to pay a penny
and one-eighth in the £ ; and a similar increase of one-
eighth of a penny in the £ to be made for each £7500 of
extra value until on estates worth £97,500 and over the
tax shall he 3d. in the £. Also, in the case of absentees
both land and income taxes shall be increased by 50 per
cent. At least three-fourths, and if possible the whole
of the proceeds of this tax shall be paid over to the
States, each State receiving the amount of its own con-
tribution, less Cost of collection. The purpose in making
the land and income taxes Federal in place of State im-
posts is to secure uniformity throughout the Common-
wealth, to discourage absenteeism and the accumulation
of large estates, and to foster a race of small independent
proprietors. The Federal Government takes it for
granted that the States will abolish their present land
and income raxes. If they don’t it is their own affair.
(11) A special feature in the proposed Federal land-tax
is that each owner shall value his own land for taxation
purposes. If the valuation is considered too small the
Government may appeal against it to the Supreme Court.
Also, the Federal Government shall always have the right
to resume the laud at 10 per cent, above the owner's valu-
ation, the value of improvements to be settled by arbitra-
tion. A right of resumption on this basis shall also be
vested in the State Government, in the municipal
authority, and in the tenant in possession, but the
Federal Government shall have prior claim.
(12) A scheme for the resumption of large estates for
closer settlement will also he submitted to you. This
work shall be done in each State under the supervision
of a Board appointed partly by the Federal and partly by
the State authority.
(13) It is proposed to establish Federal conciliation and
arbitration courts with extensive powers to deal with
strikes and trade disputes, and to compel the acceptance
of their awards.
* » • •
(14) It is proposed to combine the State Land Banks of
Victoria and 8.A., the N.S. VV. Advances to Settlers De-
partment and the Westralian Agricultural Batik into a
Federal Land Bank with branches in all the provinces.
In each province the bank will be supervised by a board
of dire tors appointed partly by the Federal Government
and part ly by the State.
(15) It is proposed to establish a Federal Life Insurance
Department. The Government shall be empowered to
take over one or more of the existing private insurance
institutions as the nucleus of the new department.
(16) It is considered desirable that the issue of bank-
notes should be a monopoly of the Federal Government.
These notes shall be received by Federal, State and
Municipal governments in payment of all dues and
taxes.
(17) One of the first duties of the Federal Government
is to take over the postal, telegraph, customs, excise,
defence and various other departments of the provinces,
and to ascertain the amount payable to each province
for buildings, &c., taken over. Most of these works have
been constructed out of loan funds, and if they were
paid for in cash there would probably be a tendency to
treat the money thus obtained as revenue instead of
using it in reduction of State liabilities. Therefore it is
proposed that the Federal Government shall make pay-
ment by assuming the necessary amount of each pro-
vince's 3 per cent. debt. Where a province’s 3 per cent,
debt isn’t large enough to equal the amount due to it
the balance will be paid by taking over 3i per cent, debt
at a sufficient discount to cover the extra interest.
(18) A Bill will be laid before you for the conversion of
the various State debts into a uniform 3 per cent. Federal
stock with a currency of 40 years, and after that redeem-
able at the option of the Federal Government. It is pro-
posed, in the first place, that the Federal Government
•shall take over the management of the existing State
debts, in order to reduce expenses, but without guaran-
teeing them in any way. Also, that it shall debit each
province every year with the exact amount it paid on
account of its public debt in 1899, and deduct said pay-
ment every year from that province’s share of its customs
and excise revenue. That it shall convert all loans as
they fall due into a Federal 3 per cent, stock, and that
it shall keep before the public creditor a standing offer
to give Federal 3 per cent, stock at par in exchange
for the existing higher-priced provincial securities.
The amount saved in interest on each province's
separate debt will be applied to the reduction of ihit
province’s liabilities until they are wholly extinguished.
The total debts to he taken over are about ' 190,000,000,
and it is calculated that, without any addition whatever
to the public burdens, and merely hy the saving in in-
terest, the whole amount can be paid off in a little over
60 y ears.
(19) A measure to establish uniform postage, telegraph
and money-order rates is in preparation. The vexed
question of newspaper postage has been carefully con-
sidered, and it has been decided to charge a rate of Jd.
up to ten ounces on all papers posted inside the Common-
wealth to places inside the Commonwealth. Designs for
Federal postage stamps are invited. No design'With a
Queen’s head on it will lie even considered.
(20) Australia urgently requires a uniform .railway
gauge in order to promote speedy transit and economy of
management, and to make I he country more capable of
defence. In fact until a uniform railway gauge is decided
upon It is useless for the Federal Government lo do an3’-
thing regarding the construction of the two transcontin-
ental railways ; to build 3000 miles of line only to relay it
when the all-Australiari railway gailgeisdefinitely decided,
w ould be an absuvd proceeding. Therefore the Federal
Government proposes opening up communication with the
State Governments with a view to arranging some terms on
which the entire existing railway system of t he Six States
can be taken over, and future railway construction be
made a Federal business. If this is done, the work of
converting the whole system to one uniform gauge will
be undertaken at an early date.
(21) A Bill dealing with aliens has been prepared. Its
leading features are that no Asiatic, negro, kanaka,
Papuan, or other variety of black, yellow, mottled, or
speckled person, shall be allowed to enter the Common-
wealth territory except on payment of £2OO. If also
deals with the exclusion of diseased persons, criminals
and lunatics.
(22) An old-age-pension scheme providing for every
indigent person, over 60, of reasonably good character
(absolute perfection will not be insisted on), and with a
record of 25 years residence in the territory of the Com-
monwealth, is another prominent feature of the Govern-
ment’s policy.
(23) The Federal Government proposes to make a fresh
start in Australian finance. It intends to he honest.
' No money will be borrowed at interest except for directly
reproductive purposes. No money will be borrowed ex-
cept in case of absolute necessity. No money will be
borrowed (loans for the conversion of old debts only ex-
cepted) ourside the Commonwealth. All new Federal
loans shall have a sinking fund attached.
(24) The measure providing fora uniform Federal fran-
chise which will be submitted to you will be short and
comprehensive. Its general tendency is to give one vote
and one only to every sane adult male and female, aliens
excepted, who has resided a year in any part of the
country, who can read and write, and who is out of gaol.
(25) The Government has many other important
matters in view, but it advances these as a few things to
go on with.
* » * *
The above are 25 of The Bulletin’s rea-
sons for suggesting Charles Cameron
Kingston, of South Australia, as first Pre-
mier of the Commonwealth. Among the
front-rank politicians of this country, he is
the only one who looks like being competent
to carry out the kind of programme outlined
above. The old Parliamentary hands, the old
Tories, the old, slow-going dwellers in a rut,
are not wanted on this kind of voyage. When
a new nation starts with a clean sheet, it
wants to entrust the creation of the new
order of things to men who know what to do
with a clean sheet, and those old politicians
who have left such a melancholy record of
blotches on the old dirty sheet, should all
stand down. The new nation begins with
practically no old precedents' to shackle it,
and it requires a live man who can make the
new precedents wisely. Also it wants a
courageous man who won’t be terrified when
he finds himself in the novel situation of
having no old precedents to guide him. Hav-
ing made a most democratic constitution, it
wants a proved democrat to work it. And
having to start everything anew, it needs a
man who has shown that he can make new
things—not an incurable repairer whose
career has always been one of putting patches
on old things, no matter how deftly the
patches were put on. And accordingly this
paper recommends Kingston for the job—
always with the right to withdraw that
recommendation if its candidate does any-
thing wildly and hilariously foolish between
now and the date when the new Government
starts.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Concerning' the Awful Contingent
Henry Lawson to The Bulletin on “The
Australian Contingent to the Transvaal ” :
What does it all amount to ? Only this : That, because
of the craving for the sensational horn of the world’s pre-
sent social system—the mad longing for change, inten-
sified in Australia by the hopeless flat monotony of the
country and its history—some of ns are willing—wilfully,
blindly eager, mad!—to cross the sea and shoot men whom
we never saw and whose quarrel we do not and cannot
understand. Our cry is “ For England !” or “ Blood is
thicker than water!” and so we seek to blind and
deceive ourselves as fools who are unanimous in their
eagerness to sacrifice right, justice, truth - everything, to
satisfy their selfish craving for what they consider a pic-
nic—to have “some fun” —to have a spree. England is
not going to fight for England—not for English interests,
but for the interests of syndicates, and because she is
forced to it by the power of private gold assisted by its
contemptible and ignorantly-willing cat’s-paw, Jingoism.
Oh! the cruel, blind, murderous Crimes of Crowds! —of
Popular Cries ! And we are going to help a big nation
crush a little one which is fighting for country and free-
dom only, and all because we want to have a spree—to
have a “ knock-round.”
I was never in South Africa, but the white man is
pretty much the same all over the world, and I saw the
Uitlander-versus-Boer play on a small scale in Westralia.
There it was T’othersider-wsus-Sandgroper. Because
tlie Westralian people and Government wouldn’t go out
of their houses and sacrifice everything to the camp-
ing swarm of adventurers whose only idea was to make
as much money out of the country as possible in the
shortest possible time, and then get out of if, they were
howled at as the “Forrest Gang,” the “ Sandgroper,”
&c., &e. ; and there, Australians once (in Coolgardie) ap-
pealed to the British syndicates for assistance to crush
the Westralian Government! Not only English against
English, but Australians against Australians ; and all and
only for gold—as is the Transvaal trouble.
I don’t know the Boers, but this I know. That in Wes-
traiia, as a workman, 1 would rather work for a settled
Sandgroping boss who is content to pay fair wages and
have his work done comfortably than for a boss from
my own “ side ” —a ’Tothersider who, in his sj fish hurry
to “make money” and get out of tiie country, would
sweat and drive his employes without mercy.
We have the Soudan affair to blot our history for ever,
and are not ashamed nor satisfied ; and 1 tell you that
the thing we are going to do about the Transvaal trouble
is ten times more shameful than the sending of the Con-
tingent to Soudan, a hundred times more shameful than
our “ birthstain,” with all its buried horrors dug-up,
would be. That, indeed, was only really shameful to
England. And I say we would do better, and it would
be more just, and just as reasonable if we took up arms
and fought to the death, one province against another,
here in Australia.
When England meets her match, or something like it,
the sending of contingents then will be another question
altogether.
A Very Small Jingo.
The frantic Jingo of Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Morning Herald :
The prospect held out to Britons, Germans, French,
Americans, that if they care to forswear their own
nationalities they will be made members of a one-horse
South African republic, and become cousins to the large
Kruger family, will not be regarded as a specially in-
viting one.
Query : Does this loud, wild buster, and other
busters like him, know what the row is sup-
posed to be all about? It professes to be solely
because the British in the Transvaal are not
allowed sufficient facilities for becoming Boer
citizens and having votes in that capacity. It
was demanded by Britain that a British sub-
ject in the Transvaal should be permitted, after
a brief residence there, to forswear Britain,
and throw up the glorious; flag, and leave off
his allegiance to the Queen, and abandon “ Rule
Britannia,” and the National Anthem, and
British protection, and the noble heritage of
"his fathers, and become a kind of manufactured
Boer, and a full-blown citizen and a voter of a
little one-horse African republic. It is because
theßritonis denied this blessed privilege that he
is fighting ! He wants to be a Dutchman and
with the Dutchmen stand. He wants to be a
subject of Kruger, so that when the Transvaal
and Britain get to war Kruger can order him
- out as a Boer soldier t,o shoot the British, and
hang him if he won't go. The whole trouble is
because the Kruger Government didn’t make
the terms easy enough on which the Briton
could forswear his country and become a
glorious Boer. Even up to a late date Alfred
Milner was heard stating that if the Briton
were allowed to throw his country overboard
and become a full and complete Boer after five
years’ residence, all might still be well. Logi-
cally, it is an amusing situation.
♦
The Toiling 1 (Jutlander and the Outlander
Capitalist.
J. A. Verhoef, one of the founders of the
Johannesburg Labor-party, interviewed by
Brisb. Worker, threw light on the real causes
of the Transvaal war ; which —in the multitude
of faked cables, syndicate-purchased news-
papers, and Jingo outcries—Australians know
little about. Said Mr. Verhoef:
We founded the Johannesburg Labor party not long
ago. It consists principally of the miners, but includes
also the Stonemasons’ and the Engine-drivers’ Associa-
tions. We are dead against Rhodes’s capitalist
clique, who are engineering the British aggression with
the object of seizing the country. We know from experi-
ence what to expect from them if they succeed. They
control the Kimberley district in which the diamond
mines are situated, and in which the working classes are
degraded by long hours, low wages, and political dis-
franchisement.
The Jameson raid was an attempt on the part of the
Rhodes clique to seize the Transvaal by force. Taunted
in Cape Colony afterwards with having made a mess of it,
and with having failed, Rhodes replied, “Well, we will
try the constitutional way now’.” A gigantic capitalist
plot was then formed. Knowing that the sympathies of
the working classes lay with the Boers, the mining mag-
nates set themselves to work to alienate that sympathy.
First Capitalism in the Transvaal began to organise itself.
It began to close down the mines in order to throw men
out of work. It displaced white labor wherever it could,
employing Kaffir labor instead. It laid idle many great
works that were going on. Barnato’s Theatre, which
was being built, was left unfinished, and has remained
so. In this way, by throwing out of employment
hundreds of working-men, a great ariificial depression
was brought about by the capitalists. Then the daily
press, which they own, started to shriek against the
Boers. The depression was attributed to the heavy taxes
which, it was maintained, the mine-owners had to pay on
dynamite, on the carriage of coal, to the duties on
machinery, and to every plausible pretext possible. The
working-classes were roused to agitation in support of the
supposed grievances of the millionaires. One by one the
Boer Government conceded the points demanded.
It reduced the railway rates for coal to below the
actual cost of carriage. It abolished machinery duties,
it reduced the duties on necessaries, hut increased the
duties on champagne, cigars, wines, and mineral waters
The Capitalists complained that the Kaffirs were unreli
able as miners owing to the Boer law permitting them to
purchase grog. On this point their demands were con-
ceded also. Having exhausted every plausible pretext,
the Capitalist organisations then attacked the franchise
and blamed it for the depression. Kruger conceded
point after point on this matter, until it became a ques
tion of constitutional suicide. When the crisis wa9
reached Kruger demanded arbitration ; Chamberlain
refused, hence the war It is all rubbish this pretence of
fighting for the political enfranchisement of the Out-
landers. I heard a millionaire boasting the other week in
Johannesburg that they did not care a fig about the
ranchise.
The Outlanders are divided into two classes. There is
the working- class Outlander and the capitalist Outlander.
The working men do not complain about the Transvaal
Government. The Boer law is as liberal as the English,
and makes no distinction between Boer and foreigner.
The worker doesn’t bother his head about the Govern-
ment or about the franchise. Most of the miners have
not brought their wives and families into the country,
and do not intend to remain in it longer than thiy can
help. The place has no attraction for them and very
little interest. The capitalist Outlanders include the
shop-keeping classes, the lawyers, the commission
agents, and the bankers. All little fleas on the backs of
the big fleas who own the mines. It is this following
that is howling so loudly against the Boer franchise on
behalf of their masters, the big capitalists.
Germany and France are not interfering in this matter,
because the English are not only fighting the battle of
the English capitalist, but the batrle of the French and
German capitalist as well. French and German capi-
talists are up to their necks in the Rand gold-mines, and
the Rothschilds, who can make or unmake war these
days, are up to their necks in it also. To show you what
they can do : When Kruger met the first demands of the
capitalists and greatly reduced taxation, the Boer
Government tried to float a loan on the European maiket
to make up the deficiency in revenue. To harass him.
the Rothschilds opposed the loan, which failed, the
European financiers refusing to lend the necessary
money.
By the way, do you know that Milner, the British
Commissioner in South Africa, was one of the founders
of the Fabian Society, a London Socialist organisation ?
To what base uses, &c. Also, do you recollect how
Rhodes gave £lO,OOO to the funds of the Irish Party when
Parnell led it in the fight for Koine Rule for Ireland ?
A Small Boom in the G-oat Market.
The attempt to pump up enthusiasm in Aus-
tralia over the Transvaal-contingent business
has been a poor affair at the best. There was
no popular demand for a military howl in South
Africa to begin with. The movement was not
started by the people, but by politicians—by
the men who are now Plain Bill and ver\
ordinary John, and who hope to become “Sir
William or “Sir” John by spending other
people’s money on ammunition, and sending
other people to stop the hurried cannon-ball, or
to arrive after someone else has stopped it.
Aud even among the politicians it has not been
all joy. In South Australia, the Upper House
decided to authorise that province’s little
shooting expedition only by the casting-vote <>!
the President, and the proposal only just
managed to crawl through a cold and unpleasant
Assembly. It brought about a political crisis
in Queensland, and in N.S.W. the new Premier
was compelled to promise that he would wait
for the meeting of Parliament instead of rush-
ing headlong into the breach. A good many
men are willing to go for excitement, for
change of scene, for the pleasure of a fight, for
the sake of getting any kind of a job at decern
wages, many of them in the hope that they
may find good billets in South Africa, and
thereby get away gratis from a distressed
country which they can’t leave on their own
account for want of the needful passage-money .
One or two Parliaments have sung “ Gorsave
in a way that showed more energy than tune,
and it is cabled that Premier Seddon, of Maori-
land, in an excited moment got through that
little poem on a platform all by himself; bui
the public has not risen and perpetrated the
Anthem on a large scale. If the war is a short
one the painful fact already begins to assert
itself that the Australian Contingent may only
be in time to help with the heavy baggage in
the rear, which is an ignominious suspicion. A
few newspapers have tried to lash the public
into fury with tales about the Boer’s neglect
to wash himself, but there are many' unwashed
people in the world—there are many of them
even in Australia; and, anyhow, the Austra-
lian isn’t a Turkish-bath attendant with a mis-
sion to soap-and-waler his fellow-men. The
whole business has been sad and apathetic,
except on the part of those leading


grovellers who gather the green an'l juicy
advt. out of it. N.S. W. was in the contingent
business once before; it gathered no glory
worth mentioning, but it paid £300,000 for a
goat. And N.S.W., with that fact in mind,
is less enthusiastic than of old. The idea of
speculating in the cold, perfunctory goat doesn t
appeal to it this time with the old force. Vic-
toria, which has its goat yet to buy, is warmer,
and it is the only province where there is any
sign of the war-fever having spread among the
mass of the people. Considering that Britain
is tackling an enemy so small that he can only
be seen through a microscope, it can’t be pre-
tended that she requires assistance, so the only
feasible excuse is that, when actual war comes
this way, it will be valuable to have a force
which has been seasoned by active service.
And to come in at the stale tail-end of a little
war against an irregular force of farmers, which
is the prospect just now, isn’t even seeing active
service on a very large scale. The goat-market
is weak.
♦
Gordon’s Great Idea.
The wily idea of ex-Minister, ex-Democrat and
present Tory Gordon, that the S.A. Legisla-
tive Council should take a referendum of its
own constituents re the Council reform scheme
of the Kingston Government, is, after all, not
so wily as it looks. It has been hailed among
the Tory crowd as a master-stroke of policy,
but though it is rather a brilliant idea to
emanate from the Tory section of the House it
wouldu’t be especially brilliant coming from
anywhere else. In S.A. both Houses are elec-
tive, only they are elective in such a widely
different fashion that the Assembly represents
138,000 electors; the Council about 46,000.
The Household Suffrage Bill of the Kingston
Ministry aimed at widening the Council
Suffrage. When it had been passed by the
Assembly the Council scornfully carried it out
with the tongs and dropped it on the ash-heap,
giving as its chief reason that “ the people
had not seriously demanded any alteration
in the Council’s franchise,” and other good
old wheezes and groans to the same effect.
It was the argument that the Tory party has
always used, even when the air was thick with
the clamor of the people demanding reform.
But, in this case, it struck against the wrong
man. Kingston replied by taking a Referen-
dum on the Household Suffrage Bill at the
As embly elections, and the result showed that
the people demanded reform by 49,000 votes
against 33,000. By 16,000 majority the people
called the Council a liar in the matter of its
assertion that there was no popular demand for
reform. The Assembly passed the measure
again—and just here Gordon’s great inspira-
tion came in. He proposed that the Council
should take a referendum of its own propertied
constituents, and see if they were in favor of
dividing their authority with the mass of the
people ; and that the measure should be hung
up till the referendum w-as taken. The result
should be a very interesting gamble. If such a
referendum was taken, and the Council’s
handful of propertied constituents decided
that they were quite content to keep
the power in their own hands, and didn’t
see the necessity of letting anyone else share it,
the Council would be no further advanced. No-
body would seriously expect any other result.
If a vote is taken in any small privileged class
as to whether that class shall give up its special
privileges or not, the general result is that the
privileged class decides by a large majority
that it is quite satisfied with things as they are.
A vote of the British House of Lords as to
whether it should continue to be a hereditary
House of Lords, or a vote of the propertied
constituents of the Victorian House of 48 Rich
Landlords as to whether they should continue
to have 12 and 14 suffrages apiece, would
doubtless result in an expression of opinion that
nothing could be more admirable than the pre-
sent arrangement. Even if a poll were taken of
Kaiser William to decide whether the arrange-
ment whereby he is a very affluent German
emperor is quite satisfactory to himself,
that poll would probably close with one
unanimous vote to the" effect that Wil-
liam was quite satisfied to be an emperor.
So if the Council takes a referendum
of its own handful of propertied constituents,
and they say they are satisfied with things as
they are, it won’t strengthen the Council to
any appreciable extent, for the fact will still
remain that the mass of the people, as proved
by the Assembly’s n uch wider referendum, are
not at all satisfied. But if, as is not impossible in
democratic S.A., the Council’s own privileged
constituents gave a majority for Council reform
it will be an awful disaster to the House of
Fossils, and knock the ground completely front
beneath its feet. The trouble is that the
Council certainly doesn’t want to accept the
measure, yet if it rejects it again things will
have reached that stage at which the Governor
may dissolve both Houses and send them to the
country, and the obvious idea is to stave off
that woe a little longer. But it is quite
possible that at a general election, where all
the subjects of the day are mixed up together,
and there is no definite verdict on any one of
them, the Tory party would come off better
than if it obtained a vote on one clear-cut issue.
When the Tory party begins taking refer-
endums it is fooling with a dangerous weapon.
4
Interesting Discovery of a New Crime.
Vic. Crown Law authorities, assisted by that
province’s Penal Department, and backed by
the obsequious “ beak ” —of the common or
honorarium variety—has of late years invented
a fresh misdemeanor. ’Tis a pleasing offence,
and one calculated to give the utmost satisfac-
tion to the “authorities,” for it enables those
“ powers ” to deal summarily and persistently
with objectionable persons who fail to practise
Thrift and neglect to gain a Stake in the
Country. A recent offender was Mary
Watson, 42 years of age, brought before the
Coburg Bench on Sept. 22 charged with having
no dawful means of subsistence. Mary had
been originally ordered three months by the
City Bench for a similar offence, and before the
expiration of that term the Pentridge authori-
ties informed the police that she was Loo ill to
leave gaol. The prison doctor recommended a
further spell of three months in a cheerless
quod. Whereupon a servile and complaisant
Bench of J.’sP. kindly ordered her back IK)
gaol for six months ! It is hopeless to ex-
pect mercy or sympathy from the cold com-
inerciality of Melbourne, but surely the
common sense of that community must show
it that it costs less, financially and
morally, to keep a sick woman in a hospital
than in a gaol. The only plausible ex-
planation of Melbourne’s callous complaisance
at this weekly gaoling of its sick poor is that
it is a police-ridden community and simply
dares not object ; anil the only ostensible
reason for the Dept.’s acts is either that it must
fill its gaols somehow or other, or that it hopes
to atone for its neglect of the wealthy criminal
and the well-connected defaulter by its fre-
quent and persistent prosecution of the poor.
Even such an obtu e and venal affair as the
Vic. Crown Law Office cannot pretend that it
expects a prisoner to earn a means of subsistence
and acquire visible means of support while in
gaol. Moreover, it is only the poor who are
thus sent to gaol for the crime of ill-health ; the
influential person who can fee a big lawyer and
an expensive doctor to speak as to his want of
robustness while in confinement, is promptly
released on account of ill-health before his
term is completed. Sickness is a reason,
according to Victorian judical methods, why a
rich person should be let out of gaol lest his
health should suffer from confinement, and it is
also a reason why a poor woman should be sent
to gaol for six months more, lest she should
grow worse through want of confinement.
V
The People who haven’t Time to he Born.
In view of the scare which recently broke out
in Maoriland over the decline of the birth-rate,
some figures recently issued by N.S.W. Statis-
tician Coghlan are interesting. The Maori-
land birth-rate has declined so much in late
years that a spasm of alarm spread over the
country lest there should never really be any
Maoriland nation at all—lest the community
should start to die out almost before it had
fairly begun to exist, and perish through not
taking the trouble to be born. Yet, according
to Coghlan’s figures, Maoriland is better off in
this respect than some of its neighbors. These
are last year’s results
Births Deaths Increase Marriages
per per per - per
100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
of of of of
Popula- Popula- Popula- Popula-
tion. tion. tion. tion.
Maoriland ... 2574 984 1590 691
Queensland ... 2834 1270 1564 605
N.S.W 2714 1248 1466 669
W.A. 3010 1646 1364 1014
Tasmania ... 2624 1352 1272 629
S. A 2455 1295 1160 608
Victoria 2566 1590 976 651
Maoriland comes out absolutely on top in the
most important respect. It has a higher birth-
rate than either Victoria or S.A., and it has
the highest marriage-rate of all, Westralia’s
only excepted. Also, it has by far the lowest
death-rate, therefore it is increasing faster in
population by the natural process of excess of
births over deaths than any other province ;
while Victoria, owing to its unaccountably
high death-rate, has the least increase
of any. Yet, on the whole, it would
seen that the Australian hasn’t time to be born.
On an average there are 2651 births annually
for every 100,000 people in Australia, as com-
pared with 3520 in Europe and 3150 in the
United States. And, on the other hand, he
hasn’t time to die, because he wants to go and
see the Melbourne Cup; in fact, he dies so
very seldom compared with the European that
the population of Australasia in general is in-
creasing every year by per cent, against
Europe’s average of a little over 1 per cent.
Under these circumstances it is possible that
the Australasian people may hang out for a
while longer, and have time to leave a No. 10
footprint in history before they go to join the
dead nations in the cemetery.
Byne and Leans.
Supposing the Lyne Government knows an
opportunity when it sees one, it will promptly
introduce a Bill declaring that only those
public works which yield a direct cash revenue
shall hereafter be chargeable to loans, and that
the whole mass of lion-direct-revenue-produc-
ing works (roads, bridges, gaols, asylums, river
improvements, harbor ditto, public offices,
schools, dredges, museums, &c., &c.) shall be
paid out of revenue. And it will make the
penalty for breach of this law anything short
of summary execution. If Lyne has discovered
what it was that struck him and Dibbs
in ’94, this will be one of his very first
public acts. The old Dibbs-Lyne Ministry
was a rather unusually honest one as N.S. W.
Ministries go. It paid out of revenue a
multitude of things which former Govern-
ments paid out of loans —therefore it had
to raise more revenue than its predecessors.
And Reid went up and down the country
raging like a small lion with an eyeglass, and
denouncing it as an extravagant Government
and an oppressor of the people, till he shunted
the Dibbs-Lyne Ministry out of office. Then
he won the great heart of the people by re-
ducing taxation and reducing expenditure;
and the. fact that he simply reduced expendi-
ture by charging more of the unproductive
works to loans quite escaped the notice of the
unthinking multitude. He was a mere political
fraud, but he was able to pose as a benefactor,
because the DjbbS-Lyne Government hadn’t
the sense to bind its successors by cast-iron Act
of Parliament to do as it did in the matter of
charging unproductive works to revenue.
Years before that the Dibbs-Jennings Govern-
ment made a similar mistake. It stopped the
old wholesale land - auctions, and thereby
stranded itself on a big deficit. But it hadn’t
the worldly wisdom, in its simple-minded
honesty, to stop laud-auctions permanently by
Act of Parliament, so Parkes came back to
power, and posed as the saviour of his country
by the easy process of selling his country’s
property wholesale to raise the wind. If the
last Dibbs-Lyne Ministry had imposed its com-
paratively-honest Public Works policy on its
successors by Act of Parliament then Reid
would not have held office for five years by
posing as the country’s great economist when
he was merely the country’s great loan-money
prodigal; he would either have had to publicly
announce his methods of economy by repealing
the law dealing with the application of loan
moneys, or he would have had to raise even
heavier taxation than his predecessors did.
The late Dibbs-Lyne Government lost a great
chance, and if Lyne loses his chance again he
deserves any kind of ill-luck that may befall
him.
4,
O Just Judg'e Gaunt !
A few days ago Judge Gaunt, of Melbourne,
was called upon, in the course of his ordinary
duties, to pass sentence on W. H. Buckley,
late chief clerk of Vic. Crown Law Department.
He decided that 1J years would meet the case.
Allowing for the absurdity of a system which
simply aims at breaking up its victims men-
tally wdiile putting them to no earthly profit,
the sentence of 18 months’ hard labor fora first
offender was perhaps sufficiently severe, but in
contrast with his Honor’s ferocious sentences in
other recent and contemporary cases, his alti-
tude was grotesque. Prisoner had been earn-
ing nearly £5OO a year, and his “ trouble ” was
brought on chiefly, if not wholly, by gambling.
There were three charges against him involving
a total of £lOOO, but the C.L. authorities with-
drew two on the first being proved. Before the
passing of sentence, the usual expensive lawyer
called sundry witnesses to character, who
all spoke highly of the now' weeping
prisoner, and proved that he was an in-
tensely honest man who had stolen a great
deal of money. Then the said expensive lawyer
put it to his Honor that there was no great
harm done, and the majesty of the law had
been vindicated, and that prisoner had suffered
keenly when he was put to the indignity of
being arrested (the indignity of being arrested
is good in a province w hich gaols its sick and
poor wholesale), and so forth, ad nauseam. At
this stage the court was one vast Ntobe, and
even the very walls sweated tears, and the iron
bars writhed in agony to such an extent that
the prisoner almost escaped from the dock.
Whereupon Gaunt remarked that “ the passing
of sentence in any case was always painful, but
it was a much more painful position for the
Judge when he had to pass sentence upon a
man whom he had known well.” He also pro-
ceeded to observe that “ though he pitied him
from the bottom of his heart he had a stern
duty to perform, and must administer even-
handed justice.” His Honor “ could not say
to a poor wretch in the dock, who had, per-
haps, taken money for his immediate needs,
‘ I shall pass a heavy sentence upon you,’ and
to another man like the prisoner, who was not
in immediate want, and took money merely
for the lust of gambling, say, * You will escape
lightly.’ It would be a monstrous doctrine if
that were follow'ed.” All which was very
pretty and quite the most ironical utterance
ever made from that Bench. For Buckley got
18 months for his large embezzlement, while
the case immediately preceding his was that of
a man who had clumsily stolen 100 files (value
under £10) from a city wharf. This man was
subject to epilepsy, had had a fit just previous
to liis appearance in the dock, and actually
appeared before this Judge with his head
swathed in bandages as a result thereof. And
did his Honor treat him as he treated Buck-
ley? Was he much pained at having to pass
sentence ? Scarcely ! In fact, not at all ! He
promptly ordered the epileptic who had stolen
less than £lO to be imprisoned for three years
and told him he was lucky to get off without
“ solitary ”on account of his epilepsy ! O just
Judge Gaunt!
“ Q.” to The Bulletin
The present slight stir in technical and other educa-
tional matters in Vic. reveals how little has been done
during Minister Peacock’s term. The younger boys have
been taught to sew, and the School Paper (srood in its
way, but hopelessly beyond the classes it is printed for)
has been started : what else has been done ? Certainly
the Dept, has been economised, but at what cost?
Buildings have got so out of repair that future mainten-
ance will be doubled ; child labor has multiplied, children
are taught by children little older than themselves;
sweating is rampant, there being a great prepon-
derance of pupil teachers over assistants (about 3
to 1), and the niGHEST-paid pupil teachers earn
the regal salary of—males 195., females 15s. a week.
Many of these p.t.’s have been teaching 12 and
15 years, and seeing no prospect of promotion, are
now agitating for a living wage. They have little hope of
getting it while Factories-Act Peacock remains at the
head of the Dept. “No money,” he says. The £50,000
proposed to be spent on the Transvaal picnic would give
all tirst-elass p.t.’s an additional £1 a week for five years.
If the wealthy loud-tongued Jingoes are in earnest about
that contingent, let them pay for it. If Peacock, the
sweateds’ professed champion, is really in earnest, let him
first suppress the sweating at home; let him get that
£50,C00, which has been admitted to beavailable (or some
other less amount), and sweep away the scandal of the
men and women who are guiding the intellectual life of
our children being paid half the wage of a coal-lumper or
gutter-scraper.
Premier Braddon was tricky to the last. On
the matter of sending a contingent of Tas.
warriors to the Transvaal it was held that in-
asmuch as the Acting-Governor had already,
at Braddon’s instigation, offered a Tas. con-
tingent to Chamberlain, Parliament could not
decently oppose the vote and go back on the
Governor. But the swindle was worked that
wav all round. In almost every province the
appeal to Parliament was : “ Some unauthor-
ised person has insolently usurped your
authority and promised this contingent and,
professed to commit the country to this ex-
pense, and we can’t go back on this promise
because it would make him feel bad.” And a
section of Parliament promptly responded :
“We are against the idea, but as the un-
authorised person has promised we must
assent.” And yet if the Tasmanian Acting-
Gov.,, instead of promising to spend good Tas.
money on a foolish contingent, had promised
to build the Great Western Railway as si
Government undertaking, which would have
been no worse a usurpation of authority, and
would have done some good to the country,
would Parliament have replied that it couldn’t
in honor go back on him, and his blatant
insolence in usurping Parliament’s prerogative
must be condoned and supported ? Not much !
It would more probably have thrown him out
of his billet and suggested that his state of
mind should be inquired into. The meanest
kind of groveller in the whole business was the
member who said that the contingent idea was
bad, and he wanted to vote'against it, but lie
would vote for it because its badness had been
made worse by the grossly illegal methods
taken to bring it about.
+
No less than four children, whose ages ranged
from six to nine years, were called in one
recent day as witnesses in Vic. law courts,
when the question of what amount of know-
ledge, or want of knowledge, is necessary
before a child is sworn got still further mixed.
One little fellow told Chief Justice Madden
that he knew Heaven to be a good place, and
Hell a bad one, and that if he told lies he
would go to the latter. When asked what
difference kissing the Bible would make to him
he was naturally floored—how many adult wit-
nesses would not have been floored by the
same query ? and admitted that he didn’t
know. Contrary to a previous decision of his
own, when he held that a child having some
knowledge of future rewards and punishments
was qualified to he sworn, Judge Madden this
time Said that he did not think the knowledge
sufficient. Another boy’s knowledge was
entirely limited to Hell ; he solemnly informed
the Court that good and bad people
alike went there. The Judge, who seemed
to recognise that he was taking part
in a howling farce, smilingly remarked that
the lad was very pessimistic and refused to
allow him to take the oath. Two other young-
sters happened along before Judge Casey, who
was most free-and-easy. The first was a boy
nine years of age. “Do you know what it is
to pray ?” asked Casey. “ No,” answered the
lad, “except at Sunday school.” “To whom
do you pray ?” said the judge. There was an
unpleasant pause, and then the boy replied,
“To Jesus.” The Judge allowed him to be
sworn on that knowledge. Then came a girl
seven years of age. She stated that she didn’t
know- what the Bible was, but most emphatic-
ally denied that it had anything to do with
God. “Do you pray ? ” queried J udge Casey.
“ I’m not allowed,” came the answer. It turned
out that she was the daughter of a Mohammedan
by an English mother. The mother was sitting
in court and when asked whether she objected
to the child being sworn on the Bible she
replied cheerfully, “Oh dear, no. She doesn’t
understand it; so there is no harm.” And yet
the Judge swore this child also. Truly the
whole business is a sham.
-
The N.S.W. Government is starting to collect
information about possible sites for the Federal
capital, so as to have it ready to lay before the
Commonwealth Parliament. Wanted, a region
on the N.S.W. table-land, with abundant pure
water to supply a future city of a million
people, over 100 miles from Sydney, healthy,
easily defensible, and with the very smallest
possible population so that the Federal Govern-
ment can buy up the freehold of all the private
land and become the sole ground landlord. A
cold place wanted where a hardy fighting race
can be produced ; if Australia is going to
make a new centre of population which will
one day muster 1,000,000 or more people, let
us have a million hardy, energetic snowballers
—not a million pallid, limp, sun-blasted
dwellers in the Turkish bath down by the
coast. If the Federal territory is down south
it should take in 5000 or 10,000 square miles of
country in the vicinity of Kosciusko; if it is
north it should take in a great stretch of
country somewhere about Ben Lomond.
Hobart Mercury grows ludicrous in defence
of Governors as they' Are, Federation or no
Federation :
The intense desire to reduce expenditure in connection
with the Governor’s establishment still continues to show
itself in the Assembly, a curious instance of selfish parsi-
mony, which says very little for the manner in which
those who are the prime movers in the affair appreciate
the value of the Imperial connection in past years. The
curious amount of feverish haste which is displayed in re-
gard to this one feature of possible federal change is the
more conspicuous because of its isolation, the abatement
of the vice-regal honors and dignity being apparently the
one fixed idea in certain minds, which allow all sorts of
variation in regard to other incidentals to the establish-
ment of the Commonwealth. Still, for all this persist-
ency in aiming at a lower salary for the Queen’s represen-
tative, there is no corresponding agreement as to the
way it is to be accomplished without disadvantage
to the colony, either in the character of the gentle-
man occupying the position, his ability to per-
form the responsible diplomatic functions of a
confidential character which devolve upon him, or in the
manner of his appointment, some members seeming to
imagine that an occupant of Government House will still
retain the kudos of the Imperial connection after he has
ceased to be an Imperial officer and become a colonial
one only. Some members are, of course, prepared to
face that. They seem quite reckless so long as they save
a thousand or two pounds. Others are more careful, awl-
are more desirous of keeping up the good old traditional
advantage of occasional fresh associations with the Old
World and its intellectual giants, which the periodical
changes at Government House ensure.
Just consider ponderous old Governor Gor-
manston in his aspect of intellectual
giant! “ Intellectual giants ” and “good old
traditional advantage of associations with the
Old World” are statements of which any
patriotic Tasmanian paper ought to be especially
proud. N.B.—A patriotic Tas. paper isn’t
necessarily a humorous paper.
A SMALL incident, which eventuated in Mel-
bourne the other day, shows the true value of
the sweating Tramway Co.’s oft-repeated asser-
tion that its employes are perfectly satisfied
with the present hours and wages, and their
treatment generally, and that it is only agita-
tors and sundry evil minded persons outside the
service'who desire the long-demanded 48 hours.
Recently, the co: placed in the men’s rooms,
at the suburban terminus of each line, a peti-
tion addressed to the several local councils,
urging said councils to giant the awful co. such
concessions as would enable it to give its em-
ployes, not the 48 hours to which they are
entitled —but “ shorter hours ” and “ improved
conditions,” whatever that may mean. These
petitions the men were invited to sign, if they
thought fit. Of course they thought fit !
Every man who knows his employer is watching-
him carefully, and expects him to do certain
things as the price of continued employment,
will think ht every time. But sundry coun-
cillors insinuated that the petitions weren’t
worth as much as a politician’s promise— which
is somewhat less than a curse—and, to
disprove this, the co. took a ballot on two lines
as to whether the men wotrld prefer the co.’s>


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of tiie UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898 ... , H
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ...
Increase in Surplus during 1898 ... ... , M
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World. • ,
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MCMILLAN, Esq.. M.L.A. (Chairman); non. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. *
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
POE, ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Fkee.
Solr Ar/ents
73 Clarence-street, Sydney
AND
Clyde "Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle f *\ Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L : "
magnanimous offer or the terms embodied in
M.L.A. Bromley’s proposal. At Brunswick,
out of 76 voters, 60 voted for the Bromley pro-
posals ; and at N. Melb., out of 49 voters, J 7
were for Bromley. Wherefore, the pleasant
fiction that the men don’t want the 48 hour
week having been disproved, the disgraceful co.
will probably look round for some new excuse
for bilking its men and postponing the granting
of their legal rights.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s.''. “The Christian.”
Lyceum “ When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Criterion “ Dreyfus Case.”
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ Ma Mie Ro-ette.”
Theatre Royal “The Merciless World."
Bi.ioc Rickards’ Variety Co.
Fitzgerald’s Circus.... Flinders-street.
Exhibition Bcildino Ttie Aquarium.
John Storm’s parishioner still hits him on
the skull at Her Majesty’s every night, and there
being no skilful surgeon at hand to amputate
John’s head before the wound mortifies, he dies
regularly. There is an uneasy sense in pious
Sydney circles of something immoral about
“The Christian,” and of late some person who is
disturbed in his sleep has written, complaining
that Parson John is alone with Glory very late in
her house, that night when he calls to murder her,
and when she overcomes his resolution by kissing
him and letting down her dazzling back hair. The
pietiest who advanced that theory calls for the
cordial scorn of everybody who can see through a
large hole. Of course the “ Christian ” is immoral,
in a sense, but it isn’t.in the ordinary woman sense.
The play is a yell of derision at the whole race of
preachers. It shows the fat, gentlemanly, worldly
pastor, who is of no use except to collect valuable
works of art and wave a large white jewelled hand
at a fashionable congregation. He is useless
enough in all conscience. Also, there is the pure-
minded father with a long black skirt and a bell-
rope round his waist, who moulders in the holy
calm of a cloister, and chants vespers, or whiskers,
or something equally irrelevant, and goes on his
slow, useless way to heaven, waving a fragrant
substance in a pot. He appears of very little
more value than the other kind. And the third
kind of preacher is John himself —the burning,
demented sort who sees visions and griffins, and
is regarded as a well-meaning kerbstone crank—
something a little lower than a prophet, and a
littie higher than a fruit-barrow. The last seen
of him lie is dying cm the pavement, and his con-
gregation, which threw the fatal brick at him, is
slinking away round the corner to bury its con-
fused feelings in beer. As for the rich worldly
parson, he continues to collect works of art and to
wave a white be-tliamonded hand at his fashion-
able congregation. And the other variety of
father is left mouldering in his cloister—presum-
ably he perishes in the end of dry-rot. And all
three fathers are a failure and a disappointment.
As a satire ou the father business this paper loves
“The Christian,” but when the uneasy pietist
coni plains that it teaches a doubtful lesson because
Glory lets down her back hair late at night, he
doesn’t touch even the outermost fringe of the
trouble. If Glory had no hair at all “ The
Christian ” would be just as bitter a satire on the
church as it is now.
** * *
Johnny Sheridan’s frivolous mixed joke in
four acts is doing respectable business at the
Lyceum. The heavy parts of it are certainly very
heavy, but to make up for that the light parts
woigh less than a small elephant, and there
are a good many of them. The plot, where there
is one, calls for no respect in particular. Inman
explains with much beer that he was once happy
and had a wife and child, but his faithless
friend deposited the proceeds of a robbery in bis
house, and ho was consigned to the cold harrowing
gaol for seven years. When he came out his wife
and child had vanished, so he took to drink and
joined Sheridan’s travelling comedy co. Two
stories flow on side by side as it were. The
harrowed father wades through depths of grief in
hunting for his lost wife and child, and clearing
his character from suspicious of murder, and
burrowing in cellars in quest of rum and clues;
and meanwhile John’s burlesque show struggles
cheerfully after a crust for itself and slavey
Semolina. The stories only get mixed when the
comedy co. disguises itself as an apple-woman, or
a small boy, or an intoxicated Dutchman, to rescue
somebody out of a cellar, or proves somebody’s
innocence by being an Italian with a guitar.
John’s cheery willingness to be any kind of disguised
foreigner if lie can thereby help a fellow creature
on his path, and Miss Gracie Whituford’s sunny
hair, and Leon Roche’s burglar, and slavey Semo-
lina all inspire respect, and the heavy parts of the
show, if they do nothing else, come in useful as
ballast.
** * *
The “Dreyfus Case,” declared to be by
Walter Bentley and George Rignold, is ex-
pected at Sydney Criterion on Saturday. The
pity is that the said case, which was very much
alive only a month ago, is now alxmt as dead as
anything so recently alive can be. Dreyfus is
hardly alluded to now in the cablegrams and
hardly one person in ten remembers that Estorliazy
ever was. Big Oom Paul came along with his
gun, and the Dreyfus ease crawled through the
first hole and dried up. If anyone could produce
a really good Oom Paul drama just now he might
fill a want, but Dreyfus looks a rather dubious
speculation.
& & tit *
There is a new basso at the Palace in the
person of Arthur Hahn, who booms “ Asleep in
the Deep,” and booms it very well to the accom-
paniment of much encore. Paul Pelham gives a
startling something described on the programme
as the “Transvaal War Song.” Paul doesn’t sing
much, but he makes up for that unfortunate
deficiency by expanding his chest, tilting his
chin heavenwards, and waving his hat
wildly. And he staggers about howling forth
paragraphs re the indignities that the Boers
have heaped on unarmed men, and infants in
arms, and defenceless women, and declares
that the Afrikanders would not be satisfied
with anything but sanguinary war, and, by
George, they have got it now. And his song is
full of the inartistic word “job” which would
wreck Milton’s “Hymn to the Nativity.” When
he comes to the chorus, “Then up with the good
old Union Jack, and down with Kruger and his
Boers,” he grips a flag from an invisible attendant
and flourishes it wildly. On Monday night the flag
slipped from his hands and fell over the footlights,
and the circle laughed derisively, and Paul nearly
fell down into the orchestra in his struggles to get
the Union Jack up again. He makes it revolve
rapidly till it is unfurled, and then the gallery
jingoes take a turn and yell for Berlud. And
Paul flourishes the meteor flag of England some
more, and the gods howl with him, but altogether
it is a jingo demonstration that splutters away
miserably. When Paul has gone off to kill Kruger
in the wings, the theatre starts to fill up till every
seat is occupied ; for the Marvel is coming. And
when he does come, Kruger and berlud are for-
gotten in contemplation of the nimble cigar, and
the rotative billiard ball that resteth never, and
the match that lights itself and the cigar and the
candle all on its own.
At Melbourne Princess’s a revival of “ La
Poupee.” with Leon Caron back in the orchestral
chair, is keeping the house warm for six nights
only : also, a matinee performance of that cheer-
ful, but nninebriating, opera will happen to-day
(Thursday). This time William Pauli figures as
Father Superior of the hungry monastery, and
Pat. Bathurst, who filled the holy billet
on a previous occasion, is now a tune,
ful old worldling in the second act. Lauri
the doll-maker, Miss Dorothy Vane, and Kenning-
ham, supply the bulk of the joke as before. On
Saturday the Co. will be called upon to tackle
“Ma Mie Rosette.” Melbourne had a strong
affection for “Ma Mie Rosette ” when Nellie
Stewart, Brownlow, and Florence Young were
the principals, and the attraction of an “almost
entirely new cast ” is pretty certain to crowd the
Princess’s for the last fortnight of the opera sea-
son. After which the Brough Comedy Co.
He * * *
At the Bijou things are much the same as
last week, with the exception of three new “turns”
by Tom Costello, introducing some quaint leg-
humor, and a rather appalling make-up. Thomas’s
picture of a sexagenarian ballet-girl, with many
fissures and sinkages in her red enamelled bust—
the sort of wrecky Maudie who has to sweep the
bread-crumbs from her neck indentures after
dining—is an impressive nightmare effect that
haunts one all the way home.
** * *
This* being the appointed period for Mel-
bourne’s annual horse fever, Fitzgerald Brothers’
Circus is about to break out again at the old spot
in Flinders-street. Sundry new acrobats loom
large on the bill, also the lion perched upon the
elephant’s back will be an own brother to the
noble animal which destroyed the apocryphal
Unicorn and is just now enjoying an anxious time
among the Boers. The outlook is decidedly pro-
mising for the Fitz’s show. The brethren, it
seems, have improved the warlike hour by offering
12 horses to the Vic. Contingent. Not ordinary
clmckle-headed ’orses, but carefully educated
steeds. They will be taught in the circus to snort
with disdain at any mention of Oom Paul; they
will stand under fire, and lie down if necessary
without waiting to be shot, and if, perchance,
they should be required to fill lonely graves in
South Africa these Fitzgeraldian chargers will
feel glad to think they died lighting for the Hem-
pire in general, and particularly that section of the
Hempire which bears the name of dear old Fling-
land’s Queen. Rats!
The maddest melo-drama ever put upon the stage
Seems to thrive at Melbourne Royal, though it
isn’t “all the rage.”
The small boys hoot the villain as he wallows in
his guilt,
And perhaps it doesn’t matter how a narrative is
built,
If you give the gods slow music when berlud is
being spilt.
There’s bigamy and murder, likewise arson, in
the plot;
There’s a gang of silver coiners blown to pieces
on a yacht;
There’s a marvellous detective with no better end
in life
Than the “hunting down” of johnnies who were
married to his wife.
The hero, heaven help him! has the bloodhounds
on his track,
And the drama takes some time to prove the
hm-o-ccnce of Jack.
* * *
There’s an incidental life-boat which is launched
on wooden surf,
Whence it gallops ten times faster than a gee-
gee on the turf,
And when the leading lady is reported to be lost,
She pops up from the bottom of that life-boat
like a ghost ;
So the villain still pursues her with unscrupulous
desire,
He shuts her in a garret and he sets the house
afire
Because he loves her madly, and she favors not
his suit
(For the disappointed masher is an inconsistent
brute);
And all this time the matron weeps, and maidens
sigh “ Alack !
Will no one speak a word to prove the Inn-o-cence
of Jack i ”
• * • *
The noble - hearted father of a girl who went
astray
Gives the hero up to justice in an idiotic way,
Which provides the leading lady with another
chance to weep,
Whilst a boozer on a door-step dreams that Susan
shares his sleep.
Then the villain and the ’tective having vengeances
in view,
Hope to get the hero slaughtered for the deed
he didn’t do.
The stray girl meets the villain, and she shudders,
as from cold,
For she knew him as “ the Vulture ” in her giddy
days of old,
Yet this weird repentant person, clad in melan-
holy black,
Regrets to find she cannot 'prove the Inn-o-cence
of Jack.
* * * *
Then the drama goes to prison where the curdled
traitor sneers
At the thought of all the evil he’s been working
at for years.
The ’tective, too, looks happy—his revenge is
drawing nigh,
But the hero shakes his shackles and is not afraid
to die.
Now, the villain is persuaded to assume a convict
dress,
And impersonate a Teddy, who has something to
confess;
And when the false confession has officially been
read.
Why, they send the silly villain to the guillotine—
for Ted.
His head’s cut off in error, but they cannot put it
hack,
And that is how Bill Adams proves the Inn-o-cence
oj Jack.
At Poverty Point.
Tiik Bulletin regrets to learn that the late “ Daddy ”
Haile well died in such straitened circumstances that a
subscript ion has been started for the purpose, amongst
other things, of sending his daughter to England. Tub
Bulletin - will he pleased to take charge of any contribu-
tions forwarded to it. A meeting of Mr. Ilallewell s pro-
fessional brethren and admirers amongst the general
public is to be held at the Australia Hotel early next
week.
A “ patriotic ” advt. is that of the Circus Fitzgeralds
who gave 12 trained horses for the use of the mounted
men of the Victorian Boer-slaughtering contingent. As
the mokes'have bi en all taught 10 bite the clown it is plain
that e flier they or several well-boomed Vic. alleged mili-
tary officers will have to be left behind.
Dear Bulletin.— Don’t let us be too hard on the
“ loyal ” jingoes in the d.c. who can’t see the point in a
Gihiertian satire. Melt). Aeg us, of last Sdurday, re-
ferred to “In Goal Queen Bess’s Glorious Days" in
“ lolaiit.be ”as “ the st irring patriotic ballad.” Strikes
me that a revival of “ Pirates of Penzance ” would make
a huge success just now. The incident of the pirates
laying down their broad swords, pistols, &c., when a
prostrate policeman cries, “In the Queens name! I
desire you to surrender ! ’ (or words to that effect) ought
to su t a Melbourne public admirably. Anyway, the
pirates’ yielding to “patriotic sentiment,’’ and the
ironical Hide Britannia tableau which Gilbert introduces
at this thrilling moment., would get spirited notices in
the dear old daily press. —Piccadilly.
A little while back, Manager J. C. Williamson was
taking credit to himself in Melb. papers, for never having
permitted pros, to gag in Gilbert and Sullivan’s operas, or
t.o monkey with Gilbert’s text, but last week, when
“ lolanvbe” was progressing, it having been found that
the wooden-headed audiences were taking the “ Good
King George’s Glorious Days” solo seriously, a topical
jingoistic stanza of hateful stupidity was wedged into
that ditty, tilling the judicious with disgust and unutter-
able words.
In “The Merciless World,” now operating at Melb.
Royal, there are five complete murders, and six or seven
attempts. Blood will tell.
The veteran actor, Charles Burford, recently deceased
in 'Sydney, was such an ardent believer in the Baconian
authorship of the supposed Shakespearian plays that to
the last the mere raising of the question used to result in
a prompt di-play of the old man’s “ rag.”
Deane Brand died the other week in England. Australia
knew him 20 years ago as ttie husband of handsome Miss
Kaie Chard, the original Boccacio in this country.
Brand and his wife were devoted to one another, like
the Daores, and they had much the same luck as that ill-
fated pair whenever they ventured into management.
Australians in London have not to travel far to see a
“ push ”of old stage favorites. A recently-to-hand pro-
gramme of the T voli contained “ turns ” on one night by
no fewer than 10 mummers who had starred (or been in
constellations) at this end. They were : Ada Reeve, Ada
Willoughby, Peggy Prvde, Edith Courtenay, Bert Gil-
bert, Chirgwin, Fred Storey, Fannie Wentworth, and the
two Levey Sisters, who were here with the Gaiety crowd.
Mrs! Maesmore Morris is being assiduously boomed
“down under.” Her portrait appeared as that of an
Australian stage beauty in Munsky’s Magazine, and
London Era has published her counterfeit presentment
ill a most attractive pose.
Ada Reeve has knocked them very hard in London
with her latest song, “Something Else.” The title sug-
gests that it is a ditty of the daintily-naughty order.
Vocalist Costello, announced for four songs at Melb.
Bijou on Saturday night, sang only two, and raised the
ire of the gods in consequence. Wanting the fourth
song, the gallery refused to accept the hideous bell-ballet,
and raved all tile time it was on. Costello’s new songs
have all an azure tinge and are funny enough. What
want of tact the average music-hall manager has ! Dur-
ing the present jingo outburst the robust Co-tello ought
to fie turned on with the patriotic stop full on.
Miss Amy Gourlay and brother William leave shortly
for London, where alh he good Australians go sooner or
later. Charles Holloway offered Miss Gourlay the use of
the Lyceum in which to have the conventional benefit,
hut that young lady is just convalescing after a long
illness, and-wasn’t strong enough to stand the shock of
receiving a large sum of money ; also, she is in haste to
pet on the sea anil convalesce some more in a purer
atmosphere ; so the kindly offer had to be declined.
M naaer Cha«Holloway is indeed a modest man. In
" ,s d,ama » Merciless World, now running at
Melh. Royal, the actor-manager conies on with the ruck
j„ the prison-scene ratt liny leg-irons and speak in"- never
a word. Few in Charles’s position would be content to
parade a make-up. Brother Bill wouldn’t.
The Braddon Blot—Miles.
Some people have inferred from a Bul-
letin par. of Sept. 2nd, that the lady who beat
a well-known financier with her brolly outside
Elsternwiek (Melb.) railway-station was Mrs.
Joseph Flamufan. The inference is wrong. It
was another lady who gave the ill-fated citizen
“ beans.”
Stated that the Pope sent a telegram to Pre-
sident Kruger advising him to “ avert the horrors
of war,” by accepting the British Government’s
terms, and pointing out that the B.G. carries too
many guns for him. The Pope’s telegram, though,
had been preceded by a private message from the
Almighty, advising Kruger, so he said, to rush
into the horrors of war, because be was bound to
win. Which goes to explain the Yes-No ness of
the old gentleman’s policy what time those rein-
forcements were arriving from India.
Attorney-General Rutledge, ofQ., is the
boss jingo of Australia. During the debate on
Dickson’s offer of troops Rutledge referred to the
Premier of Cape Colony as a “ traitor,” and bel-
lowed for Boer blood with the zest of a thirsty
cannibal. The Attorney-General was once the
occupant of a Wesleyan pulpit, which, perhaps
accounts for his belief in gore. Anyhow, Rut-
ledge is a big, strong man, quite superfluous in
Mongrelia, and be will lie taken for a large, blus-
tering braggart unless lie himself Lears a hand in
the actual fighting. The jingoistic fighter is a
fanatic ; the fire side jingo a coward.
Norman Cameron, M.P. for Deloraiue in
Tas. Assembly, stood alone for weeks demanding
an inquiry into Btrahan Marine Board affairs,
and eventually won the fight by sheer persistency.
Very naturally Cameron wanted to move the vote
of want-of eonfidence against the Braddon Minis-
try, and actually put the motion on the notice
piper. This meant a victory for the Govt., as
not more than half-a-dozen Oppositionists would
have been found following the comparatively un-
known and vitriolic member in a divis'on. Only
at the last moment could Cameron be induced to
stand aside and allow the regula.rOpposition leader,
Bird, to do the trick. But Cameron will yet be
heard of in big politics.
Ex-Premier Reid complained savagely at
the recent Town-hall demonstration about Premier
Lyne’s lack of velocity in his growl, bacau.se he
waited to ask the authority of Parliament before
spending the public money on getting ready an
African contingent. Reid himself has just been
thrown out for spending public money without
Parliamentary authority, and his cry that the
province has lost its supremacy in Australia
because his successor didn't do the same, and get
thrown out also, is a very shallow, not to
say idiotic, piece of scheming. The weakly wily
one says that “ any tnan who could read within an
inch of his nose ought to know that the whole
Parliament would hold him harmless if lie had
maintained the leadership of Australia in his own
hands ”—in other words, if lie was the fiist hog to
rush down a steep place into the sea. Of course
the emphatic statement of the Labor-party has
already proved that the whole Parliament
wouldn’t hold Lyne harmless. Reid’s shriek of
rage because his antagonist had sense enough to
keep out of so visible a trap is pathetic.
Already one cabled “ Boer atrocity ” —the
wrecking of a train carrying many women and
children —has proved to be a lie. The story
about limv the Dutchmen spat on female refugees,
and ill-used their children, and how the trains
loaded with women and children were detained
for many hours through pure malice at way-side
stations, till people in them actually died from
exposure and weariness, will probably prove to be
mostly lies also. No doubt the trains were
delayed amid the general rush and chaos
and break down, lmt the rest of the yarn is too
improbable. General Colley, afterwards killed at
Majuba, wrote that, in all his knowledge of war,
there had never been such a display of humanity
and respect for the people of an invaded territory
shown by an irregular force as was displayed by
the Boers who repulsed him at Laing’s N k, and
afterwards scoured the country around Newcastle.
They molested no non-combatants, and paid for
everything they took. The Boers had their faults
two of them very baa ones. They were never
able to recognise the hospital train, and seeirn d
to regard the Red Cross flag— 'which they had pro-
bably never seen before—as a British flag, and
always fired at it, and they were guilty of using
white flags for decoy purposes; but they always
confined those unpleasant practices to the fighting
force, and their conduct towards women and chil-
dren and unarmed men was of the gentlest.
Certainly few—very few—civilised nations would
have been so gentle in their treatment of the
Jamieson raiders, every one of whom by the law
of nat ons was liable to the death penalty. But in
war time the lying horror-monger is always abroad.
It is just lot years since the last fight between
England and Scotland, and though these two
countries were close enough to let the people really
know each other, the charges brought by the
English against the Scots invaders included
cannibalism, drinking the blood of their enemies,
feeding their dogs fin the flesh of the English
prisoners, and such-like trifles. And the special
correspondent’s gentle art has expanded a great
deal since then.


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BPVKR OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
Oil Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’ ‘
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies*
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap:
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLf.NEK,
30-36 Dniitt-st., Sydney.
The Engineering Works of Mephan Ferguson
are at present fully occupied, going employment to a
large number of hands, in the different colonies. In
Western Australia, the patent rivetless locking-bar pipes
for the Coolgardie Wa er-supply are now being delivered.
The South Australian works are busy manufacturing and
supplying pipes for the linndaieer Water Scheme, and at
the General Engineering Works, Melb. orders are being
received for bridge work, pipes, flumjng, earth scoops,
forgings, refrigerators, machinery and ironwork. A large
number of patent Nelyambo scoops or tank-cleaners are
being manufactured to meet the increasing demand.*
q Smoke the Latest o
mm VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR !/•
a
The lar r e triple plunger pumps for the Vic-
torian Gold Fields. Ltd., new shafts on the Charlotte
Plains, Junction Deep Leads and New Havillah leases,
are rapidly approaching completion at the works of the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Soul h Melbourne. These pumps
will he driven by electric motors from current generated
at a central station to supply the three shafts. The Otis
Co. have just, supplied and started to work a very larsre
Compound Duplex Direct Acting Sinking Pump on above
leases to he employer! in sinking the shafts, the water
being very heavy. This pump is working suspended
from the surface.*
• * * •
Gov. Jerry Smith (W. A.) must now be rather
ashamed of his connection with Darlington Simpson and
the Peak Hill co. In W.A. Leg. Council some strong
comments were made about the undignified attitude oc-
cupied by the Queen’s representative in this matter.
The action of H.E. in writing a fulsome letter to Simpson
“ with the object of obliging a lot of adventurers” was
condemned in severe terms by Stone, brother of the judge
of that name. One tiling escaped the notice of members.
Only a couple of years since a motion of censure was
almost carried against Minister of Mines YVittenoom for
having allowed one of his mining inspectors to report on,
the Peak Hill property for the sake of assisting Darlington
Simpson to float the co. in London. Frank Reed, the
inspector in question, promptly resigned—and was ap-
pointed manager for the co. at £2OOO a year, besides being
presented with shares. To get the Governor of the
province to undertake a long journey to Peak Hill, and
(lien crack up the property, was no doubt clever on.
Simpson’s part, but the attempt to permanently boost lip'
the shares has been a failure. The last crushing,
it is openly known, was the smallest since the co. was
formed, despite the extra 30 head of stamps. Looks like
another fizzle for the Murchison.
* * * •
When “Toppy” Longden, who (much to the,
chagrin of the Darlington Simpson Co.) secured Tom the
Rager’s interest in Peak Hill property, visited his pur-
chase, he found the shaft had been filled with mullock.
He got from the Warden, after some demur, an order to
descend the main shaft and inspect his share of the show,-
hut the co.’s manager refused to recognise it, and politely
told “ Toppy ” that he could go to the Transvaal. There
was but one constable in the place, so recourse to com-
pulsion was out of the question, and “Toppy,” who had
taken up a London financial magnate and some mining
experts co report, was forced to return. Peak Hill is
about 80(1 miles from Perth, and even at the best not a
pleasant journey. However, “Toppy” says if Darling-,
ton Simpson wants his share, of the property—in which,
by the way, all the richest stuff is said to exist—he will
have to pay through the nose. Tom the ltager got
£15,000 —Longden’s price is now £150,000. Simpson was
in the same steamer that Longden sailed in.
» • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street-, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Every day, and every week, for nearly two
months the fall in Westralian stocks has been attributed
to the Transvaal i rouble. A reason and an excuse had to
he found somewhere; a big, all-round slump had
occurred ; a war was threatened in South Africa, so it
had to bear the brunt of the fall. Five weeks ago the
fall in Westralians in London, taking it in round num-
bers, was quite equal to the fall that took place in the
stocks of the leading Rand mines. Now, suppose the im-
pending war had been at Hannan’s instead of Johannes-
burg, is it reasonable to imagine that the stocks of the
latter p'ace would have equally suffered on account of it?
It also happened that on the day war was declared in S.
Africa a rise in Westralian stocks occurred. A reason for
this had to he found, and the same newspapers said it
was all on account of the worst being known—by which
it is reasoned that stocks fall with a threatened war and
rise with an actual one. The true reason has never been
given. It is that shares bought before the boom were
sold when it was raging, for the sake of the profits.
What occurred last month will occur again and again,
war or no war. It happened at the beginning of the year
and will happen again before the end of it. Last October
there was a much bigger slump in We-tralians, and as
there was no war threatening it was all on account of
“ bears.”
* • • »
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 210 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rook Drills. Air Compressors, &c., &e.*
* * * *
There are now at least 1000 men knocking about
Greenbushes (W.A.) tinfields. Tin has been got over
10 sq. miles ; but not much has been exposed—the over-
burden is heavy and the forest dense. Old hands, like
Capt. Hancock, of S.A., will not talk much till lodes have
been found. Certainly, formations have been opened up
a little, hut the result to date is not too cheerful. Water
plentiful; hut it needs conserving.
**■ * *
The Tasmania Co., Beaconsfield, has had
another good crushing; 2170 tons yielded 27120 z. gold
valued at £10,499. This oo.’s reduction plant is most
complete. The Luhrig system of concentration (vanners,
etc.) was introduced nearly five years ago, and as an
adjunct to the 65 head of st-mps continues to save large
quantities of valuable pyrites. Full particulars of Luhrig
machinery may be obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill. An ex-
perimental plant is erected near Melbourne for treating
small parcels from two to five tons.*
* • • •
Lake View Consols Sept, production was a
little over 30,0000 z a ton and a quarter of gold,
and 'his has been kept up for five months ! Included was
a shipment of 356 tons of rich sulphides which alone
yielded about a ton of gold. The bullion produced on the
mine amounted to 59620 z. Profit on the month a little
over £100,090.
* • * *
Associated Mines, Kalgoorlie, for last month :
8175 tons for 15,4670 z.
* * • *
The Bonnie Charlie is a show in the vicinity of
Hannan’s Lake, Kalgoorlie, for which certain Sydney
papers express considerable fondness, and their readers
are advised to buy shares because they are cheap. One
says: “The ore is worth from 13d wt. to 6£oz. per ton.
The shares are worth 5d.” 11
* * * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc.C.E., is visiting the Cool-
gardie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
* * * •
The following proclamation, bumped out to a
quarter-page, appears as an advt. in London Financial
Times, 1,9,’99 :
TRANSVAAL CRISTS.
Six weeks ago, in the interests of nervous South African
shareholders in this country, 1 published a notification in
the press to the effect that there would not be “ war.” A
few days subsequently the Right Hon. Cecil Rhodes con-
firmed! 1 now think it right in the public interest to
again notify that the dispute has been practically
arranged, and the draft terms of settlement are in the
hands of Her Majesty s official representative in Pretoria.
WM. F. REGAN.
41 Thread needle-street, E. 0., 31st August, 1599.
• * * *
- The first Klondyke copper-show has been put
tinder offer to J. Bull. “Large and phenomenallv rich
deposits,” of course ; situation, a few miles front White
Ilorse.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
Bone Ash, "inc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
GUARANTEED
93/109%
Ny. Markwald,
IIPiU-st., Sydney; 68 Carrie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
17& William Street,
Mklbournk ;
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Both in the Transvaal and in Wrstralia (the
two trreat gold boom countries of the world) the revenue
reached about tbe top in 1896. In that yearWestralia
extracted from its people at the rate of ±19 lis. fid. per
inhabitant (aborigines included), or something: between
£‘20 and 1 21 per white inhabitant. The Transvaal Govt,
raised about £5 10s. per inhabitant, or ±'19 12s. per white
inhabitant. But the Transvaal goldfields produced that
year nearly eight times as much gold as those of W.A.,
and if taxation had been as heavy in the Transvaal as in
Westralia, the revenue would have been a good deal
larger than it was. apropos, in the same year the white
population of tbe British colony of Natal was about
50,000, and the revenue was ±1,457,338 —over ±29 per
white inhabitant. The “ oppressive taxation ” of the
Transvaal is doubtless heavy enough, but the Briton can
show quite as bad records himself.
* • * *
Concerning the awfulness of Boer taxation of
mines, owned wholly hy aliens. On tin, raised almost
wholly by aliens, the Rritish Govt, of the Straits collected
an export tax of 1,108,978 dollars during the first six
months of this year.
* • • •*
Sydney municipality having piled up an over-
draft not much short of ±150,010, which costs 5 per cent,
interest, it is proposed to float a permanent loan of
£150,000 at 31 per cent, in order to pay it off, and thus
save about £2000 a year interest. And so the good old
circle goes round. In the first place, the overdraft
accumulates because the aldermen haven't the courage to
levy a rate that will meet necessary outgoings, hut con-
solation is found in the fact that it isn’t a permanent
debt. Then when it reaches a great size, it is converted
into permanent debt, and consolation is found in the fact
that it costs less for interest that way. This will make
the net debt, after deduction of all sinking funds, about
H,24(1,000 —equal to nearly seven years' revenue. Mel-
bourne owes about £1,170,000, equal to 6£ years’ revenue ;
Adelaide, £76,900, or about l| years’ revenue ; Brisbane,
1305,000, or five years’ revenue ; Wellington, £667,000, or
eight years’ revenue, hut this includes expenditure on the
city water-works, which are corporation property. Still,
barring Adelaide, there isn’t one of the five whose sol-
vency is anything to boast about. The worst feature
about Sydney is that it is falling into abject disre-
pair, and the debt and the average size of the holes in
George-street keep increasing at about the same ratio.
* * * «
The Premier Permanent Building Society (Mel-
bourne), after nine years’ liquidation, has cleared off all
the multitude of mortgages, liens, and overdrafts which
encumbered its assets, and is paving depositors a first
dividend of lid. in the £. When it suspended, there was
hardly even an ink-bottle that hadn't a lien on it, and all
these had to lie got rid of. Then a multitude of its assets
consisted of unfinished houses—whole streets of them—
and it was necessary to find the money to put roofs on
these to make them remunerative properties. After the
smash, the smartest Jews in Melbourne were paying 14s.
to 16s. in the £ for Premier Permanent deposits. They
are worth about 2s. 9d. now.
* » • *
The Royal Bank (Melbourne) shows a profit of
£4624 for the half-year ended 30th Sept., 1899. This is
the record for over six years past, previous profits having
been as follows :—
September, 1892 .. £8,261 September, 1896 .. £2,044
March, 1893 .. 2,510 March, 1897 .. 3,398
September, 1893 .. 1,901 September, 1897 .. 3,625
March, 1894 .. 3,258 March, 1898 .. 3,864
September, 1894 .. 2,875 September, 1898 .. 4,088
March, 1895 .. 2,136 March, 1899 .. 4,314
September, 1895 .. 2,038 September, 1899 .. 4,624
March, 1896 .. 2,099
The profits are equal to £5 19s. 4d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £150,000; reserve
fund, £5000), so the Royal is doing remarkably well, and
the improvement which set in at the beginning of 1897 is
being well maintained. A dividend at the rate of 3 per
cent, ppr annum (£2250) is declared, and the remain-
ing £2374, with the £3011 brought forward from
previous half-year, leaves ±6415 at credit of profit and
loss. The business shows a further improvement all
round. During the half-year, note-circulation has in-
creased from ±5223 to £6882, anti deposits fro n £321,801
to £368,217. Cash on hand is £114,167—equal to over 27
percent, on all liabilities to the public, which is a ve y
solid reserve. Altogether, the institution is doing a ra id
and healthy revival.
The Royal Bank of Melbourne started business
in 1888, so it was only five years old when the smash fell
upon it. It is now in its eleventh year. The shareholders
had 3| years’ dividends at 6 per cent., dividend
at 5 per cent,, 3 years’ dividends at 3 ~per cent., on a
capital which had been written-down one-half, or L)
per cent, on the amount originally paid ; and four years
with no dividends at all. So, on an average, they have
received 12 11s. per cent, per annum on their original
capital. And as they have lost £150,000, or just half their
capital, they have really got no dividends at all, and
have, in addition, lost about £55,000 of their own coin.
In view of these things, and considering that, the next
crisis will come along in due course—the next crisis is as
reliable as the next sunrise—the Roval directors should
resolve firmly to adhere to their present cautious svstem
and be better prepared for the coming smash than they
were for the last one. When some of the old hanks had
to write-off I heir capital and reserves, the shareholders
had the barren consolation of knowing that they were
only giving hack what they had previously received in
dividends. The new banks, like the Royal and the North
Queensland, hadn’t even that satisfaction. They arrived
on the scene just in time to pay up without having the
joy of joining in the game.
* * * *
A Westralian jury has given a verdict of £5762
and costs against Governor Jerry Smith and others. The
Bank of New South Wales was the plaintiff, and the whole
affair is a hideously bad advt, for the tactless Smith.
That potentate became a large shareholder in the Aus-
tralia Hotel, Ooolgardie, which was a rash proceeding to
begin with. His A.D.C. and secretary were also in it.
When the hotel fell into difficulties, which it very shortly
did, a fine large overdraft was contracted, Gov. Smith
and others being guarantors ; and when it broke up, and
the hank sold off its securities for very much less than
their nominal value, and requested the guarantors to pay
up the difference. Smith and co. refused. By so doing
they dragged their lucklessdrink-emporinm into the glare
of unpleasant publicity. Their plea was that the hank had,
by carelessness or incapacity, sold their securities far
below their value, while the hank’s plea was that property
in Ooolgardie is now worth only a quarter of its value of
two years ago, and that this was tile sole cause of the
deficit which it required the vice-regal Smith and his
friends to make good. Other people at who
have property to sell are so ]>l eased at tliis exposure of the
town’s decadence that they would gladly eat Smith raw
So lhe ill-directed Smith has to pay in full, plus the law-
costs and the publicity. The worst feature of the latter
was a letter in which Smith spoke in a tone of glad sur-
prise about the excellence of his own hotel and the mag-
nificent profits it was making. The said letter, it is
alleged, was used in an endeavour to pursuade other
people to take shares in the lamentable emporium, and
when these people learned that it was in part his own
hotel that Smith was so pleased and surprised about, they
said—well, it wasn’t so much what they said as the nasty
way they said it.
* • • *
Westralinn ’Groper(lorn would probably be a
little less unfavorable to the Commonwealth bill if, in
addition to the special power it gives the province to
charge customs duties for a number of vears, it also gave
power to differentiate ’Groper and t’ottierside products on
the railways. A little list li is been prepared to show how
present rates to the fields pan out Wine (’Groper),
±1 10s. 2d. and (t’otherside) £7 11s. ]od. ; jam, fcl 16s. 2d.
and £5 3s. 2d. ; timber, 19s. 3d. and £4 2s. Bd. ; butter
and cheese, etc., £1 16s. 2d. and £4 2s. sd. ; coal, 19s.
and £1 9s. 7d.
• • • •
The directors of the prosperous North Shore
(Sydney) Kerry Co. have (no doubt in view of the harbor
bridge agitation and the marked discontent among a
l>ig section of their passengers) decided to wind-up,
atnl simultaneously form another co. “upon a larger
basis and with enlarged powers.” Which accounts for
tire rise in the shares.
* * * *
The liquidation of the Land Credit Bank—the
first of the Melb. boom banks to put its shutters up—is
not expected to realise more than 4s. Id in the £ for
creditors, and the odd penny is a doubtful quantity.
Shareholders, of course, get nothing.
» * *' *
“D.J.M.N.”: We don’t advise you to buy.
The facts of the case as they present themselves to us are
set out in last week’s issue.
• * • *
“ .T.M.” (Melb.): From what we hear from the
field we advise you to severely restrain your enthusiasm
concerning the Calcifer Chillagoe Syndicate.
* * * *
Broken Hill had its biggest-on-record gathering
of mine-directors to meet Gov. Beauchamp ; and, as
usual, there was much after-dinner talk of Govt, neglect.
And then Cann, one of the local Labor Ms.P., had his
chance. “It is true, gentlemen,” he said, “that the State
has done little for this district. But when 1 and my col-
leagues sought to induce the Govt, to acquire the Silver-
ton railway line, did you help us? It is true that the
State has neglected the town. But when I and my col-
leagues have striven to induce the State to take over the
waterworks or provide others, have you helped us?”
And so on. It was said so plea ant ly. too, that the vic-
tims had to smile even while they squirmed.
* * * «
So terrific have several recent duststorms bpen
at Broken Hill, that not only have all outdoor surface
works been suspended on the mines, hut the concentra-
ting mills have been thrown idle. Moving belts became
displaced, and the maintenance of the necessary steady,
unruffled flow of water was out of the question.
• * * »
Tim dust-storms, or grafting in tbe open-cuts,
or something, knocks most of the poetry out of the
Broken Hill man. So, while men in other places con-
sidered which of their acquaintances they could best-
spa re to “ fight for the flag,” Broken Hill was moved
most bv the announcement that Rand stocks had fa'len
£70.0110,000 ; and a resolution was unanimously adopted,
at a meeting called to consider the crisis, that a syndicate
be formed to lay in so re of those knocked-out shares.
• • * •
Lord Beauchamp has been to White Cliffs, the
first N.S.W. Gov. to penetrate to the opal fields. But it
isn’t an impressive place. Though an average of about
700 men are employed, mostly “on their own” and
trihuting, no real mining has yet been done—mere pig-
rooting down to 30ft. or 40ft. The gem is found anyhow,
and at any depth ; I here are none of those “indications”
which the mining “ expert ” so loves to talk about in his
reports. When you’ve got it you’ve got it, and that’s ail
there is to say about the matter so far. Lately there has
been a slump in price of the gem-stone ; but the market
has been steadied again by the announcement that the
co. —an English concern which has got hold of many of
the best leases —is now a buyer of stone.
* * * *
Orange, N.S.W., tells that a Mt. Morganaire
has invested £4OOO in buying three gold-leases at Mt.
Shorter. If so it.isgreat.news, for it is quite a long while
since writer heard of a Mr. Morgan man doing anything of
the kind. The Mount Morganaires are terrible people
for city bricks-and-mortar.
* * * *
On another page of this issue will he found the
prospectus of the Spring Creek Gold Dredging Co.,
formed to work 100 acres of creek and alluvial flat near
Guyra, N.S.W. A hi. hiy favorable report by Mr. John
Piper is published along with the prospectus. The capi-
tal of the company is £20,000 in 40,000 shares of 10s.
each, and the vendor gets 20,000 of these fully paid up in
payment for the property. In other words, lie gets half
the company. The prospectus estimates a net profit of
about £19,000 a year, or about 95 per cent, per annum on
capital ; and Tim? Boloktin desires to remark, without
prejudice, and without committing itself to any opinion
as to the chance of getting 19,000 a year net, that if the
co. does get it the shareholders will have a real good time.
* * * *
Snnnv Corner, N.S.W. ; “Great pleasure was
expressed in town to day when it became known that the
Paddy Lackey Deep Levels had struck the Paddy Lackey
reef at 472 ft., showing excellent prospects. It was ex-
pected that it would be necessary to go 1000 ft.” Not at
all. Six months ago fhe Paddy Lackey owners cut the
reef in their own shaft, showing rather more underlay
than anticipated, hut a survey of the ground, we believe,
showed that while the Levels Co. would get it at about
500 ft. in its shaft, it would be found in a triangular-
shaped piece of ground, and driving any distance either
way on it would brine- it to the boundaries of the parent
mine. Is not this so ?
* * * *
Girilambone, N.S.W. : “The mine is reported
to be opening up very, well;” , Great interest is taken in
the operations of the new smelter to be started shortly.
Probably a great deal more in the operations in London of
the le -al manager, Mr. Leonard Dodds, who is expected
to sell the mine there. Calls still the order of the day.
* * * «
The Insurance World, Ist. July, 180!).—“ The
growth of the Colonial Mutual since its establishment has
been of. a very vigorous nature, and characteristic of the
active and progressive life of our Australian colonies.”*
* * * *
Sept, exports of Tas. minerals: Copper ore, 13
tons, £260; copper blister, 554) tons, £49,381 ; gold,
45540 z., £17,525 ; gold pyrites, 40 tons, £373; gold and
silver ore, 70 tons, £350 ; iron ore, 386 tons, £386 ; silver
ore, 1564 J tons, £17,618; tin, 213 J tons, ■ 29,518 ; tin ore,
13 tons, £B5O ; silver-lead bullion, 166 tons, 1 4978 ; zinc,
4cwt., £4 ; total value, £121,743. Corresponding period
of previous year, £87,563. Increase for Sept., £34,180;
increase for nine months, £378,645.
* * * *
Tas. battery returns for Sept. : Tasmania, 2170
tons, for 27120 z. gold, value £10,449 ; New Golden Gate,
1550 tons, l('99vz., £4396 ; Ringaroomn, 190 tons, 1560 z.,
i 624 : Central Ringarooma, 46 tons, 220 z., £BB. Divs. :
Mt. Bisohoff, 155., £9OOO ; Tasmania, Is., £3000; New
Golden Gate, Is., £1600; Western, 6d., £l5OO. Total,
£15,100.
The Tasmania’s last crushing (loz. sdwt. to the
ton) brings Ibe tola] value of gold won up to 41,091,827,
and total diva, paid to 4097,071 las.
* * * •
Mt. Lynll Blocks “ expects to realise a profit of
£20,001) from the 10J0 tons of ore being sent to Alt. Lyell
smelters.’’
• • • •
“ Akaroa ” : Your correspondent rc Waihi
crushing is a little “ off ” ; as I have recently returned
from the mine, perhaps I can put him right. At present
all the crushing is dry both at the mine—where are 90
heads at work—and at Waikeno, live miles away, where
the ore is run down from mine by light railway. At
Waikeno 100 bead of stamps are driven by water-power,
another 100 heads are in course of erection. The ore is
kiln-dried, dry-crushed, and transmitted from battery to
cyanide vats by means of spiral travellers. The vats, big
enough for small circuses, hold 150 tons each. All the
gold is now won by cyanidution, but it has been decided,
when the new hundred heads are completed, to revert to
the wet process, as, although percentage of extraction
will not be so high, the fact of putting through nearly
double the quantity of ore will amply compensate.
« ♦ * *
Published that over 100 co.’s have been formed,
or are in process of incubation, to dredge M.L. rivers.
Nominal capital of the lot about a million ; subscribed
capital £800,009. Well, that only represents from £BOOO
to tlo,ooo for each dredging co., which is very reasonable
compared with N.S.W., where the average capital is
about £30,000, although in most cases the subscribed
capital is barely sufficient to build the dredge and master
probable difficulties.
* * * *
John Moffatt, having seen the Chillagoe Co. in
harness, returns to N.Q. tin. The Coolgarra 00., floated
exclusively in Queensland, is the first fruit.
* • • •
The N.Q. copper-boom will probably prove
disastrous to the wages miner in that locality. Up to
now, the recognised miner’s wage in Etheridge, Croydon,
and Cloncurry districts has been 43 10s. for a week of 44
hours; now the Hampden Co., in Cloncurry district, and
the Einasleigh syndicate near Georgetown offer Bs. per
day for surface men and 9s. below, working 48 hours per
week. Though, at latest, the Hampden men were out on
strike, both co.’s will probably carry their point, and that
will mean the beginning of a big- slump in miners’ wages
all over the North. Considering the cost of living up
there the old rate of wages was none too much, and what
with the disadvantages of climate, &c., the Southern
miners who are now rushing the Land of the Crocodile
will not find it all beer and skittles.
Melb. Aruup special says tliat general manager
Stewart sets down the ore available on the Chilla-
goe Railway and Mining Co.’s properties (without
counling anything below 100 ft.) as 500,000 tons,
worih 10 per cent, copper on an average. “ Without
attempting to state the quantity of ore in sight, I fully
believe that the carbonate ores alone showing in the sur-
face workings of the former co., and the deposits dis-
covered but yet unworked, must sum up a very respect-
able total, sufficient to justify the erection of up-to-date
reduction works. As to the productive capacity of these
deposits at deeper levels, only a thorough system of ex-
ploration and the future can tell. The Q. geologists have
pointed out that as- the ore deposits about Chillagoe
mostly occur at or near the junction of the limestones
and granite country, the geological inference is that, they
are not true fissure lodes, but only ‘deposits.’ But, so
far, data is not available on which to base a positive
opinion as to whether the deposits go down or die out
within shallow limits.”
* * » *
Editor Bulletin. —Your par. re Hampden
copper-mine from “ A Man on the Spot” is somewhat in-
correct. In the first place, there are only five shafts sunk
on the lease of 160 acres, but there are several open-cuts
which show large bodies of ore. Secondly, 1 am
sure that “A Man on the Spot” has never been
down any of the shafts, but is simply going
on hearsay. Any man with ordinary knowledge
of mining can see that the ore-body on the
surface is disturbed and broken, and must be cut
through at a shallow depth, hut there are any number of
leaders going down from the break, which shows that the
ore-body will make again at a depth, hut not anything
like the size it is on the surface, lie. the sharps, syndi-
cate-agents, &ci The men who stick four pegs in the
ground, apply for a lease and six months’ exemption at
the same time, and then sit down and wait forsomeone to
come along and give them cash and a big paid-up interest
in something that has never had a pick put in it, struck
me as the (would-be) sharps, and I think their hitter ex-
periences with syndicate agents amount to the fact that
they have overreached representatives on one or two oc-
casions.—-A Late Visitor to Cloxcurrry.
* • * *
The Clonourry mineral leaseholders asking Q.
Govt, to erect a State-smelter. The trouble would begin
when the site had to be fixed.
* * * •
Vic. Govt, seems determined to resuscitate the
dead-and-gone Mt. JJeddick alleged mines. A surveyor is
marking out a line, and a heap of public money will be
spent in making a road to the Deddick mountain top. So
far as can be seen, it will serve no other purpose than to
advertise the “mines” and enable some influential
boomers to float new companies and unload their old
shares, on the strength of a few casual erratic streaks of
galena that have been adversely reported on by Govt,
geologists, and unreservedly condemned by Govt. Metal-
lurgist Jenkins.
» * * •
Bright District and Smoko Reef “mine” (Vic.)
seems to have lost the run of those “ 10,000 tons of pay-
able stone ” said to lie in sight a while ago. Last week
the mine was still looking for its vanished dream, and
shares stood at a nominal “ tanner” or thereabouts. The
Brightest things are apt to end in Smoko.
• « * •
South German (Maldon) shares look very much
as though the beastly Bulletin’ alarmist, whose story
started them on the down-grade, wasn't making a mis-
take. Melb. Argus, which published a reassuring report
when the stock was first beginning to drop, spoke last
week of “ the uneasiness felt” among S.G. holders. The
Age of Oct. 13, carefully ignoring the fact that it took its
cue from this paper, announced that—“ln order to get
at the truth and, if possible, allay the panic, we applied
nearly a month ago” (Tub Bulletin alarm was issued
Sept.l4) “ to the chairman of directors, Mr. W. B. Gray,
for authority to allow our mining reporter to inspect the
South German mine.” As the application was not joy-
fully granted, the irate organ (on Del. 13) “determined
to expose the secret methods” of the S.G. management.
• * * *
Associated Gold Mines, W.A. — At last a 4s.
div. declared, absorbing £100,600. Many shareholders
would like to know how much has been absorbed in other
directions. It is suspected that much Associated money
has gone into places from which it is not easily recover-
able—a good deal of it into schemes of share-rigger
Bottomiev. It is now proposed to separate the Iron
Duke, Iron Monarch, and the two Menindie leases, and
set them up in business for themselves as “the Asso-
ciatecl Northern Blocks," with a capital of £350,000 —
working capital, £lOO,OOO. Shareholders to receive one
for every two held. The present co. has long waited an
opportunity to do this, which came t’other day with a dis-
covery of good ore in the Iron Duke.


A NEW DEPARTURE
p Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
US’ We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMP AN'Y,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
(°S p “o? e ) SYDNEY.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
}4-p)ate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Brisbane Branch : 34 QUEEN STREET.
Melbourne Agents : CRAVEN & CO., 179
COLLINS STREET.
HlimitTlD’S
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
OF
PHOTOGRAPHIC
APPLIANCES
Is practically a C.vclopoedia of
PHOTOGRAPHERS 1 R EQUI R EIVI EIMTS.
Cameras, Lenses, Plates, Papers, Chemicals, Mounts,
Frames, Studio Accessories and Materials of all kind!
Every article the best in the market, and at lowest
possible prices. Send for one—it will be forwarded
FREE.
Harrsogtoo Co. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchant?,
and Agents in all the Colonies.
66 King-street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
Now that the N.S.W. Public School-
teachers’garden-party is over, it will be interest-
ing to note what other branches of the public ser-
vice receive wholesale Guvmentouse invitations.
Drawing the line will be a ticklish point. Many
of the higher-grade teachers, by the way, accepted
the invitation as a matter of etiquette, and re-
mained at home as a matter of choice —and
economy; and some made a point of replying, not,
as requested, to the A.D.C., but through the
Minister from whose department their invitations
came.
» * • *
Gov. Beauchamp struck Broken Hill pre-
maturely—some of the reception committee had
not quite finished shaving off its moustache.
Broken Hill still keeps S.A. time, which is away
behind that of N.S.W., so, as neither H.E. nor
the committee had thought of that, the punctual
young man found the dusty city in a general state
of unpreparedness.
* ■* * m
At one place in the Never Never where
Gov. Beauchamp received the hospitality of a
“camp,” young Tim and M’ria were sent off post-
haste to swish out the goats by the back door in
order to make room for the unexpected visitor,
who was being escorted by Tim senior up to the
front. And “ the missus ” was in the very act of
being interdooced by Tim the elder at the door-
way when Tim the younger broke in with :
“ They’re all out, mum, ’cept the blue billy, and
’e’s safe under the bunk.”
A RIDDLE.
(At the sale-yards.)
O’DOWN: “If I shwap a rayper and hinder that
won’t rayp and bind, for a horse with the
siringhalt, and afterwards shwap the horse for
a hurdy-gurdy that'll naythur ‘ hurd ’ nor
'gurd,’and thin I goes and DlES— what am I
out by the transactions?”
BROPHY : “ Faith, you’re out of breath !”
Apropos Gov. Beauchamp’s comments re
the Dreyfus trial, Col. W. A. D. Anderson, Vic.
Commandant of Volunteers, in a post-prandial
speech at some public function long ago, said that
one Britisher was at any time equal to three
Frenchmen. Next morning half-a-dozen irate
Gauls expressed a desire to meet Anderson singly
with pistol or sword, but Anderson’s swollen head
had contracted.
* ♦ * »
Apropos Governor Beauchamp’s boast
when dining certain Sydney suburban Mayors,
that no Mayor had ever been charged with
embezzlement: a certain Mayor of Bristol (Eng.)
was actually transported to Botany Bay, and a
Lord Mayor of Dublin—Sir Michael Creagh
absconded, taking with him, among other things,
the mayoral collar of gold, the property of the
corporation. That was certainly a long time ago
—l6BB. The remarkable part of the latter case is
that on every Lord Mayor’s Day for nearly 150
years the town crier bawled out Creagh's name,
and demanded that he should come forth and
the Lord Mayor’s chain.
What is the exact rank and perfume of a
governors butler, and is there any difference
Dec ween the naiceness of a chief butler and an
ordinary kitchen butler? Stated at the Police
Commission that the reason why the Chinese
gam bung-dens of Brisbane are never raided now
's that, on the occasion of one raid, a Governor’s
cniet butler was captured in the act of playing—
ahem, pak a-pu. When the startled inspector saw
trus august menial hauled into the watch-house he
s ood aghast, and in order to prevent any such
dreadful occurrence in future departmental in-
structions were issued that the Chinese were
never to be interfered with except by express
instructions.
• * *
War-item wired to S.M. Herald
PATRIOTIC BUSHMEN.
v , . . Quimndi, Tuesday.
Yesterday two men named Bevan and Gifford left
CJuinndi by tram en route for Natal to enlist in the Kng-
lisn army, or Natal police, or mounted rifles, to fight
against the Boers. They have been employed at Knicker-
bell station, and have thrown up their positions to fight
oi the British. On leaving, the shearers cheered them
neartuy. About 20 mounted shearers formed a gua»tl of
honor, and escorted them to Pine Ridge, on Mr. A. A.
Hangars Mooki station, where great emhusiasin was dis-
played at the final leave-taking. Bevan is sft. lOin. in
height, and Gifford sft. Bin. Both are good horsemen.
Ihe latter spent several years in N.S.W. Permanent Ar-
il I®*T - have letters to influential officers in the
British Army.
What sort of idiocy is this that the Herald is
giving its afflicted readers? There are in The
Bulletin office two people who are not going to
fight the Boers. One of these is sft. 4Jin., and very
bandy; the other is across-eyed man, with red
hair, who stutters badly, and is fond of hard
boiled eggs. His named is Smith.
* * * *
An applicant for a billet as carman to a
Melb. merchant stated in his letter that he had
been in the employ of one bishop and two brewery
companies.
* * * *
The usual young married woman in poor
circumstances provides triplets at Woman’s Hos-
pital, Melb. Weight of the bunch at bii th, lGlb. ;
all doing well. Mrs. Miller, the enterprising
mother, is to be congratulated on her earnest effort
to meet the prevailing Australasian census-de-
pression.
A N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge not long
ago complained bitterly of the noise during the
night in two country hotels at which he put up
while on circuit. He believe-; at one house the
people didn’t go to bed at all. Oaths and the
clinking of glasses and beery songs went on
till morning. Alfred Stephen, when Chief-
Justice, wholly lost temper at 2 a.m., jumped
out of bed, ran into the pub. bar, and called
on his trooper bodyguard to clear out the
boisterous revellers. The boss pubman
turned on the C. J. and told him to go back
to bed ; he was licensee of that shop, and
no one had legal power to clear the place
without his permission. The C. J., angry
as he was, realised that the pubman was
right on the legal point involved, and
quietly returned to bed. Stephen was
fond of telling the story after.
* » *
Queensland boasts some dozens of
factories wherein white women and girls
are employed by Asiatic aliens. What
style of men do they raise in some parts
of Bananaland ? Just fancy a father send-
ing out his girl to slave for a few shillings
in a Chow shop or a Syrian factory!
Though, after all, the heathen are probably
little worse than numbers of European em-
ployers who engage girls to work 12 months
for nothing, 12 months at ss. a week, and then—
the sack.
Amusing to notice how the Australian
Star manages to pour forth the most gory anti-Boer
Jingoism while patting its liege lord, Cardinal
Moran, on the back for his oooling advice to those
Australians who think of going to the Transvaal
“to be shot.” By the way, the Star has come to
a queer pass when it bills as a special attraction
“ Timothy Fogarty’s ” inexpressibly dreary maun-
der ings on “ Irish Humor.”
• » * *
S. M. Herald discourses on the Transvaal
State’s artillery:—
“To suppose,” says a recent writer on the subject,
“that the Boer artillery, with its inexperienced officers
and its nondescript detachments, could maintain a duel
with the batteries of a regular army, is tantamount to
declaring that any rabble provided with arms of precision
is a match for disciplined soldiers.” The boasted artil-
lery of the Boers is more than likely to be the chief cause
of their downfall.
Then it whoops wildly for sending to the Trans-
vaal N.S. Wales’ solitary field battery “ with its
inexperienced officers and its nondescript detach-
ments ” who have had so little practical train-
ing that it was authoritatively stated in the
Assembly that, to give their horses exercise
enough to keep them in health, it was necessary
to lend them to people who were kind enough to
work them.
* * * *
Many Victorian warriors volunteered for
service in South Africa when there was no imme-
diate prospect of their having to go. Of the
Mounted Rifles and the first and second battalions
Metrp. Militia something like 510 offered to fight.
RESOURCE.
NO. 1: “Rob brought a pair of rabbits for me to
cook yesterday, t tried to do them like cook
did the roast hare at home. But in trying to
singe the fur off I spoilt them.”
NO. 2: “ You silly girl! That isn't the way."
NO. 1: “ What is the way, then? ”
NO. 2: “ You ought to pluck them !”
Indeed, to judge by the reports in the daily
papers they were simply trampling over each
other to get their names upon the list. As soon
as Parliament decided to send a contingent a
selection parade was called ; then came a revela-
tion. Out.of the 510 volunteers only 215 attended.
Next morning the daily papers which have been
simply yelling for Blood, came out with the
explanation. Many of the absent ones, it seems,
had missed their trains, etc., etc. ; thus was the
national honor vindicated. One of the men who
did attend was selected and sent in to be medically
examined as the final test. He was passed, but
the strain was too much, and on leaving the
medical inspection room he fell in a faint in the
barrack yard.
Adipose was a Brisbaneite, some time ago
—stout, popular, and amiable. Was also secre-
tary to the committee of a certain benevo-
lent institution, said committee being
composed almost entirely of ladies.
It happenedfthat Adipose fell sud-
denly ill, and was unable to
attend the usual monthlymeet-
ing. Ladies of committee, on
hearing the cause of the secre-
tary’s absence, were exceed-
ingly sympathetic, and sug-
gested thatoneof their number
should forward Adipose (as a
mark of kindly attention) a
ticket o the General Hos-
pital. A day or two afterwards,
the invalid was startled by
the arrival at his diggings of'
a ticket for the Lying-in Hos-
pital. And the unfortunate
man’s friends call on him, now
and again, and ask him, with
unholy grins, if he is doing as
well as could be expected.
Genuine N.S.W. schoolboy an-
swer taken from a recent exam, paper :
“ A monopoly is a big house where
monks and nuns live, and are not allowed to
marry. ”
* * • *
“ Let them dispute as they like about pre-
cedence,” said a S.M. Herald authority lately in
reference to Cardinal Moran and Primate Smith’s
newspaper controversy on the subject, “our paper
in its Saturday's issue will always place the
churches properly.” The authority dipped his
chin when pronouncing “properly.”
* * * *
To the Tasmanian Cold Tea orators’ de-
mand for revival of the ancient law prohibiting
the working of barmaids after 10 p.m., certain
foolish publicans, of course, object, and war seems
imminent. But wise Bung says “nowt.” He
just tackles the beer-pump himself at 10 p.m.
while Flossie goes to entertain “the boys” and
keep the bell ringing in an adjacent “ private ”
room.
* * • •
A London beerman, lately in Australia,
cabled ’Ome and included in his message an in-
quiry after his wife, who is expected to add to the
population. His London partner had great diffi-
culty in finding code-words to suit the situation,
but at last discovered two which he thought would
fit. They were “ Rangueibos,” i. e., “Goods in
very fair condition,” and “ Vertroilas ”—“No-
thing as yet delivered.”
In a certain Australian town two
friends met a Scotch acquaintance with
frenzy in his eye and a revolver in his fist.
In explanation he said—“ A mon has des-
troyt raa happiness, an’ ahm gaun to
shoot some lead intil him.” Three hours
later they met him again, and he con-
fessed to having spared the destroyer’s
life. “It’s joost this way,” he said, “a
hae transfairred ane a’ ina hooses tae ma
weef, an’ a thocht that if a shote the
scoondrel a mightna get ma hoose back
again! ”
* * * %.
The Medical Congress at Brisbane
was very severe on the growing practice of
over-working growing boys and girls in
schools. One doctor wanted to know what
could be thought of parents who, while
emanding an eight-hour day for them-
selves, exacted ten hours study a day from
their children. . . . The wicked and
vicious practice of robbing children of a
portion of their dinner-time and compel-
ling them to study beyond specified school
hours is on the increase in Australia.
There are hundreds of school children in
big Australian towns who, driven by the
mad ambition of parents and teachers,
habitually study from eight to ten hours a
day ! And the officials in the Education
Departments know it and wink at it.
* » * *
A M.L. paper recently gibed at
The Bulletin for substituting “Maori-
land ” for “ New Zealand.” And now the
same, paper writes of “Moaland,” thus
naming its country after an extinct bird
instead of after a live people.
* * * *
That humorist in gaiters, the Anglican
Bishop of Wellington (M~L.), blessed the Maori-
land Transvaal contingent last Sunday, and wished
it “success in carrying out Christ’s mission to
protect the weak.” When an empire of 300,000,000
population is coming down on a community of
about Bn,ooo it requires a pretty tough blasphemer
in gaiters to talk like that.
* * * *
Fashion, a London journal devoted to the
glorification of garinenture, makes tearful refer-
ence to the uniforms of certain attendants at
“Greater Britain.” These hirelings, it seems,
are clothed in sacrilegious imitation of the N.S. W.
Lanceahs. “To see them picking up waste
paper and cigar-ends at Earl’s Court is disgust-
ing to any Englishman with proper ideas as to
the British army, and colonial visitors to the
‘ Greater Britain ’ show have openly expressed
their resentment that such a flagrant violation of
the 1894 Act should be permitted unchecked.”
There is more in this than meets the casual eye.
The 1894 Act made it unlawful, The Bulletin
supposes, forcivilian ushers, commissionaires, &c.,
SEVENTY-FIVE PER SHENT ITEM.
TEDDY GOLDSTEIN: “I see Isaacs is very ill.”
SILBERBERG: “ Vat’s the matter mit him? ”
TEDDY GOLDSTEIN: “ Der doctors don't
know; ’e just lays in bed all day and
don’t take no inderest in anything. ”
SILBERBERG (in astonishment): “ Don't take
no inderest? ’E must be tead.”
to wear “Queen’s uniform,” consequently the
clothing of the aforesaid pickers-up of waste
paper and cigar-stumps raises a question as to
whether the N.S.W. Lanceahs are Himperial
Forces within the Act, or merely persons in fancy
dress.
* • * *
Twice within the last month Sydney
suburban Mayors cheekily moved their coun-
cils to co-operate with other aldermaniac
bodies to obtain for N.S.W. Mayors free passes
by railway and tram. The councils rejected the
proposals.
* • * *
The gallantry of the police—or what '?
Males barely outnumber females in N.S.W. ; yet
in the gaols at the end of last year (the official
report is but just issued) of 2081 prisoners only
187 were females.


rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter info
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices :
Portal le Generator, Stand Light, and Burner .41 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete .. 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 20
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Sore Throat.
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M. 0.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
Condy’s Fluid,
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
ar e the only Makers.
CoNDY’S t~LUlD’ , can be purchased of
all Chemises and Stores. Beware of imitations.
su|jjih> Qi) || a |(e
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIFE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throng ho at
A nstvalia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioatior)
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
“ My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W. A.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
Durban, Natal, October 18th. The latest
from the seat of war. The British on the defen-
sive, waiting reinforcements, but ZETZ SPA at
the front and driving all others out of the market.*
3007 Newspapers
Rkcommexd MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Captain and Mrs. Craigan and some of
their friends paid a visit to the warehouse of
Messrs. Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-street, Sydney, on
Saturday last to witness an exhibition in ice-
making with their small hand ice machine. They
expressed themselves as delighted and promised
to take two at 50s. each before leaving Sydney,
and one of their new ice-cream freezers, which
require no turning of the handle. These appear
to be much superior to the old style.*
In a letter received some time ago from
missionary Gillies (since, it is feared, murdered
in Tanna), he said that some natives who had
unsuccessfully tried to kill him, sent him word
that they’d make a better job of it next time, and
that they were “keeping the oven hot for him.”
Is grim humor of that sort native to the cannibal
nig. as well as to the comic papers ?
HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC «*-
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
patronage^
...0n...
Mr. Fraok ScQior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
A GREAT FELT
SMALL BUT AMOROUS SUITOR (to massive widow):
“I wish I could Jill your late husband's shoes,
Mrs. Blank.”
MRS. BLANK (laughing contemptuously): “Not
much fear of that, Mr. Dash.”
MR. DASH: “ Why?”
MRS. BLANK : “He was a policeman.”
The fight for the Melbourne mayoralty
t’other day was the end of a three-volume story.
Ship-owner M'Eacharn and Lawyer Sim Gillott
had simultaneous hankerings after the billet in
1897, but the lawyer’s supporters finding them-
selves outnumbered, retired without giving battle.
Mayor M’Eacharn’s first year of office was so
very gorgeous that his re-election in 1898 followed
as a matter of course. When he came forward
for the third time in succession the Gillott-
ites made out a grievance for their champion.
They said that old friend Sam stood aside last
year to oblige the unretiring Mayor. On the
other hand the M‘Eacharnites contended that
their man had been sure of re-election at second
time of asking, and was not under any real
obligation to anybody in the matter, but they
admitted that Gillott would be entitled to the
chair this time—if he could get it. Twentv-five
municipal fatmen took part in the recent struggle,
and the same old M ivor won by a pip—l 3 to 12.
Whereupon Gillott effusively congratulated the
winner and hoped he would get all the knighthood
and other “distinctions” that seem likely to
happen to him in Federation Year. If there was
any satire intended triumphant Mac took the
sting out of it when he candidly confessed that, as
there was an important figure to be cut by the
Mayor of Melbourne within the next few months,
he had been anxious to get the opportunity to
cut it.
» • * *
“ Yarra ” gossips concerning the municipal
contest aforesaid :
I dropped in at the City Council for the Mayoral elec-
tion, the most important to date. The full-length
framed oil-paintings on the walls of the departed great—
Mayors J. T. Smith, Moubray, Nicholson, Greeves, A. K.
Smith, Hodgson, etcetera—and some of the mighty
living, such as Butters, Stewart, and Carter, gazed down,
tremulous as it were, on the scene. The question was
whether moneyed M'Eaoharn, or moneyed Gillott, the
only two men with cash enough, was to be Mayor for 1900,
with the Parliament of Australia to banquet and a cock-
sure knighthood dangling. M’Eacharn, presiding in his
furry robes and Mayoral chain, was in an electric state of
repressed excitement. Gillott lounged apparently as cool
as a cucumber, but it must have been the South Polar
Mount Erebus, with ice swathing the volcanic fires.
The more I see of Mayor M'Eacharn, the better I like
him. My first idea of him was as of a mere conceited,
empty—in an intellectual sense—money-bag. Indeed, he
is not of a strong calibre, and will find a somewhat
mediocre level in the Australian Leg. Assembly, which
he is pretty sure to get into, most probably as the mem-
ber for Melbourne city. Yet he is a fine fellow, trans-
parently candid, and very sensible. There was nothing
hollow or merely conventional in the (customary) praises
showered on him at the Mayoral luncheon after beating
Gillott. who behaved splendidly, taking his gruel like a
man. The see-saw of the votes had been so nice for a
week before, apparently even, that it was bound to be a
crushing disappointment to whoever got beaten, though
M’Eacharn would naturally have felt it more than Gillott.
» • * *
In connection with the recent island
excursion-trip of the s.s. Waikare (patronised by
tin- top-layer of the Australian social cream) there
is being related a yarn the true inwardness whereof
will appeal forcibly to those who know how far
male New Hebridean costume is an advance, in
suggestiveness, upon mere stark-nakedness. When
a boatload of ladies, chaperoned by a matron of
ferocious virtue, was approaching the landing-
place at one island a line of “ full dressed ”
warriors drew up on the beach to receive the
visitors. The horrified officer in charge longed to
crawl under the boat and inspect the keel—the
ladies looked carefully out to sea, and the she-
dragon of the party muttered something about
“ reporting such indecency.” Then the officer
rushed off to consult with his comrade in another
boat upon the enormousness of the situation, but
upon his return he was paralysed to find the fair
creatures—thus relieved from (white) male obser-
vation—calmly engaged in “snap-shotting” the
lusty brown animals as they stood. And, later
on, I’ttle furtively-sniggering groups of women,
standing about the deck with their hpads together,
testified that the camera had “nothing ex-
tenuated.”
There i.s a lady in a Sydney suburb whose
olive-branches sprouted respectively on Anniver-
sary Day, St. Patrick’s Day, Guy Fawkes’ Day,
and Prince of Wales’ Birthday. Great was the
domestic disappointment when a she-Benjamin
made her appearance towards the middle of June,
just missing the “ Glorious Fourth ” and ruining
the family record for anniversatility,
* * * * ♦
An historic property is in the market.
“Carthona,’’DarlingPoint, the old homeof explorer
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell, N.S.W. Surveyor-
General. In the old days the Surveyor-General
had a guard-room with a file of soldiers on what is
now New South Head Road to protect the house
from bushrangers.
* • * •
On the new frank-stamp envelope issued
to N.S.W. M’sP. : “This envelope can only be
lawfully used by M’sP.,” &c., &c.—which is
equivalent to saying that the said M’sP. couldn’t
use them unlawfully if they tried ; whereas what
is meant is that the envelope can be lawfully used
by M’sP. only.
* • • *
This runs your champion mean man pretty
close. An old lady in Australia had property, to
the value of some thousands, in Chancery for
years, but never had sufficient money to engage a
solicitor to take up the ease for her. So there it
remained while the old lady struggled on with .£5O
a year, till a rising young lawyer of her acquaint-
ance offered to take the matter in hand and see
what could be done. After much time and litiga-
tion the property was redeemed, and the old lady
came into her fortune, but there was no mention
of remuneration for the solicitor. Then the good
dame took a trip to England to settle her affairs,
and on her return brought her lawyer the hand-
some present of—a box of note-paper !
* • » •
A Thursday Island correspondent to The
Bulletin :
A sergeant in the local garrison company of soldiery
died recently at the local hospital, it is alleged whilst
or after undergoing an operation for the removal of some
growth in the nose. The body was coffined in the same
state as when death occurred, in ensanguined uniform.
The state of the corpse was seen by members of the gar-
rison previous to coffin being screwed down, and duly
made the subject of report by an indignant bombardier ;
but nothing inore was heard of the complaint. A field-
gun and limber could easily have been turned out for the
funeral. The company has harness, and horses would
readily have been lent hy civilian owners. Instead of this,
a rough contrivance of wood was hastily knocked to-
gether in the wheeler’s shop, and some black paint slapped
over it. This elaborate affair was carted to the hospital,
and from thence, with coffin mounted, carried to the
cemetery by eight men, remainder of detachment accom-
panying. A letter of complaint from a civilian friend of
deceased was published in the local paper. The doctor
stated that death was due to epilepsy. Local opinion
thinks a post-mortem should have been held. The failure
to lay-out the body, which could have been proved, was
not gone into.
* * * *
“ Groper,” to The Bulletin :
Re the outraged shriek over the Dreyfus court-martial.
The indignation meeting held in Perth (W. A.), last month
was convened by a windy person named Weiss, who has
a grievance of his own against the Government, and, in
consaquencs thereof, regards himself as a W.A. Dreyfus.
Mayor Forrest overflowed the chair, and the speakers
included Thomas Walker, ex-N.S.W. M.L.A., and a rev.
somebody, whom the crowd referred to as “ Smiler.”
Resolutions carried with enthusiasm, but, being requested
to subscribe to cost of cabling, the indignant populace
reached for its hat and sought the open air. Subs, having
totalled 2s. 9d., the Govt, was asked to forward the
message at country’s expense. Those resolutions have
not yet started for “ Yurrup.”
* * * *
Sydney City Council has fired-out its com-
paratively new town-clerk for “ incompetence ”
nature ot incompetence not stated. Probably the
real objection was based on the remarks which
that outspoken official made about the £lOO,OOO
overdraft, the regular deficit, and the cowardly
and incompetent gang of aldermen, wiio haven’t
the courage to put up the rates to a point where
income will cover expenditure.
“ X.” : My friend the Chinese mer-
chant wears European clothes, and prays
to the European God, and keeps his ac-
counts in European fashion, and has his
life insured in a European insurance co. t
and has a European wife who plays a
European piano and sends yellow children
to a European school, and he backs horses
with European bookmakers, and belongs
to a Masonic lodge. But he will go to
his grave in the firm belief that the earth
is flat, and that the thunder emanates
from the throat ot the dragon, whose
flashing eyes cause the lightning ; tfyab
luck lives in the chalice of a water-lily,
and that the “Ingleseman up on the
hill, who make the weather—him only
pull leg always the whole time long.”
# • * •
“ G. 8.” : In Melb. Hospital, many
curious things are done. They bathe
patients, for instance, shortly after they
have partaken of dinner. Which breaks
up the popular idea of the danger of such
a course. Also, there is the hospital
sponge—in each v/ard. The hospital is
large, and sponge is highly absorbent, and
the last person who comes under its ap-
plication finds this out. For there are
odors of many patients, with many
diseases, in the recesses of the hospital
sponge, which make it a hateful and
loathsome thing to the last patient wiped
down. These are strange things, which
stand out like ugly knobs on an other-
wise smooth surface of excellence and
efficient management.
The inevitable after-effect of Melbourne’s
land-boom, and subsequent disposition to accept
roguery as a matter of course, is seen lately in the
continual disclosure of embezzlement by civil ser-
vice clerks and others. Men get into prison now-
adays through following in the footsteps of the
criminals who went unpunished a few years ago.
m * * *
Extract from report of inspector of nuis-
ances to Ulmarra (Clarence River, N.S.W.) Coun-
cil :
Indians, and in one case an aboriginal, were employed
at local dairies, and, in my opinion, the practice is unde-
sirable, as the-majority of such people are not cleanly.
We have tea shipped from Chinese plague-im-
fested ports, sweetened with black-labor sugar,
but Heaven sends no white milk to put in it !
* * * *
Another sweet instance of the Law’s affec-
tion for the legal brotherhood happened in Mel-
bourne t’other day. William Buckley, late chief
clerk and accountant to the Vic. Crown Law
department, came before Judge Gaunt at General
Sessions to receive sentence for “larceny” of
£350. What was called larceny in the Law dept,
clerk would have been dealt with as embezzlement
in an unprivileged sort of clerk, no doubt ; but
the point is hardly worth mentioning, for larcenist
Buckley got 18 months hard labor, and embezzler
Buckley, in the Criminal Court, might not have
come worse off. Prisoner was defended by bar-
rister O’Hara Wood, secretary to the Law Insti-
tute, who found it “ doubly painful to speak of a
client found guilty, when he was a personal
friend.” Also Wood referred to the awful “in-
dignity ” that a Crown Law department clerk
suffers in being arrested. Charles O’Halloran,
the sporting amalgam, followed by prothonotary
O’Halloran, and Jenkins, clerk of Parliaments,
testified to the exceptional uprightness of the
prisoner, and then Judge Gaunt had to nerve him-
self for the ordeal of sentencing “one whom he
had known well.’’ The Court nearly broke down,
Buckley’s case was so peculiarly sad. “At
Moonee Valley races he appeared to have staked
on one horse the amount of half his income for
the year,” and unfortunately the gee-gee did not
win. His Honor pitied the busted punter from
the bottom of his heart, nevertheless he had a
stern duty to perform, so, after stating that a
“TEARS AGO.”
PARSON (to inebriate): “And you say that you
drank nothing but milk for a year? ”
BOOZY BILL: “ Yesh (hie) that was my first year
(hic)—when I was a kid!!!”
light sentence in such a case as this would be a
“ monstrous ” thing, he gave Buckley 18 months
—the sort of sentence a milkman often gets for
“ embezzling ” £2 Bs. 6d. collected by him from
the buyers of daily half-pints.
* * * *
The average legal practitioner has a hard
row to hoe in Westralia. In the late important
appeal by the Lake View Consols v. Australian
Gold Recovery Co. (MacArthur Forrest Patent),
the members of the Full Court, after two months’
consideration, delivered their judgments. Four
days later counsel on both sides moved the Full
Court for leave to appeal to the Privy Council;
but as the Court then only consisted of two
Judges, counsel asked for an adjournment until
the Chief Justice would be present, as they wished
the Court to explain its decision to them, in
order that they might know which side should
appeal, or whether both sides should do so. But
perhaps it is the Judges who have a row to hoe.
* * * 9
The Bulletin hears that on a big estate
at Camden, N.S. W., 40 acres are under asparagus
this season, and that it is being sold in Sydney at
about a quarter the price of the preserved article.
But, curiously enough, Australian-grown aspara-
gus can’t compare in flavor with the preserved
article imported from America and France.
“ R.E.,” to The Bulletin :
“No British soldier has had to face cannon since the
Indian Mutiny, 42 years ago.” Wrong. In ’63, the
Ghazis had several light guns ; so had the Bhoteas, in ’64.
In 79, the Amir Slier Ali brought a fine train of artillery
into action at Ali Musjid ; and, the following year, Ayub
Khan made skilful use of his artillery when he attacked
Burrows at Maiwand. In the subsequent battle with
Roberts, at Candahar, he added to his own artillery guns
he bad taken from Burrow's. In Egypt, there were some
Egyptian batteries in action at Kassassin Lock. The lines,
too, at Tel-el-Kebir, were, according to official reports,
heavily armed, and the fire, according to Hamley (who
led tbe assault, and, having been through the Crimean
war, was a good judge), was tremendous. In the Soudan,
in ’B5, the Dervishes made free use of the Egyptian
ordnance they had taken. So much for what is past.
Neither you nor I know what is to come, but it's even
betting there will be no fighting in the Transvaal worth
talking about.
A QUESTION
OF
Propriety
(for tht ?ul!el’ir\'i
park kcszel ar\d par fed hair.
An odcr faint of pevfurne rare.
He r bunnc| smile dispels all care-
A borxrwj lass and debonair .
Her bosom soft, wfth beauty swells.
A hour is shape her form excels,
s>he \ < ? if) 4 - b.lifhesl” of the belief
Soft round hnej an ode impcl^,
©ne dav] the sun had ceased to shine,
A sudden shower did profane
'J'he, road.-Th»s winsome maid of rr\me
Jfcid wi sh fo cros> I could divine
While porus' n 9' a! the stained sheetf
I ashed how hio’K ft w-mjhftbc meet"
. . . 6 a
Ijo rai«,e mar she answered‘(Weej
Fcrhaps a shade above Vwo feet"
W. T.A.


Spriijg BOdS foatfc BOrSt
at
FOY’S !
A Riot of LoVliocSS.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
Ticht^^
rmjNNiNC
r
»®
-vjiNe/y
5* machines!
Write tor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
R€ii>en)b?r! -
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIJf
THE BEST VALUE
TN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NSW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER ROAS,
IN HOUSE I/IN ENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDEItWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & Geortje Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have w °
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October IG, 1899.
My Dear Myee.—
The Fleet Ball was quite the ball of the year.
Brass buttons were responsible for 90 per cent,
of the glamour, but the ball was also remarkably
well stocked with all kinds of men—civilians, naval,
and military. Rumors of three wall-flowers to
each man came to nothing. About a week before
the ball, the streams of letters from the girls
wanting invitations sent the list of women ahead,
but with great courage the navy rushed out and
gathered in as many extra men as it could find.
Result —the ball of the season. People with
imagination and feeling said it was just like “ The
Battle of Waterloo ball,” because war had been
declared that day in the Transvaal about half-a-
seore thousand miles away.
Still, there may have been a similarity. French
versus English, don’t you know. Some French
residents stayed away from the ball, by way of
hostilities with His Ex. re Dreyfus.
By the way, we must surely be coming to the
end of the big men who have taken “the huff.”
Never ljefore. in the history of Sydney, have
people stood so hard, and long, and solemnly, and
with such marked unoomfortableness, on their
Dignity. The Admiral, Consul Biard d’Aunet,
Colonel Smith, our Mister James—but I might go
on like this for ever. His anomalous Ex. makes
no attempt whatsover to lift any of them. He
reasons that the man who can climb up can
crawl down. That is the worst of a Governor with
ideas.
To return to the ball, —Garden Island spent
three days over the preparations. Bridges were
built, awnings hoisted, and torpedoes polished up.
It was a gusty night, and every time the wind
rose the impromptu bridge leading from the store-
room to the ball-room where the ball went on,
trembled and squeaked. A thousand guests
passed over it. I was told, by way of reassurance,
that three hundred blue-jackets jumped on it
beforehand to prove its stability, but we were not
all blue-jackets. Boats carried the guests from
Man-o’-war steps to the Island. Who was the
officer who managed to say to every woman as if
he meant it, when helping her off the launch,
“You must take care of that step ! ”
“ To meet His Excellency the Governor ! ” said
the cards. But not the thin, pale, poetic youth
with the high white brow, and long white fingers.
His Ex. arrived in plain dress, with a deep band
of red sunburn all over his face and hands, and a
new firm light in his eye as though he had met and
routed for the first time the Australian mosquito.
It was strange to see those three young men
arrive alone—His Ex. and the two aides—after the
large accompaniment of V.R. ladies we have
grown used to. They were assisted through the
ordeal by Kenneth Mackay, the “Stirrup
Jingles ” bard, also in the forces, who has the pull
over all other bards in this bardful land. He
travelled in the West with His Ex. for a fort-
night and could have fired his poems by day and
by night into the vice-regal ear if he hadn’t been a
“soldier anil a man,” and also —which is more to
the |xiint —a metaphysician and humanitarian.
Being the “end-of-the-season ball,” nothing
extra special cotdd be expected in the way of
frocks. There were a good many beautiful dresses.
Also, there was a larger number of tired and tat-
tered and world-worn garments than I have ever
seen at a ball before. This must, in charity, be
attributed to the frightfully perishable nature of
the present-day ball-dress. Tulle is a thing that
you can’t sew too much ; when tulle begins to go,
it just goes. Likewise, mousseline de soie, and
gauze, and embroidered net. The dress that
doesn't go to rags round the feet after the first
lancers is quite entirely out of it, and a new frock
for every ball is the only way to keep a creation
in anything like its freshness. And now I would
like to point out the awful danger —the biggest,
awfullest danger of going to a Squad, ball in a
frock that has dirty little stalactites of white
chiffon draggling trotn under the hem, transparent
sleeves with a tendency to burst, and a Jot of
crushed illusion all over everything. The men at
the Squad, ball were heard remarking, “ What a
lot of plain women!” So you see, a mere man
can't distinguish between a pretty woman who
looks plainisli in a very dirty frock, and the plain
woman who looks pretty in a clean one.
Mrs. Lyne, the new Premier’s wife, was elegantly
clad in grey brocade, cooled down with white lace.
By the way, people still look round for a little red
man with an eyeglass at the word “ Premier,” and
feel surprised at the large, dark man, with the
now fast-greying beard, who has changed all that.
Mrs. Admiral was also in grey. Mrs. Hayward,
who returns with her husband to the English
Admiralty next month, wore a black net
and sequined frock behind a huge bouquet
of pink roses. Another naval lady, who
can always be relied on to look decorative,
was Mrs. Dicken in white brocade and heaps of
lovely diamonds, and the usual enormous posy of
pink flowers and pink streamers. Mrs. Phillip
Morton was the Ijest-dressed figure in the room,
perhaps, in black richly embroidered with black
pailettes, a faint outlining of white tulle round
the bodice, and the hair dressed in a highly-
becoming Beardsley style. The three pretty
daughters of Mrs. Alex. Oliver were all in white,
the debutante, Miss Ruth, distinguished by
white flowers in her hair. Miss Mabel Laidley’s
pale-grey silk veiled with fine black lace and
lightened with a flower posy was not half as old
as it sounds. Girls seem to go in for greys and
blacks largely nowadays. I noticed one of the
prettiest girls in Sydney—not out of her teens,
either—dressed in the severest black frock im-
aginable—one that her worldly-wise mamma
would certainly not have Worn herself.
Of course, the craze to look old only endures
while one is very young. Apropos of which, Maud
MacCarthy must be a phenomenon. She really
must. I saw her in the Gardens with her father
and mother the other day, and observed, with
wonder, that—hideous to relate !—she wore white
stoclcinys-J With a short frock too. The ordinary
infant in her ’teens wouldn’t wear white stockings
for a royal mandate. “They’re so dreadfully
behind the times,” any little girl will tell you.
Nellie Cooke’s paying concert illustrated the
fixed desire of Sydney to go free. Her invitation
concert Saw thousands of ardent music-lovers
rushing the Town Hall in opera-cloaks, and
revelling consciously in the thought of going to a
function. Her 35., 25., and Is. warble saw a scanty
collection of admirers scattering themselves over
that great space, and looking a mere handful in
comparison with those who had gushed into the
young singer’s free show.
And she deserved such a good house to. A
really promising soprano, who puts everything she
knows and feels into her singing, and takes one’s
breath away sometimes by her daring flights
through the most florid of florid music. But no
organ will stand the frightful strain Miss Cooke
put on it last Friday, forcing it up where it was
unable to go, and treating it as if a voice that bent
so flexibly could never break. Her platform frock
was a white silk polonaise over soft white flounces.
I am glad to say it was long enough to touch the
floor all round. It hurts to sit in the front row
and gaze at a singer’s ankles, especially if she is
singing “I am coming with flying feet,” while you
are discovering that she wears seven shoes. I
don’t mean that Miss Cooke’s shoes were more
than two’s, for she is a pretty, dainty-looking little
woman.
Lemmone assisted. Lately, there has scarcely
been a concert that Lemmone has not fluted
for. Also, he is breaking out again as a manager,
undeterred by his bad luck with thefiery-tempered
Alva and her meddling husband. He managed
Fanny Bauer’s concert on Tuesday week ; Maud
MaoCarthy’s last Wednesday ; and is now in nego-
tiation with Paderewski. That will be a treat for
us. We don’t often get a great artist out here in
the flower of life—neither a phenomenon, nor the
ruin of a past magnificence.
Speaking of age, our Sydney Beau Brummel,
who is a dear old man and as kindly as you make
’em, came to 70 years lately, and was very nervous,
not at the 70, but at a certain paper which has a
well-meaning little way of announcing: “Many
happy returns of the day to Mr. John Smith, aged
102 to-day.”
For my part, if I were a man I should take that
column as the greatest compliment to my sex.
Who would wish a leading woman happy returns
of her fiftieth year?
Evidently, Mr. Lyne is very deep. A Suffrage
deputation waited on him the other day to press
him to urge on the Cause. He replied that he
had the Cause so deeply at heart that it was not
necessary for him to receive the deputation, as he
was working for them with ail his will, and
wanted woman suffrage with all his heart and
soul, more, unutterably more, than he could say.
That was the message he sent out to the deputation-
ists who were twitching their veils nervously in the
lobby. Rather an elegant way of getting rid of
them, wasn’t it?
Suffrage reminds me—l don’t know why—-that
the Ladies’ club, alias the Victoria Salon, is in
danger of losing its life. Things haven't prospered
altogether with the Salon. Subscriptions, for
instance. The “at homes ” got snuffed out some-
how this season, although they seemed to draw
well last year. Still, the plain truth is that the
Salon never has been, and never will be, while it is
what it was, a salon. As a ladies’ club it has never
caught on at all. Too much suburb drowned the
requisite amount of intellect for a salon ; a rather
out-of-the-way situation spoiled it as a club, and
people tired of it. lam told the shutters will go
up soon, if a big change does not set in.
Of course you know that Rose Musgrove played
“ Glory ” all last week in “ The Christian.” From
Monday till Monday Miss Watson was too ill to
act. Rose’s Glory was admirable, unimpeachable
as an imitation of Henrietta’s. Every trick and
inflection was reproduced, down to that weird
clutching and clawing of John’s waistcoat in the
kiss-me-John scene. “So like, so wonderfully
like.” But clever as Rose Musgrove undoubtedly
is—she arrived at second lead in six months—she
isn’t heavy enough for Glory, and her voice gets
thinly shrieky when emotions press on it. The
chief difference between Glory Musgrove and
Glory Watson was the pretty green frock sported
by the latter, which was worn by Miss Musgrove
in her original part of variety actress. On Monday
Miss Watson was well enough to cry “Why not ? ”
again. I hear that she and her bridegroom, Mr.
Ratcliffe, leave for England pretty soon.
Mr. Radcliffe, by the way, has a double in
Sydney—another young Englishman, Lord Some-
body Something, in blue and white stripes and
pinee-nez. He has been knocking round Sydney
for several months, and distinguished himst If at
the last Govt. House garden party by his flirtation
with the prettiest girl in Melbourne. They are
both rather young. All the same, people remarked
on the way they found two chairs, dragged them
along the gravel to the side of the entrance, and
coolly sat alone there all the afternoon within full
view of the incoming guests.
Mayoress Harris in mauve chiffon opened the
Manly Flower Show last Tuesday, assisted by
Miss Harris and a clergyman. r i ■ e Show lias
seen changes; this year it merges into a weird
combination of Congregarional-cum-Presbytei :an
interests, with a dash of Wesleyan. As a paying
concern, this year’s show was a failure. But
aesthetically, it was far ahead of last year. The
flowers were fixed up in a large tent with
green grass underfoot, and refreshments were
arranged in another large tent. People lost their
way from the boat to the Show. The ad. that
bade one find “Fern Gully” was misleading
enough in all conscience, considering that the
Show was held in Church grounds in the heart of
Manly. I know people—of opposite genders —who
walked from one end of the beach to the other in
the moonlight looking for anything like a gully,
and finally gave up the Flower Show in despair.
For a long time the glory of the old days when
gjirls used to get their frocks for the Manly Flower
Show as they do now for the Cup, has been slowly
waning. For one thing, the wild flowers are pretty
well played out—pulled out, I should say.
And when it comes to the present cut-throat
competition between florists in houses anil florists
in the gutter, a Flower Show doesn’t seem to have
much of a chance. The street flower-sellers have
a new grievance. Bush fires mysteriously broke
out round Manly lately. The flower-sellers ex-
plained that the florists had set fire to the bush to
burn the flowers, so that the street flower-sellers
would have to go further for their wares, and
subsequently charge more for them, and sub-
sequently to that, not find anyone to buy at
raised prices. Then everyone would flock to the
florists in shops, who only keep garden flowers
that mysterious bush fires can’t affect, and all
would be well—for the florists.
Two Sydney ladies, Miss Hassall and Miss
Macnllum, are going as Missionaries to Palestine.
Sydney setting out across the globe to teach the
Holy Land all about the Saviour and the Apostles !
What next?
So far, I have only heard of one local nurse who
is accepted for the Transvaal. This is Miss Stella
Montague, sister of little Neville, solicitor, of this
city.
New South Wales presented George Reid with
a beautiful silver service last Monday—a service
that was solid beyond all doubt. The ex-
Premier’s admirers had intended to run into
something more actively useful, but, unfortunately,
subscriptions stopped at the tea-service. Also,
there was a lovely little half-moon set in diamonds
for Mrs. Reid, who was too ill to appear at the
presentation meeting. Georgie said, in returning
thanks, that it was Julian Salomons who had
induced him to go to the bar at the age of 34.
Which adds yet another to the many Sydney
barristers ami solicitors who will tell you they
went into law because Salomons, with marvellous
discrimination, saw unparalleled legal acumen
going to wasto within them.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Lady Brassey and Lord Dick Neville visited
the Assembly to hear the Glory and Gory debate
on sending a contingent to the Transvaal. Uncle
Tom’s wife was evidently much amused with
Warrnamhool Murray’s slashing speech in oppo-
sition. Lady B. is now very grey. She was in-
clined to greyness when she first came to Victoria,
but her spouse’s numerous falls-olf. ami the worries
of Government House, have made her more so.
She is 41—and looks it—quite. Witty John
Hancock’s absence—he was lying delirious at
death’s door—was greatly felt by the anti-J ingoes
on this occasion.
“ ‘ Big ’ Clarke’s widow will return to Victoria
in a few weeks. She leaves London almost im-
mediately, after having a high old time. The
duchesses and countesses have taken to the smart
little widow, who, unlike nearly all the
rest of the titled Victorian women, can talk
cleverly on most things without putting her foot
in it.
“Another returning Victorian is Pastor Fit-
chott, who comes back as ‘ Doctor ’ Fitchett— by
grace of some little Canadian university which
gave him an honorary degree. Mr. Fitchett is a
B.A. of Melbourne, which university wisely docs
not confer honorary degrees.
“Re MayorMcEacharn’s re-election for another
year, it was an open secret in the City Council that
if he had not been re-elected he would have retired
from municipal politics and gone to live in London.
He is very anxious after the title which ought to
have come along last Queen’s birthday, hut didn’t.
McEacharn is most ambitious for distinction.
Some time ago he talked of going ’Orae and enter-
ing the Commons as a Conservative—which any-
one can do, if ready to subscribe hugely to the
party funds. Now he aims at a place in the
Federal Parliament. He spends Ins wealth in
princely fashion, but he spends it in such a fashion
as to help his ambitions all the time.
“A fashionable and wealthy bride-elect has
engaged a lady-companion- the daughter of a
Melb. medico—for the trip ’Ome. A companion
for a honeymoon couple ! Romance is nearly dead.
“ Our heiress is still free, and hopes are flourish-
ing in various, directions. A suitor from the
North is inclined to fancy his chance strongly,
and he neglects the little girl who follows him so
bravely in the hunting-field. The sweeps on the
affair are in somewhat bad taste maybe, but the
holder of the alliterative initials is very sure of
winning, and after all, though theswain is a very
old hand at thegaine of lovo-making, he is probably
in earnest this time.
“ I heard two smart little girls discussing several
others who had volunteered as nurses for the
Transvaal. ‘Of course it’s very plucky of them,
but I can’t say T envy them. My own idea is to
go out and nurse the Boers—l fancy I’d be of
most service to my country that way.’
“Dr. Fraser, wiio has determined to survive
his wound, is one of those white-skinned, red-
headed men of whom one expects cantankerous-
ness and temper. He is not beloved by the
nurses, who express keen sympathy with Mrs.
Fraser.
“Another doctor has developed mania, fancied
his wife wished to poison him, and has been
placed in the Kew Asylum. Some people
declare he is sane, but they are a not favored
minority. To marry a smart Society doctor now-
a-days is to take a big risk.
“The District Nurses’ball, due in Melbourne
last week, was indefinitely postponed on account
of the influenza epidemic. Australia will have to
sit down and consider the influ. question very
seriously indeed one of these days.
“Some wildly-exaggerated Melbourne yarns
touching the Jew-Gentile marriage question have
gone the rounds of the Australian press. One
paragraph stated—“l4 proselytes were recently
admitted to the Jewish Church in one week.
The grievance is that the converts are not be-
lieved to be genuine in their professions of change
of faith. They are all unmarried women, and the
disturbance of their religious convictions has been
occasioned by the circumstance of their being en-
gaged to Jewish men. This is a sore point with
the daughters of Judah, of whom there are thirty
to every male of their fa.th in Victoria.” The
fable was born, seemingly, of the fact that three
Gentile damsels, with wedding-rings in view, en-
rolled themselves among the Chosen within a fort-
night, and the synagogic conscience felt some-
what shocked thereat. Girls of the Christian
persuasion, and especially Roman Catholics, are,
as a matter of course, looked on with suspicion.
The chances are that they don’t get converted
from the main principle of their young belief, no
matter how little belief they may have absorbed.
The religious objection to these easy proselytes is
strong among serious .Tews, but as poachers on
Rebecca’s matrimonial preserves, the ‘converts’
have not been sufficiently numerous to cause a
scare, therefore Rebecca runs only a fair average
risk of not getting married, as far as one can see.
Needless to say there are not 30, nor even
three Shebrews to every Hebrew in Victoria.
What have Jewish mothers ever done that they
should be accused of such a oue-sided arrange-
ment?
“ In the ‘ Merciless World,’ Dora De Winton is
a lorn young thing, who, owing to the mysterious
stage-disappearance of John Saunders her Jo,
John, can’t be quite sure whether her widowhood
is permanent or not. Anyhow, she gives her
wardrobo the benefit of the doubt, unlike the song
heroine, whose ‘ widow’s sombre cap concealed her
once luxuriant hair.’ Miss De Win ton’s sack-
cli't.h-and-ashes, so to speak, take the form of
white muslin over pink lace flounced at the foot,
and a fichu folded round her shoulders, so as to
bare her round white neck to pitying breezes and
covetous male glances.
“ One gets out of patience with these martyred
maidens of melodrama, persecuted by the unwel-
come attentions of ruffianly lovers. There’s noth-
ing easier, worse luck, than to choke off an
admirer. Don’t curl your hair for a few nights,
leave your stocking-heels to the ravages of Time
and low-cut shoes, advertise their condition by
holding up the tail of your modishly-trailing skirt,
and the trick’s done. He’s gone, and all the
king’s horses won’t bring him back again ! It’s
hen-foolishness to loosen your curls, manicure .your
hands, and don your prettiest things with a view
to shooing a woman-hunter. John Saunders,
small blame to him, sees nothing to be ashamed of
in his neat hands and slim wrists. His sleeves
have a cunning knack of coming unbuttoned—the
signal for their wearer to clasp his milk-white
arms behind his head in picturesque reverie.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Woman’s sphere broadens, and the cable
relates that a duke’s daughter has gone to the
Transvaal as a war correspondent. But the true
mission of every woman—amateur nurse or other-
wise—is to delight the world with her beauty.
And this every woman can accomplish by wear-
ing P. D. corsets. They improve the grace of
form and by thus giving satisfaction to the wearer
arid beauty to her countenance. You can see the
P.D. expression playing round her mouth.*
“The Light of Asia,” which, as is well known,
was on • of the principal books of its year, was an un-
doubted success, and without doubt so is the new light
of Australasia, the “ Albitross Lamp Wick.” “It requirts
no trimming” emits no odour, uses less oil, prevents
sil'.oky chimneys, and is far safer than the ordinary wick.*
“Ten men armed to the teeth fighting a
man in his shirt ’’—remarked John Morley, of the
Transvaal war.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
<£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. TURVES,
Aoknts Wanthd. Grnbral Manaohr.
TUB < 3?JE2jSV OJE"
■Cocoa
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
rrCANKTESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For "Dainty Sample Tin 'a postcard will do) which will be sent
Tost, free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
JMr***: Dr, Tibbies’ Yi-Cocon, Limited, Sydney.
Arthur Adams’s book, “ Maoriland and
Other Verses,” now published by The Bul-
letin, will definitely place him among the
first flight of local poets. The book contains, in
addition to those published in The Bulletin,
many charming pieces not previously printed ;
and is issued in dainty style. Price 55., post-free
from Bulletin office.
Cable message from the 6.0. C. to the
Premier. Just leaving for the front. Forward
with Australian troops large consignment of
ZETZ SPA. The latter preferred to all other
natural mineral waters.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations *
WHAT IS “D.C.L. ”?
“D.C.L .” is a brand applied to whisky, and is a
guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and of
a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for “D.C L ”
(Black Bottle) Scotch.*
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is Lkadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
U AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab. 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTuASTLE Ss SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Q
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Dr. Bill ” is now practising way-back in
N.S.W.
Sydney music-lovers will be sorry to hear
of the rather serious illness of Mr. J. A. Delany.
Kalgoorlie Town Council has just received
as a gift the miner’s right with which Pat Hannan
was armed when he pegged out the first of the
local mines. It is dated August, 1893.
Godly Judge Hodges, if lie permitted him-
self the immorality of attending the performance
of a stage play, would be horrified to find Ins
double in Vernon’s Chancellor in “lolanthe.
B. R. Wise : “It has been said that I
have never represented the same constituency
twioe, but the real truth is that I never repre-
sented any but one constituency until I came to
Ashfield.” >
N.S.W. Justice Minister Wood, The Bdl-
lETIN is told, is not a Cornstalk ; he is a Victorian
—bom at Wood’s Point, Vic., in ’69, consequently
he is 30—not 28. He worked in his father’s store,
at Delegate, N.S.W., until elected to Parliament
in '94, in the Labor interest.
A Sydney paper, taking cue from a Sun-
day one, cabled Kruger for a current opinion on
war matters. The prepaid reply was : “No
opinion ; watch and pray.” The editor was so
mad at being asked to pray that he declined to
publish Kruger abridged or unabridged.
Vic. Chief-Secretary Peacock, when he
addresses or refers to the Right Honorable Sir
George Turner, P.C., K.C.M.G., M.L.A., J.P.,
calls him “ Boss.” “ I must refer it to the Boss,”
he says as to a doubtful point of policy, and lie
hails Turner as “ Boss ” in any company in which
they may be.
When the real pinch ci«.ne, the most pro-
minent of the Johannesburg “ reformers ” moved
to the rear with great celerity. The leading
TJitlander editor, Mr. Moneypenny (London
Times correspondent, by the way) left disguised
as “a motherly-looking lady of uncertain years,
in a velvet gown.”
China mineral fields have lately taken
several distinguished mining men, besides Queens-
land ex-geologist Jack. Among them is Dr.
Vogelsgang, who was lately in Australia with
Herr Schmeisser, on behalf of the German Govt,
and others. Another ex-Australian visitor, Dr.
Simon, is prospecting in Siberia.
The rumors of Judge Williams being about
to retire from Vic. Bench and make his home in
England have resolved themselves into the official
statement that he will start an eleven months’
holiday at the end of the judicial year, returning
to work in Nov., 1900. Meanwhile the other
Judges will have to take turns at keeping brother
W.’s seat warm.
DUBIOUS APPROVAL.
PARK LOAFER: "lsay, Mister, have you got such
a thing as a left-off pair o’ pants yer could give
me?”
SHOPKEEPER: “ Well, no, not at present.”
P.S.: “It’s terrible — I've been walking about all
day and always gets the same answer ; but, never
mind, Divine Providence is good, I suppose.”
S.: “ Well, I don't know, but it’s got a great
name.”
S.A. Labor-leader Batchelor, who is
against the Transvaal contingent idea, raised the
laughter of the grovelsotne and the ungodly by
admitting that he volunteered for a similar service
in ’B5. Coneybeer went one worse by admitting
that he stowed away on the vessel that carried the
Soudan contingent, but, being found, he was
thrown ashore with ignominy, a rejected warrior.
C. M. Bagot, a popular South Australian
who died the other day, was one of the organised
party of half-a-dozen who, when the province was
behind-time with the construction of the trans-
continental telegraph-line, carried the messages
over the unwired distance on horseback. To his
grandfather is credited the discovery of Kapunda
copper-mine, and that led to the opening-up of
the Burra and Moonta, in which Bagor, sen., also
took a leading part.
One of the funniest things in the recent
Neild-Waine military inquiry at Sydney was
Waine’s indignation at a press paragraph, to the
effect that several witnesses confirmed the state-
ment that W. had been “ glorious ” at a certain
festivity. The word, he maintains, should have
been “corrobcrated,” not “confirmed,” and as
soon as his onerous military duties will permit
he will set about the compilation of a reporters’
handbook.
Rumored in Westralia that Jerry Smith,
the awful ’Groper Governor, who wns sued for the
price of sundry drinks and other things, and who
also got into great trouble over a hotel transac-
tion, will be granted 12 months’ leave of absence
from next month, and will leave for England
immediately. The meeting between Smith and
Chamberlain, and the cold, steely glare of Cham-
berlain’s withering eye-glass as lie fixes it on
Smith, should be worth photographing. Smith’s
stormy career in Westralia has been one long put-
ting of his foot in it.
Stafford Bird, the Wellington of Napo-
leon Braddon’s Waterloo, grows astute in his old
age. Instead of seizing the Tas. Premiership, he
puts Neil Lewis into the billet and takes the
Treasurership for himself. In the battle with
Braddon, which is almost certain to ensue before
the Federal posts of honor and profit are all filled
up, Lewis will thus be in the forefront. He will
probably be slain ; but Bird—the unambitious,
solf-abnegatory Bird —will not even be wounded.
It is an open secret that he would have taken the
vacant Lands portfolio under Braddon the other
day had it been offered him.
T. F. De Courcy Browne, dead at 65 in
Callan Park hospital, leaves behind him alive
there two other ex-members of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. Browne and A. G. Taylor were M’sL. A.,
R- H. D. White was M.L.C. The three were
Mudgee men, and were all prominent in their day.
Browne was an Irishman, born in Dublin, but
arrived in Australia over 40 years ago, and has
worked pretty well through all of it. He was
policeman in Queensland, mining-registrar in
N.S.W., mines-law compiler in W.A., and two or
three things in other provinces. He started a
newspaper in Gulgongand several private mining-
agencies.
Major Reay, editor of Melb. ’Erald, is
going to the Transvaal as “special ” for that rag.
He wanted to go with the contingent, but com-
mandant Holled-Smith told him plainly that if he
did he would have to go as a soldier pure and
simple, and not scribble while on service. Where-
upon Reay was bitterly narked, and said cross
things about the General. Since Reay went ’Orae
with the Jubilee picnickers, the readers of the
evening sheet he runs have had to endure many
splashes of ultra-jingo slush, such as is talked by
the lower-class English Tory prints. Indeed,
Reay’s Imperialism has been as nauseous as the
Herald’s grammar is atrocious.
Dear Bulletin. —Notable that the slowest
persons to move against the Boers have been men
whom the Queen delighted to honor. General
Butler, who refused to send Her Gracious the
Outlanders’ petition, is a special favorite whose
marriage with Miss “ Roll-Call ’’-Thompson the
Queen personally promoted. Lord Wolseley, who,
after four months’ notice, is not yet ready to
despatch an army corps to the Cape,' is the only
man who has ever been permitted to propose a
toast at the Queen’s table in her own presence,
said toast being the health of that overwhelming
military genius the Duke of Connaught.—E.
[Maybe ; but Wolseley is notoriously disliked by
Her Gracious, for all that.]
An idyllic place is Tam worth (N.S.W.).
The other day Father Ryan, the local R C. priest,
departed this life, and on the following Sunday,
at evening service, the Anglican pastor, Ven.
Archdeacon Lewis said :
1 desire to preface my sermon to-night by a reference
to the loss which our Roman Catholio fellow-citizens have
suffered in the death of their much-loved parish priest
The Very Rev. Patrick D. Ryan, whose death on last Fri-
day—the Feast of St. Michael and All Angels-over-
shadowed the life of this town, was a man who was not
only endeared to his own people, but also commanded
the esteem of all who knew him. As a brother in the
holy ministry of the Church of Christ, I pay my tribute
to the memory of a fellow-worker in the kingdom of our
Lord, who was also a generous-hearted man, and a genial,
sunny influence in the community. Our sympathy goes
with his sorrowing friends, and we—l am sure 1 may say
it—add our best hopes to theirs for the eternal peace and
refreshment of the departed.
If the Tamworth clergy are all like the priest who
is dead and the Archdeacon who uttered the
above-printed In Mernoriam, and the people take
after their shepherds, Tamworth must be a plea-
sant and really Christian place, and well worth
living in.
HE WASNT A CHRONOMETER.
THE SARJINT : "Mar-rk time !”
THE REC[?]UIT: “If yer plaze, sor-r, I didn't
briny me watch!"
Memo, for Australia’s youngest Governor:
Gov. Hampden, in his last month of office, said :
“ I think a Governor of N.S.W. is expected to
speak too much. Trying to meet this expectation
he often speaks amiss. It would be better for
public and Governor if this expectation did not
exist. And, if it continue to exist, it would be
better for a Governor to resist than to comply on
all occasions. What can a Governor know about
half the things he speaks on ? ”
President Lackey, of N.S.W. Leg. Coun-
cil, now entering his 70th year, is the third lay-
man to hold that position. Murray and Hay
preceded him. The four remaining Presidents,
going back to the time of Responsible Govt.—
Wentworth, Burton, Plunkett and Stephen—
were lawyers. Lackey has been a J.P. for 48
years. He had large Leg. Assembly experience
before going to the Upper House, having been
elected for Parramatta nearly 40 years ago. He
was twice Chairman of Committees, and twice
Works Minister. The appointment to the Presi-
dency of N.S.W. Council is in the hands of the
Ministry—a sore point with Councillors, and one
which has stirred them to prepare Bills time and
again giving them the right to elect a man from
their own body ; but nothing has resulted.
Curiously parallel with the Dreyfus case is
that of the British naval officer who after-
H from the English alphabet?” roared a
State school-teacher. No one has ever since heard
’U ngry publicly drop this letter : he now always
pauses before a word commencing with H, and
takes care to get it out at all risks.
Holy James Balfour, M.L.C. (Vic.), who
was lately pulled through a severe illness by the
prayers of many Presbyterians, landed in Aus-
tralia in ’52 as agent for Edinburgh ale and
various other strong Scotch drinks. He became a
partner in James Henty and Co. (Melb.), and
eventually retired from that respectable old wine
and spirit firm with a fortune. Jimmy’s exasper-
ating piety grew much worse after he abandoned
the barrel business and took to financial pursuits.
In his present character of ex-busted-companies
director and high cockalorum of the Council of
Churches he most ungratefully heaps damnation
on the liquor-traffic which enriched him.
N.S.W. Premier Lyne is personally ac-
quainted with every man in his wide-spread con-
stituency—the Hume. He is, therefore, expected
to shake hands with and address a few words to
eaoh, otherwise, “ Bill ” Lyne will be accused of
“big head.”' Before addressing a meeting, how-
ever large, in his electorate, he makes it a point
to clutch the outstretched hands of everybody
present. It happens always, however, that a few
electors arrive late, and hurry in while the
Premier’s eloquence is in full blast. He is not
blind to their advent, however, and stops short
with: “Just a moment, ladies and gentlemen,
while I shake hands with iny sturdy supporter
Mr. Dingbat, of Erog-hollow. He has come a
wards became the famous Lord Dundonald,
and who, early in the present century, was
imprisoned, fined, and disgraced through the
machinations of Admiral Lord St. Vincent;
his offence being that he had drawn incon-
venient attention to the fact that St. Vin-
cent had been rewarded for an action in
which he took no part. For 40 years Coch-
rane suffered under the stigma of a false
charge ; but when at last he succeeded in
getting his case revived, he was exonerated
and rehauilitated. And remembering that
the officials concerned in his scandalous
persecution were every whit as great scoun-
drels as those concerned in the Dreyfus
affair, we shouldn't be so ready to shriek
about the corruption of French officialdom.
One of the most pronounced YVes-
tralian opponents of Federation is“’Ungry
’lghani,” member for Fremantle. ’Unyry
was once addressing the electors of Freman-
tle—“Say, Mr. Highani, if you are elected
will you be in favor of abolishing the letter
long way.” And Lyne steps forward, grasps the
agricultural hand, and strides back, to proceed
with his address, until again interrupted by the
arrival of Mr. Doghowl, of O’Brien’s Curse.
Melbourne University once possessed a
cat much addicted to sleeping about in chairs,
and once a Professor of great tonnage, having
occasion during lecture to sit down, was startled
by a muffled yell. Springing to his feet he de-
manded the name of the student who had made
such an unseeirdy sound. Then he heard a gasp
behind him, and, turning round, was horrified to
behold a badly-squashed cat breathing its last.
Tom Mandeno Jackson, the Maoriland
tenor now in the front rank of English vocalists,
is the son of “ Sam ” Jackson, head of one of the
oldest firms of Auckland solicitors. “Sam ” was
sent for in a hurry one morning by a ragged old
person named Costley who was at the point of
death. “What have you got to leave?” asked
“ Sam ” perfunctorily. “More than a hundred
thousand,” gasped Costley, and the astonished
lawyer there and then drew the will which gave
over .£1:30,000 to various Auckland charities.
Sam Jackson’s brother, Major Jackson, was, after
Von Tempsky, the most noted of the plucky
“colonials ” who officered the Forest Rangers, a
corps which covered itself with gore and glory in
the Maori war of the early sixties. Major Jackson,
who once sat in M.L. Parliament, was mysteriously
lost overboard a few years ago during a voyage
between Auckland and Wellington.
Premier Turner relates that when he was
made a member of the Munro Govt., and attended
his first Cabinet meeting, the late Sergeant Mills
(then Premier’s orderly) refused to let him in.
The sergeant had never seen him before, and
wouldn’t believe that he had business with the
Cabinet. Turner (of course) hadn’t got a card, so
he had to wait in the draughty corridor till Mills
could see Munro. Sergeant M. reported: “There’s
a shabby man in a bowler hat outside who wants
to see you, sir.” “What’s his name?” said the
Premier. “ Says his name is Turner, sir.”
“ That’s the new Minister ; show him in at once.”
Turner had only been a few months in Parliament
then, but he had distinguished himself over the
Local Govt. Bill. He knew more about the sub-
ject than anyone else in the House, and though
but a private member at the time, he drafted
many of the most important clauses in the mea-
sure.
This story of the late J. B. Patterson has
never been published before. While he was Vic.
Premier, a member, still in the Assembly, attacked
him bitterly. Another member, who relates the
story, sympathised with Patterson, and said,
“ So-and-so has not behaved like a gentleman in
this matter.” “Gentleman!” roared the ex-
butcher, “Why, sir, did you ever see him eat?”
Anyone who had ever seen the said honorable
member eat —or rather, stoke his face —will admit
that Patterson hit him off in a phrase.
THOMAS SUFFIELD.
(Died, at Summer Hill, N.S.W., 4th October, 1899.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pause, Stranger, here and kneel—
The place of Suffleld’s sleep 1
Frenchmen for him may feel
Whilst we for Dreyfus weep.
Why ask for justice here ?
Take mercy, pardon free
Else thy full sentence bear—
Justice is not for thee 1
For Dreyfus, far away,
The world demanded all.
We hearkened, day by day,
Nor heard our brother’s call.
The time for help has passed,
And after years of toil,
Thy due reward thou hast—
Six feet of alien soil !
A MUCH-NEEDED EPITAPH.
Ijjgilie* the boJy o/|bay|
Jehu l^eoton
m o u«i& up of
and end.,s:
tuas'notodya enemy
tuf kis own.
'£{nd he had no /neredj>.
Creese ///


& GRAFHQFHOM-Ba.
Edison Bell Consolidated Phonograph Co. Ltd., 39 Charing Cross Road, London.
Sole Proprietors of Phonographs, Graphophones, and Aooessories in Australasia and New Zealand,
JNJUNCTION obtained sth September, 1899, in the Supreme Court of New South Wales, “That the defendant be
restrained from selling, or letting on hire, or offering or advertising or exposing for sale or hire, any machines
® r P^Tn K t r TanlT a on hT„i n I r ,nent ° f th «.PWntiW rights under their letters patent. Defendan” to pay
16 per cent, on all stocks on hand and to arrive, and the costs of the action.” *
Solicitors for Company: MALLESON, ENGLAND, and STEWART, Melbourne.
Attorney and General Representative: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, 114 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/0 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
There is no hotel in Austra-
lasia that does not recognise
“ The Australia ” as the first
of Australasian hotels.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
-The Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOR, and See that You GET,
Franz J osef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence > street, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
A medico discourses to The Bulletin re
bushmen’s town-aoquired colds :
The experience of Dr, Martin, of Adelaide, anent bush-
men who develope influenza on arriving- in town (2/9/’99)
is shared by most city practitioners. In Melb. the Cup is
always associated with a rush of wheezv sons of the soil
who hoarsely curse their luck in the intervals of sneezing’
me explanation seems to lie in the fact that continued
residence in a locality confers a sort of immunity, more
or less complete, against the germs inhabiting that par-
ticular locality, and a change of station brings the subject
into contact with a new set of organisms who are not so
r ~ < i a oc . curs analogy with mosquitoes.
Another explanation (possibly more practical) is that in
he purer country air there is less opportunity for the
development of infective organisms than in rhe vitiated
atmosphere of cities and towns. From certain blessed
portions of the earth (writer has a cold now) influenza
and its attendant curses are absent. The island of St.
h fV 8 - a case, for there the yearly provision-
Doat brings, in addition to its usual cargo, a consignment
or catarrhs that sets the whole population running at the
nose. Writer knows of a case where the visit of a man-
or-war to one of the Orkney islands thus laid up
almost the whole population, although there was
no case on board. In the Arctio regions there are no
resident germs of the sort —nor of any injurious kind pro-
bably. Nansen and his companion did not suffer until
they reached the company of men, and then the pair
were ‘bunged up” for weeks. Several other alleged
explanations recur—damp sheets, for instance, but this
oannot account for every case. Some bushmen will not
use sheets at all in town for this reason. A possible ex-
planation strongly insisted on by a certain Australian
surgeon is that the voyager takes his annual wash and
change before setting out, and the draughts of the jour-
ney acting on the unprotected skin lower his vitality.
There is probably something in this, but the rarity of
habitually-washed oountry visitors makes investigation
difficult. At any rate, it is a useful tip for the bush
denizen to remember.
* * * *
Extract from “ Visitors’ Book ’’ in N.S. W.
public school:—
Spe 23the 1898. . . the chrildren emproved very welL
They all seam terriably fond of thier knew teacher whoe
is verry kinde to them it is a pitty he as know wife to
teach the grils there soeing Miss L as was here once
sed my Emmie vyould make a rare sower.—Mrs. Strinoy
Bark.
* * * *
“ Sym.” : At Castlemaine (Vic.) recently
many pigs died of some obscure disease. The
local hog-raisers used to dress them and cut their
throats, so as to make them appear freshly killed.
Saw one trying to sell to a Chow a pig which had
been thus treated. “Me just kill ’im, John, you
see im throat cut?” “Me savee,” says John,
im die, then you killum.”
* * * *
The other day at Mt. Lyell Co.’s aerial
tram, a couple of buckets got caught and stopped
the whole concern. No other way being practic-
able, an walked out on the wire a
distance of 200 yards, hanging by the top wire,
and after emptying half-a-ton of ore out of each
bucket he replaced them in proper position. As
he walked out he had to bind the two steel cables
together at intervals, and on returning had to
undo the fastenings again. He was out on the
wires for over two hours, and a slip would mean a
TOO MUCH FOR HIM.
MRS. WOODBURN: "No smile this morning,
Patrick—why this sadness? ”
PATRICK: “Oh! Oi’ve jist heard av the death av
me favorite brother. . Oi’d sooner hear the
news av me own death army day."
fall of 200 ft. into the gully below. For this job he
was paid two shifts (155.) By the way, a dog up
at Queenstown is very fond of riding baokwards
and forwards in the buokets of this line.
* * * *
One of the machines sent to the recent
Melb. Agricultural Show was forwarded by a
demi-semi crank from an up-country town. It
was an utter impossibility that claimed utility as
a plough and several domestio utensils. It was a
good joke only to the experts, but the inventor was
confident of success. Soon after their deoision
had been conveyed to him his corpse was found at
the bottom of a neighboring waterhole.
* • • •
“ Exileson ” : lie lambs found dead with
tongues eaten out (B. 30/9/’99). “ Waif ” ought
to know that foxes run down the lambs, hold them
VERY SIMILAR.
[?] showing new-chum round): “This 'eve’s our pet dingo."
C HOLLY: “Is is, weally? How VEWY like a dag."
on the ground with their forefeet, and when lamb
opens its mouth to ory out, reynard inserts his
pointed muzzle under its tongue and sucks blood.
1 hen he tears out the tongue and eats it, and
leaves dead lamb for hawks or anything else to
feast on.
* • • *
Th o ro is at Meningoort Station (West.
Vio.) a pet emu whioh has run for years in the
horse-paddock. The emu has chummed up
thoroughly with the horses, but quickly resents
the intrusion of newcomers. The other day a new
pony was put in the paddock, and the emu spent
some hours in chasing and kicking at it. Pony
had eventually to be removed, or it would have
been worried to death.
X.: Re snakes (B. 22/9/’99). Two anec-
dotes for McCooey : Some years ago I was
out quailshooting when my dog, a pointer
jumped over a tiger-snake on a track. As
he passed across I noticed the snake make a
swift, striking motion towards the dog,
whose action in leaping did not occupy more
than one second of time. I thought no more
of the incident until, missing my pointer
about an hour afterwards, I walked back
and found him almost dead. He died half-
an-hour after I found him. The late Dr.
Valentine, of Ross, Tas., had a live snake
brought to him,. which he imprisoned in a
box. While trying to examine the reptile
m its captive state, it bit the doctor on his
hand through a crack in the box. Was
this biting or striking ? Writer remembers a
case of snake-bite (or strike) when a tiger
fastened on to a boy’s coat sleeve. The boy
tried for some time to shake him off, and <
ultimately was freed by a man who pulled
the reptile away by his tail. But the reason
of the snake’s fixture was not because he was
hanging on by both jaws—biting in fact—but
that after striking his fangs became entan-
gled in the woollen fibres of the coat, which
was proved afterwards by examination. If
you menace a Tasmanian snake with a stick
he will strike it with a forward and down-
ward motion, but never grip it. As I have
slaughtered, by rough computation, about
3000 snakes during my sojourn in the bush,
and held post-mortems on half of them, also
met with and watohed the habits of as many
more, I may be excused for disagreeing with
McCooey, and oalling Boyd, F.R.G.S.,
brother. By the way, a small stick inserted
into a dead snake’s mouth behind the fangs
will, on being pulled horizontally outwards,
appear to ereot them; but I am not posi-
tive that the snake does so at will. I leave
that to McCooey.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.— For £5, I will sell
"Xerxes” (B. 26/8/’99) 4 spears, 4 nulla-
nullas, 7 boomerangs (all different), 1 heliman,
and 2 stone tomahawks. Could also give him 2
assegais, and a Samoan war - mat.— G. Bonfield.
Grafton, N.S.W.
* • * *
“Yarrum” : Tongarra, in Illawarra dis-
trict, means “bread-plain.” Darkies used to
father seeds there from whioh they made bread.
>on’t know where the “ plain ” comes in, though,
as there is not one within 50 miles. Possible
that the hills there are comparatively recent up-
heavals. Saddleback—seven miles from Tongarra
—was once an active volcano, and the Kiama
blue-metal deposits were ejected therefrom by
eruptions, with long-time intervals between, as, in
places, stratified rocks have been formed over the
igneous deposit. The Shellharbour deposit was a
branch diverted from the main stream of lava by
infringement upon Wallaby Hill, between Saddle-
back and the ocean. The crater of Saddleback is
discernible enough. Must have been queer geo-
logical “goings on” in the Ulawarra district a
few thousand years ago, because in some places
the carboniferous strata are right on top. Whab
sorb of a shove from below must they have had ?
* * * *
No wonder Wilcannia (away back N.S.W.)
wails unceasingly for the extension of the railway
from Cobar, with a view to its ultimate con-
tinuation as far as Broken Hill. The other week
four or five steamers with their barges crept up
the Darling on a “fresh.” Chaff (the whole
country is dismally bare, and the working horses
on many stations had to be fed) dropped in a few
nlays from <£l6 10s. to ,£6 a ton, and flour from
.£lB to .£lO. And prices had been higher than
that during a few |weeks previously, when the
track from Broken Hill was closed to all but
camel teams.
* « * •
“ Xerxes ” : Re “ Grabben Gullen ” ame-
nities. Mistress, serving out bush-honey to farm-
hands, drops a quantum on each plate out of a
pickle-bottle, each time carefully licking-off whab
adheres to bottle-neck, and loudly smacking her
bulbous lips over it. Haven’t been able to look
at honey since !
• * • *
Bishop Stone-Wigg writes from Papua
to Queensland in this fashion: “ I want 25
men for the Jubilee ; 15 laymen and 5 kanaka
boys who have endured opposition, persecution,
and stood firm, besides drawing others after them.
Can do good work for God here.” A modest
request 1 Doesn’t the Bishop think the five kanaka
boys who have endured opposition and persecution
do any good among their occasionally-mur-
derous brethren in Queensland? Out of the 8000
Polynesians employed on Northern plantations
three-fourths are downright heathen, and the rest
mainly nominal Christians only. . . . It’s always
the far-away pagan who needs conversion.
* * • *
“Shaker”: Re astonishing statement
(8.j_22/7/’99) that “no Australian snake is really
deadly, in the same sense that the rattlesnake
and cobra are, to a healthy adult.” Have had no
experience with rattlesnake or cobra, and have
only witnessed the effects of Australian snake-bite
on three healthy adults—who all promptly died,
despite, in one case, immediate professional treat-
ment. However, we have in the Gulf country a
brown snake which will kill a healthy horse inside
80min. every time, and if he is not really deadly
in the same sense, etc., then that other snake is
an undesirable neighbor. And that’s a fact !
* • * •
“Huia ” : All nonsense about the physical
inferiority of N.S.W. pedagogues being due to in-
ferior food when young (“ Dominie ” B. 30/9/’99).
Barney and Tim, with similar accommodation
and tucker, are not weaklings, and as for the age,
by 20 the frame is usually already set. The real
causes are neglect of physical training and want
of pure air.
,l » * •
“Mongonui”: Typical of the cockie of
J'ar-Northern Maoriland. I recently met one,
half-drunk, who was profuse in his offers of hos-
pitalifcy. 4 4 You put up at my place next time
you re passing,” he said, “but don’t forget to
bring some money with you. I charge a shillin’
for everything.” Can’t blame him. North of
Auckland the average cockie is too poverty-
stricken even to breathe freely—afraid of wasting
air!
* • • *
Order received by Vic. country store-
keeper :
One real of ooton Nomber 04 (40). Tow (2) reals Nomber
12 black And wigtt (white). Tow Threpen Stick of
backer, one bottle oi wine good (spelling solid on the
liquor) one shiling.
* * * *
“ A.G.” : Had just ridden into town, very
wet and cold, and pulled up for a whisky at
the first “mill” I came to. In the bar was a
draggled female. I can’t think why I asked
her to drink, but she breasted the bar with me.
Then a rough-looking fellow entered and used
some swear-words. Asked him to be more parlia-
mentary in the presence of a lady, but he only
cursed more and asked what the ■— I was
doing with his wife, anyhow. Then she said
something nasty, and he struck her. Gave him
one on the jaw and was just picking him up when
I was struck on the back of the head with a thick-
bottomed tumbler. Came to my senses 24 hours
later in hospital, with shorn and bandaged head !
But what killed me was that the creature I had
defended called to ask “how the young gintle-
man was gettin’ on.”
* * * *
N.S.YV. back-blocks provisional schools
have sometimes more half-oaste pupils than white,
with a sprinkle of full blacks. It was one of the
latter who, being told that a certain picture repre-
sented an elephant, answered “No fear! That
one cow look ’nother way ! ”
• » * *
At a N.S.YV. coast town recently an
American black turned up at the pub., and called
for a whisky. Said Bung : “ Sorry, ole man, but
can’t serve aboriginals.” The indignant “Mr.
Johnsing ” departed and returned with a police-
man who said : “Here, give this man what he
requires; can’t you see that he’s not an
aboriginal?” “No, I can’t,” said Bung.
“Aboriginal mean’s ‘ black,’ an’ this here feller’s
as black as the ace o’ spades ! ”
* * * *
Sign of the times. Ten years ago, bush-
men on N.S. W. south coast used to get Is. a
bucket for cutting pig-troughs. Just now they
are glad to take 3d.! A trough holding 80
buckets could be finished in two days and a 20-
“ bucketer ’’—worth £l— wasn’t a full day’s work.
» • » »
“Silly B.” : Re ’roo-fights (“Alia,” 8.,
9/9/’99), I once saw a set-to between two “old-
men ” kangaroos on the side of a small hill. They
sparred and ‘ ‘ stopped ” almost like two men, and
it was interesting to note the way each would
keep edging round to get the uphill advantage.
When, some years ago, Illustrated Sydney
News offered a prize for the best picture of an
Australian subject, it was, I think, won by Mr.
Blagdon Chambers, with “Peace” and “War,”
“ War ” being represented by two kangaroos hav-
ing a stand-up fight; and there oan be little
doubt that the artist had seen such an encounter
himself.
* * * *
“ Ellerdale ” : Was out ’possum-shooting
once with a near-sighted old N.S.W. farmer, and
when we got back near the house he suddenly let
fly into a tree and brought down—the family cat!
Reproached himself bitterly as a “double mur-
der?-, *' and puzzled me much thereby, until I
founu that he had previously shot his collie in
mistake for a dingo.
* * * *
“R.W.S.” : A friend of mine has a horse
that eats “ softwood ” like hay. A feed-box made
for him out of an ale-case he consumed in half a
day. This is the sixth box he has “scoffed,”
and now he has to be blocked with an iron wash-
tub. Any Bulletin reader know of a cure for
such xylophagy T
TUBERCULOSIS.
THE NEW PARSON (improving the opportunity ):
“ Now, my son, can you tell me why the fatted
calf was slaughtered?”
JIMMY STRINGYBARK (the stock-inspector's son):
“I s'pose the darned thing must’a 'ad toober-
colosis!”


This name, “Kruger,” will no doubt
cause the reader to pause. Anyhow, now you
have started to read this and gone so far, don’t be
terrified, but finish it. It will direct you to the
best and most up-to-date hardware stores in Aus-
tralasia, viz, M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne, and George-street, Syd-
ney, where you can call and see in operation daily
the Primus Chief Cooking and Steaming Appar-
atus —705., Royal Bath Heater—7os., the Juwel
New "V apour Stove, and a host of up-to-date
household novelties. If, or about to be, married
don’t forget to visit M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd.*
RINGS
WE
NEVER
8 choice Diamonds,
1 Pearl, £lO 10s.
fewek m P ?n ,*? “°? sp ® cially . Beleoted by an in gems. To sell poor or displeasing
J means to a jeweller ruin—as a jeweller lives by his reputation
our Ja Z""' We , NE \f R SEIX MNS3 at Price * be !'“ d th » »' *•» goods, and
first oost. U6S “ ° We ' tha " °” cmtomers ’ beoause we buy in large quantities and at
FAIRFAX jc? 3o ROBERTS
Jewellers by Appointment to Uis Excellency the Governor,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. Earl Beauchamp, K.C.M.G.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
COLEMANE a* SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
THE ONLY PURE IN THE WORLD-
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST. '
Adelaide, Auckland, £o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
FOSTER’S BUGLE BRAND.
BASS ALE.
<!t S per(ec«on. TL fHE a puBLIC CAN^tlwrefore*RELY^theTt bei " K q P' te U P *° the >'""s.l
THE BEER WILL RETAIN ITS REPUTATION LY , th ®. future > as in the past, THAT
parcels will be destroyed if landed out of condition t,on and quallty ’ and that > if necessary, other
—■■—mi—— __ Agent, 14 Spring-street, Sydney.
Re the statement frequently made that
before the introduction of the white man’n tobacco
there was no such thing as smoking among the
Australian blacks, and that no aboriginal pipes
have ever been found, a correspondent of a
northern paper writes :
The Messrs. Jardine, In their account of N.Q., remark
that before the introduction of tobacco the native biaeks
were extremely partial to smoking the probably narcotic
leaves of a lartfe spreading Eugenia—allied to the Lilly-
pilly of N.S.W. and Victoria. The pipe was fashioned
upon a aigan tic scale from a hollow bamboo, about 24 ft.
in length and, “as thick as a quart bottle.” The leaf
was placed in a bowl of funnel shape, and a party con-
gregated to smoke in common. By blowing through a
hole at one end of the tube, the pipe, supplied from the
bowl, was filled and then passed round to the assembled
smokers in turn, each inhaling and swallowing as great a
quantity as possible. Frequently they smoked them-
selves insensible, and the travellers relate having seen a
man lying helpless from the effects of a single dose.
MacGillivray, in the “ Voyage of H.M.S. Rattlesnake,”
describes the Cape York method of tobacco-smoking in-
troduced from the islands of Torres Straits, the Papuans
and native Australians alike being smokers. The pipe
was similar to that above described. Assembled in a
ring, the company handed it round, each inhaling deeply,
and then slowly exhaling the fumes. Tobacco was
“choka,” and the writer mentions that several times he
has seen a blackfellow semi-comatose after a single in-
halation, with perspiration pouring from him ; and that
he himself—an accustomed smoker —felt faint and sick
after once trying this manner of consuming the fragrant
weed. At Dalrymple Island, in Torres Straits, a similar
custom obtained (see “Voyage of H.M.S. Fly").
The enormous pipe had a large opening at the mouth-
piece, and a small hole near the opposite end in which
was fixed a conical wooden bowl, made air-tight bj T wrap-
ping a leaf around it. The tobacco being placed in the
bowl, the native sucked until the bamboo stem was filled
with smoke. Then, removing the bowl, he placed his
hand loosely upon the aperture, swallowed a draught of
smoke himself and handed the pipe along to his neighbor.
* * * . *
“Fancy F.” : Re efficacy of cursing bul-
locks (“Nemo,” 8., 26/8/’99). I see much of bul-
lock-teams hauling totara logs—the heaviest
timber of the M.L. bush—but I never hear any-
thing stronger than “ damn ” from the bullockies.
Each animal knows its own name, and, when
specially addressed, will make a special effort.
Beyond that there is only whip-cracking. I have
never yet seen the lash laid on. In mud-holes or
bad crossings it is interesting to watch the
animals pause to breathe, and then, on their
“own,” make a united effort to “ rush ” the nasty
place.
• * * •
“R.E.F.”: Recently saw a curlew pro-
tecting its nest against the advances of young
cattle, which were ringing it round. Every time
the steers came too close the bird fluttered up
among the horns of the leaders with an angry
squawk ; result—a rush round and gambol by the
curious cattle, followed by a fresh advance. Sat
on the fence for an hour watching this. Takes a
good deal to weary a bush-naturalist of roosting
on a fence, if he is paid by the week and his boss
is on the spree in town.
* * ♦ *
Hungry Mac., manager of Bargowlah-
mine, once offered an aboriginal ss. to shift a
large heap of manure from the stable-yard into the
adjacent garden. The job was accepted, and
about an hour later Mac. came along and found
the dusky contractor seated oalmly smoking,
while two other darkies were shovelling and
wheeling for all they were worth. “’Sail ri,
boss!” airily explained Jacky. “Me sublet-em
contrak to these black s for two-an-siokpen !’’
Miss ALICE SIMMONS, a Bendigo songstress.
Photo., W. H. Bartlett, Auckland, M.L.
F.P. ’ ; Any Bulletin reader ever eaten
animator? Tasted an 8-foot one the other day,
vtneh had been speared by the niggers and roasted
in the sand. Flavor like ling 1 .
* * * *
They are talking about taxing men who go
out roo shooting in Western Queensland. There
are men m some country towns who will ride out
en miles to get a shot at some unfortunate sur-
viving oldman, or at some hapless'doe with a
Joey m pouch. Result—in many districts ex-
termination is within hail. The ’roo, the wallaby,
’ie bandicoot, will need preserves yet —if
slaughter is to continue unchecked.
* * * *
R-W.S,” : Murramain Station (Coon-
amble, N.S.W.) has more Australian animal-pets
than any other place I know of. The list includes
angaroo, wallaby, wallaroo, dingo, emu, carpet-
snake, opossum, porcupine ant-eater and seven
species of parrots.
PUTTING A HEAD ON THEM—A PUSH OPINION.
JIM: “ Well, I reckon they're better than them there Chows."
FRIEND : “ Why?"
JIM: “ Ga rn ’Ave yer ever seen one o’ ’em without ’is ’ead bound up? Why, the blokes
must always be sercppin'."
Gilbert Probyn Smith states one side of
the criminal libel argument:—
Reoently John Norton caused me to be arrested for
criminally libelling him. The case lasted for eight days ;
cost to the Crown, £lOOO. I had no coin. Norton had,
and the Crown found him more. After eight days’ trial,
jury disagreed, ten being in favor of an acquittal, and
two for a conviction. Since the disagreement the Crown
has filed a nolle prosequi. This is my point. If a man
has a damaged reputation, why should the Crown, at the
expense of the tax-payer, defend it. [Or put it this way:
if a man of good reputation is criminally libelled by a
scoundrel, why should the Crown not prosecute the man
who steals his reputation, just as it proseoutes the man
who steals his purse ?—That’s the other side, without
reference to any particular case.—Ed. B.]. In Victoria
there is no such thing as criminal libel. The complainant
has to go to a grand jury, and if a true bill is found, he
has to pay all expenses. In any case the Crown expended
a large sum of money in trying to prove Norton’s inno-
oency. I ask now, why should not the Govt, pay my
expenses too ?
The portrait herewith represents Miss
Alice Simmons, a pupil of the late Signor Cecchi’s,
and one of the many singers from Bendigo, where
all the good Australian singers are supposed to
come from. But Miss Simmons came from
Bendigo at a time when a girl who came from
Bendigo had to travel on her merits, like a girl
who came from any other place. That was before
the Castles Boom had created an impression that
living in Bendigo was in itself evidence of having
a voice, and that it wasn’t necessary for a golden
city girl to prove that she had a voice to be a great
singer—she simply was a great singer, till the
public proved that she hadn’t any voice at all.
Miss Simmons proved that she could sing
in the common vulgar way—by doing it. In
one of Williamson’s Melbourne pantomimes,
a year or two ago, The Bulletin had
great pleasure in pointing out that she was
the only lady in the crowd who could
warble to any extent worth mentioning. Her
principal ditty was thereupon promptly relegated
from the first act to the remote tail-end of the
second, whereby it was presumed that the im-
ported star was feeling cross. The panto, in ques-
tion, if The Bulletin remembers aright, was
“ Beauty and the Beast.” It does not remember
who was Beauty, but the Beast was the person
who shifted Miss Simmons to the far end of the
programme. Since then Miss S. has been a credit
and an ornament to Rickards’ show and various
other shows, and she is now going to London with
a lengthy engagement at the Palace. Probably
the vessel she sails in will break its shaft, as is
the regular process nowadays, and she will live for
a few months on tinned fish out of the cargo, as
she drifts on the bosom of the deep. But the
young lady from Bendigo reokons she will chance
it.
Dear Bulletin,— This is the reference
asked for (Encyclopaedia Britannica, article
Brewing,” by S. A. Wyllie, 9th edition, vol.
iv., p. zbo, col. i.): —
The best oolonial beer is made in Tasmania, whence it
is slnpped in frozen blocks to Australia and India. In
Calcutta, on the hottest day, the residents now suok
(not sip) their frozen pale-ale.
But this only appears in early copies of the
edition In latex reprints the page has been re-
aUd theabsurdit y does not appear.-
started by two ladies in Collins-
s treet (Melb.) the “ Yes-No ” Tea-rooms.
Paul Kruger.
Deep mournful eyes that seek the ground
The devious path to trace ;
The giant form of Lincoln crowned
By Cromwell's grosser face ;
Coarse, rustic garb, of uncouth out,
That masks each mightj’ limb ;
Its shapeless folds the ready butt
Of Europe’s jesters trim.
So much the crowd can see ; the rest
Asks critios clearer-eyed :
So rough a scabbard leaves unguessed
How keen the blade inside ;
The trenohant will, the subtle brain
So strangely domed to wage
With Destiny’s still climbing main
The hopeless war of Age.
His kindred are a rugged brood
That nurse a dying fire :
The sons of Calvin’s bitter mood,
And sterner than their sire.
By faith through trackless deserts steered,
Lost miles of lonely sand,
Far from the intruding world they feared,
They found their Promised Land.
By suoh stern guardians tutored well
His Spartan childhood grew.
The wind-trail of the fleet gazelle,
The lion’s path he knew ;
The camp surprised at dawn, the rush
Of feet, the crackling smoke.
When on the sleeping laager’s hush
The sudden Kaffir broke.
Nay, once, ’tis said, when Vaal in flood
Had barred the hunters’ way,
And ’mid its swollen current stood
A wounded buck at baj';
While some before the brute drew back,
And some before the wave ;
Striding that torrent’s foaming track
The mercy-stroke he gave.
A stream more rapid and more wide
His strength has stemmed since then ;
Called from the plodding team to guide
The starker wills of men ;
Chance-’prenticed to so new a trade,
Unlettered and unschooled,
The clod-bred clownish peasant made,
No less, a realm, and ruled.
Yet though that realm he still sustains
Against an Empire’s might;
And with untiring skill maintains
The so unequal fight;
He buys his victories all too dear
Whose foes have Time for friend ;
Each fatal triumph brings more near
The inevitable end.
Hapiy the hoarse-voiced guns must close
The long debate at last,
Ere the young Future can compose
Its quarrel with the Past:
Natheless, our England unashamed
May greet a foeman true
Of her own stubborn metal framed :
B'or She is iron too.
Edward Sydney Tyler,
“The Spectator."
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
A.B. : The Queensland majority of 7500 for the
Bill, out of a total of 69,000 recorded votes, is equivalent
to more than 20,000 had the gross total of votes recorded
been the same as in N.S.W., viz., 190,000. As a majority
of 20,000 would have effectually silenced all opposition
hi N.S.W. Assembly, it was a foregone conclusion that a
7500 majority would suffice to carry the Enabling Bill
through the Q. Legislature Frank : You say we “dish
up trivialities for imbeciles to grin at.” All right—grin
away 1 Colo : All wecan say is that the N.S.W. public
will be glad to see carried-out Attorney-General Wise’s
avowed intention of rectifying the scandalous wrong by
which a number of civil servants were swindled of their
pensions by being retired just before attainment of the
qualifying age of 60 years (with 16 years of service). .
F.: An unnatural theory, in view of the fact that a fellow
may fairly assume that the girl is somewhat sweet on
him when she borrows his handkerchief in a matter-of-'
fact style to wipe away her tears. Also, when “their
heads nestle closer together ” in the dark stillness of
10.30 p.m. and she joyfully takes a few pulls at his
cigar on account of the mosquitoes, he can reckon him-
self the happiest of men if he feels so disposed Mao:
The Transvaal Germans who sympathise with Cham-
berlain and co. are the Stock-Exchange hangers-on
the ’Sky and ’Berg and ’Stein species—the sort of
people who in Australia would find much trouble in
getting a fire-policy issued by any sane underwriter
Kioto : Nonsense; “ honest labor is not respected. As a
matter of fact, work is Disgraceful—from a society point
of view. Socially, it is better for a woman to be sus-
pected of being a reformed abandoning than to be
pointed at as.an ex-servant-girl. “She was his cook
before he married her”—what more blasting indictment
could you prefer against a female aspirant to social
position ?... .D.H. : You send The Bulletin what is prac-
tically a slab from its own leading article on Lyne of a
few weeks back. . A Judge with a Past: Idea been used
before. And it isn t true to life. Judges aren’t built
that way in Australia... .E.B. : “Shocker ” very bald—as
bald as the infant that might have come had the mar-
riage not been interrupted by Shocker getting 18 months.
K- .Dumas : Rather dull profanity, and not very pro-
fane either Philip Itay: “Guardian Annel ” wants —
well, it wants a little redeeming sin more than any-
thing else... Flotsam; Anti-Federal and Ten - bob
Lnmack is dead, though he doesn’t know it; in fact
he never existed—he only thought he did. So why
kill the dreadful dead ten - bobber over again?
Muxa : Poem would look nice scolloped for the pantry
shelf H. : “ Oh, Wattle ! Wattle ! Wattle I’’ Appro-
priate ; but we accent it differently W.F.S. : Weak,
tired, bony—it isn’t a verse; it’s a ’bus-horse . M.E.F. •
Disgusting.... J.L.O. : You might put the Bibie in rhyme
to get your hand in—and feet.... G.H.G. : Too doggerel-
•sh H.R. Kiln (Portsmouth): You can get “ Banjo’s ”
book from the Australasian Literary Agency, 150 Fleet-
street, London, E.O. ; also, all Bulletin publications
B.M. (N.Q.): Too much billowy-breasted nudity for these
chaste columns E.Mac. : Mostly nonsense as you put
it. “A brain’s work-capacity ” is obviously limited by
the nervous energy stored in its cells; in practice it is
limited by the energy stored in the particular group of
cells you are working with. Don’t theorise vaguely ; get
some text-books Prodigal: No use falling on our neck
—we won’t gather you Disci pula : It’s the comp, spells
‘jibe with a “ j,” and we daren’t correct him—if we
wanted to—for he can show it in the dictionary
M.G.: Sorry we don’t like it well enough
O. Seebohm : The comparison doesn’t serve your case
Giblett may have esoaped the gallows partly because the
jury remembered the prompt hanging by the Dibbs-Lyne
Government of Montgomery and Williams for assaulting
the police, and wasn’t going to give a new edition of that
crowd now in office —the chance to do some more
stringing-up Helen B. : Bit too slight. .O.E. (Via) •
Sorry oan’t use at present F.E.T. :No interest
O.E.F.M. : Nothing in par Douoe : Loose emotion
“ere l ? Turkey : Neither up . . .J.W.H. : No thanks.
......Silver Bells: Weary Oom Jan: Unsuitable....
Gordon J. 8.: Pithy and graphio. May use... Gobung •
“ U.D.” marred by violent improbabilities, and other-
wise rather crude Geo.S. : You misuse the English
tongue, to begin with Narranghi: Funny; may print.
Hoiya : Both have merit; will consider Pelican-
Dramatis persona hopelessly mixed up, and confusion
worse confounded by total absence of quotation-marks.
Eiffa : Good of the kind; may use Claypan : Fate
doubtful Shillinana : Clever, but too slight J.R. •
"Hoo-hoo" question shelved Several corrs. : Same’
with equine sea-sickness Bendee : Common drunken
orgy, with a random bullet or two in it .... S. Yarra •
Your grievance couldn’t be worse than ycur scribble but*
from what we can make out, you don’t like your cleric’s
antics. Well, why don’t you stay away ? ... T.F.: Pooh 1
—what does it matter? F.F.L. : Faintly humorous ;
but otherwise weak 0.P.0. : Has “go’’in it ; will
oonsider T.H.H.: The verse is the better of the two
but neither has class enough A.O.S. : Thoughtful and
well-written, but out of B.’sline. .. Molyneux : Hardly
interest enough Geordie G.: Nothing in it ...
M‘G. : The separator was bound to come, anyhow-. And
it wasn’t Dow’s invention H.C. : Some of the’ ideas
would have been acceptable if sent a month earlier ..
A.W.S. : Mr. Russell’s claim to the credit generally given
to Hoddle has been often advanced but never officially
admitted, we think. The statement that the Solicitor-
General has decided to recommend the purchase of an
annuity for Mr. Russell is probably a fiction F. :If the
lady’s father claims consideration for her as an amateur
what does he mean by asking a kind notice of the concert
she is to give in Brisbane ? Is she to be praised as an
amateur that she may reap the benefit as a pro. ?


Aaiti
j?eb\<'c / A-
\ «
i e %f^W
'%**<■- “X VThW HfijC w* -¥
ol ?y \joX~ v/e _- "C
Veve *W7. oji •
r . • "It 11 n
Cjy/ef' K Jos~7/ce 9 f/o tfrfyerr b 4
fylti <fu feffTr&e se) '/fo iS f
* s \ you a
qoeHioi? dfe of wftcf /s
/(powy or?fy •vysetfl Jf ffoiLffo
po'i'&vsWer /ttpyediifely you. ' will /e
Cooihpiifed. ifir- Coffeyf>7 of Co ur-'/T. you. \
sv /? rno Sfi 7%- e/p 3%s e tJi \
■your fcffoQd-cf&u.vy/er' wfy died Wt?ey \
you sSiw him /y^e/i/pcrdyese. 6o?<es Jiff /Y~ occur To ,
youyfer fa '^y°uyl.ff33r° u y I .ff33r
' / />;/<ff?T' fae lee.p ovfzrwtse dfa? STr/crtlyyayourdf/e f
• ~ I y “
.use J u^)'«
Well -"'fT be
MELBOURNIANA.


wrrvFß ANTICIPATED THAT WHEN HE
HE NEVER t ANT t the uniform on.
Somebody will have to stop at home and do
the washing-up.
Mr. Henry Peck : “ Well, Mariar, I’ve
enlisted for the Transvaal to fight
for the dear old flag. We must be
separated for a time.
Mrs. H. Peck “ Must we ! We’ll see
about that. I shall enlist as your
nurse, and we’ll make a pleasant
little family party of the dear old
flag business.”
Anticipated dispatch from the seat of war (from our own
correspondent) :
“ Our brave N.S.W. fellows know how to taka their gruel-’*
“ Hi! Nu-r-s-c / Oh e-o-o- BE 1
This is not a detachment of the Salvation Army. It is a properly-equipped
battalion of N.S.W. Infantry off' to the wars with a nurse to every man.
N.S.W. MOUNTED TROOPER
READY'FOR SERVICE.
Our Field Artillery in action.
Nurses (Inforeground)-. “Oh
my ! the wretches are actu-
ally going to let it off! ”
His Nurse : “Look here, you come out of
that; it isn’t good for you ! ”
War-artists will be provided with two nurses each, especially selected for their
attractive appearance. It is hardly a matter of surprise, therefore, that the too,
too susceptible Hop. begged to be allowed to represent this paper in the Transvaal.
He is here seen sketching away on the field of carnage amid a deadly hail of bullets,
blue metal, and half-bricks.
ONE MAN ONE NURSE.
" If ail applications were accepted we should have a nurse for every man enlisted.” — GENERAL FRENCH.


m
7\
m.
&
7"t
in
Cn
■^T
O
A.SAUNDERS
PATENT FLY BAC
SPLIT SECONDS
a
LEVER
VS
30
M
'§mk>U
Split Second Ply-back Chronograph and Minute
Recorder, £3 10b ; not split, £2 2s. Speoial value.
Gold Heart and Bird, with Ruby and
Diamond, 355.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Geld Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 15c. Gold
f - Diamonds, as shown, £2 10s. and £S.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
A.. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Broooh, 13s 6d ;
16c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
iiaG
A. Saunders.
Gold Broooh, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, &1.
Latest Style, Solid oiold, Good Luck
Broooh, 10s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 21s.
9c. Solid Links and Opals, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, t'2. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s,
20s. Silver, 2s (id, 3s.
French Diamond, Pure Solid
Silver Hat Pin, 4s 6d. Any
Initial.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2
£2 10s, £3, £4.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2(D.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 150. Gold, £2.
Gold Wish Bone Pearl Set Bee, 17» 6d ;
160. Gold, 355.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 16c.
Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; Silver, Ss 6d.
Registered.” 9c. Solid Gold, 17i 6d
150. Gold, 30s ; 180. Gold, 355.
180. Gold, 5 first-class
Opals, £2 IDs ;
Larger, £3 10a.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies, and
4 Diamonds, £3, ‘ 3 10s
£4. Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, Band
Rin£B, pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A- Saunders.
18c. Gold, pure Double-
out Diamond, £6.
Larger, £6 6&, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, t'2o.
18c. Gold, 2 Opals and
8 pure Diamonds, £4.
wmmmm
iIKrW
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watoli Repairs Guaranteed.
All Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £8 ;
, Key, 255, 30s, 365.
Solid Gold Keyless, £i, £6.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s 6d; 16c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS’ New Gold Forget-me-not
Heart and Chain Brooch, 11* 6d •
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d ’
Registered
“Gold Sword”
and
Spray Brooch,
13 Pearls, Ruby,
or Sapphire, and
Diamond, 255;
without
Diamond,
22s 6d.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
First-class Pure Diamonds, £10; Diamonds and Rubies, £7 10s.
BEND
FOR
Prior List.
LATEST STYLE.
Handsome Gold Necklet and Ture White Pearls, £3 6s : extra heavv £6
LATEST LONDON RAGE.
9c. 2-Bar and Bell, lJa 6d J
Amethyst, 13s 6d. Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
815 6€oR6€ STR€€T (nearly opposite Railway Station),
Solid Gold Band.
Opal, 17a 6d;
8 Opals, 22s 6d.
180. Gold, 1 Opal, 30s ;
3 Opals, 355.
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders.
Pint-class Hand-made, Solid Gold Wedding
Ring: and Keeper, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s. 15c. Gold,
sL" l heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s, 30s,
86s, £2. Send for our Sue Card
The COLONNADE BOOT BAZAARS are well-known throughout the length and breadth of Australia, and the COLONIAL and INTERCOLONIAL
TRADE is assuming vast proportions.
UP-COUNTRY ORDERS A SPECIALTY.
**” IVe keep a staff devoting all its attention to this department, and every article is tested before it is despatched, -a
Price List.
LADIES’ BOOTS.
Ladies’ Strong Morocco Bals., 6s 6d. Maids’ Do., 1 and 2,
5s lid
Ladies’ Glace Calf Button Boots, “ pat. caps,” 6s lid
Ladies’ Glace Calf Bals., “ patent caps,” 6s lid
Ladies’ Glace Kid Button Boots, “ worked holes,” plain
or toecaps, 7s lid, 8s lid, 9s lid
The Renowned Glove Hide Bals. or Button Boots, only
5s lid; a wonderfully cheap boot for the winter;
neat and dressy
Ladies’ Calf Goloshed Bals., neat toecaps, 8s 6d
“Reliable” Winter Bals., neat toecaps, 4s lid ; splendid
line
Ladies’ Strong Every Day Bals., 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s 6d
Ladies’Best Calf Bals., 7s 6d ; Best Calf Button Boots,
8s 6d
The Glace Calf Bals., “ the wonder of the age,” 5s lid
Ladies’ Pump Oxford Shoes, neat patent caps and facings,
5s 6d
Ladies’ Glace Bals. and Button Boots, “newline,” 4s lid
Ladies’ Glace Lace Shoes, 3s lid, 4s lid, and 5s lid
Ladies’ Glace Lace Shoes, plain or caps, 6s lid, 7s lid,
8s lid
Ladies' Glace Kid Pump Lace Shoes, patent caps, 6s lid
Ladies’ Glace Kid One-button Shoes, “The Nurse,” wide
and easy, 6s 6d
Ladies’ Glace One-button Shoes, for house or street,
STOUT SOLES, 2s lid
Ladies’ One-button Shoes, pump sewn, 2s 9d, 3s lid and
4s lid
Ladies’ One-button Patent Vamp Shoes, 7s 6d ; speoial
line
Ladies’ Glace Button Shoes, 4s lid, 5s lid and 6s lid
Ladies’ Leather Lace Shoes, for winter wear, 3s lid,
4s lid
Ladies’ Superior Winter Shoes, “ neat toeoaps,” 6s lid,
7s lid
GENT.’S BOOTS.
Gent.’s Dress Bals., 4s lid and 6s lid
The Marvellous “ Sedan ” Calf Bals., any shape, 6s lid
Superior Dress Bals., 7s lid and 8s lid
Wide or narrow Toe Dress Bals., 6s lid and 8s lid
Fair Stitched Dress Bals., 7s lid and 10s 6d
Gent.’s Strong Sprigged Dress Bals., 5s lid
Gent.’s Light “ Sewn ” Dress Bals., 6s lid
Strong Neat Kip Lace 8s 6d. Clumped Bals., 8s 6d and
10s 6d
Grain Kip Strong Derby Bals., 12s 6d ; best value in Mel-
bourne for winter
Glove Hide Bals., for dress wear only, 8s lid
Heavy Watertights, 6s lid and 6s lid. Best Quality,
plated, 8s 6d
Bluchers, “nailed,” 3s 3d, 3s lid, 4s 6d, 4s lid. Best,
6s 6d
Bluchers, “sprigged,” 3s lid, 4s 6d, and 4s lid. Best, 6s 0d
Rough Sprigged Watertights, 8s 6d, BEST
■h
wmmm i
K
£
ii
ra
JL£
I
j
ill
Leevnna’s “BOOTS”—Entered for Melbourne Cup, 1599.
customers can purchase an article at precisely the same price as those
in Melbourne.
Postage only (9d. per single pair) added.
Send Post Office Order, and we will forward you a pair of Boots or Shoes that will give
you every satisfaction. The addresses are:
111. tEEinmc
>Tbs Coloooad* Boot Bazaars«
No. 1 Errol-st., N. Melbourne, and 303 Chapel-st. Prahran, Melbourne.
Price List.
GENT.’S BOOTS.
Sprigged Watertights, 5s lid, 6s lid.
Heavy Nailed Laceups, 6s 9d. Best Clump Bluchers, 7s6d
Wide Edge Bluchers, as supplied to militia. 9s 6d
Militaiy Bals., stout soles (best calf skin used), 11s 6d ;
no toecaps
YOUTHS’ BOOTS.
Nailed Bals., 1 to 5,4 s 6d, neat caps
Strong Bals., sizes 1 to 5,3 s lid, 4s lid and 5s 6d
Kip Bals., sizes 1 to 5,5 s 6d and 5s lid
Bluchers, sizes 1 to 5,3 s 3d, 3s lid, 4s 6d and 6s 6d
Youths’ Heavy Nailed Laoe, 6s lid ; real solid boot
Youths’ Dress Shoes, 4s lid and 6s lid ; leather
Youths’ Dress Bals., 5s lid and 6s lid. Calf Golosh
Levant Tops, 8s 6d
CHILDREN’S SCHOOL BALS., sizes 4 to 6, Is 9d ; 7 to 9,
Is lid ; 10 to 13, 2s lid ; 1 and 2,3 s 6d
Special Strong Bals., for girls, pegged and sprigged, a ser-
viceable neat boot, 7 to 9,3 s 6d ; 10 to 13, 4s 6d : 1
and 2,5 s 6d
Morocco Bals., 7 to 9,3 s 9d; 10 to 13, 4s 6d ; 1 and 2,5 s lid
Glove Hide Bals., a good winter light boot, 4 to 6,2 s 6d ;
7 to 9,2 s lid ; 10 to 13, 3s lid ; 1 and 2,4 s lid ; neat
and strong
Morocco Button Boots, 7 to 9,3 s lid ; 10 to 13, 4s lid
Glace Hide Bals., patent toecaps, 4 to 6,2 s lid ; 7 to 9,
3s 6d ; 10 to 13, 4s 3d ; 1 and 2,4 s lid
If lines required are not quoted here, kindly send for
Price List. All Goods specially selected and "'■uaranteed.
Child's Glace Hide Button Boots, pr r , s 4 to 6,
2s lid ; 7 to 9,3 s lid ; 10 to 13, 1-
Tan Bals., strong and neat, 4to <: . - n<d •
10 to 13, 3s lid ; 1 and 2,4 s 1: <
Tan Bals., neat, 3t06, Is lid. B. ■'
Is lid
Tan Gem Shoes, three straps, S t
2s lid ; 10 to 13, 3s 6d ; 1 and 2. a
Black Glace Three-strap Shoes, Gem, 3 3
9,2 s lid ; 10 to 13, 3s 6d ; 1 find 2,4 s ~..
Morocoo Three-strap Shoes, strong and n 0 ■,
lid ; 10 to 13, 3s lid
White Kid and White Hair Goods, in endle, -> variety
Infants’ Tan Beaded Shoes, 1 to 5, Is lid
Tan and Black Shoes, 1 to 3, from lOd per pair
Tan or Blaok Ankle Strap Shoes, strong and neat, 3 to 6,
Girls’ Kip School Bals., 7t09, 2s lid; 10 to 13, 3s 9d • 1
and 2,4 s 9d ’
Boys’ Kip Bals., pegged and sprigged, 10 to 13, 4s 6d
Boot Dressings, tan, black, bronze and gloss, 6d bottle
Parson’s Toe Shields, 3d per pair
Paroela per post.—2lb., 9d ;3d eaoh lb. over. Bv rail
very oheap. *
Storekeepers Supplied. Special Reduction* for over
£b Worth.


PHONOGRAPHS
FROM
255.
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . .
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case.
JjiberUSoa,
ItS King-st., Sydney.
Manufacturers of the
famous BOOMERANG
Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
Catalogues of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slob
Polyphone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
IrnoTd’s galsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
NOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.— Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
1
‘I4V
m
OF DAYTON.OHIO.U.S.A.
*
Hmocm,
I'smHvrmmti
JOHN ESLER
vimcnns.
«C«
• . tumts#*&
(ftCHAM’r'Jtorft*
m *
IS 1
td^rinctdw.
mstmmß
Co»fiUr<w&
j.j.vmm
HARRY
B*e*vp,z Akms
■■ I
*V?
J H RAYMOND.
CFfMtFT
J.RAWtfNSS.
* *nrf> ’
iKjxi
3* ts
Fwsapiw
D.ECAN
A.S.ROCNE
W.A.Lingham.
Gfn MS? m AUSTRALASIA.
333 Csvye 3 r -Sydney
J.OUlirOllE .
- yiKxtn i*im,cmK
F.WXOWIE
6
*
m
M
\
GEO H. BIRCH
O.H.RHEAD
•Kuunr. toummsr
CK EDWARDS
!"« PCNLINCTON
w«a>
** pA to(S tottK
il
m
Aux Thompson
OuauHu^es awi.
JANUS MK.ROY
««i«>»r
w»«P'* r
Tm<* EVANS.
.«**»*> .Vtfrfi-
HENRY T. foster
NC% Mamet* Qt/tfWM
A FEW of OUR ROCKHAMPTQri QUEEhSL. £
Head. Australasian Office s
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
W. A. LINGHAM «...
BRANCH OFFICES:
General Manager.
364 Collins-sfcreefc, Melbourne, Vie. ; 27 Grenfell-street, Adelaide SA • “ nmirfo* ” -i j- j , •
n William-street, Perth,’ W.A T'wmiUr.M ™™**~*- ■**-* <*■
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
NOYES BEOS.,
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
Washington K- Soul
and Co.,
GREAT DRUG EMPORIUM,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Largest, Most Varied Stock of Patent Medicine*,
Chemists’ and Druggists’ Sundries, and Surgical Appli-
ances in the Southern Hemisphere. Nothing but best
quality of Goods kept. Prices are the LOWEST in the
i city.
WE EARNESTLY COMMEND to all who wish to
build up their system, banish sleeplessness, give tone to
the Digestive Organs, and receive energy and capacity
for persistent efforts of mind, the Health Invigorator,
Dr. Pettifer's Compound Syrup
of Hypophosphites,
Small Bottles, Is. 9d. each, postage, Bd.; Larg* Bettle,
Bs. each, postage, Is. 2d.
NO OTHER SYRUP CAN BE COMPARED TO IT—
It iB SUPERBLY SUPERIOR in every respect.
ENCOURAGED by this enormous success, after care-
ful consideration, and the strictest analysis by the
most competent authorities, we have been induced
to place on the market, ALSO AT A REDUCED
PRICE,
DR. SYMES’ EMULSION OP COD
LIVER OIL,
with HYPOPHOSPHITES of LIME and SODA,
a most Nourishing Preparation for chest and lung oom-
plaints, Is 6d and 2s 6d per Bottle.
CUBE FOR CORPULENCY.
Prepared by F. 0. RUSSELL, of Woburn House,
London.
DOUBLE STRENGTH. Packed absolutely free from
observation, unlabelled, and at London Prioe.
21s per Bottle ; postage, Is 2d.
Spartan. Tonic
will be found a Wonderful Blood Purifier and Stimulator.
Prices, 2s 6d and 4s.
SPARTAN LITTLE LIVER PILLS, to be taken with the
above, Is box. i
SPARTAN BLOOD PILLS, to enrich the blood, Is box. ■
YAALA, for Indigestion, a marvellous cure, price 2s
bottle.
CITRATE OF MAGNESIA, Is bottle.
ITALIAN FRUIT POWDER, 2s.
LONDON HOSPITAL PILE OINTMENT, unapproach-
able, Is 6d per pot. '
Dr. ALLEN'S OBESITY TABLETS—an absolute Cure
for Stoutness ; 5s box, guaranteed.
Dr. BUMSTEAD’S COMPOUND EXTRACT OF SARSA-
PARILLA, for Cleansing and Purifying the Blood,
Producing Bone and Muscle, 4s bottle.
CLAYTON’S INSECT POWDER, 6d and Is Tin.
WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, a splendid preparation for pro-
moting the growth of the hair ; price per bottle, Is.
ALABASTER CREAM OF BEAUTY for removing freokles
and improving the complexion ; price per bottle, 2s.
Eczene for Eczema,
An Absolute Cure. Price, 2s 6d, postage 3d extra.
Dr. Pettifer’s Fluid Magnesia,
8d and Is fid.
Crimpoline for the Hair, Is.
KEEPS THE HAIR IN EVERLASTING CURL.
Clayton’s Hair Dye, 2s 6d and 4s.
DR. FIELD’S BRAIN and NERVE PILLS, price 2s fid,
postage 2d.
DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER and LIQUID sweetens
the breath and whitens the teeth, Is fid.
RICHARDSON’S HAIR RESTORER, 2s.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and CUCUMBER, for freckles,
etc., Is.
CLAYTON’S AMERICAN BAY RUM, Is.
THE LATEST IN PATENT NIGHT LIGHTS, 10 in a box,
price Bd.
SPONGES, SPONGES, SPONGES, for everyone, all prices,
best \alue.
We offer the best value in
Real Badger-hair Shaving Brushes, Is fid each, usual
price 3s fid, bought under exceptionally advantageous
circumstances. Shaving Soaps and Creams, all the best
makes.
Razors. —A beautiful assortment, best hollow-ground,
white ivory handles, highest price 10s fid ; some at 4s fid,
5s fid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. We stock only the best.
Shaving Stands, with adjustable Mirrors, Cups and
Brush Rack nickel-plated, exceptional quality. Shaving
Pots every make and design, recherche patterns, in
Limoges ware, hand-painted.
Razor Strops, the best value in the city.
Military Hair Brushes, with or without Leather
Cases, Swing Mirrors, with Hair and Clothes Brush
attached.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Dressing Cases, all prices.
Xylonite Puff Boxes ; Menthol, in glass-stoppered bot-
tles ; Bath Brushes, Magnifying Mirrors, Smelling Salts
Jars.
RAINBOW SILVER-MOUNTED SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLES, the latest novelty.
Spongk Bags in all the latest patterns.
Yet another Large Shipment of Sure Catch Flt
Papers. Catch ’em alive, oh. 16 sheets for 3d.
REAL TURKEY CANARY SEED and Mixed Bird
Seeds, 61b. for Is.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
THE PREMIER CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
160 AND 268 PITT-ST-, SYDNEY,
CHURCH-STREET, PARRAMATTA,
HUNTER-STREET, NEWCASTLE.
All Letters of Inquiry Must Have
Stamps for Reply Enclosed. <
A Caood Way - - - -
- - - To Hake Mosjcy
TS to give Public Exhibitions in Halls, Churches, School
x Houses and Opera Houses with our Panoramii
Stereopticon Exhibition Outfit, illustrating the Spanish
American and Filipino wars, with both Stationary and
Motion pictures. Many are making £6O to 1 120 per
month, and some exhibitors much more. We furnish
everything ready to start in business. £l2 10s. buys the
Stereopticon Outfit, and the Motion pictures can be
added at a small ebst. The work is easy, strictly high-
class and requires no previous experience. Write for Full
particulars now, this advertisement may not appear
again. e
The Enterprise Optical Mfg\ Co.,
66 FIFTH AVE., CHICAGO, U.S.A.
“ DOWKXDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Klizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Amp UEORCHC UTRTtWT. BRISBANE.


Warner’s Safe Cure has restored me to health, after years
of suffering with disordered liver and kidneys.—ll r. F.
E. A. Dickson, Stewart-street, Dunedin.
A few years ago I was troubled with gravel, and Lried
Warner's Safe Cure, and since have not had a recurrence
of it.—O. W. Gili.ies, Wynyard-squarc, Sydney.
Re the value of Warner's Safe Cure. “It has un-
doubtedly relieved me permanently of my troubles.”—
J. Bkrrib, The Glen, West-st. North, Sydney.
Not afraid to sign my name as a guarantee that Warner’e
Safe Cure is what it is represented to be.— Jambs
Hbalky, Mayor, Glen Innes, N.S.W.
Excellent medicine for general debility, and for toning up
the constitution. I have always recommended it for
the same.—B. H. Babbidob, Ex-Mayor, Brisbane.
Results more satisfactory were obtained from prescribing
Warner’s Safe Cure than any formulae of my own pre-
scribing.—Robert Shaw, L.D.S., M. 8., D.A., Rock-
hampton, Queensland.
Suffering for the last ten years from a variety of com-
plaints, including insomnia, I did not get any per-
manent relief until I tried Warner’s Safe Cure.—Edwakd-
I. Jones, Financial Agent, 289 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Suffering with my liver and kidneys, T took Warner’s 8
Cure and Pills, with the result that I am perfectly a
permanently cured.—A. A. Whipp, 23 liawksburn-i i ,
Uawksburn.
Affected to such a degree that at times I was compel) d
to layup, and now, after taking three bottles, I «'»
quite recovered.—A. Nicholson, 18 Stauley-chambeis,
Sydney.
For years I was a terrible sufferer with my liver. I deb r
mined to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and was completely
cured. Now lam never done recommending it to ms
friends.—Mr. Robert Hoystead, Bellan’s Hotel, Wage*
Wagga.
Energy and health thoroughly regained after the use oi *
few bottles.—G. Tessikr, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metru-
pole, Sydney.
Can only in fairness add my testimony to the many others
who have secured relief from its use.—Mr. A. E.
Wheeler, Phrenologist, High-street, Dunedin.
Unable to stand long at mv easle until I took Warner’s
Safe Cure, which effectually cured me after I had suf-
fered for years from liver and kidney complaint.—Mr.
Alec Nichols, 377 Pitt-st., Sydney'.
Recommend it confidently as a reliable remedy for diges-
tive disorders.—C. A. Hood, Ex-Stationmaster, West-
burv, Tasmania.
Even from the first bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure I felt re-
lief, and, continuing to take it, 1 became perfectly cured;
and am now in good health.—F. G. Browne, Silver-
plater, Melbourne.
THE FAVORITE
WHISKEY.
Geo Roe&C9?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER &C? c YfIMFY
82 A PITT ST. J I UITU .
ASK
FOR
<e* tin
60^
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
SoM by the CJril Serrioe Co-Operatire Stores,
Pitt 3t-, and by t.eading Hotels ami Wine and
Spirit Meri hatita.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPL€Y # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Soles Held at the Auction Jtoonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter li rad lev & Co., 324 George-st.
SUNLIGHT
—B wammmmammmmmmmmmmmmmm
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Three months ago English papers were
constructing Cabinets at Johannesburg. And all
the time Kruger was being assured that Boer
independence wasn’t threatened !
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer M’Millan will be a
candidate for the Federal Parliament, and being
now a man of leisure, means to devote his life to
Federal politics—in the Freetrade interest.
The two Sydney morning papers are
e vidently more or less ashamed of the Transvaal
business ; the D.T. in its Yes-No, a-bit-both-vvays,
O utis-column way, takes no pains to conceal the
fact. But the evening papers—they fairly howl
for Blood, like midnight dingoes outside a bush
killing-yard.
The Sydney telephone tunnels have been
» stand-by for more than one N.S.W. ex-Labor
M.L.A. Bavister has just lost his refuge through
his own seeking. Williams, Labor-member for
Hunter River in 1891-’94, has succeeded Tolley,
who has received Bavister’s appointment. W. J.
Toomey,; ex-sec. to the A.W. Union in Young,
was also on the telephone tunnels, but has now
been transferred to the Public Works Dept, and
suitably provided for.
“ Sandgroper ” writes :
You have no idea of the hatred borne to the Forrest
crowd on these (W.A.) fields. Even ten-foot-drop
Wittennoom is not more disliked than the boodling
Forrest crowd. Lefroy is pitied and despised, but it
would be practically unsafe for Big John to take a trip
to the Boulder. It would need little to cause a serious
riot here over the alluvial business. Forrest has prac-
tically disfranchised the goldfields again, and though
every man, woman and child on the goldfields favors
Federation, we can see no hope of carrying it except
through separation, making Esperanee our capital, or
joining South Australia.
The advantages of being an aboriginal in
Westralia. About three years ago Lilimarra, a
nigger under sentence of death, bit his way
through the walls of Her Majesty’s valuable stone
gaol, and escaped. A few weeks back the same
nigger, or one very like him (there is a consider-
able sameness about the numerous Westralian
nigger) was captured in the north-west, and on
tbe assurance of the local police that he is the
same old nigger orders have been sent up by the
Forrest Government to resume the hanging where
it left off three years ago.
S.A. Leg. Council only approved of the
proposed Boer-murdering contingent by the cast-
ing vote of the President, and the Assembly would
have rejected the motion had Premier Kingston
not practically pledged Parliament beforehand.
Laborites solidly opposed in both chambers. King-
ston was twitted, and apparently not without
reason, with being at heart opposed to the scheme.
A strange feature of the affair is the fact that only
by energetic canvassing has S.A. secured the
necessary 125 men. In the first week less than 50
men volunteered. Good.
One of Brisbane Telegraph's chief objec-
tions to the influence of the North in deciding the
recent referendum was that there were so many
aliens in the North that its vote ought to be dis-
regarded. One would imagine from this that the
aliens actually voted, and the Telegraph is quite
capable of maintaining that they did. It may
comfort that discontented organ, however, to
recollect that aforesaid aliens are mainly there
through the corruption and ratting of Southern
politicians, often aided and abetted *>y that
valorous anti-Federal organ itself.
Downes Carter, M.P., is bitterly opposed
to the Vic. Immigration Restriction Bill, because
it threatens to shut out a class of men, Hindoos
and others, who would “ teach our people early
rising, industry and thrift.” Which means that
“our people ” should work as long as the coolie,
slave as hard, and live on as little, for the advan-
tage of gentlemen like Downes Carter, who doesrpt
rise any too early himself. The capitalistic indi-
vidual who starts preaching “thrift” to Mel-
bournites at this date, cannot have intelligence
enough to grasp the amazing magnitude of his
own gall.
Brisbane Telegraph stated, with due
deliberation (in its leading article of 11/10/’99)
that the passing of the Federal Address through
Queensland Leg. Council by 16 votes to 9 was “ a
sorry spectacle” :
But let Us look at the situation. The Chamber has 41
members ; 25 were present to vote ; 15 were absent; the
President was in the chair. It is known well enough
that the President is entirely opposed to the proposed
union • he has said that he would not sit if elected as a
senator. What then did the vote of last night amount
to? Eliminate Mr. Gray, and the number of “ contents ”
is 15 To the “non-contents” add the President, the
Chairman of Committees, who walked out, and Mr.
Turner, absent through illness, who would have voted
against Federation, and we get 12 to 15. Add Mr. Gray
to ihe I*>, and he should have voted with them, and we
get IB to 15 in a House of 41, voting on a measure in-
volving the fate of Queensland. We sa.v without a par-
ticle of feeling, in cold blood, it was a sorry spectacle.
This off-hand way of adding to the “ noes ” three
men who didn’t vote at all, and taking Mr. Gray
from the “yeses” and adding him also to the
«s n oes,” and thereby making it 15 to 13 instead of
16 to 9, is interesting. “Eliminate Mr. Gray ’’
sounds well, and if you only eliminate enough
people anything may happen. But there is only
a chastened joy, after all, in showing, when the
fiodit is over, that if the thing had been that
wasn’t, and if the thing hadn’t been that was,
then the thing chat is wouldn’t be.
Great sticklers as Tas. politicians profess
to be for constitutional practice and things like
that, their desire to assist Britain in her Hour of
Greed jumps even that fence. The Braddon
Ministry fell, and Premier Braddon wearily
acknowledged defeat at nine o’clock on Friday
night. Under ordinary circumstances Stafford
Bird would have been sent for on Saturday morn-
ing, but an arrangement was come to between the
leaders of the Assembly parties that Braddon
should not formally abdicate until the following
Wednesday, thus allowing Parliament one even-
ing (Tuesday) to decide without loss of precious
time to dispatch a Tas. contingent of Boer-
slaughterers. It was Braddon’s last official act —■
and his worst. Then he went to sleep with his
predecessors.
A. B. Piddington on the Transvaal situa-
tion :
As to the duty ot supporting the Imperial Cabinet,
right or wrong, and volunteering Australians needlessly
as a symbol of Imperial unity, that is just the same
doctrine in essence as was preached when Burke and
Chatham opposed the popular war of Britain against her
own American colonies, and when Bright opposed the
still more popular Crimean war, in which England main-
tained the infamous Ottoman rule, which two years ago
gave us the Armenian massacres. It is in essence the
same doctrine as that which sacrificed Dreyfus to “ the
honor of the army,” and it bodes ill for Australia, if for
such a doctrine, she pushes her way into sharing a war
which involves the violation of treaty, the spoliation of a
white race, and the imposition of British rule upon a
Christian people who do not desire it.
Leaving out the “ Christian ” aspect (it is doubt-
ful if there is much Christianity on either side)
that just expresses the case. A section of the
French people held that Dreyfus should be
sacrificed, however unjustly, to prevent disunion
in France. And the people who preach that Aus-
tralia should wade in Boer blood, be the quarrel
just or unjust, to show the “solidarity” (good old
word) of the empire, and to promote that good old
“ solidarity,” and to prevent the growth of dis-
union between Britain and Australia, are in
exactly the same situation—except that they want
to kill a lot of men ; the French solidarity crowd
only wanted to imprison one man.
Victorian Speaker Mason made an exhi-
bition of himself in his Jingoistic desire to get the
motion for sending troops to South Africa passed
without adverse criticism. He at once caught up
the impatient, slaughtering spirit of the House,
and put every obstacle in the wav of those who
had the courage to oppose the scheme. His efforts
to stifle discussion, however, only resulted in his
placing himself in a most humiliating position.
Little Maloney was speaking against the motion
in his usual, roundabout, jerky fashion, when
Mason pulled him up and said he was flippant and
irrelevant. Maloney answered that he was
not; whereupon the pompous Speaker had to
subside. But not for long. Maloney began
a quotation from the extracts of Joubert’s
address to the Queen published in the Times, and
Mason again pulled him up, saying that his quota-
tions were too long. This got Maloney’s back up,
and he retorted that if the Speaker knew his duty
he must be aware that there was no limit, to the
number or the length of a member’s quotations so
long as they were relevant. By this time the
House had begun to see bow unfairly Mason was
acting, and cheered Maloney’s retort ; while the
pompous one drew his furs up oyer his knees and
retired in anger to the far corner of his chair. It
is some time in Victoria since there was a Speaker
who barefacedly sided with the majority.
ON A LONESOME STREET .
What might occur any day, if the Sydney authori-
ties don't hurry up with that electric tram.!
So far as it has told, the Lyne Govt, will
drop the proposal to continue the locking of the
Darling River, and will, instead, when it gets the
coin, continue the railway from Cobar to Wil-
cannia, and perhaps to Broken Hill. Works
O’Sullivan has already broken into poetry with
regard to the Barrier trade and the Beautiful
Harbor, and the iron link that is to be between
them ; but the sooner the idea of competing with
the 300-mile line from B.H. to the S.A. seaports
is dropped the better. Wilcannia s position is
different ; yet so far as even that town is con-
cerned, rail carriage at remunerative rates would
be simply impossible so long as the Darling and
Murray were open —which is, on the average, say,
nine months in the year, though the last five or
six years would not show so good a record.
Westralian Premier Forrest : “ Why
should we adopt the one-man-one-vote system?
Hasn’t plural voting been in vogue in England
for generations ? Then what is good enough for
them is good enough for us.”
ALL THINGS ARE
BRITTLE.
THE PARK “HARD-UP" (loq.): “Bank broken;
heart broken; boot broken; and now blessed if
my damned pipe ain’t broken !”
The eagerly-proffered, unasked-for aid of
Australia to Britain in this Boer-butchering busi-
ness is just about the most cowardly, snobbish
piece of work on record. The Australian popu-
lace, left to itself, would emphatically pronounce
against interfering between the game 121 b. bull-
terrier which in defence of its own little bone has
boldly gripped the forefoot of the ever-hungry
4001 b. lion—at least, it wouldn’t interfere on behalf
of the lion ; Australia has simply been dragged
into this disgraceful affair by a lot of politicians
anxious to stand well with the lords and dukes
over the water. To help the Johannesburg
boodlers kill the gallant little Boer Republic is
just about as valorous an act as helping a 14st.
man to kick-in the ribs of his prostrate 7st. wife.
The narrow majorities with which, despite the
tricks of the British-official and British-greaser
brigade, the Boer-murder project has so far got
through some of the Australian legislatures, shows
clearly what would happen to the Ministries pro-
moting it had the electors time to reflect and
organise.
The Westralian constitution contains a
proviso to the effect that the Queen may, at her
own pleasure, and without any reference to the
local Parliament, cut Westralia up into two or
more provinces. No one seems to be certain
whether the Colonial Boundaries Act overrules
this proviso or not, but it is believed on
high authority that it doesn’t. At all
events the gold districts fully in-
tend, if the Forrest gang blocks
Federation much longer, to storm
the Imperial Parliament with a
monster petition for separation
into a new province with its
sea-outlet at Esperance. And if
their prayer is granted Perth and Bun-
bury will be left high and dry, and the
glory and revenue of Westralia will
be deader than the Caliphs of Bagdad.
“ Teddy ” Mulcahy, a glib Hobart
clothier, who vociferously declares that
the twelve-and-sixpenny tweed trousers
he sells are not made by sweated labor,
is to have the Lands and Works port-
folio in the new Tas. Ministry. For
years he has posed as faithful fol-
lower and champion apologist of the
Braddon regime, but stood from under
when the disastrous Miles was taken into
the Cabinet.
Speaking in the Commons in ’96, Cham-
berlain said that “a war in South Africa would
be one of the most serious wars that could possibly
be waged. It would be a long war, a bitter war,
and a costly war, and as I have pointed out
already, I believe generations would hardly be
able to blot out the memory of it. To go to war
with President Kruger, to enforce upon him
reforms in the internal affairs of State in which
Secretaries of State, standing in their place, have
repudiated all right of interference—that would
be a course of action whioh would be immoral! ”
And now !
Dear Bulletin. —You ask (B. 7/10/’99)
“ what any of us want to go shooting Boers ” for?
Well, the majority of us are not overflowing with
Imperial ardor, but, my God ! we want to get
away—anywhere—-out of this accursed country
where they advertise ( vide Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, 11/10/'99) like this :
Wanted, 2 young fellows for woolshed, 9s.
Man, garden and useful, Bs. ; and orchard-hand, 10s.
Young fellow, groom and milk, Bs.
Also, tell the man who has never been out of work
that I, too, have read those beautiful (?) lines,
“ Breathes there a man,” &c. —Volunteer.
The passing of the Federal address through
Queensland Leg. Council by 16 votes against 9,
and that, too, after only an hour or two’s debate,
was a hard blow to the Brisbane parochialists.
To the last, it was hoped that the Council would
either reject the address or accept it by an almost
invisible majority after long struggling, and its
acceptance by a vote of more than two-thirds of
the members present was a Great Shock.
Protection and Foreign-trade : Victoria, at
the end of 1898, had 286!) factories; N.S.W.,
2384. Victoria had 54,778 factory employes,
N.S.W. 52,518. Increase for the year : Victoria,
i 960 males and 117 females, total 2077 ;
N.S.W. increase, 340 males, 739 females, total
1079. Victoria has still far more female
workers than N.S.W. (14,147 against
7845), but the gap has diminished this
year.
Hackett, of the West Austra-
lian, the man who owns Bigjohn
Forrest and makes that enslaved mag-
nate run in the anti-Federal interest,
has, no doubt, got the usual griev-
ance of the newspaper-owner against
Federation. It will necessitate an
office and a Parliamentary reporting
staff in the Federal capital, and the
expenditure of tons of money annually
in salaries and telegraphic intelli-
gence. The Federal newspaper-owner is
probably sincere every time, for he is
voting against his apparent cash in-
terests. The anti-Federal one is pro-
bably a fraud every time—the man whose
convictions and whose pocket are of the
same opinion is mostly a fraud.
Hobart Clipper scores as the only
Tasmanian paper which warned Braddon
that by taking in the awful master-mariner,
Miles, he was courting political destruction.
N.S.W. Premier Lyne has at least one
claim to the backing of every Democrat, lie has
been a consistent supporter of the early-closing
movement all his political life—probably its most
consistent supporter. Lyne is the Early-Closing
Premier, in fact. Reid in particular hopes that
he will close very early indeed.
The political programme of the Victorian
Labor-party has been revised and brought up to
date. It now stands thus :
1. One adult one vote.
2. The referendum to be applied to the settlement of
vexed public questions.
Progressive tax on land values, town and country,
without exceptions, exclusive of improvements.
4. The establishment of a Slate Hank.
5. The establishment of a Department of Labor wnn a
responsible Minister.
6. The establishment by law of courts of conciliation
and compulsory arbitration for t lie settlement of dispute*
between employers and employes.
7. The maintenance and perfection of the policy of I ro-
teotion, tlie adoption of the eight-hours system, a trades-
union wage in alt protected industries, and the abolition
of all revenue duties.
8. The establishment of a pension fund for aged per-
il. The sustaining of village settlements and the crea-
tion of a body of small landholders in contradistinction
to large ones.
10. Provision for enfranchisement of seamen and other*
following migratory occupations..
11. A cumulative tax on all incomes over £2OO per
J That with a view of preventing undesirable alien*
being brought into the colony by sea and land, a poll tax
of £lOO be imposed on Chinese and other Asiatics.
13. No further alienation of land.
14. Reform of the Upper House on the electoral basis
of the Legislative Assembly, with single electorates.
Fourteen planks, all sound ones, are quite enough
to go on with. The Queensland Labor-party lias
a platform of 40 planks, and the burden of carry-
ing so much timber all at once retards progress.
Any Labor-party that has 14 planks under its
arm and 26 more stored in the yard has plenty of
material for immediate needs.


THINK OE THESE NAMES WHEN BUYING
I STEIN WAY |
PIANOS
EAD
kmvmmm
Zi
PIANOS
FEU I MCI I
PIANOS
UEBEL
PIANOS
ECKE
PIANOS
VICTOR
&
PIANOS
REELING
PIANOS
Are RcpOtatioij
BOilders
PALING’S
Stock as well
EVERY
KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
Violins
Cornets
Banjos
Guitars
Mandolins
Autoharps
Accordeons
&c., &c.
LOWEST PRICES.
Call or Write for
CATALOGUES.
ST El IN WAY
PIANOS
BRINSMEA D
PIANOS
FEU RICH
PIANOS
UEBEI;
PIANOS
EC K E
PIANOS
VICTOR
PIANOS
BELLING
I
PIANOS
HIGH GRADE GOODS AT LOW PRICES
W. N. PALING *C° L" 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbai>€
Newcastle
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
X:
WM
m
■Bill
8 1
S 3
RSPIIBIIQBEM,
SRMgAisjyPl
j A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
! awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
> 1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
■
Motor Quadricycle—carrying Maxim Gun -designed for scouting purposes.
“ Good Tijres (jive Good Results
THE BEST
TYRES are undoubtedly MULTI FLEX
they being quick in action, Reliable and capable of
withstanding' plenty of rough riding on Austra-
lian roads.
Roadster Tyres <s<iarai)teed for n?oofbs
First in 1888 - - - Foremost ever since.
ghe gunlop gneumatic gyre <§o. of (Australasia gtd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies. & c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
Mont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin » Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Ijiabiity.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. . J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED ... 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Monlhs,
~ ~ 2 Years, 5%
„ „ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, 1 5 ;0,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capilai of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, Genera] Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Vk gank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
\fnmtrer— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr AJ. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capilai Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders
250,000
£350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOUItNE,
GEELONG I
PORTLAND I
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Sat., October 21, 12 Noon.
Barrabool, Tues., October 24, 5 p.i
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 28, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., October 31, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., October 31, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 21, 2
Burvvah, Tues., Oct. 24, 5
Leura, Sat., Oct. 28, 2 p.tn
p.m.
p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 21,
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 28, 2 p.
S
LUCINDA POINT /
GERALDTON }
CAIRNS. &c. I
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M‘ll wraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Trustees, CxccGtorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £156,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORRO VVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government, .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . £3,123,555 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; lion. VV. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office; Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: t liishopsqate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
j SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
| Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
| Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
, Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, 12,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765 assuring £24,735,171.
Amounls paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
ICIT YMUTpL^IRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ItOlSl'lllT KRIIR, 'Manaqhik.
In orderto introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia, we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver
Keyless Hunter Watches,
I LADIES’ or GENTLEMEN’S, to every reader who sends
! the Correct Reading of the above puzzle.
CONDI I’IONS. —That your answer to the Puzzle is
! Coned, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
j purchase one of our SOLID SILVER SINGLE OK
j DOUBLE CHAINS. Send Stamped Addressed Envelope
for reply.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n?brocatiop.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrus & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
MEDIC, 11,984 tons, October
AFRIC, 11,916 tons, November
And will be followed by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, Bent Street, SYDNEY.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 1-5 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
fO'jlwraith.lirEacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
MUwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
WILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
Interests, and ADVANCE! MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriebe.
Consulting Engineer:
Secretary:
A. T. Brown.
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
THOMAS McINEKNEY,
Metallurgist, Engineer, etc., etc.,
39 REGENT STREET, PADDINGTON.
Written Credentials may be had at a moment’s notice.
Personal reference kindly permitted by Thos. Buckland,
Esq., Equitable Buildings; Dr. R. Read ; W. Longworth,
Esq., Rushcutter’s Bay; Thos. Longworth, Esq., Cobar.
COX ON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY .
ft— NS
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Ooxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
V T ox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4'6,
6/6, 10/6, 12,6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out. of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MM IT HSI).
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE "i
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE V,
And OULF PORTS 1
ESPERANCE BAY J
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Oct. 20.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, Oct. 24.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
October 20.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, October 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday,
October 20.
Best <(; Cheapest Route to Got<lJiet<ls.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A. U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. Y 1)1 1,1, and CO., I/ri)., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 6b to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Pares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s |Jine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA '
Queensland Forts and Fort Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following’ FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
MEN MUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing' Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.L.
j^ORDDEUTSCHER
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,96 Q
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons' cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI- Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS -Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornianton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger A ccomniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine inirir.it/ed.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE - A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREM ANTLE and PERTH 1). Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


IFIROSIE’IECTTTS
OF THE
Spring- Creek Gold Dredging Co-
NO LIABILITY.
Capital: £20,000, in 40,000 Shares of 10s. each.
Provisional Directors : Hon. DAVID HAM, M.L.0.; THOMAS HARVEY, Esq.
Consulting Engineer: J. W. H. PIPER, Esq., 0.E., &c., &c.
Bankers: ENGLISH, SCOTTISH and AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD., MELBOURNE.
Solicitors: CLEVERDON and FAY, 125 Queen-street, MELBOURNE.
Brokers- (MELBOURNE) JOHN S. REID, Queen-street; E. L. and 0. BAILLIEU, Collins-street-.
(SYDNEY) SOUTAR and HOARE, Pitt-street.
Manager (pro tem.) : PERCY P. COOK, 375 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Objects of the Company.
This Company is being formed to acquire, dredge, and work a good area situated on Spring Creek, and
known as Novvland’s Backwater, New England District, New South Wales, consisting of 100 acres or thereabouts,
of gold-bearing alluvial flats.
Report by JOHN W. H. PIPER, of the firm of Cut-ten Brothers, which speaks for itself :
“ I have visited and examined your dredging property on Nowland’s Backwater, New England, New South
Wales, and beg to report as follows :
“The property is situated about 25 miles from Guyra Railway Station, near the main road between that
station and Kookrabookra. It embraces 100 acres or thereabouts of th# creek and flat. The wash to be worked
is fine, being a granite-sand deposition. In a few places a little overburden exists, but there should be no dif-
ficulty’in dealing with it. , . . , ~ . j .* *u
“The bottom consists of a decomposed granite, and can be easily cleaned, up. At the time of my visit there
was sufficient water running for all purposes connected with dredging operations.
“I had no opportunity of testing the depth of the ground, but, judging from appearances and from informa-
tion gathered from local residents, I do not apprehend that the depth of the auriferous wash will exceed 16ft.
below the water-level. Many attempts, lam told, have been made to bottom on the fiats, but the water was
ever present. A portion of the banks have been worked by ordinary methods, with, I understand, good results,
but none of the workings have been conducted on a very extensive scale, mainly on account of the difficulty of
getting water at a sufficient elevation for slucing, the country having little natural fall. A party of Chinamen,
however, have worked, and are still working, in a very primitive way, an area on the left bank of the creek.
One of the party informed me that he made, on an average, about £2 per week, he having been on the ground
for about 11 years. , „ , „ , - ~ , ~, ,
“of the value of the auriferous contents there is no doubt. I saw three dishes of stuff washed, which yielded
about 9 grains—an average of 3 grains to the dish (about 15dwts. to the ton), but it must be understood that this
wash was taken from the bottom, where the same is exposed on the bank; however, it goes to prove the general
auriferous character of the ground. I also saw- many other prospects taken from different parts of the property, all
of which gave highly payable results. The gold is of a shotty character, and ‘good weighing.’ There is also a per-
centage of tin and gemstones, the latter being of no great commercial value. The tin will be recovered on the
tables'in the ordinary way. In conclusion, lam satisfied that the claim has been prospected sufficiently, and with
the evidence before me, I feel perfectly justified in asserting that your property will yield good returns, if properly
and intelligently worked.
“ There are no snags, growing timber, or large boulders on the whole area of your lease, and I understand the
creek is not subject to heavy floods, consequently dredging operations can be carried on without interruption.
“The wash being fine, and of no great dept-li, a constant quantity can be dealt with without the usual shocks
imparted to the gear by heavy and rough ground. The road is in fair condition, and I believe cartage is cheap.
There is abundance of firewood at hand. Suitable sawn timber, I understand, can be obtained locally at a cheap
rate. I would recommend a dredge of maximum capacity of 100 tons per hour. A dredge of this capacity would
cost about £5OOO. Your working expenses would be about £5O per week.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JOHN W. H. PIPER, M. Aus. 1., M.E., M. Am. 1., M.E.”
This valuable property will be worked for gold and tin by the modern and successful method of Bucket Dredging,
by which method gold to the value of one grain per ton—as stated by Mr. Jaquet, A.R.S.N., F.G.S., in his book issued
by the Mines Department of New South Wales- will cover all expenses, including management.
It is proposed to build a dredge on the bucket system, with a maximum capacity of treating one hundred (100)
tons per hour.
Allowing for the treatment of only half of the capacity of the dredge, say about 50 tons per hour, considering the
favorable nature of the ground to be worked this is a very moderate estimate. The dredge will t reat-7000 tons per week,
and on the lowest estimate a weekly gold yield of £350 may be looked for, and tin -.taking it at £BO per ton on the spot
—to the value of £62 per week, equal to a gross return of £412 per week, which, after deducting the working ex-
penses of £5O per week, leaves a net profit of £362 per week, or nearly £19,000 per annum.
With the above estimate of the profits, Mr. Piper concurs.
Special attention is drawn to the fact that this is all virgin ground which has never been bottomed owing to the
water, consequently the wash has never been depleted of its auriferous contents, but this will be entirely overcome
by the use of a dredge as proposed.
It will be noted that the ground to be worked is nearly all alluvial wash, there being very little overburden, only
a few inches in most places, and consequently the dredge will have little “ dead work ” to do.
It will also be noticed that the bottom being soft decomposed granite, the whole of the bottom wash can be
easily lifted by the dredge.
This property can be confidently recommended as a legitimate mining investment.
Financial.
To ensure ample working capital and speedily put the Spring Creek Gold Dredging Company upon a dividend
footing, the Vendors have decided to issue to the public 20,000 shares of 10s. each, payable 2s. Od. per share on appli-
cation, and 2s. 6d. on allotment; 20,000 shares fully paid up will be allotted to the Vendors in full payment of the
property.
The whole of the proceeds of the sale of shares will be placed to the credit of the Company, less brokerage and
flotation expenses.
As these shares will be simultaneously offered for subscription in Melbourne, early application is necessary.
Allotment will be made according to priority of application, the Directors having power to declare the list closed
at discretion.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
52
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting- the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. Gd. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
A. BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
THE
[Oilis’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0“U"l“S an d * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, laIMXTED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office - 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C
Tb? Royal Baijk of Australia Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE : MELBOURNE , VICTORIA.
TWENTY-THIRD REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 271 h October, 1899.
The Directors have pleasure in placing in the Shareholders’ hands the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of
Accounts to 30th September, duly audited and certified
The net profits (including £3040 10s. 9d. brought from last half-year) amount to £7,664 16 4
Out of which it is proposed
To pay the usual dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum ... 2,250 0 0
And to carry forward the balance £5,414 16
Shareholders will be pleased to notice that the steady improvement at all points manifested in recent balance
sheets is still maintained. The directors, while cordially acknowledging the assistance received in the past, would
remind shareholders that a continuance of that assistance is necessary to ensure the same satisfactory progress in i he
future, and they trust, therefore, that unremitting efforts will be made to influence to the bank desirable business,
either in the shape of deposits or sound advances.
By order of the Board, H. T. WILSON, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT. u , , onn
Melbourne, 7th October, 1899.
To the Shareholders of the Royal Bank of Australia Limited.—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the half-year ending 30th September, 1899, and
that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the balance-sheet and accounts have been drawn up in
accordance with the provisions of the “ Companies Acts,” and present a correct view of the state of the company’s
affairs.
THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A., ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.1.A.V., Auditors.
Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
BALANCE SHEET.
TIIE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Dr.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1899.
Or.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
To capita] authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4 each ..
To Capital subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares , ...
Capital paid up
Reserve fund
Profit and loss account ...
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Government deposits
To Other deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
2,400,000 0 0
600,000 0 0
150,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
7,664 16 4 £ 8. d.
162,664 16 4
6,882 0 0
40,158 3 5
... Nil.
122,600 11 4
245,615 19 4
363,216 10 8
Interest accrued on deposits and rebate on
bills current 2,904 16 9
530,826 7 2
Contingent liabilities as per contra
118,637 0 0
ASSETS.
£ 8. d.
By coined gold and silver and
other coined metal 34,641 1 2
~ Notes and bills of other
banks and stamps ... ... 693 7 5
~ Balances due from other
banks 7,734 6 3
~ Cash at bankers 71,098 5 6
~ Bank furniture, fitting’s, stationery, &e.,
at cost, less £452 written off for depre-
ciation
~ Real estate, consisting of —
Bank premises
Other real estate at cost to bank after
writing off £11,065 for depreciation
~ Advances exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts
~ Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included above, exclu-
sive of provision for bad and doubtful
debts
Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent lia-
bilities as per contra
£ s. d.
114,167 0 4
450 0 0
Nil.
15,579 3 7
367,944 1 0
82,686 2 3
580,826 7 2
118,637 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent and other charges 2,679 13 8
~ Balance ... 7,664 16 4 j
10,290 10 9
By Balance at 30th March, 1899
~ Less dividend declared 26th
April, 1899 2,250 0 0
„ Less carried to reserve fund 5,000 0 0
7,250 0 0
Balance carried down £3,040 10 9
Profits for the half-year after deducting
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts 7,303 19 3
£10,344 10 0
£10,344 10 0
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
... 6,000 0 0
£6, 000 0 0
By Transfer from profit and loss account ... 5,000 0 0
£5,000 0 0
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE— Our ONLY Australian. Address —9O KING STREET, SYDNEY.
LATEST NOVELTY.
Solid Gold
Pin, Chain, Heart, Bell and
Lucky Bean, 7s 6d.
a
Novelty Music Brooch,
Solid Gold 10s ; Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
519
Luck.v
Moonstone.
Latest
Novelty.
BUTTERFLY BAR BROOCH, 6s 6d.
ONE.
Solid Gold Cross, Ali>j ah and Ivy, 12s 6d.
3 Luckv 15 Us, Chain and Bamboo, 10s 6d.
2 Gold Bars, set with 2 Diamonds, 17s 6d
2 Gold Doves
and Heart, 8s 6d.
16c. 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 12s.
Please send
for our
Illustrated
Slips of
Novelties.
POST
FttEE
Garnet PENDANT
and Gold Bird
SAFETY PIN, 6/6.
Bird Safety Pin,
9c. Gold, 3s.
Silver Gilt, Is 3d.
REGISTERED.
lUf'
BROOCHES.
Sterling- Silver, 3/6.
Solid Gold, 13/6.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2/6.
Solid Gold, 12/6.
Soliu ,uver HAT PINS,
Length, 7in.
Any Initial, 3s. each.
COMBINATION BROOCH, BOOMERANG
and FEDERATION PENDANT.
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid
Silver,
Extra
Heavy,
7s. 6d.
Solid Gold
and
Shark’s Tooth
Pendant
BROOCH,
13s 6d.
Solid Gold
Mounted
Shark’s Tooth
PENDANT,
6s 6d.
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue
Stones, 21s.
Merry Thought SAFETY PIN BROOCH,
With Whole Pearl, 8 6 each.
16c. 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 25s ;
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
15c. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds & 1 Rubj',
or 2 Diamonds &
1 Sapphire, 30s.
m.
V;*j
Gold, Vicu t Bell, 10s 6d; 3 Mlfl2s 6d.
Silver, with 1 Bd|, 3s 6r | . 3 BellSj 4s 6d
4
(aiteiSiiii
150. 5 Diamonds and 2 Rubies, Sapphires,
or Opals, 70s.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
THE REMARKABLY PERFECT Dust-prooi
Oil-retainino- Bearings that ate a feature ol the
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE make it the Easiest-
running' of Man-propelled Machines, just as it is
the Handsomest.
factories— Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin. Brisbane, Adelaide.
Ai?en<-ies almost everywhere. Art, Catalogue posted free on application.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH'
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUiD
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents f>r New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
*C 'St£» h£ St M
K
k
k
k
K
k
The CRIMSON BICYCLE.
evert/ Cnrtjsorj W/jee/ is eifljer a F&JED SffflD}
Or else it is eu .cn.ouring to slei-rh ride on Red Bird reputation. Don't be deceived into buy in x■>
•icyele “as - ood as,’’ and refuse any but tbe real tiling itself; repair shops and village smithies now
mike bicycles. At least they buy a set of lit tines for a few shilliu.s and put them together. They
ook like cycles, but no experienced cyclist would rile one unless paid to do so
Don’t be led away by commission men who may try to sell you the products of repair shops and pluu ;li
dories. Buy a cycle of known quality made by a firm of S 3 years’ experience in building bicycles only.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed
ectories:—
Brantford, Canada.
I \jents—everywhere.
by
Cbe Goold Bicycle Co., £td.
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia.
261 CoLLINS-ST., Melbourne," Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
WHITE FOll CATALOGUE.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
On Caulfield meeting opening-day the mother-
province got first blood through tile Kogarah (Syd-
ney) trained colt Australian Star, which, starling
favoiite with 7.0 and Frank Fielder up, won rather
comfortably from Contrast and Dewey, as named.
Reported that owner tA. Golkfii), who refused 1500
v "rneas for his champion during A.J.C. Spring meet-
ing, has, since arrh ing in Melbourne, declined an advance
of 500 guineas. The Star’s latest win further endorses
the excellence of Mr. Gollan’s judgment.
* * * *
N.S.W., per medium of Hon. Geo. Lee's Bill of
Portland— Etraiveenm filly, Wigelmar, gotawa.v with Ihe
first important 2-year-old race of the season —the Debu-
tant Stakes—at Caulfield on Saturday. There were a lot
of well-bred ones in the beaten field. Wigelmar is full
sister to Merriwee.
* * * *
The Caulfield Guineas, run in rain and mud
(uncommonly black mud, toof was true to ils old tradi-
tions. Scorn, Ihe even-money favorite, held a position
where the splosh splashed thickest what time Treinarden
and Promontory were racing together in front of the
field. At the turn for home Treinarden began to get
awa.v from his co-leader, and then Scorn came along.
Given good gal I oping conditions, the favorite might have
been fast, enough to heat Treinarden -as it was, he made
up a lot of sticky ground and finished an imposing
second, Promontory third, and none of the others any-
where in particular. The Guineas race leaves one with
the impres-ion that Scorn has a boss chance in the Derby,
and Treinarden may go near it. Lancaster is probably a
“flat-catcher,” ami the handsome Gungadiu, who ran
bai 11v on Saturday, looks somewhat soft. The writer
prefers Parthian to the S.A. colt.
• * * •
If Lochaber hadn’t been scratched for the Caul-
field Cup writer would have expected hint to run well,
and he would have started at fairly reasonable odds,
whereas the more popular fancies are already at a false
price, considering the history of the race. ’ Nothing is
worth backing for a Caulfield Cup at less than 10 to 1.
Last, year The Bulletin fancied a 10 to 1 chance in Reka.
Well, Iteka and half-a-dozen other horses came to awful
gri- f at the first turn, and the catastrophe spoilt the pio-
spects of some that didn’t actually fall.
The Chief and Merriwee have also had the pen
run through their names, but taking a little lot of alleged
dangerous ones—RTk llammerhaiid, Town Clock,
Gnullo, Mora, Scorn, La Carabine, Dewey, Blun-
denr, and Egypt the writer risks the opinion
that Dirk llammerhaiid and Town Clock are not
quite good enough at the weights, though S.A.
seems to he swearing by massive, slmwy Dirk. The mare
Gnullo is slippery, but 1A miles is a longer journey than
she likes. Blunderer and Egypt are possible winners
“on paper.” Mora, Scorn, Dewey, and La Carabine have
undeniable chances, as chances go in a bumping, fouling,
blocking race like Caulfield Cup. AH the same, this
doubtful prophet places
La Carabine
Scorn
Dkwky
Mora
reserving the right to turn the “ tip ” upside-down after
the race.
• * * »
At time of writing, Egypt, so wc-ll supported
for Caulfield Clip, is said to lie amiss, but report lacks
substantiation. Ownei Miller declares he has not backed
the nag for a cent. Tom Pay ten vows that not a peimv
of bis has gone on Dewey, and “Teddy” Knight still
says he will scald) Mora owing to the commission being
“ blocked ”by the books shutting flown, if any one of
the three go it will be bad indeed for the poor punter,
but if the lot fail to line up then there will he lamenta-
tion in the land. Mora’s owner admits having, secured a
few hundreds, so the chances are he will have a “ cut ”
for that as well as the prize, which is a very big plum,
and something Mr. K. will not let slip if he can help it,
or the writer is very much mistaken in his man.
• » * *
First N.S.W. two-year-old race of the season
was run at Rosehill on Saturday, and fell to Monaghan’s
colt, Gonaro. which started at 5 to 2, and performed
most promisingly. He had a lot of ground to make up
at the finish, and settled down to his lask more like a
veteran than a youngster. Gonaro hails from Tocal
(N.S.W.), and is by Medallion from Happy Moments.
A Sydney sporting-sheet, published on Satur-
day morning, tipped the first four winners at Rosehill on
Saturday.
* * • •
Major Thompson—representing British War
Dept. —is visiting N.S.W. with a commission to purchase
2000 horses, wanted for the Transvaal; and local horse-
breeders are considering how far they can put up prices
without losing the I usiness. There isn't much in horse-
breeding unless you can get about- ±l5 per head ; the ex-
penses are numberless, like ihe worries. Horse-transport
is an art in itself, and the thousands that have gone
to India have shown a big percentage of loss. The
biggest shipment to England was Galvayne’s 102
four years ago. He had bad luck crossing the
Bight, hut the rest of the trip only cost him half-a-
dozen. When yon do get to England the mat ket is worth
the pains. Lord Hindlip’s four averaged 1250 apiece
he nitisfrhave cleared JE3OO or ±4OO for his two months’
l rouble.
* * » *
A new use lias been found for a Premier and a
principal Minister of State. The announcement of Ihe
results of the N.S.W. Eight-Hour lott,erv is followed by a
certificate, signed by bytte and O’Sullivan, that, “ we per-
sonally scrutinised every ticket and mat hie drawn, and
everything was conducted wi It ab-olute fairness, and all
arrangements are perfect, and reflect credit on the com-
mittee.” And still “Tutt s.” is banished to Tasmania.
• * • •
Champion pigepn-niatoh, at Yass (N.S.W.), on
12th insl., between “ Child.” Gorrick and C. Massy, caused
a flutter in sporting circles. Stakes were 1 100 a-side and
100 birds. Massy was favorite, oorrick lost three in first
10(twofalli g out of hounds); Massy missed lltli, Gor-
rick 14th. Another deatl beyond l.mit a.-ainst Massy.
Both lost 22ml round. Gorrick came with clean run of
13(10 first barrel). Massy let 27th and 31st go, while 30th
fell outside. 36th too good for Gorrick. Level pegging
now. Gorrjck failed with 33th. Massy grassed nine in
suceessi in ; Gorrick one less. Massy nt’ssed 451 li, and
4Sth dropped over the line. Gorrick s 47th got away.
Half through journey, scores were : Massy 42, Gorrick 41.
Here local man (Massy) ran up 22. Gorrick lost 52nd and
60th, and had hard luck with 67th and 73rd. At 75 birds,
Massy was four to the good. Latter’s 76t.1t bird settled
over boundary ; another followed quickly. Gorrick set a
go of 15, then Massy went four better, and, later, killed
his 96th, and won—BB to 84. Birds were, as a rule,
clinkers. Luck favored neither man. Massy brought 59
down with first barrel, and Gorrick 54. “Loeksley”
(Wyalong, N.S.W.) is now matched with the champion.
* * * *
S. Australian enthusiasts in pigeon-homing are
busy breaking Melhonrne-to-Adelaide records. So far no
bird has got home on the day of its release, though
lately a couple tossed at 6.60 a.m. on Monday turned up
at 10.20 a.tn. on Tuesday. By the way, carrier pigeons
released by the Govt, lifeboat service took to Adelaide
the first official news of a recent wreck outside Port
Lincoln.
Alluring wire from Cooma, N.S.W.: English
trout are being caught in Snowy River, at Buckley’s
Crossing, with ordinary hand-lines and worms for bait.
One recently taken weighed 4|lh.”
• • • *
There was a record attendance at N.SAV.
Bowling Association’s annual meeting on Friday last,
evidencing the boom in howls. 168 voted on the question
of altering the present system of playing pennant-
matches.
* * * *
Sydney ’99-1900 swimming season began with
a big splash last Saturday ; eight clubs in different
quarters had handicaps on and 300 swimmers competed.
Sydney is to he the venue of the interprovincial cham-
pionship meeting second week in coining January.
Teams from all provinces and M.L. will take part.
* « * »
“Natator”: I see that the English Swimming
Association has passed Australian Fred Lane’s w orld s-
record (2inin. 38 l-ssec.) for 220yds., Derbyshire’s Imin.
33 4-ssee. for Ifoyds., Jarvis’ mile (25inin. 13 2 ssec.) and
1000yds. (llir.in. lOsee.). All three are to get commemo-
rative gold medals. Also notice that, the ’Ome governing
body has gone into the.question of “Mud” Bishops
straightway world's record (lniin. 1 3 ssec.), put up at
Cockatoo Island, Sydney, when he (Bishop) heat Lane
just prior to latter's departure—and decided, that, they
would pass it. The matter was remitted- for English
authorities’ consideration because of discussion here as
to whether a strong wind blowing behind the swimmers
aided them or not.. Decision says it didn’t, but writer
would like to bet his kit that it did:
* * * *
English files tell that a team swimming race—
England v. Australia—had been arranged for Sept. 30.
Jarvis and Derbyshire (the best two at Ome) were to
oppose Australians Fred. Lane and Jack Heliums. It
was agreed that Jarvis and Lane should swim 264yd5.,
and the other two half that distance. Which looks like
a good thing for this section’s reps.
« • * •
Adelaide Oval authorities are laying down a
cycle track, three laps to the mile and hanked in parts
Bft., which will he the best, in Australia. The track,
to be completed in Feb., will cost Tiearly ±2OOO.
• * * »
The League of Queensland Wheelmen lost illso
over the recent race-meeting, and the League is just
about ruined thereby. The cyclists did not advertise
freelv, and the whole sporting press, has risen as one out-
raged rag to remark that the omission was the.cause of
the downfall. Quite true. We (the Press) are a great
institution, and must be boosted up.
» * » *
Several of the Sydney Sailing Clubs postponed
Saturday’s fixtures out of respect to the memory of Mr.
George Hellings, who died suddenly during the week.
George Hellings was as well known about Sydney as
George Reid, as, in addition to having been identified
with Port Jackson aquatics since he was old enough to
handle a bailer, he sang a splendid comic soifg, and was
as much sought, after in one respect as the other. George
(erstwhile president of the old Canvas Dingy Club) came
of an aquatic family, his father, Mr. “Dick” Hellings,
having been the crack yacht-sailer of the harbor'in the
palmy days of the Xarifa, Australian, Minstrel, and
Magic. His brother “Jack,” now in England, is the
crack 100-yards swimmer, and the baby of the family,
Syd., knew no peer in Port Jackson as a rowing coxswain
when a youngster.
* * * •
Boat-sailing seems to he the one sport in which
the aphorism “youth must be served ” does not apply,
“ Geordie ” Ellis, who was boat-sailing before many of t he
fal hers of the present generation of tiller-handlers were
born, is still top of the tree, and on Saturday, in a spank-
ing north-easter, sailed the Keriki to victory in the first
handicap of Sydney Sailing Club’s season. “ Nick ’’
Johnson put the Effie in the “gutter” when holding
second place on the run home.
*** . *
The fight between Tim Murphy (champion
middle-weight of Victoria) and Bill Jennings, at Golden
Gate Club, Sydney, on Saturday night, was the fiercest
seen there between top-notchers. Both fought like
tigers but withal fairly—throughout. Murphy—clean-
built, long-limbed, and nearly Oft. high —looked the ideal
boxer. Jennings-thick-set, heavy-browed, and mus-
cular—was the I’.R. fighter. A veritable glutton, all
through his career, for punishment, Bill demonstrated
that that capacity was with him to as great an extent as
ever, but he lacked condition - had too much under his
waist-hand. From the jump they were at close quarters
—in-fighting is Jennings' game, and his only - chance
against a long-readied man of Murphy’s stamp. Latter
never evaded the challenge, but stood" up and gave and
took in a manner that made the oldest ring-goers
(there were dozens of them outside the ropes)
hold their breath in amazement. Jennings smothered
mostly ; Murphy swung, hooked and uppercut at
long range, hut dozens of these went round former’s neck
as he ducked-in to avoid. Jennings was cunning; lie
“crowded” his man whenever opportunity allowed, and
forced the whole of his (Jennings’) greater weight upon
him. Third and fourth rounds were a revelation, bull-
pups couldn't have got to it more determinedly, a <1 the
referee had a hot time forcing them asunder. Shoulders,
arms and face of each were smeared with gore. Jennings
bled freely from an old wound"'opened in his forehead
through violent contact- with Tim’s head. Carmine:
flowed copiously - from Murphy’s nose, hung round his
neatly-trimmed moustache, ynd filled lus mouth. Both
men were dead weak in the fourth 3mins., and, for a
while, Jenmngs looked like coming out atop, but Tim
braced up and sent, in several frame-shaking slabs on the
“ mark,” and two or three smashing half-arm hooks on
the ribs th it rattled Bill from neck to heel. Jennings
gradually weakened, and, hands and condition going hack
on him, he had perforce lo erv enough in his corner after
the sixth round, a batlly-hroken-up man.
* * » »
“Old Timer”: Saw Vic. Tim Murphy shape
with 81l Jennings on Saturday night. Though a fighter
through and through, Murphy makes one serious mistake
—t' at guard-arm rarely leases the vicinity of the waist.
He relies wholly upon long reach and gi o I foot-work ; a
man with a left such as Dooley’s, or the one Peter Jackson
used to own, would have it in Tim’s face always. Some
talk of Mick Dunn and Murphy fighting for middleweight
supremacy of the continent'; if they do meet, Mick’s
sinister member-will play a prominent part, hut I am
afraid Tim is too lusty and aggres-ive. The crowd hoo-
hooed Murphy several times for siriking vvhen one of his
arms was held by Jennings, and again when Jennings
clinched and Murphy did not. All this was fair, ami
shows how little the general run of boxing-patrons
know about the rules. One who has both arms free, or
one arm imprisoned bv his opponent, may hit as much as
lie likes ; idea is to prevent a beaten man from clinching
or holding to avoid trouble.
** ■ «
The .Tack Conlon-Miok Dunn battle at Alham-
bra A 0. (Sydney) last Wednesday night for the middle-
weight premiership of N.S. Wales was a big disappoint-
ment. Conlon undoubtedly funked before putting his
hands up, and became worse afterwards as Dunn’s piston-
rod-like left kept jabbing him in the mouth. Both kept
off each other (Dunn extra-careful and Cordon only too
gl ul to be as far away as possible) so much that many
looking on yelled “ fake ” and hooted. There wasn’t the
semblance of crookedness about it ; odds of 7 to 4 were
actually laid on Conlon to a pretty fair tune by his chief
hacker. In round 3 both let the right fly at same time ;
Dunn’s made impact first, and Conlon swaved for several
seconds, hut Dunn, instead of going in to finish the job,
held off, remembering that others had been caught at Ihe
same game—notably Choynski when he fought Fitzsim-
mons in Boston (U.S. A.). Later, Conlon pulled himself
together,and swinging the right promiscuously—a regular
blind-eyer—reached the point. Dunn now rocked and
twice fell in on his adversary to avoid a finisher getting
home. Conlon, apparently thinking it all “kid,"’ kept away
till Dunn recuperated and owned the situation, for Jack's
resistance was very feeble afterwards—he went down half-
a-dozen times in Ihe sixth tsound and was ultimately
counted out without being knocked out. Remembering
Conlon’s great fight with Captain s Flat miner Dan O'Con-
nell and bow he (Conlon) got up after taking a fearful
blow on the back of the neck—which all the spectators
thought had paralysed him—and then won, writer cannot
fathom why he showed the white feather with Dunn,
except it be that latter's four-continent reputation was
too much. Conlon promised well—looked the figluer—
seemed to have the necessary instincts. But he’s prob-
ably out of the game now for good anil aye.
*•< • * *
“Albnry”: Re Bulletin par (7/10/'00) anent
Jack O'Brien (“ Albur.v s Pride”) and Otto Cribb. We
repudiate insult cast upon our town. Saw “Albur.v'’
Clifford (1 (Ist. odd) give O’Brien all he wanted —and more
—in a 4-round bout at Albnry ; and feel sure there are
dozens of domestic servants here who could each Lck
him with a dish-cloth. For Heaven’s sake, don't start
us in the race for Fame handicapped with O’Brien.
**. * *
There were some big scores last Saturday in
Sydney premier cricket. R. A. Duff topped the poll with
145. B. W. Farquliar came next with 141, and W. Bell
put together 115 ; but perhaps the most popular score of
the day was Central Cumberland skipper Loveiidge’s
75, which, following on the previous Saturday's score of
41, looks as if his last season’s drought of runs has broken
up. N. Sydney v, Leichhardt lost eight, wickets for 305
runs; Central Cumberland Burwood closed the day’s
play with 315 for four wickets ; South Sydney v. Redfern
totalled 165; Glebe disposed of Waverley for 185 ; and
E. Sydney performed splendidly with the hall by dispos-
ing of the Paddington Club for ‘.2 >, Colreavy securing
six wickets for 65 runs, among them being the two Alecs.
—Baimerman and Mackenzie.
» * * *
“ Cricket ” (Childers, Q.) : Batsman is out.
* • » *
“ What the South of England failed to do at
Hastings,” writes Tiik Bulletin s London correspondent,
“ in the final match of the tour, three Austral ex-Gover-
nors and others effected at the Inns of Court Hotel last
night, and fairly routed the ‘Darlings.’ It was a great
night for Australia, and a topper on a marvellous record
tour. The occasion was an invitation banquet given by
some mysterious admirers, through Frank Blackley, the
hostel’s manager and an ex-ARGCS scribe, and ’twas a great
night. The rufous and rubicund Lord Jerseyspread bin seif
in and out of the chair and over the hall, ilis left leg was
supported by Lord Carrington ‘Smith ' and dear old Gov.
Loch. ’Enniker Eaton, Dr. Coburn, of S.A., and several
‘Sirs’ were in the background. On the ‘off’ Joe Darling
and his men. Jersey is a charming old grotesque, and
he made a capital ‘ wiv-me-’ammer-in-me-’aiid.’ Car-
rington’s speech was astonishingly rattling, and
he dragged in a faithful friend and admirer when
referring to some titles bestowed upon him by the London
press years agone such as ‘ignoramus,’ ‘Balaam,’
‘cheeky whig peer,’ &e.—he said, ‘the attack, in tact.,
was strong enough to be worthy of the Sydney Bulletin.’
How the Mt. Rennie iron has entered his soul, and how
cramped its lodgings must he! Darling made a neat
little speech, and, with the worries of captaincy rele-
gated to his cricket-bag, he is quite a new and proud
man. ‘ Boh’ Cunningham ably engineer'd a programme
of variety in which many oid pals, including Charley
Warner, Ada Reeves, Bert Gilbert, Lempriere Pringle,
and Slade Murray took a hand. The P. of W. and 170
dukes, earls, and other unemployed sent cheap telegrams
of precious good wishes, and the wine-bearers waltzed
quick and lively all the time.
“In numerous ways the tour” (continues our
correspondent) “ has been a necklace of records. In 35
matches Darling lost the toss 21 times. In 15 consecutive
matches he only won it once. No Austral team has ever
suffer'd more from dropsy where ‘catches’ were con-
cerned. At Canterbury 13 were dropped, and Kent
dropped on the victory. Darling, within 5!) of his 2600
runs, breaks all records, and well has he done the smash-
ing. His .167 at Hastings before the curtain fell was a
magnificent, display, after four months’ hard play. He
hit, 28 fotirers, and did not give a possible until 150 was
totalled. It was far and away his finest innings this trip.
Laver’s 60 covered him with glory and pul him sixth in
the averages—a modest, gentlemanly cricketer with ihe
heart of a boy a d the pluck of two men. The ‘deadly-
earnest." Noble has been disturbed by no concatenat ion
of disasters at any time throughout the tour. Silent
and solid, his hypnotised indifference to barrackers
or bowlers has made him a pillar of granite to
his side and an always -to- be - reckoned • with item.
No man ever played the game for his country
more thoroughly than M. A. Noble since King Billy
with a boomerang hit a waddy-head. bowled by King
Jimmy, into Kooyong Creek for 40. The loss of Clem.
Hill's services since June has been most serious, and with
Iredale's illness, Worrall s cronk leg, and Syd. Gregory
not the Syd. of old, has undoubtedly heavily weighted
the team. Grace won the toss in the la-t. match and put
‘ the others ’ in. asking Joe what he’d ’a done. ‘Gone
in,’ said Joe, and it turned out all right. Trumble is per-
haps the marvel of them all. Head of the bowling—l 42
wickets at 18‘43 each and 27'51 with the hat (opening
each innings) is not too had fora veteran bowler. Jones
sadly soliloquises that he will be no good three years
hence, but be never has bowled more fiercely, nor so well,
in bis life before. Trump r a gem, Worrali the chief run-
foreer, and cruelly-unfortunate Charley M'beod are
others of a team on whose like we may never look again.”
* • • •
An English clip:—“Merman is an equine
oddity. A week before the iace for Liverpool Clip he was
described as a most debilitated specimen of his kind ;
after Goodwood few con’d be found.lo dispute his rank as
one of the finest stayers in England. The cause of his
defeat in the race for Liverpool Cup was, I feel certain,
not. embodied in the horse himself. Bluntly, this means
that he was not. allowed to show his true form, and those
who are inclined to quarrel with the opinion are at
liberty to do so. There are more things in racing than
are dreamt of in our philosophy. Bui it. was not to point,
a moral that I took Merman in hand. The horse is now
well, and he assists to illuminate ihe barrenness of our
own country in the mat ter ot stayers. The horses we
have at. the present, moment that are capable of getting-
two miles are as slow as a South-Eastern express. What
are the reasons? Is our climate against ns? If so, how
can we hope to breed and perpetuate stamina even from
Australian blood ? I am convinced that notin climate hut
in system is the solution of the riddle to be found. The
subject is a valuable one, and it will keep. I shall return
to it anon.”
* * » •
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people cither going themselves or sending their
families lo the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest lias begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables -plate,
jevvt lh ry, papers, etc. —at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street, (hack of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin, readers to
call and inspect (lie massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upbii reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
at rates.*
* * * *
The recent one-mile Australasian championship
was won by VV. Martin (on Dunlop Lyres).
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Files, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
The Aust. contingent will be off to the
war directly, and every bold warrior of it is eager
to get to the front. Which is just the position the
London and American Supply Stores, Bourke-st.,
Melb., has already attained. They have pushed
to the front in their business by proving to the
public they can supply durable, stylish goods, in
all lines of gentlemen’s wear, at the lowest priee.s.
Write for catalogue to L. and A. Supply Stores,
Bourke-st., Melb.*
Drake, M.L.A., knocked the wind clean
out of Premier Dickson’s “ patriotic ” offer of
wairiors by pointing out that, the whole thing
was illegal. Queensland troops are sworn for
service in Australia only, and if volunteers do not
step forward Dickson will be in the ludicrous arid
humiliating position of having offered 250 alleged
men who can’t be found, and Chamberlain will be
in the position of having accepted 250 alleged men
v ho don't exist.
The Dickson Ministry trembled severely
on the Transvaal vote. Had Opposition Leader
Dawson’s amendment simply expressed disappro-
val of the Premier's unconstitutional action in
offering troops without the consent of Parliament,
many malcontents would have crossed the floor
and voti d the Government down. The amend-
ment erred through excess—in inviting Parlia-
ment to repudiate Dickson’s accepted offer.
, Gillott's supporters in the Melb. mayoral
fight were confident that McEaeharn would be
elected only on bis own casting-vote, but the
absence of fevers, a councillor claimed by the
Gillotites, led to the kilted Cockney mayor
entering upon his third year of office by 13 votes
to 12. Had he been called upon to elect himself
on the casting-vote, it was McEacharn’s intention
to do so, and then immediately resign. The
sys.em of electing a mayor by a ballot-vote of
aldermen and councillors is a big mistake, and
opens the door to all sorts of crookedness.
The new Bird-Lewis Ministry (Tas.) has to
battle from the start. Lands Minister Muloaliy
is being opposed for Hobart by Norman Cameron,
M.H.A. for Dejoraine, the man who tracked
down ex-Works Minister Miles. The Cameron
resigns his Deloraine seat to fi jhtMulcahy, partly
because he doesn't like the latter, and partly from
pique at not being offered a portfolio in the new
Ministry. As Hobart electors haven’t had time
to forget the plucky Cameron’s services, the battle
may go hard with Mulcahy.
The downfall of the Q. Ministry may be
expected at any moment. Dickson has no control
over his supporters and his dazzling egotism and
arrogance are spreading contempt among his
party. The haughty ex-auctioneer has lost his
head and sees visions of Federal distinction and
titles and other far-off things. A cave with
C. B. Forrest at its head, and encouraged by
Dawson and Drake, will probably do the trick
before many weeks are passed. Dickson has no
influence in office; out of office he is utterly
impotent.
Whenever a demand for increased expen-
diture has been made of late in Q. Public Works
Department, the cry of economy has been effectu-
ally used to block the outlay, lint admiration for
the Dickson Govt.'s prudent thrift in this respect
was largely wasted. It came out in Parliament
the other day that the Transvaal contingent, now
in course of preparation, will cost Queensland for
a six months’ campaign at last <£32,000. This in a
land, too, that has for years been furiously
retrenching its Civil Service and calling upon the
uni vei se to note bow nobly it practises frugality
and self-denial. And the reward of this loyalty
to the Empire? A title next birthday for Jimmy
Dickson, one of the noble pillars.'and buttresses
that prop the Imperial temple of J. Bull. This
birthday bauble business is going to be a costly
thing for the Australian tax-payer, an.! very soon
the only safe policy will be to remorselessly fling
out every politician who gets decorated or who
sho vs the least inclination to move in that
direction.


A COOKERY BOOK FREE.
We have just received a copy of a cookery book
entitled “ Everybody's Cookery ” published by the
liile Bean Manufacturin''’ Coy. This production
is gotten up in a really first class manner, and has
32 pages. The recipes have been prepared by one
of Australia’s first chefs, and the cost of each
dainty dish is the lowest possible, combining
economy with excellence, so that the book is
equally, useful to the poor as well as the rich.
Some thousands have been printed, and the Bile
Bean Manufacturing Company offer to send a, copy
to any address, free of charge, on the condition
that you mention the name of this paper when
writing, enclosing a penny stamp to pay the
postage. Address Bile Bean Manufacturing Coy.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney. The busy housewife will
find this publication well worth procuring, and
when writing for same, don’t forget to mention
the name of this paper.*
The little township of Beaufort (Vic.) en-
joyed itself last week in celebrating the return of
Thomas Ord, from Ballarat, without a stain on
his character. Also, the local population de-
rived much satisfaction from hooting the police-
man who had been responsible for the other
Hlow’s journey, and taking one thing with
another, The Bulletin reckons that Beaufort
(Vic.) was expressing a lot of public sentiment all
round. Townsman Ord, it seems, was taken to
Ballarat to stand bis trial on a charge of in-
decently assaulting his domestic servant, Mary
Boyd. Mary told her little tale, and the prisoner
stated, on his own behalf, that the story was a
tissue of lies. In between the two principal
witnesses came a constable who gave evi-
dence to show how it happened that he came to
hear of the alleged outrage on Mary, concerning
which poor Mary had “made no complaint to
anyone.” In cross-examination, the constable
admitted that he and Ord had been on bad terms
for two years. Ord had once been guilty of
knocking him up in the small hours of the morn-
ing to bail out a prisoner, and he (X) had
threatened to take his disturber into custody for
breaking his night’s rest. “In consequence of
this accused (Ord) had reported him, and he was
warned by his superior officer to be more circum-
spect.” The Ballarat jury promptly voted Ord
not guilty. Perhaps the Vic. Crown Law Dept,
will now consider the case from a glaring-con-
spiracy standpoint.
rnim /V""\ d , S I, ‘ s °l'. ar S e O' - otherwise, perhaps sur-
round.d with inflammation anti swollen Mtat when you
fi " ge , r on ,* hs , (."flamed part it leaves the inipies-
tho JLH >?’ u " ller I tUe you iiavc 1 oisiin that defies alt
the remedies you liave tried, which, if not extracted, you
neter can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
£?“ eil,a P s y-ur Knees are twollen, tlie joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
mav bedtscuioured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
walk vi„ m ?Cn ,n " e «*» deprive you of the power to
®‘ij x° l nray have attended various hospitals and had
* *7- »", d l)ee ' l told your ease is hopeless, or
: i Sl0 „" b 'r'‘ 1 toau'Putu'ion ; but do not, for I CAN
Others l,„ r- 1 ,I , o v 1 sa - v 1 o,dla l )s ; hut l Wild,. Because
bend at o IIC e for 13 reaSoll for not now beil, B cured.
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and ITU-S,
ilSmlir certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
1 a Ids Tun \ n<?e ’ 1 Icerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Bu i,’,, ,1";“ r iV- Ahscesscs, Sore Tlnoat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Cnemists. Siore-
A?'BEKT ’ I "a Gr t? t I ? ri a , in - 1/14*1- per bx. Prepared bv
Aeents >Kt i'^m^,“ r . r >!l?i l ?"; str 1 iel ’ Jond °n. Ei gland,
look foi thnrn!,?} s y (l ' c.v. Purchasers ehou.d
the person «'ho is not a millionaire, there is
OXhY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ Kino; -street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Otfice.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Superior Board'ng Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
Uil.v. Within, three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mis. M'CLEM.AND
(nee IiOLGER).
“Imperial” Bicycles
(Tins GO-LTGTITLY KIN I').
Made by tlie celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels titled with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
<J. F. McDermott,
General Aifent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Victoria Racing Olulb.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY NOV. 4
ODP DAY ... NOV. 7
OAKS DAY... ... NOV. 9
STEEPLECHASE DAY... NOV. 11
Largest Entries ever received.
teW Accommodation for Thousands.
The conveniences for the comfort of visitors to
Flemington now surpass anything in the world.
Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S theatre. Sydney.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman, Treas., J. H. Moulrie.
EVERY EVENING, at 8; WED. AFTERNOON, at 2.
Will be Repeated
“TN€ CHRISTIAN.”
Adapted from Hall Caine’s famous novel by Mr. Wilson
Barrett, and re-arranged for Messrs. Williamson and
Mr.sgrove by Mr. Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
rj ItlT E It lON Til EAT It IC, SYDN E Y. _
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
“ LIGHTS O’ LONPON.”
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as ‘‘Harold Armvtage.”
Miss LILIAN WHEELER as “ Bess Marks.”
In Active Preparation—DßEYFUS CASE.
Prices: 35., 25., is. Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.65,
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.45.
*jtuTe would “renowned soprano
Mdlle. TREBELLI.
NOW TOURING THE COLONIES -
ADELAIDE—EarIy in October, •
BROKEN HlLL—Early in October.
SYDNEY-End of October and November.
T rCBUM TI r EATIt E, 8 YDN EY.
"*-* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING!
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
GRACIE WHITEFORD
GRACIE WHITEFORD
“Wh en the Lamps
are Lighted.”
By George It. Sims and
Leonard Merrick.
S 2&“ Success Complete and Assured.
Box Plan at Nicholson's. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
TN€ 60URU1YS.
Leaving 21sfc lust, for London.
We wish to thank Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY and
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON for their generous offer of
LYCEUM THEATRE for Benefit, which, we regret, we
could not take advantage of.
Goodbye, to all friends.
MaOd
The World-famous Australian Violinist.
“The Greatest Musical Genius Australia
has Produced.’’
AUSTRALIAN 83T“ Commencing SYDNEY, Wed.
Tour - - - 18th October.
JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
P ALAC E Tll I! Ai’ It I!. SYI)N E Y.
Mr. Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Coy.
lE*T LAST WEEK IN AUSTRALIA. LAST WEEK OP
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Gr. "W . Hu.nter-,
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, Paul Pelham, George C. Dean,
Wallace King, Arthur Hahn, J. Watts, Elsie Golding,
Neva Carr Glynn, Aif. Lawton.
POPE and SAYLES, and all our Double Company,
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
-OIJOU Til EATII F, MELBOURNE.
-*-* Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
- A GIGANTIC SUCCESS! A GREAT HIT
made by one of England’s Greatest Character Comedians,
Mr. TOM COSTELLO.
Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, YIRTO and IRENE,
Howard Chambers, Pred Duncan, Will Whitburn; Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, Frank
Rowen, Keenan Bros., Clias. W. Cogill, and- all our
Brilliant Co. Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre ho val, m klhoukne. '
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and. William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING !
Another Great Triumph of Genuine Dramatic Art,
The Merciless World.
A Play of Thrilling Incident and New and Startling
Mechanical Effects.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s,
pill NO ESS Til EAT If!', M EI, ISO URN E.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsgkove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST. TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“La Poupee.”
SATURDAY, October 21-“ MA MIE ROSETTE.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
BITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM l
THE MUSEUM!
THE F Eli A' EllY !
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
* Open 10 5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children - SIXPENCE.
ffgtllE
MELBOURNE CUP A
EXTRAORDINARY.
TTRACTION
FITZGERALD BROTHE RS’
Novelty Shows, Giro is and Menagerie,
- - - INCLUDING - - -
HAGENBECKS ANIMAL SENSATIONS.
LOCATION: FLINDERS STREET.
Opening Saturday, 21st October,
For a Season of
Three Weeks On T y!
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE SHOW OF THE CENTURY!
NOVELTIES FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD!
DAZZLING SENSATIONS and Entirely NEW PEOPLE.
The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act!
The Tiger Riding a Horse!
THE HIGHEST JUMPING HORSE IN THE WORLD
“ NEWHAVEN.”
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and One Stalling.
J. MORRIS, Aifenfc.
FRANK JONES, Press Rep.
*
m
v-
-7k*
>
THE
‘prnvroT’
ST £iV M
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEy
Sole PistribtitiQg AgeQt
for AOStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-205 Clarence Street , Sydney,
Business Announcements.
COLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
—Menacing Carnival.
Stainer(Jo.,
-MELBOURNE.
ISITORS to the MELBOURNE RACING
CARNIVAL will find us replete in ALL
DEPARTMENTS with the CHOICEST
Exclusive Novelties!
Personally selected for the CUP SEASON by
our Special Buyer.
-
MAGNIFICENT GOWNS
STAINER & CO.
EXCLUSIVE MILLINERY
' - STAINER & CO.
DELIGIITEUL BLOUSES
STAINER & CO.
ELEGANT LACE ROBES
STAINER & CO.
STYLISH PARASOLS
STAINER & CO.
CHARMING BLOUSE FRONTS
STAINER & CO.
CHOICE FEATHER BOAS-
STAINER & CO.
DAINTY TABATS and RUFFLES
STAINER & CO.
Exquisite CHIFFON and LACE SCARVES
STAINER & CO.
CHASTE BELT SETS STAINER & CO.
NEW TINTS IN GLOVES
STAINER & CO.
NOVELTIES IN HOSIERY
STAINER & CO.
STAINER & CO.
LADIES’ OUTFITTERS
DRAPERS and COSTUMIERS,
33, 35 Swanston-st., Melbourne.
lesson & go. [it,
Manufacturers of
Brass Band Instruments.
Trade Mark 4 ‘ Prototype.”
“HANDS and BANDSMEN residing in the
-D Colonies of
VICTORIA
TASMANIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Are hereby NOTIFIED that they can obtain
SUPPLIES of the aboveinentioued cele-
brated
“ Prototype ” Instruments
from the undersigned, who is the Authorised
Agent of
Besson & Co., Ltd.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
Catalogue forwarded on Application.
A. P SYKES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT IMPORTERS,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
SPRING & SUMMER FASHIONS
LADIES
Beautiful spring; and summer weather has come, and
ladies want to \v. ar something seasonable, pretty, and
coinforlahle. C. G. Halle s Home Buyers ha ve despatched
a large and choice assortment of some of the newest and
most fashionable {roods, which he is enabled to sell at
prices which are simply bargains. Von can fret not hing
better than the following, and will have to pay nearly
double the price anywhere else.
BLOUSES.
A Nice Assortment, all latest shapes, both Stripes and
Fancy Patterns, from 2s
White Muslin, elaborately trimmed with embroidery, 3/6
Fancy Muslin, in all colors, trimmed lace, 3 IX
SKIRTS AND COSTUMES.
Ladies’ White Skirts, trimmed frill and Torchon lace, 4 6
Sp end id variety of colored Zephyr Skirts, trimmed lace,
from 2s llj^d
Ladies’ Black Figured Lustre Skirts, full width, 4 11
Ditto ditto extra wide, 5/11
Ladies’ White Pique Skirts, latest shape, 4,6
Ditto superior (splendid value), 6 11
Ladies’ Norfolk Holland Costumes, from 7 11 to 18 11
~ Pique Eton Costumes, 15/6
i, Pretty Striped Cambric Costumes, for morning'
wear, 4 11
~ Lace Shoulder Capes, from 611
„ Lace Threequarter Capes, silk yoke, trimmed with
jet a'd ribbons, 16/11
Children’s Print Costumes, light and dark colors, 311
Boys’ Norfolk Coats, in fawn, navy, and butcher blue,
trimmed braid, 2 11)4
And everything in the way of Parisian Millinery,
Dress Materials—all that is latest and most fashionable—
AT
C. G. HATTIE,
NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining- passages. If this in-
flammation is not,arrested it invade.®
the passages which lead from the
nose to tiie head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bores of I he skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, nlso
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
MEDICATOR.
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neural sria, Couyhs, Colds,
lironchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Otiice. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non}* Catarrb C<ir€ Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
DIAMOND SONG BOOK,
800 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one bonk. National
Songs of every country, including WAlt, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Manv old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be bad else-
where. Complete li ;t of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent unvwhere for only 2s. 6d„ posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Ch unbars, 453 George street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Ald exchange to postal note;'. Agents wanted for this
And other East Selling Rooks. Mention this paper when writing.
yUNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
10 VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOR THEE”
Words by Edward Oxen ford ; Music by E. J
Emm brton. In Three Kevs—E flat, F, and G
Of all Music Dealers. VV. PAXTON, London
and M' lbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” P.F.
B.v Willie Pape. Played by special command of
their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
T [ ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and I’IANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Liable,”
_ .Diamonds.” “Luciezia Boryia,” “William
Tell, ‘ Faust,” “Un Ba'lo in Maschera,” if II Trova-
tore, ’ “ Les Husruenots.” Is. (id. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and .2o3 Swaxstox Street, MELBOURNE.
BY
royal warrant of appointment to
THE
QUEEN."
3dd
'* pCie
i joj y\s\L
SCHWEPPES
SOPRWATER, &c.
Ask for
Brapdy at)d
‘Scbweppe’
SUPPLIED
TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.


✓
Fixed Price, large Bottle, 5/6; small, 3/6; One Doz. large Bottles, 60/-.
Head Quarters
• . Institute
45-47 BoCirke Street, MclboGroe.
A REMEDY THAT CURES!
Once More I Offer the Public Proof.
READ THE TESTIMONIAL from A SYDNEY RESIDENT.
WHO IS WELL-KNOWN AND RESPECTED.
TRY VITADATIO TO-DAY AND LIVE.
490 Bourke-street, Surry Hills, Sydney, Sept. 5, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—Four years ago I was very bad ; in fact, I had to
walk with crutches. The doctors told me that I was suffering from
kidney and liver complaint, and weakness. He gave me some medi-
cine, but it did not do me any good. I saw in the paper about a
Mr. Stranger having been cured by “ Webber’s Vitadatio,” and I
decided to try it. I took four small bottles and one large one ; the
result was that in six weeks I was perfectly cured, and have thrown
away my crutches. After I commenced taking “Webber’s Vitadatio” I
gained Ist. weight in six weeks. From that time to this I have never
taken a dose of medicine, and I am perfectly cured of the old com-
plaint. When I took the medicine four years ago I was residing at
Macquarie-street, Hobart. I give this testimonial of my own free
will, and you are at liberty to publish it if you so desire.
Yours faithfully, W. R. HURBURGH.
Witness —W. B. Thomas, 387 George-street.
Has it never Occurred to you that ‘Vitadatio’
is a Genuine Remedy?
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL and THEN ACT PROMPTLY.
Dugan-street, Kalgoorlie, West Australia, Aug. 23, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Agent-General for Webber’s Vitadatio.
Dear Sir, —With pleasure I write to inform you of the good I
have derived from “Webber’s Vitadatio.” For many years I suf-
fered from hydatids, and a little over three years ago I underwent
two successive operations at the Hamilton Hospital, Victoria, the
doctors taking away “five quarts of hydatids.” Shortly after I
became ill again with a pain in my side, and after coming to Wes-
tralia the doctors informed me that I had another hydatid cyst, and
wished to operate on me. I decided to return to Victoria to be
operated on. It was then I saw “Webber’s Vitadatio ’’ad vertised,
and thought I would give it a trial, which I did, with the result that
the lump has entirely gone from my side, and that “I feel a new
man,” being better in health and strength than I have been for many
years. I shall only be too pleased to answer any inquiries made
about my case.
Yours faithfully, WM. J. TEMPLETON.
Witness—M. F. Smith, Kalgoorlie, W.A.
\...
m
-*—
Miss MAY SMITH.
Ladies, Read TbiS !
A Real, True, Genuine Blood Purifier and
Skin Medicine.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD FOR THE COMPLEXION.
To Mr. S. A. Palmer.—Dear Sir, —It is with great
pleasure that I add my testimonial to the many others you
have received about your wonderful herbal remedy, Vita-
DATio. For nearly two years I have suffered with an
eruption OF THE skin, and I have tried all sorts of
remedies without avail. After much persuasion I resolved
to try a course of Vitadatio, and I am thankful that I ever
did so, for the result has been beyond my expectations. My
friends cannot fail to notice the change that has taken
place in my skin. Hoping others may benefit by this.
I remain, yours sincerely, MAY SMITH.
46 Finlay-street, Albert Park. 15th July, 1899.
Branch Institutes at Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Wellington, N.Z.
DEPOTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES AND TOWNS, AND FROM
CHEMISTS AND GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
S. A. PALMER, Agent-General for Australasia.
Sydney Institute
- - - 184 PITT STKEET.
€1
tp
K
0
DRUG GO*
CXJT RA.TE
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Consulting- and
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE EOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, J6l; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON S
REINVIGrORATOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the hest nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering- from
nenousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &e., &c., and
has m'Vfer been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
• epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
• diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
.of these,indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
•unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity arid suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more'disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound,,and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-hound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion —Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering’ people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Re nvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
vlgorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &e., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results. —The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sien of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising iri the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigora or.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise vvorthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator atonce and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without'-one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
cont inuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
C rrent Conductors. By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like' magic, and its
comfort is known on y to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight, in gold. The
Ele; tro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat, and cure
everything. What, we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver arid stomach is one of the great,
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
durii g the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these lielts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among ail competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without, the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt -. Throw' off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life ’
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hughes’s Fitsepilep.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of-the a<re.
So successful h,as it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its~curative'effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid. Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for COKING HKMOKKHOIDS. The .most chronic
INWA lID or OTT'I'W if I) IM I>PIS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage fid. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character of
Price 3s. fid. per box, or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address 1 Eor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
■ ■lwiinaHi VMM I Country Trial Order respectfully Solicited.


Ni" RaSSnjOSScij’S Malifye Herbal Remedies-
More marvellously Successful and Effectual thr,n ever.
Haire bscn before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
ifli
Mr. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassji ussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty- to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
_ _ Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
■ E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM 'ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney. Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, 1 have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying I hem I had tried three different
doctors wilhoul effect. For Ihe benefit of I hose who may
l e suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfect ly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity. —Yours Grate-
fully, THUS. KING. Witness - Frank Gribkrt.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches. j
cmnltiniiduuiTTTi m r.grn i UiiTTih iin nn iim uti mm m^mn
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Alfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted!
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A LFaune BLOOD FILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFA LINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anyirhere.
.
Herr Rnssmitssen, Up-to-Datc Herbalist.
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK'
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
ADVICE FREE.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeilj
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. ’
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t outrhs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. ’
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes "is •
posted, Is 6d. ’ ’
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns. Warts
and Bunions. Bottles, Is. *
Alfaline External Pile l*owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes’, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders-Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. ’
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Comulexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage-This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST. S!IODE!l
' AND IMP 3K.TANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS : V^VIIUJ|
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (<>pp. Bast. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z WELLINGTON
91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KAIiGOORDIE Hannan-st, (next Lindell's, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... Shenton-street (opposite ~P.Q )
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street!


Business A nnounccments.
FORBIGJXr sxAmfs
n)
S
«
**
>*■
OETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 6 (!auU-iiiala(liiid)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is Gd ; 9 l.aliuan (new picture
issue) 3s Oil; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s Gd ; a Bosnia, fid ;
6u Spain', 2s. Packets 30 different,
Git ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s (id ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Plus, catalogues of albums anil
stumps post free.. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
SONNE, 34G Llle Collins-street. iIEI.BuL'HNB.
fflro you gun Qouin ?
The present summer promises to be a
severe one. Weak people, therefore,
shunlil fortify themselves by talcing a
course of
Minerva T on i c _
For promoting an appetite, strengthen-
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
Hon. E. W. O’Scr.T.TVAN, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINERVA as “an
admirable tonic,” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australia.
MUS ICAL TIME
CLOCK.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical llox ami Timepiece—
a wonderltil invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs al will, ami is a
perttet timekeeper. The ease
is soliil Nickel, ornamental
l’rass Front, lirass Ilamlle anil
I'illars, with Class Siiles. In-
like any other make of alarm,
you ure awakened liy ihe
strains of "Home, Sweet
Home,” "There'll C’ome a
Time Some Day,” "Daisy
Bell,” “Annie Rooney," "Sweet Marie,” ami other up-
to-ilare tunes. It will always tell you the correct lime,
ami will play choice selections the whole ilav, or as de-
sired. BRICK. 15/-; Carriage pan lin N'.S. W. | 2 extra;
any other Co'ony. 2/2. Sent, on Approval ; if returned
within 14 days, money refunded.
6 6 —A WATC3 and CHAIN for 6 6.
To every purchaser
of one of our tj
“ Hurmese " Silver
Chains ( e i t li e r
Ladies’ Fob or
Weills' Curb) we
will present on
pay me ii l of 4/-
oxl ra an Open-
Fare Kevin s
Watch (as illus-
iraleil) which we
(run ra ntee.
There are no
Conditions or
Oiiessinir about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain reuristered (any colony) oil receipt of i’ostal Note
for Os. 6d. and Od. for postage.
We make this ext raordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, anil will send as a FREE tiIFT a heauti-
ful Pendant Charm Penknife to liaitjr on the watch-chain.
Mention Bcllkiin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
r
UUUVAi
FOREIGN STAMPS.
A UIiANfJED in Continents—grranrl value :
‘ 1 n() Africa (all different). Is 3d ; lnO
Africa, 5s ; 50' Asia, Is (id ; 100 Asia, ss;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, os ; 100
Europe,- 3s. Xlanv varieties in the larjrer
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 0.1; >5O.
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s Od. Remit P. 0.0.,
I’.N. or stamps. Price l.ists Free.
W m. Ackland
IC'2 Kliz.iilictli Street,
AIELIiUUUNK.
Business Announcements.
FEDERAL
PALACC
HOTCL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Aoeontiiiodaiion-all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. lo £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals eat) lie paid for separately.'
TWO RI.YIXU ROOMS AND CAFE
THE BEST
WEDDING GIFT
The
ARTIST
MODEL
(Allan’s Patent)
Price, £3 10s.
A Tripod Stool of beautiful model (our
registered design), and obtainable
only at our warehouse.
MUSIC STOOLS
In Brass, with plush seats, from 4°/'
Bentwood, with cane seals, from 25/-
Walnut or Black & Gold, with leather
seats, 35'-, 73/6
Organ Benches, in Walnut, at 25/
Illustrated Lists post free.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary
Limited,
276 & 278 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne.
u
Tb€ R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
ETarrison. & Attwoocl, S ole Proprietors.
S. FREEMAN SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
This is the Latest Typo
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
-I‘ricc, <£' 7.
THIS MACHINE
r
TALES, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In (act, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List— FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Kecords,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
gm plies, X Kay Apparatus, Electric
Decora lions, I'ans, etc., and all acces-
sortes.
Carriage Paid.
TIIIE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT :
Headquarters in Australia—EPlSON ELECTRIC COMPANY
IG2 PITT STIIEET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
IP, J. JV. Oldershaiv, manager.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’
A Simple Remedy for Preventing* & Curing* by Natural Means
#
a
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, G-iddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick False,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL-POX. SCARLET FEYER, PYiEMIfi, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
over estimated.” — A Professional Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. — See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT I SALT.’ Without it y.ou have a
1 V O LIT 11L ESS I MIT ATT ON.
Prepared only by J. C.EKO, Ltd., at the FRUIT SALT’WORKS, I ONDON, by J. C.ENO’S Patent.
r W / f&' r/ {V'
OS^C-i
\Jf\
mt
ir;
mumn
ii'imim
m
Km
k iiWre
K _ tfS
h,
m
r Or/.?
lIS
IS
When
writ iii£
]>leuse
iiii-iilion
Tiik
IiLLLKTIX.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
-1 CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY HAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
: LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments. .. .. .. ..330
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Eiizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
ASK
WHINES PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE FURITV;
Whisky.
IN I
BULK
EVERYWHERE
Great Streogtl) aod Vigor
FLOWS FROM THE USE OF TIIIS
MAGNIFICENT REMEDY.
HAS CURED
Asthma
Bright’s
D'.ssase
Bronchitis
Diabetes
Dropsy
Eczema
Gout
Jaundice
m
vtif
fa
ILLS CURED
Lumbago
Neuralgia
Piles
Rheumatism
Sciatica
Paralysis
Varicose Veins
Nervousness
PURE. TREE. GENUINE.
Cleanse the Kidneys, . . . Purify the Blood,
No Poison. No Alcohol. No Quack.
2a. 9d. BOX.
The Dodds Medicine Company,
17 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Chemists,
Stores, or


IT
WILL PAY YOU TO 60 THERE.
Any man who runs a store, or a railroad, or a
peanut-stand, must face facts, talk facts,
and deal with facts. The power
that makes a business prosperous
is the proprietor’s ability to
buy. If he can from the
best Houses, naturally
he gets the best
goods. If he sells
the best goods,
naturally he gets
the best trade.
To build up the
reputation of a
business and to
keep that reputa-
tion clean every-
thing that is sold
must be absolutely
all that it is repre-
sented to be. Good
reputation is the
Magnet that draws
trade, and makes busi-.
ness a pleasure. Our
aim is to strike your fancy.
©
We
satisfy
our
customers.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
D
T
N
H
A
e
s
He
*
HU
o
*
o
Who
X)
t$
4 f
**€«
n>
4-
s 0
5
(M'
V
5 / :
7/6
*
/2/WZ"
W
O
/b
O/ff;
o
■%
sfv
SS
<s
<v
531
t/U^ls 1 -
£SS
c 3
T
<
C?
A
cT.
W 0
%
<~ST
o
A
W'Hf
H
$
$
T?
w
HE
HEAD
'Oij
e-roiTi
W£Af
t^>
W/,
o:
YOU
w A
w
WILL
Mvt
mw
§
YOU
Ifi
VA
WILL
LU
’4/D
yS/fib cYM/w/vM
&
beaver CHESTEfmznsI
m§^k
'"A
3
tSi
UTV
eft
(M
FOOT
n
To
JM
a
&
v\
&
sS
q
64r
cr^
SN'
<£>
A?
A N
£
j-As&
V^
S
0(/D
T
xP
yyyb^
A
ST
xa
LL Wool
r?
v
O
❖
S4CS
a
V
rl
A
>n
'V
A
£
N
H
In this big Australia of ours there arc scores
of men who want to get good clothes at
moderate prices. They should write
to us for patterns, or call and
See us*. We are always here
and caii supply them.
Country clients Can
have every confi-
dence in their Orders
being properly at-
tended to. Con-
fidence between
buyer and seller
means that the
seller studies the
buyer’s interest,
and that the
buyer knows he
is being treated
squarely. We buy
the same goods from
the same manufactu-
rers as any and all of
the exclusive high-priced
houses of Melbourne. But,
besides having the same
things that they have, we have
what they don’t deign to have
good, everyday, sensible articles for the
man of small wants, and small purse.
Your Money back if you want it.
&
0. Prop. Ltd.
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE. *
P
No. s.— Gentlemen’s Silver Waltham
Lever.
Keyless, f-pkite, highly finished nickel
movement, with compensation balance,
7 jewels. In heavy English Hall-
marked cases, either hunting or open-
face -
POST
FREE.
AND
Remember
These Three Facts!
1. That there are Walthams and
Imitation Walthams!
2. That the "W altham movements are
frequently put into shoddy
cases, and sold by unscrupu-
lous traders as the g’enulne
article.
3. —That H. Newman’s Walthams are
guaranteed genuine, both
as regards case and movement.
WALTHAM
Has pleasure in announcing that he has completed
arrangements in regard to the productions of the
American Watch Co., Waltham, , Mass., U.S.A.,
which wil enable him to supply the famous Waltham
Levers at greatly reduced prices—lower than those
usually charged for the inferior watches of other
makers.
Herewith are shown some of the principal lines. H. Newman
holds the Largest Stock of Watches in Australia, and if you
want any other sort of watch, send for his Illustrated Cata-
logue, which will be forwarded post free to any address.
On receipt of remittance, any of the watches shown will
be forwarded (with guarantee) securely packed, and postage
paid to any part of Australasia.
Watchmaker, Jeweller,
. . AND . .
—Dealer in Precious Stones
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
No. 52.—Gentlemen’s Gold
Waltham Lever.
Keyless, f-plate move-
ment with compensa-
tion balance, 7 jewels.
In heavy and strong
18-carat gold cases— *
plain polished as shown
above, or engine-turned
or richly-engraved cases^
£l5
POST
FREE.
A
mi
m
No. 39.—Ladies’ Silver
Keyless Waltham Lever.
f-plate movement, com-
pensation balance, 7
jewels. In English Hall-
marked cases, hand-
somely engraved -
POST
FREE.


DAW
CO
Everywhere Popular.
Reliable^
Daily Increasing.
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS!
Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent,
No. E672l.—Elegant Bird Brooch,
Whole Pearl, 160. Gold, £1 159.
No. 156. —Artistic Scroll Brooch, 18 Sine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Peai.s, 8 Sapphires,
£8 10s.
No. 500.—Elegant Brooch, 81 Fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £8 7s 6d.
No. E6629.—New Lucky Bell Broooh,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 146.—16 a Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds 2 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 208.— 15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s. 0d ;
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. E244B.—New Design, Bird and Amethyst
Brooch, 9a Gold, 12s. 6d.
No. 206. —9a Gold Neck Chain, lls 6d.
No. 214.—Neck Chain, 9a 18s 6d; 16a £ll6s.
No. 218. 90. Gold Neck Chain, £1 2s 6<L
No. 215.—Pearl and
iubr Heart, oc. Gold,
16s 6dL
No. 141 a Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2 10s.
No. E 5206. —9c. Gold “ Prince ot Wales ” Long Muff Chain.
Finest make, £2 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
No. 282. —Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s od.
Shoe Lift to match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
No. E6203.—0e. Gold Long Mnff Chain, £8 6a;
160. Gold, £6 168.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Hair Brushes,
20s, 22s 6d, 258, 27b 6d, 30s. 365.
As Illustration, £1 2s 6a
Silver Mounted Combs,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d
As Illustration, 10s 6d.
9c. Pearl Initial Brooch,
any Letter, 6a 6cL
No. 271a.—Solid Silver Hat Brush,
6Jin. long, 11s 6d.
Glove Stretcher, Solid Silver Handles, Ivory Points,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d.
As Illustration, £1 2 6d.
No. 173.—Finest White
Diamond, £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds, 18c.,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 261.—Medal.
tc. Gold, £1 Is ; 16c. £ll7s 6d
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 168a. —18c. Band
Ring, set Fine Diamond,
from £3 to £6 10s.
No. 171a.—18c. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
No. 220.—Qent.’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £4 10 6 15c. Gold, £7 10 0 Silver, 14s 6d
9c. Double, 6 15 0 15s. Double, 10 15 0 Double, 20s.
No. 179a.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, £1 is. 15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s 6d.
Silver Plated Serviette
Rings, hexagon
design, 6s.
No. 193.—Set Links.
9c., 15s 6d ; 15c„ £1 10s.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Fine Silver-Plated Shaving Mug and
Brush, 355.
If
New Design Toast Rack, Silver I*
zm.
m
Mi
JSjiVv-V
Finest Out-Glass, Silvei
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
37s 6d.
Mr
Pair Silver-Plated Knife Rests, 21s.
ll'MmSweksisw
Silver-Plated Out-Glass
Butter Dish, with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. E64l3.—Silver Mounted Cloth Brush.
Elaborately chased, long, £2 10s.
Handsome Toilet Set.
Finpaf. fliit-Olass and Solid Silver Mounts, 6 Pieces, £lO
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9c. Gold, £3 3s ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller Sizes in 9c., 85s and 60s.
Smaller Sizes in 16c., 65s and 87s 6d.
oc. Gold, £3 17 6
oc. Double, 6 6 0
Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
15c. Gold, £0 6 0
16c. Double, 9 10 0
Silver, 15s 6d
Double, 218.
' rt ’ '
J
m
•.
v • fcs|e&
S&3re&?
®sTs>
ffisS
0' cM^
mmm
iig?sa
«sas
.. ' ■ :- ■ ■■ ..2 . Y-'C~ 1
Ml
----
VV
Full Set Combination Brushes and Manicure Instruments,
Solid Silver, Mounted in Handsome Case, £B.
No. B3732.—Combination Spirit-Stand and bigar PK
Handsome Oak Frame, Nickel Silver Mounts, Finest Cut-Glass Bottles, £5.
No. 175.—Carved Half
Hoop, 6 Fine Diamonds,
£l7 10s, £22, £25 to £6O.
18c. Gold Wedding
Bings,
21s, 265, 80s, 365, 60s.
No. 231 A.—150. Gold Locket,
set with 3 Diamonds and
4 Sapphires, £4 10s.
No. 182. Marqnlse
Bings, Fine White
Diamonds,
£lslos, £2O, £25- £4O
No. 167.—1 Diamond,
2 Bubies, 180. Gold,
£2 6s.
9c. Gold, £2 17
9c. Double, 8 17
Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
6, £3 3 0 15c. Gold, £4 17 6, £6 17 6 Silrer, 8/0
6, £4 15 0 16c. Double, 016 0, 10 10 0 Double, 12/0
90. Gold, 179 6d. 16c.
Gold, £1169. Silver,4/6
Silver Plated Serviette
Ring, semi-circular or tri-
angular designs, 6s.
No. 200 A Links.
oc. Gold, 18s 6d. 16c. Gold,
£l l6s. SUrer, 6s 6d.
Dainty Serviette Holders,
Solid Silver, 3s 6d. Silver-Plated, la.
No. E 4086. —Silver-Plated Sugar Bowl, with
Sifter, 16s 6cL
Silver-Plated Egg Frame, 265.
Marmalade Jar and Spoon.
Out-Glass and Silver-
Plated, 6s 6d.
msm
*
&
Cut-Glass Scents,
Silver Top, 11s 6d,
21s, 255, 30s.
Silver Fruit Knives, Pearl Handles,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each.
No. 340.—Elegant Silver-Plated Ink Stand, llin. long, 2 Cut-
Orystal Bottles ; Emu, Kangaroo, or Horse, in centre, £2 10s.
W atw Tho various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending
JS pi™ S?«™miSance. N*w BooLkt op Spkctai.tiks (80 PAO«s)_Po»r Prrr.
purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
rwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. NEW BOOKLKT OF , J « J "AT O ITT
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
T.OKrDONr, MELBOURNE, A.XJOKILA.MD, PERTH.


ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
HULL SETS, £>2 10a.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, 15.
Thorough Masticating Power and beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY;, 2rnin. from G.P.O.
D .S . M Al R
OO
WATCH
BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
English Mainsprings, first quality, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Rotherham English Lever Watches,
capped and jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated,
Guaranteed 5 years, 35/-
D. S. Mair for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Rings. Best
quality Opal. Solid Gold, lE/8.
D. S. Mair for Heavy Solid Silver Pocket to Pocket
Alberts, English Hall Marked, 10/6, 12/6.
Note address —oB4 George Street, Sydney.
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CEAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
ff 'I..
THE ACME of Mecha
nical Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “ Home, Sweet
Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/- ; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2 extra,
any other Colony, 22. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, monev refunded.
H. POTIER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Medical,
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORFU LENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tb« B. aod N.Trcatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying 1 to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Ansemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take It-
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensahle as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Cite Assurance Society [td.
r l ’ll IB SOCIETY, In addition to transacting all the usual forms o! Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
f l tL“ro« S SraSi£% e ,“.»&» m the event ol temporal* incapacity through lllne. to rare a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWIOK, M.D. M.LO Chairman;
Hon. J. 11. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special.Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Imporf.fl.nt to Parties Furnisliingf!
,♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
i3T
The Cash Furnishers
Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or our Sydrmy Works Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL'S give Value for Value—2os. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns 1 ree.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
REGISTERED
m
Ml
m
» IrTi
In Effective Curi
BUCHTIIffLAKED EFES&UQS
Weak Eyes Dimmer ETS
551 GEORGE ST
TABUSHED (85
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ——
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Clasteti
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal sue*
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try. &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
H
Sole Proprietor
. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COM3PI3TITXON.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HOMOCEA
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PART
Does not harden or change colour.
H O MOPE A CURES
CUTS,
BURNS,
PILES,
SORES,
BRUISES,
SORE EYES,
ECZEMA,
CORNS,
RINGWORM,
TOOTHACHE, MOSQUITO BITES &e„ &c.
HOMOCEA EMBROCATION.
Absolutely the best .thing of its kind in the
World foe RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA.
STIFF JOINTS, SORE THROAT, PAINS IN CHEST, SIDE, or BACK.
Put up in Collapsible Tubes in two size s. \ ' '
Sold by all Storekeepers, General J)ealersChemists.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor ■
GENTLEMEN>sSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELKOTRIO BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure ali Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
by the wearer through
ail weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say. and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NOBODY WILL STEAL THEM.
There are two reasons why the Crown jewels are
never stolen from the Tower of London. They
are in a strong place, well guarded, and are dan-
gerous things to handle when dishonestly come by.
Most losses of valuables are due either to care-
lessness on the part of the owners or custodians,
or to bribery. Perhaps the burglar’s vocation is
under no circumstances an absolutely safe one,
but not infrequently he chances upon a “job”
which is both easy and lucrative. Ido not men-
tion this fact for the unworthy purpose of induc-
ing any of the youth of the land to enter the
profession but solely to throw illustrative light
upon quite another theme. Still, there is a rela-
tion between them, and we shall hit it after we
have talked a bit about the case of Mrs. Mary
Rowlands, who lives in Wales.
The lady says that no longer ago than February
(1898) she had a severe attack of influenza, fol-
lowed by bronchitis. At this point we are con-
cerned to know whether the influenza was in any
sense responsible for the bronchitis, as cause and
effect. If so, why? It is well understood, of
course, in England, where influenza is so com-
mon, that other ailments do follow it; yet pro-
bably, the majority of us have not settled in our
minds the reason for it.
At all events, Mrs. Rowlands had a low, bad
time. The trouble lingered along as, sometimes,
winter does, away down into the period proper for
May blossoms. She could not seem to get the
better of the throat ailment nor master the
lethargy and weakness left her as a legacy by the
influenza. Her condition may be likened unto
that of a ship which has indeed survived a gale
but finds herself stripped of the sails needed to
enable her to take advantage of gentler winds.
The lady’s hope of getting back her lost
strength by taking plenty of solid, nourishing
food was illusory. Every meal of that kind caused
fearful distress in the stomach and acute pain
at the chest. Nature distinctly repudiated the solid
food, and almost as strenuously objected to the
liquids, such as broths, teas, and milk. It looked
as if Mrs. Rowlands must starve at her own table.
Then came on asthmatic symptoms, so bad she
was often obliged to gasp for breath. Between
this combination of complaints she got but little
rest day or night. Soon after arose a threat of a
still more serious disease—a threat happily not
fulfilled. I refer to the cold, clammy sweats that
broke out upon her, pointing to a fatal decline.
The fear was natural, as grim Consumption with
his poisoned dart, often approaches by that same
road.
“I became so reduced and feeble,” the lady
writes, “ that my daughter had to nurse me con-
stantly. I could not get into or out of bed with-
out her help. In the house, or to others, I was
of no use at all. The doctor who attended me
left nothing untried that he knew of; but, in spite
of all he did, I grew worse and worse.
“Where I should have been to-day, whether in
the land of the living or not, who can tell, if a kind
Providence had not intervened to save me ? In
some way my husband heard of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, and persuaded me to try it. I began
taking it and soon felt better. My appetite re-
turned, and all kinds of food agreed with me.
With plenty of nourishment I gained strength
rapidly. The asthma and the bronchial trouble
vanished and almost before I could realise it, I
found myself in the best of health, and have con-
tinued so to be ever since. For my remarkable
and unexpected recovery I am under obligation to
Mother Seigel’s Syrup ; and so I tell all whom I
know.”—(Signed) Mary Rowlands, Deri, via
Cardiff, August 31, 1898.
One thing Mrs. Rowlands says in her letter
which I have reserved for this place, namely, that
she was a dyspeptic. Her system was weakened
and her blood rendered impure by indigestion.
That is the main point. That is why she was open
to the attacks of influenza, bronchitis, and asthma.
Her body castle being weak, the precious jewel of
health was stolen.
Keep the digestion strong and the blood clean
and pure, by the frequent use of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup and there will be no soil for the germs of
disease to grow in. The system thus guarded,
protects the health as the walls and door of the
Tower hold safe the Crown jewels.
rMVEN away, absolutely free, iooo REAI
GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA,-to further introduce
DR. YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One tria
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d ; for which we
will forward you post free one box (three tablets) of DR,
YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask foi
the brooch is that you introduce the soap'to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved oi
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb
interest to every MAN
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Sene
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY


cetera wer
IHEMEH
For Ease,
Health and
Comfort.
aar DURING SUMMER. -<sjt
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSISUIIINT for OLD and i O UNO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising' One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring'
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
and 718 George-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manasrer.
44
the
FRIEND
R.A.HERVEY.
171 CLARENCES!
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F, 0. Calvert & Go. , Manchester.
XJSB
Spoorjer’s
owc »y
■RQVALNAVV DBESSIHC
FOR
: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
: : OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECI lONS FOR USE
iuiitiuimiiniimmiHiHiimTulS!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
\mej
“Common Sense
« * Ear Drums”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible....
Comfortable
Efficient...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A pent,
CHALMERS, 229 CollinsSt..Melbourne
(INVISIBLE)
Mention “The Bulletin" when writing.
PRUHKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EIJCRASIT,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURF AND
TU SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be given in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou - auc-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, scaled. Address—
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
new ZEALAND_—^
The Thermal Springs District.
WONDERLAND
THE
Stand Hotel, HOTOMI.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
in New Zealand.
H. V. Gardner O a te of the p. &o. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
or the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
3. A position ih the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
i. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager
will receive prompt attention.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia,
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
tST MARKET REPORTS forwarded EREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. O. YOUNG & CO.
“I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6(1.
Sole Agent.- •
The Result.
Craig & Ait ken. 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas (Jooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
It gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
BSP” .Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
H.H. WARNER & C 9 L T _ D
MELBOURNE, AUST.
I Cure Fits.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test wh ther my
remedy dj.s or does not cu e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. Atl you are asked to do is to
send for a FREE bottle of medi=
cite aid to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Sa e Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIGHGDNS.,LONOON,ENG.
A GREAT RECOVERY.
'
Anaemia, Atony, Dyspepsia.
A VERY DANGEROUS CONDITION
And AN ABSOLUTE RESUSCITATION.
The Case of
MISS IRENE PAYNE,
(•From the “ Nepean Times”)
(by our special.)
Our reporter called on Miss Irene Payne,
of Penrith, N.S. W. That young iady
opened the door herself, and on hearing of
the reason of his visit smilingly welcomed
him into the house, and needed no pressing
to relate the story of her sufferings and her
prompt recovery. She now appears to be in
the possession of redundant health, and of a
bright and vivacious temperament. On the
pressman saying so, she said, “ Yet once
My Constitution Seemed
Shattered.
A long continued illness had quite broken
me down.”
“ How did this occur, Miss Payne ?”
“ I began to suffer from what is scientifi-
cally known as anaemia. My blood got
extremely poor. My appetite and strength
waned away till I gradually lost all my
healthy colour and became of a pale, leaden
complexion, with large dark rings under my
eyes. My food no longer nourished my
system, and I became weak and languid.
Very soon my digestive organs began to give
me trouble, and soon after eating, pain and
a sense of fullness in the chest was a regular
condition with me. As the days went by
I was Less and Less
able to properly digest and assimilate my
food Often enough I suffered from wind,
which slowly formed within, till the pain
caused by its pressure was almost beyond
belief. I always felt too dull and languid
to perform the light household duties which
fell to my share. I always felt too weary
and tired to move. When I stood up, in
a very few minutes I should feel too weary
to remain on my feet, and was only too glad
to
/Throw Myself Down
on a couch, as exhausted as if I had been
doing half-a-day’s hard walking. At night
my rest was always broken and unrefresh-
ing.”
‘ ‘ Surely this was the worst stage ?”
“Oh dear, no! This was only the begin-
ning. Sick headaches now made their
appearance, and these were always followed
by a ' iolent bilious attack. At such times I
eouldn’t approach the table; the mere smell
of cooking would bring on retching. My
eyes ached with an intense pain, and my
eyelids swelled and were badly discoloured.
My head
Felt as Heavy as Lead.
I couldn’t bear to speak or be spoken to,
and I shou d have to lie down in seclusion
till the worst of the attack had somewhat
moderated. I never had much time after
one of these attacks before another came on,
and every succeeding one became more
serious. You don’t know how
I Used to Dread
these attacks.”
“ They must have been weakening ?”
“ They were, indeed. I grew thinner and
thinner every month, and my constitution
became more and more enervated.
Some Very Dangerous
Symptoms
set in. Sometimes I vomited blood nearly
all day. It’s hardly necessary for me to
tell you how weakening this was, or to
What a Perilous Condition
I was then reduced. You could see by my
drawn and pallid face that my vitality was
very low. My lips, which should have been
red, were as pale and leaden coloured as my
cheeks, and if you looked at my gums you
would have found them white also.”
“ Surely you tried some remedy ?”
“ Yes; I was always taking medicine
from the very first. _ I took bottle after
bottle of different things. Tiny were all
the same. They none of them did me any
good.” J
“Ha e no doctors attended you ?”
“ Yes, but unfortunately their medicine
also failed to cure, although they had every
chance, as I always followed out minutely
the dire tions of my medical attendants
I was in Despair
what to do. My stomach was in 3uch
state that it was with the utmost difficult
that I could retain the lightest and mo.-’
easily-digested foods.”
“ But I understand Clements Tonic came
to the rescue ?”
“ Yes ; I had frequently heard of it dur-
ing the later stages of my illness, and it was
recommended to me by a friend; but I was
very loth to take any more medicine, as my
stomach was in such a tender and weak
state that I was
Fearful of Irritating It.
Ultimately, after having read a book of
cases cured by Clements Tonic, I sent for a
bottle.”
“ Did that remedy suit you ?”
“ Most effectively. Unlike some of the
other medicines, which used to make me
feel sick, this Clements Tonic at once had an
invigorating effect. The first instance of
its beneficia 1 qualities was noticeable iu the
fact that it put a stop to
The Vomiting of Blood.
And what a blessing it was to be able to eat
something without being almost certain to
vomit. By using Clements Tonic regularly
and carefully I was able to again take
strengthening foods and was also able to digest
them with great advantage to my health
generally. The bilious attacks, in two or
three weeks were nearly done with, only a
slight turn coming on now and again, and a«
I continued to progress
Steadily towards Health
they troubled me no more. My headaches
were banished, and sweet sleep once more
refreshed me at night time. You could
almost see Clements Tonic filling my veins
with the much-needed red blood. My
cheeks began to fill out and displayed a tinge
of red. My lips and gums became of a
healthy colour, and, once having got rid of
my painful internal troubles, I gained
strength and spirits daily, and I soon
regained the
Full Health and Strength
which I now enjoy.”
“ I ask your permission to put this in the
Nepean Times ?”
“ Of course you can,” replied Miss Payne.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Irknk Paynk, of Penrith, in the _ Colony
of New South Wales, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of eight folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to eight, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign oi her present Majesty, intituled
“An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, am
for the suppression of voluntary and extra judicis
Oaths and Affidavits.
Declared at Penrith this eighth day of August,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, before
m6 ’ W. FULTON, J.P.
GLEIVIe NTS TONIC is entirely impartial. It will act In precisely the same ways
tor a prig ora policeman, and have the same beneficial effect on pauper, politician, peer,
patrician, prince or potentate. It is a distinct leveller of mankind; it makes no distinction.
Let the highest or the lowest suffer from any complaint where its use is indicated,
,nd it will result in the same success, no matter what the social status of the patient*
halfpenny nostrums only appeal to the ignorant credulity of the plebeians*
m
WE recommend these Bitters to be taken two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children, For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, and Cutaneous
Affections. The action of Dandelion, more especially upon the liver and kidneys, is more reliable
for removing all impure secretions than any other medicinal plant known. Persons suttermg
from Skin Diseases will find these Bitters invaluable. Directions for Use : One wineglass-
ful three times a day after meals, diluted with same quantity of water. Eor young people, about
half the quantity twice a day.
.THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
BEAD WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row & Co.—With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and
consider them most excellent, and superior to many others that I have previously tried.
Port Adelaide, Oct. 30,1886. Yours faithfully, Henry Charles Curtis, M.R.0.5., England.
CAUTION—Ask for
Row’s Pancielioii Bitters
AND TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
EDWARD ROW & CO., SYDNEY.


The Origin of Bile Beans.
Bilk Bkans for Biliousness have earned for
themselves by their unequalled excellence, a
reputation which places them to-day far in ad-
vance of any other similar preparation. This
specific is not a carelessly prepared nostrum, on
the contrary, it is the result of long and thought-
ful research on the part of a medical man, an
American, who after years of study discovered a
natural vegetable substance which after further
study lie succeeded in compounding with other
ingredients, so that its effect on the digestive
organism of the human system is identical with
that of the natural bile created by the liver.
Finding this then to be the most natural carthartic
obtainable, the public rapidly accepted it in pre-
ference to all others, and consequently the old
methods of starving and the use of pepsin and
bismuth sank into insignificance and oblivion.
Acting on the bowels in a gentle manner, Bile
Beans do not weaken or in any way distress the
patient. This is a point in which they differ
materially from nearly all laxative remedies sold
to-day, as the latter usually act in a violent
manner,_ weakening the patient, and in many
cases doing more harm than good. Bile Beans have
been aptly termed “ a medicine for the people at a
popular price/’ Many wonder how this remedy can
have the great virtue that we claim for it and
still be sdd at so reasonable a price ; yet the
solution is simple. Millions upon millions of
Bile Beans are consumed annually (a fact that
in itself is of positive proof that the world’s
inhabitants know how to appreciate a really
genuine remedy, and that they have found that
remedy in Bile Beans for Biliousness). Owing to
this immense annual sale we are enabled to pur-
chase the very best drugs in exceedingly large
quantities, and thus get them at a great deal
lower price than if we bought only moderate
quantities at a time. Then again, Bile Beans are
manufactured in possibly the largest and best
equipped laboratories in the world, situated in
Detroit, Michigan, TJ.S. A. In this establishment
only the very best of latest improved machinery is
used, and this fact also greatly minimises the cost
of production. Thus it will been seen that
through the great consumption the proprietors are
enabled to sell this valuable remedy at a price that
places it within reach of all.
CURE
LIFE WAS PESPAIREP OF!
Interesting* Story of Mr. Thomas Buckett.
DOCTORS BATTLED, PATENT MEDICINES TAILED.
BILE BEANS step in and again Conquer
A prominent Daily Paper investigated the case, but if you are a sufferer, call and see Mr. Buckett, or
write, and find out for yourself as to the truth of the statements given below.
Investigation is tv fiat we like.
Mr. Thomas Buckett, who resides off More Street, Adelaide (at rear of St. Mary Magdalene’s Church) when interviewed by a
reporter of the Advektiser, said : —“ Between sixteen and seventeen years ago I was taken ill with what a leading doctor in Melbourne
called poor man’s gout. I was then residing at the corner of Clark and Ross Streets, South Melbourne.
The doctors I consulted could not really tell what my complaint was. My knees, ankles, and
toe joints swelled up considerably—at times my knees were as large as three. I suffered great pain and
even the walking of persons across the room increased my agony. I was confined to my bed for six months
at a time, and I used to be afraid to go out fearing a sudden return of the malady. This state of affairs con-
tinued up to iast Christmas. I also suffered with palpitation of the heart and severe indigestion—after eat-
ing it seemed as if there were heavy weights on my chest. I was scarcely ever free from headache, and often
felt ready to do away with myself. I tried all the remedies that were mentioned to me, in addition to
having the services of a number of doctors, but I secured little relief. As the years went by my sufferings
increased. lam well-known in South Melbourne, and Mr. Henry Morgan, of Palmerston Crescent, South
Melbourne, who served me with milk, and Mr. R. Darlington of Street, South Melbourne, commis-
sion merchants and others can bear out my assertions. I came to Adelaide five years ago last February, but
was unable to even earn my own living. I spent all my money in so-called remedies for my complaints, but
at length I could no longer afford to experiment with the nostrums, but had to grin and bear my agonies
hoping—it seemed against hope—that some day I should be cured by something.”
“ And that ‘ something ’ was discovered at last ? ” interposed the reporter. i
“Yes, Bile Beans. Just before Christmas I read in the papers of the wonderful cure of Mrs.
McArney, of Bowden, through taking Bile Beans, and I thought ‘ Well, if they can cure an old lady of 80
summers they can surely cure me,’ so I bought a box at Mr. B. R. Bowyers, grocer, in Angas-street.
After taking the contents I felt much better, so I purchased more, following the directions as near as pos-
sible, and in about a month’s time I was completely cured.”
“ Are you quite sure it was the Bile Beans that made such a wonderful change in you ? ” queried the
reporter.
“ Of this I am positive,” said Buckett in reply, as I have not taken any other medicine at all for some
time before commencing taking the Beans, as I previously mentioned to you. Since taking them, instead of feeling an old man. I feel
quite young again, and life’s a pleasure instead of a dreary burden. The praise of Bile Beans shall always be on my lips, and lam anxious
to let the public know of my cure so that other sufferers will try the Beans.”
The reporter, on taking his leave of Mr. Buckett, could not but marvel to himself that this, man after suffering so many years and
trying so many things, should be cured by these small objects, and he came to the conclusion that if a miracle had not been wrought a
great deal of suffering had been saved, and if the world at large only knew of this great preparation we should have much healthier and
happier men and women.
BILE BEANS
are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-Faced
Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Influenza, Colds, Heart
Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling. At the price Bile
Beans are sold at they come within the reach of all, and as 30 million doses were taken, in Australia last year it is easily seen that their
worth is appreciated.
BILE BEANS ARE OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS GENERALLY, PRICE 1/U PER
LARGE BOX, OR DIRECT FROM THE AUSTRALIAN DEPOT, BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT-
STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
71
iaft'/S
w.
The Two Mortgages on the
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Perhaps it was the desire for a change of any
kind from the dreary monotony of the cow-yard
and the dairy that induced Mary Bell to marry
Jim Sawner.
Mary’s parents were hard-working, hard-living,
God-fearing, eminently respectable people, in
whose eyes a dance-room was a den of iniquity.
And poor Mary thought she had reached the
depths of humiliation when one night her father
dragged her out of a dance-room, amidst the ill-
concealed sneers of the female portion of the
assemblage; for Mary was much too good-looking
to excite any pity from her own sex, and they
prophesied no good would come from a brazen
lump, only sixteen years old, who would steal
through her bedroom window to attend a dance.
But they were very lenient with Dick Somers,
who helped her through, and sympathised greatly
with him, for the very obvious reason that Mary
Bell was losing all maidenly reserve in setting
her cap at him. Dick Somers was cur enough to
give a smiling, silent assent to their strictures on
Mary. And when Mary’s dearest friends in-
formed Mary of this fact, her humiliation was a
shade deeper than before. But she hadn’t touched
bottom yet.
Four more years of farm-life under the old
conditions of labor, and ten times the old condi-
tions of watchfulness ; and Mary was ripe for any
change. A few amorous glances from Jim
Sawner brought the change. Jim had the mis-
fortune to be an only son. It was also his parents’
misfortune. He was pampered and petted as a
boy, but, to do him justice, he never wasted any
such follies on his parents. When he reached
manhood he speedily made a pretty good breach
in his father’s capital; and the old man, as a last
resort, bought him a farm, stocked it for him, and
declined to have any more dealings with him,
financially or otherwise.
As a result of this harsh treatment, Jim
promptly mortgaged the farm, bought a good
horse, and married Mary Bell, whose parents
disowned her and acquired a worse opinion of
dancing than ever. After a week of married
quietness Jim developed a raging thirst, and
finished up by nearly finishing off Mary with a
bottle.
Then began a struggle on Mary’s part to pro-
vide funds for Jim. Every device it was possible
for an honest woman to practise to raise sixpence
out of she resorted to. Few women were as
capable of managing a farm as Mary was, but,
with a heavy heart, week after week she would see
Jim drive one or more of the best cows away to
sell to get a few pounds for the support of the
brewing industry. Twelve months after his mar-
riage Jim gathered together his last realisable
assets, a few miserable “ warrigals,” and started
driving them to Woronga, where a horse-sale
was being held. Mary gave him a pound (a
present from his mother to buy some finery for
baby), so that the poor fellow would not be short
of cash on the road.
Jim was mounted on a good horse, whose ears
had a habit of always lying back, and whose eyes
never seemed to lose sight of Jim. Jim was a
good horseman, and, drunk or sober, it was no
easy matter to unseat him. Also, he was full of
weird devioes in the way of cruelty, to make his
hack show his paces.
After a few beers at sundry pubs along the
road, he reaohed Paddy Farer’s hotel. A few
children, mounted on thin willow sticks, named
after renowned racehorses, racing down the
road, passed the hotel. One little fellow, about
two years old, .mounted on Carbine, occupied such
a hopeless position in the rear that not even the
V.R.C. stipendiary steward would have taken
any exception to his pulling-up. He did pull-up,
and turned his attention to the real live horse tied
up to the fence.
After a few more beers, Jim, who was now
about drunk, said he must be getting along.
“What do you think of my horses?” he asked
Patrick, the landlord. The landlord did not
think much of them, and opined that they
were not likely to create any spirited competition.
“Well, come out and have a look at my hack. I
am going to sell him. Too good for me to keep.
Too treacherous. Kick the eye out of a mosquito.
Want you to say how much he’s worth. You’re a
bit of a judge.” They went outside and the sight
that met their eyes sobered Jim and paralysed the
landlord.
Seated on the ground, stroking the hind legs of
Jim’s horse and calling him all the endearing
names his infantile imagination could conjure,
was the two-year-old child of the landlord. More-
over, the horse seemed to like it, as with ears
cocked forward he looked every way except at the
infant. That was a good sign. When Jim’s
horse looked at anybody he meant mischief. The
landlady came to the door, wondering where the
children were.
“I seen them just now down the road,” said
Jim, in a thick, terrified voice, and the mother
returned to the kitchen.
Jim quietly walked up to the horse whose ears
gradually settled back to their usual position, and
led him away from the child, who remonstrated
with him for his unkindness and filled the air with
howls.
Paddy Farer offered to buy the horse. But the
sale was off. “No ; money won’t buy him now,”
said Jim. “I won’t sell him.”
He never did. Two hours later, muddled
with sundry more drinks, he reached the sale-
yards and was about to dismount. He stooped
over his horse’s neck to caress him with his hand.
The horse, no doubt suspecting some new form of
devilry, started to buck, and unseated Jim, whose
foot caught in the stirrup—and a few well-directed
kicks lifted one of the mortgages off the farm !
Paddy Farer never bought the horse, although
he was sold a few weeks later ; but he lifted the
other mortgage off the farm by way of expressing
his gratitude.
YOKEL.
Dr. Ramsay Smith, the new Adelaide city
Coroner and Health President (he was one of the
seniors imported for the hospital) has, for a man
still under 40, seen and done much. In his
University student days he had to keep himself
going by teaching ; and at different times he had
pupils for arts, science, medicine, and music.
In his 13 years at Edinburgh University he was
successively student, graduate, lecturer, examiner,
assistant professor and acting professor ; and on
top of this he took to writing articles and reviews
for the Scotsman.
On Tramps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Thebe was a strange tramp here the other day,
and as we were down in the paddock he had some
difficulty in making his presence known. He
looked dreadfully “hurt,” wearing a more in-
jured air than was usual to the persuasion, and
that is saying a good deal.
“I thought you was all hidin’,” he said, and
then explained that the late Gatton murders had
done a fearful lot of harm to the reputation of
tramps in general—in fact, almost as much as
they had done to the reputation of the Queens-
land police. He was quite pathetic about it, and
every remark he made found its mark, for, truth
to say, on account of the scare we two women had
not been “ at home ” to sundowners unless they
caught us unawares. We lived in a corner house
in Bordertown, and had weakly given bread and
meat to a tramp or two. After that we had them
on an average of four or five a week, and had
good opportunity of studying their idiosyncrasies.
Tramps are renowned for their sarcasm. It is
one of their most effective weapons when dealing
with defenceless females. They stand on their
dignity a great deal, too. That dignity is not
always apparent, but it is innate. One man I
especially remember. He was small, clad in rags,
awfully dirty, and had only one eye, and a purple
nose ; yet his dignity and power of making others
feel of no account were remarkable. He came at
sunset, and holding out a greasy billy demanded
to have it boiled on our fire. The stove was
being cleaned, and we hadn’t a tire. Later on, a
tiny spirit-lamp would suffice for our wants,
besides we were going to make a stand against
the entertaining of these gentlemen of the road.
“No fire ! My Gord ! ” That was all he said,
but the profound scorn of it was indescribable. I
felt myself color to the roots of my hair. If he
had added, “ That of all the mean, poverty-
stricken households,” etc., etc., I couldn’t have
felt it more. “ But there’s plenty of water in the
tank,” I said, apologetically, and he condescended
to take some.
Next day he was back again, and “supposed
we had a scrap of sugar in the house to give
away.” He was given a tin-full, and then said
he didn’t know what people wanted to keep
“ dorgs ” like that for, and for the first time our
hound’s sulky aspect and plebeian origin was
brought home to us. I don’t know why he
objected to the dog so. After an unknown and
presumably harried past it had attached
itself to our family, and, for some reason
or other, connected probably with that past, was
very partial to tramps; indeed, they were the
only visitors it was inclined to let near the house
at all. Respectably-dressed persons were always
snarled at, and kept at bay until one of us rushed
to the rescue with a broomstick. However,
“ Rusty ” was included in the general scorn shown
for all our belongings by this particular tramp.
He camped on the reserve for a week, and de-
manded something every day, but he finally shook
the dust of our home from his feet for ever in a
white heat, because we gave him jam instead of
butter for his bread on the journey.
Then there was the revengeful tramp, in the
shape of a benevolent white-headed and sleek old
man—who called down curses on our heads, and
on the heads of our children’s children because we
didn’t want him to sleep in our tool-house, but
presented him with a shilling to get a bed down
town. He preferred to keep tne shilling for
drink, and hoped that at his age we shouldn’t
have a roof to cover us, or a crust to eat. His
cursing was horribly convincing. My sister is
superstitious, and looks forward to an old age of
want now as a certainty. Everyone knows the
tramp with a trade. I remember one who cleaned
and sharpened knives. He stayed all day, ate
three good meals, and made great play with a
whet-stone and some oil. He also drank a. good
deal of tea between meals, demanded 25., and
went his way. He was really sorry that our
knives were such “ rotten bad steel.” I suppose
he was right, because, though slightly brighter,
the knives operated upon were certainly no
sharper. Of all the tramps I have met I know
only one who was really pathetic, though manv
pose in that rdle.
In the days when we lived a station-life, and
often took the long journey across the intermin-
able Moree Plains, we met him toiling across a
vast swamped tract of country, through which our
four strong horses were laboriously dragging the
buggy at the rate of 8 miles an hour. The Moree
Plain is of blacksoil, and there had been a three-
weeks’ rain, which is descriptive enough to an
Australian with average imagination. This
tramp was jumping from grass-tussock to grass-
tussock, wading in between whiles just ahead of
us. He looked for all the world as if he had just
stepped out of Queen-street, Brisbane, where
hundreds of city clerks of his stamp can be
seen any day—hard-hitter hat with respectably
curved brim, cut-away coat, and light trousers,
little tan-leather hand-bag, and tan boots, the
latter, of course, darkened by mud and water.
At closer quarters one could see that the boots
were in holes, and the soles on the point of dis-
solution, the hat and coat a very green- black, and
the light-grey trousers stained with grease. He
had an imposing iron-grey beard, and when we
offered him a lift he raised his hat and accepted
most politely. For two hours we toiled through
the water, and elicited frbm the passenger in the
back-seat that he had been head-shopwalker in a
well-known drapery house in Brisbane. Unfor-
seen circumstances had necessitated his leaving
and taking this journey, but remittances awaited
him in Moree. When he got them he was going
back to Brisbane and his old billet, which awaited
his pleasure patiently. He took off his hat with a
graceful flourish, and thanked us quietly when we
left him the other side of the swamp to pursue his
way to Moree, while we diverged to a station for
the night. Somehow or other a real sundowner
in sacking trousers, carrying bluey and useful
billy, would not have looked so hopelessly
poverty-stricken as the “ shop gent,” with his tiny
lunch-bag and frayed, dingy white shirt-cuffs, on
the wallaby in the midst of the unfriendly, tree-
less plains.
ETHEL MILLS.
Melb. recently produced a man with a
sense beyond his time of the duties of citizenship.
He had resolved upon suicide, and with an eye to
saving an overburdened State unnecessary ex-
pense, walked to the morgue and disposed of him-
self so that his corpse was the first thing to strike
the eye of the official who opened the gates in the
morning.


John Dancey, of Lara, Vic., started out
towards Geelong the other morning with the in-
tention of getting married. Changed his mind,
returned in a meditative mood, and thoughtfully
hanged himself. John was 75 ; the fiancee was a
widow and much younger, Second thoughts are
best.
Del Sorte, the hotel “barber” who
has just got some years’ hard for robbery in a
Melb. coffee-palace, has a speciality for
opening locked doors with a master-key
and hiding under the bed until the lodger goes
to sleep, when the coast is clear for robbery.
One time he and his mate, Pierre Douar, were
following their vocation in a temperance hotel
when detective M'Manamney caught one of the
pair, but somehow missed Del Sorte, although he
was quite sure he was not far off. The residents
were cautioned to look under their beds that night,
which they all did except a mining manager, who
ridiculed the idea, as his room was locked and he
knew it was all right. He knew next morning
that the “specialist ” just happened to be thei’e,
and had cleared off with enough loot to keep him
in clover for three months. .
Captain Russell, discoursing to Maoriland
House of Reps, on Purity of Administration, is a
spectacle for the gods to shriek at. Ten members
of Council retire shortly by effluxion of time, and
the Seddon Government, as a Government with a
working majority, naturally proposes to fill up the
vacancies. And good old Russell, in the name of
Purity of Administration, demanded that the ap-
pointments should be hung up till after next elec-
tion, to see if the Government still had a majority ;
he held that it was a sin against the Constitoosh’n
for a Ministry even with a majority to make
Council appointments just before an election.
Russell was a member of the last Atkinson Minis-
try which, at the beginning of ’9l, made a large
batch of Council appointments after an election —
and that, too, an election at which it had been
utterly defeated, and when, it was quite sure to
be thrown out as soon as Parliament met. On his
own exposition of political purity, therefore,
Russell had a hand in one of the dirtiest acts in
Maoriland politics, and, remembering this, the
House rejected the impudent old bluffer’s censure
motion by 33 to 25.
It’s just the weather for soft, cool shirts,
and you will find we stock “just the thing.” 500
dozen is a big quantity to carry, but we find it
necessary to do so, our prices sell them for us so
quickly. Tennis, boating, cricketing, cycling,
and knockabout shirts for 3s. (three shillings), and
we pay carriage to any post-office in N.S. W. (send
us postal-notes for three shillings). Queensland
residents will find it will pay them to send to us
for one or more of these shirts, they are most
suitable for Queensland summer wear, and the
value leaves a big margin for duty. Any reader
of The Bulletin who is not in possession of one
of our Summer Fashion Books (ladies’ and gentle-
mens’) should write and secure these latest free
publications. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
ALL TUCKERED OUT.
A little bit of work oughtn’t to tire a woman so—wouldn’t if she were a healthy
woman. There’s just the trouble. Seems as though many women were doomed never
to know what it means to be healthy. It shouldn’t be so—wouldn’t be so in nine cases
out of ten if women only understood that backaches are merely kidney aches—that
tired limbs are merely tired kidneys. Kidneys are delicate organs, they can’t stand too
much work ; they get tired and out of sorts, just as any
other part of the body does, and when they do it means
serious trouble for if the filters of the system aren’t work-
ing properly the poisons that they ought to carry off
remain in the blood and make backache and headache and
limb-aches. Yes, there’s a cure—
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
A Never-failing, Simple, Reliable Cure Hundreds of
Sydney people say so. Read two women’s statements :
V
£
&
m
k
%
S 9
/
y
/
a
v
Mrs. M. Isaacs, 21 Albion-street, Surry Hills, states :
“Yes, I can speak very well indeed of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. It is nearly twelve months ago since I
used this medicine, having previously suffered indescrib-
ably with my back for at least two years. Throughout
that time I was only fit to lie down on the sota all day,
quite unable to move about. The pains which served me
so badly were something terrible. I was always using
remedies of one kind or another without gaining any
benefit, and plasters did me no good either. The
doctors whom I consulted said that it was very bad
lumbago, and told me that it was no good rubbing
in liniments or using plasters, as I was too stout for
these things to be effective. What they prescribed
for me was no better than the remedies which I had used
and it was a gloomy outlook before me. One day when I
was worse than usual, one of my children asked me why
I did not try the medicine which Mrs. Smith had been
cured by. We had known that Mrs. Smith had been a
terrible sufferer from her back, and my child said she was
doing all her housework. My hopes were raised so I sent
round to Mrs. Smith to find out the name of the medicine
which had cured her, and she replied “ Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.” A box of these pills was at once sent for,
and I began to feel the benefits from the first dose. In
all, I took two or three boxes, which absolutely cured me.
Mind you, this happened 12 months ago, and since then I
have only taken an occasional dose by way of precaution
if I happen to feel a slight pain, but no sign of my old
complaint returned, and I have had splendid health since.
If anybody suffers with the back and is in doubt;what
medicine to try, I would be glad to tell them just all
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have done for me.”
Mrs. Kate Helmka, of 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, says ;
“ Some thirteen years ago I contracted a cold that seemed
to settle in my back, and I suffered a great deal from
backache. As soon as a little cold weather came on, I
would catch more colds, and the pain was fearful. I heard
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for the kidneys, and one
day procured some at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street,
and gained almost immediate relief by their use. I used
to suffer much when I worked the sewing machine —.
my back ached worse at such times—and I could
not stick at it long. I had a large family to sew for, and
this made it very hard for me. But now lam happy to
say that I am well, and feel like another being.”
“Although it is a year ago since I made the above
statement for publication, I still hold the good opinion of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as a remedy for weak back
and kidney trouble. I have had no return of my com-
plaint. I have recommended the pills to a number of
people, and shall be always pleased to do so, when I
know them to be sufferers from a bad back.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all chemists and storekeepers, price 2s. 9d. per
box ; six boxes 15s. 3d. ; or will be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster McClellan Co., Head
Office, 76 Pitt-st., Sydney. Branches in other colonies : 292 Flinders-st., Melbourne ;54 King William-st.,
Adelaide ; 341 Murray-st., Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-st., Brisbane, c/o Elliott Bros. ; St. John-st., Launceston, c/o
Fairthome and Son. But b e SURE they are DOAN’S.
The Dancer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The house ia darkened, and the air Is thiols
With heavy odours of the musio-hall
Here in the crowded Oirole, eloquent
Of perfumed flesh voluptuously warm
In open bodices ; with this, faint scents
Of women’s hair, and tawdrier fragranoes
Incisively persistent. Here and there
A naked shoulder gleams across the gloom
Whitely.
Up in the teeming Gallery
Bill and his garish girl, exuberant,
Spice talk with hot, ungentle repartee,
And souffle for positions next the rail.
Down in the Pit, Respectability
Talks politics, and makes the best of things—
The orchestra preluding. In the Stalls,
Smug city-men exchange their dingy thoughts
And snigger anecdotage, mostly lies,
About the awaited lady.
Then the stage
Starts into vision as a pool of light,
With Nita smiling roseate in the centre,
Rouged, pencilled, undemurely confident—
The moment’s tyrant, wholly conscious of
Supremacy, she scorns the gods’ applause.
And so she stands a moment’s space at poise,
Immobile, almost listless, though her eyes
Are full of life. It seems as though she were
Half soothed and half intoxicated by
The greenish sweetness of the violins . . .
And then she dances . . .
Languorously at first
As though the motion bored her. First she lifts
One little foot (the modern dancer’s foot,
Scarce beautiful, the only charm she shows
That is not perfect in its shapeliness)—
Lifts one small foot and flings it far above
Her shoulder, while those mortals in the stalls
Divine the shrouded splendour of her hips,
And lay up thoughts for future use. And next
She bends her supple body forward, like
A wind-blown yarran, while her fearless eyes
Flash challenges the gleeful gods translate,
And her bare breasts protuberant take their part
In the so-insolent triumph of her pose.
And now the rhythm assails her, and she flings
Into a maze of motion that suggests
Romano's Graces frenzied with champagne.
She moves in purple worlds of art and sense,
Making the best of both ; and all the while
Bedevils men with her tormenting eyes,
And wins from brazenly decollete dames
(White- breasts abulge in open bodices),
Tjp in the circle, comment critical.
Murmurs of “Wanton hussy ! ’’ and the like.
And in the teeming gallery up above
Bill and his garish girl approve the dance,
Leaning wide-eyed and warm across the rail.
And in the stalls the city-men applaud ;
And in the Pit. Respectability
Is somehow glad he left the wife at home,
But claps and shouts his bravas with the rest,
As Nita, panting, smiles and slips away.
V.
FRANK MORTON.
A Corner Man
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hfl Is a seller of ico-oream—a peasant from some
sub-Appenine village, come to Australia to make
his fortune. That was five years ago, and still
you see him with his little hand-oart at the corner
of the hot, dusty Adelaide street, leaning in the
shadow of the thin calico awning, awaiting cus-
tomers. All through the glaring summer days he
stands blinking there, or sits upon the handles of
his cart, which he calls his “ dear carretella ” or
his ** accursed carretella ” —according to his mood.
There he keeps guard over his little pots of vanilla
jelly, and dispenses dainty tumblers of pink ice-
orenm with big, coarse, brown hands.
With his stubbly cheeks and bushy eyebrows
and forehead puckered under his fad'd hat, he
waits and waits and thinks ; and of un evening he
wheels his cart away and disappears in some dirty
alley of the West End. No talking to anyone
except the business “ Seex-pinny,” “ Tree-pinny,”
“Tank yo,” “No, sare”—for he “no spikk
Inglees.”
Thus, in his enforced solitude, he dreams like a
lizard all day long in the sun and dust. Some-
times he looks like a brigand out of one of Ribera’s
pictures ; sometimes like a tavern sketch of Leo-
nardo da Vinci; and anon like Faun or Satyr
from a Pompeian vase.
There was a Mediterranean air about him that
attracted me, and one day I made a closer
acquaintance with this tawny fellow. With my
head leaning on my hands beneath the shadow of
his awning, I listened to his ready chatter. He
spoke the rich graphic dialect of the Basilicata
with rustic grace and pathos, and with that deep
throaty intonation which brings back to the tra-
veller the remembrance of many an Italian village
and landscape. I half understood the suffering of
this rough spirit, pining for his native land, and
without energy or hope enough to return to it.
What grimaces and shrugs and twitchings of
the brows, as he spoke, rudely symbolising Des-
tiny—Fate—-Resignation—Helplessness in the
hands of the gods. And what a voice! —with
inflections and tones as subtle and expressive as
the pleading of a child.
He should return never more to his kin and
native land—never-never. He was a prisoner
bound with unseen manacles to this ice-cream
cart, and mutely and bitterly hating it, and the
glasses he polished, and the people whose pennies
kept him. It was one of those petty, bitter
tragedies of vulgar life which the practical man
passes by with a smile.
This man’s talk was of common things enough.
Madonna ! how bare an existence did this ice-
eream'selling yield. Yet there was nothing else
to do. tSanto Christo ! For a while had he not
played the flute in a street trio, and had he not
been forced to give that up and pawn his instru-
ment. At present he was earning more than he
could hope to do in Italy, yet he was but ill-con-
tent. Food and manners were so different here.
Here with sixpence you buy, say, a paltry drink
of tea and a plate of meat with potatoes, and
perhaps a oouple of tomatoes if God wills it,
Dio! what a meal for a Christian! But with
that same sixpence in a trattoria of Naples what
a banquet you could have, fit for the Pope him-
self ! What a pile of steaming maoeharom, “ soft
and long as seaweed or the tresses of a woman’s
hair, signor; with red juioe of pomid’oro poured
on it, and a good deoanter of red Posillipo wine,
and a inandolin-player to sing and make you
laugh while you eat 1 Ah I che-e-e piacer 1 signor,
che piacer / ” drawling out the long Italian “ e’s ”
as if he were sipping wine.
“The English—they do not love singing or
mirth, and in the farms and vineyards all is dif-
ferent from Italy. And the English workmen
laugh and torment you because you cannot speak
their language.” How could he help it that he
could not learn English ? Our Lord Christ willed
it not that any tongue but Italian should suit his
lips, and therewith —basta /
“ Madonna ! what a misfortune to leave one’s
native land ! You have heard them, how they
sing there in the Terra di Lavoro, in the Marches,
and in the Val d’Arno. Two or three bare-legged
peasants hoeing between the vines from dawn to
dark sing to each other all day long, or the poor
women that cut the clover and lucerne—you have
heard them, signor? And in the month of June,
when all the village girls are down in the Cam-
pagna gathering the green, cool peas, Santa
Maria ! how they sing, and sit at mid-day be-
neath the almond-trees and sing again. Sempre
Vallegria , in spite of poverty. And in the even-
ing mayhap the village priest goes down among
them, and they sing the holy song together in the
fields and the sound comes up to the villages in
the hills as sweetly as the sound of mass ; and all
the young men who are, as young men will be, in
love, try to pick out their sweethearts’ voices.
“ My wife and my little daughter Carminella
used to do that. But she is dead and Carminella
has a husband, and I, ah ! I shall never return
any more to see them. No, no, I shall never earn
enough to be able to return, and here I am, in
exile— proprio esiliato —for my life. Ah ! the
misfortune to have to die in a strange land !
“ All round my village were vineyards and olive
gardens and fig-trees, but many taxes were put
upon us by the government, which has no pity for
the poor folk who cannot live. And there were
chestnuts in the woods for winter that Christ has
put there for poor people, and many nightingales
in spring and summer. You have heard it your-
self in the boscage in Italy, signor, have you not ?
Ah, ’tis a tiny creature with a heart full of passion
of music—and a most tender flesh to eat when
it is roasted ! Oh, yes, they are trapped and
eaten. You know they come back to Italy to
m ike their nests in the spring time, and then is the
season that they sing all night long, and all the
orchards are full of perfume, and the vines grow
so fast that it is a marvel. Once a nightingale
had taken his place on a trellis, and sang all night
to his mate close by, I suppose, and forgot to
move, for very love of singing. So that in the
morning when the light came and he wanted to
fly away, he found that one of the tendrils of the
vine had.entwined itself firmly round his foot and
bound him prisoner. And there I found him
when I passed into the vineyard—the poor little
creature ! —and I took him home for my wife to
roast. That will show you how fast the vines
grow in Italy, signor. Ah, what a life there in
the Cainpagna among the vines and figtrees ! But
eoco un fanciullo —' boy,’ you call. Want iee-a
erem-a ? One pinny—tree pinny? Yis. Eccolol ”
Always, since, we are nodding acquaintances
and have many a chat about the weather
and the ice-cream selling, and all the little things
that go to make the weft of human life.
But I believe that in his heart he still has a
vague hope of seeing Italy again, and Carminella.
F. S. DELMER.


For Weak and Delicate Children
For thin blood and loss In flesh; for poor
appetite and weak digestion; and for the de-
nression from long-continued hot weather.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
m.
A
V
X
\
1
/A
S^
V/A
&
m
«My son, whose picture I send you,'*<s taken very sick, became languid,
losing his appetite and seeming to lose all Apparently he did not have
hardly any life left in him. He was so weak he would become unconscious
at times. He also had large swellings in his neck. I was greatly worried
over him. I took him to the doctors with no satisfactory results. . ..
“I then resorted to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, remembering that my sister derived
a wonderful amount of good from this same medicine.
“After a few days my boy’s health began to improve, his appetite returned,
and he gradually lost his extreme languidness. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acted as a
grand tonic upon his whole system, and he soon began to scamper about like
other boys. I attribute his wonderful recovery solely to the fact that he took
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and took it in time.”
This is the experience of Mrs. Arabella Graham (whose son’s portrait is given
above), of 73 Station St., Petersham, New South Wales. It is also the happy
experience of thousands of mothers all over the land. And it is the reason
why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been named
“The World’s Greatest Family Hedicine.”
Itbrings color to white lips and plumpness to pale cheeks.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
wmm 1b Vi w That'Cures.
It Gives Nerve Power and Muscular Strength.
Ayer’s Pills are Liver Pills. They cure biliousness.
ff
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plat es. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their phy3ioian. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W RITBR, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Lifi Unveiled, ls-6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
m WILL
!! 'ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
Si IMPORTER
2CI! Hi f2O?
CHEAP BOOKS
PLAIN NOME TALK.
B £o£ B
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices*
Every Man His Own Builder, 224 illustrations, Is 6d ; Metal Working for
Amateurs, brazing, soldering, gas-fitting, brass casting, etc., illus., Is 6d.
Electrical Apparatus for Amateurs, Telephones, Electric Light, Coils., etc.,
illustrated, Is 6d. How to write Signs, Tickets and Posters, 170 illustrations, Is 6d.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc.,'by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 16. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6 ;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian
Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
Out List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL A TVnT=I A TVF! J
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
The \Y ays of Many \Yaters
By B. J. BBA.UY.
A collection of Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
NO DECEPTION.
Professor : ** Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will show
you a simple and easy trick about which there is
no deception, and one that all may learn with great
advantage to themselves. In one hand you take a
glass of water, arid in the other a few BEECHAM’S
PILLS ; you place the pills upon your tongue and
take a sip of water. The pills will do the rest."
PIANOS
PIANOS
JNj'ANON PIANOS
IM A NOS
yANON PIANOS
£35
CASH oar on ZEJ.A.S'ST TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
JOTSt.
THROAT EASE
mrnm
I -NOOKO-I j
wnH3WHoaDNmuvj|
l «)mS'Nag 1
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
V
m
a*
ti
ye.
n
STOP THAT COUGH!
HOW CAN YOU STOP IT?
take WHERE IS THE REMEDY ?
Boogiogtop’s Irisb Moss
Another Voice from Hilly rove.
Messrs. BONNINGTON & CO. 26th July, ’95.
Dear Sirs. —I have been recently afflicted with a severe cold in my head, throat, and
lungs. Four bottles of your Bennington’s Irish Moss have completely cured me.
Yours truly, MARY* T. GIBSON.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S Pills.
GREAT CURE FOR BILE, INDICES- j
TION, AND ALL LIVER
DISORDERS.


TENNISGOODS.
Slazenger AT London prices.
_ r . La Belle, 6/-; Renshaw, 10/6:
aEC£6iS * Pastime, 15/- ; Whitehouse, 21/- ;
EQ- M, 25/-; Boodie, 25-. ’
Slazenger 1899 Balls Uncovered, 6/6 :
° Covered, 13/-.
Ayres * *■ 1899 Balls Uncovered, 7/6
Covered, 14/-.
(Association Rates to Members.)
Tennis Special Quality Rubber on all our
Shoes.
Shoes
Prices from 4/- to 25/-.
Rubber Goods of all Descriptions•
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-3T., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AMD . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMTORTINCb
COCOA
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
The ||)ost powerful griping gelt in the |gorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
■Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES I
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working*
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works 9
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LON DOM
MANCHESTER ...
BIRMINGHAM ...
NEWCASTLE-ON- TYNE
Queen Victoria St.
10 Corporation St.
33 Albert St.
8 Neville St.
c<«**
'iViiiV
BB i *
i
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
ws PITEIIT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales daring the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in suet*
fields as the chief countries oi jetuope, cue
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guar ante eel.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents:
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Beid & Sons, Adelaide;
Bobertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
■
Latest type Oil Engine.
OIL , STEAM AND GAS ENGINES.
TANGYES.
Australian Representatives:
BENJNIE, TEABE & ( O.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
MIXING AND ENGINEERING FURNISHERS.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
'RTTTTF'R •• • cream, consequently -the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
J>U J. UkR pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folkswho will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored blitter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dea/v*
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY
HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
LACY
GATES’ ROCKBREAKER
Company Limited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
ALL KIKTDS OP MODBRKT MACHINERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, U.S.A.
,r
rr
STREET,
.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS LANE,
London, E.C.
BarofS’ Foot *fji Stean) Power f^acfriiKry
AND EogiO??rS’ Tools-
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO -
ENGINEERS’ and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney and Melbourne.
BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Engine Co.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues , .
