

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
m FEY’S MALTED COCOA
guaranteed pure cocoa aktd extract of malt.
3E®. Gr„ WATKIIVS «££ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney, 7
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXI I.OSJVES, El ILDEHte’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
TEACHER
mm*
u
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
•' .r -V;^:
m
mm
vm
. m
Over 2200 Hydro-Extract nd at work
JLM
CIGARS
'(pur**
VUJ\f7?/iGRANr
SMO/C£
>
a
IF©R
Is
MRUTTY % 0- SYDNEY
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m ntt street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods Sugar
bait, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED Send for
Testimonials and full particulars. . '
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
/
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kiliniuster for the last
Twenty (2(1) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
THE LAST OF SIX.
,?V'
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
* ‘U , GEORGE HOTELi opposite St,
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Bay, 0r.2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
ffiss—
Hadley’s Orient ptel.
If/nuykM,
cM
to '&W -&6Q.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELT! MG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGT& SON, LTD.,
117 "2"orfe. Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Purity Warranted. Recommended by Highest Medical Experts
for use in leading Knglish and Colonial Hospitals.
, A Sufficient Guarantee of its Wholesome ness.
Two Gold Medals, Brussels Exhibition 1897-
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
■
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON l m
United Ebstric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch
16 Carringtoa-street,
WYNV-ARD SQUARE
SYDNEY.
PT Ef*Srn n£ e l°L f °s : NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC) CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne
Q usland Depot—Central Buildings, Ed ward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Yol. 20ft —No. 990.]
[Saturday, February 4, 1899.
Beg.steretl at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as s, newspaper.


The jjookfelloui.
A Monthly Magazinelet
For Book-lrayers and Book-readers.
Price, ONE PENNY; send (id. stamps for six
issues, post-free.
Write for a specimen copy.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. LTD.
214 George-street, Sydney.
Ask
for
Cameos!
The Flao- under which reigns supreme —
PEACE! CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE RED PAGE.
Parnell and His Power.
When Mr. Parnell was deposed, the backbone
of Home Rule was extracted. Deprived of his
qualities, the Celtic temperament was abandoned
to its faults. Unsuppressed by his alien will, its
incendiary temper and its passion for replies have
been fatal again as before. It is not very deeply
said that no man is indispensable. Pew men are.
One man was. Abandoned to itself, Celtic
emotionalism alternates between internecine an-
archy and moody quietism. It is under the
organic impress of great leadership alone that this
inchoate mass becomes incalculably formidable,
and gathers a disciplined force of an almost irre-
sistible impact. With the withdrawal of the
integrating ascendency of a man, the imposing
phenomenon of solidarity relaxes, separates,
vanishes; an extraordinary coherence falls back
io irrevocable confusion and the original chaos.
There is no continuity. It takes another man to
make another movement. That is the inexorable
aw of Irish politics. The Celt knows his need.
He is rebellious to symbolic title. He never
acknowledged succession through minors and
women. He craves for actual discipline and a
*eal dictator. The only political institution of the
3elt is the Chief. Mr. John Hill Burton observes
tin his “History of Scotland.” Mr. Bodley
maintains it in his book on France. Mr. Barry
s’Brien proves it in his “ Life of Charles Stewart
Parnell. ”
* * * *
This book leaves the portrait of a memorable
igure to be realised and the problem of a mysteri-
es nature to be elucidated. It remains for some
Froudeof thefuture to put Parnell upon the literary
sanvas—to make intelligible the compelling aspect
>f command ! the atmosphere of tacit sovereignty
that there was about the man. From that canvas
his resting eyes, observing and impenetrable, ought
to follow the mind like the rememberable eyes of
Philip IV. in the most solemn portrait m the
world. In later years his shapely and deceptive
beard concealed a-jaw that recalled at once the
remorseless masses of bone indicated in Holbein’s
drawings of so many of the Tudor nobles as well
as of their sovereign. Sooner or later, Parnell
must be the subject of one of the great pictures of
literature.
* * * *
The power and the tragedy of Parnell’s career
require great Comparisons. His fate was as tragic
as that of Antony or Mary. Among his contempo-
raries, Bismarck only was like him in epic cast of
ch&racter. In' English politics the character of
Parnell in simple solidity, deep craft, conquering
force, and the ruling ascendency of sheer non-
scrupulous strength, takes us back to Cromwell.
* * * *
Parnell as a racial product was curiously enough
the most typical representative of the English-
speaking world that has yet been seen. His stock
was of strong blood and strong bend. The family
of Parnell oame from Cheshire, and matured
through two centuries in that Irish environment
which seems to develop the highest governing
capacity of English blood. On the other han'd,
Mr. Parnell’s mother represented a name as Scot-
tish as Stewart and one as Welsh as Tudor, both
brought through the American medium. English
extraction, Irish atmosphere, American maternity
deriving from Scotch and Welsh blood—the squire
of Avondale wag the microcosm of the English-
speaking races.
* * * *
Until he was nearly thirty he was as mere a
country gentleman as Cromwell himself ; satur-
ated with his mother’s typical American
“notions” —typical up to yesterday —of British
dominion ; and living in a silent and gathering
dislike of English rule in Ireland. It was his
fixed idea that Irishmen were despised by the
ruling race ; that the system of government in
Ireland was fundamentally a caste-system ; and it
was not a bit out of any philosophic conviction of
the wisdom of Mr. Butt’s scheme of Home Rule,
but with the determination tp break the arrogance
and ascendancy of the British caste in Ireland,
that Parnell entered politics. He appeared in
them out of the abrupt machine. It was thought
by the fluent and genial types Who accepted this re-
served and inarticulate recruit that he would be a
respectable nullity, able to pay his own expenses.
He was destitute of demagogic arts; he was worse
than what is understood by a wretched speaker.
He was inarticulate, capable only of painful
efforts to be otherwise. He had the repellent
insularity of an iceberg. It seemed impossible to
conceive a type less adapted to a political career
or more completely lacking in manner and mind
of all qualifications for acquiring the smallest fol-
lowing in Celtic politics. But he had the rare
touch to which the Irish, whenever they feel it,
respond by immediate instinct. He was a
phenomenon among the eloquent politicians. It
was not only that he learned in the end to speak
as he desired, in sentences of clear steel—he could
do something. He could do more than demon-
strate :he could prevail. He could put an end to
confusion and ineffectuality ; he could employ all
forces, stimulate all talents, combine all interests
and all passions—the Church, the Fenians, the
farmers and the towns —he could direct, rule them.
He could lead and he could win. It was the touch
of supreme leadership that began to send the fusing
current through the country, and to set up the
process of electric welding that made five-sixths of
Ireland one in a massive discipline that was with-
out precedent and will probably remain without
parallel. It would be as useful to speculate upon
what France would do under another Napoleon as
upon what Ireland would do under another Par-
nell. Some things history does not repeat.
t * * * •
Sir Charles Cavan Duffy has frequently pointed
out that Mr. Parnell had not the slightest claim
to hare invented the policy of Independent
Opposition. There is nothing very recondite
about the idea of Independent Opposition. The
only difficulty about that policy is to find the
masterful hand to work it. The dangerous prece-
dent set by Mr. Parnell’s Parliamentary method
is, after all, not so easy to imitate. When he
entered Parliament he found Mr. Butt’s party,
with the rugged exception of Mr. Biggar, subject
to the Irish desire to please. They stroked the
shell of the tortoise. Parnell began to break the
shell. That is what attracted the attention of
Ireland. It was realised that here was a man
whom even the whole House of Commons could
not break, but who might break the whole House
Of Commons. That was the secret of his power.
m * » *
We know what he did. He was thirty when he
began, and he died at forty-five. He disorgaiused
the House of Commons; reversed the traditional re-
lations of the races by making Englishmen furious
while he remained calm; wrested all constitutional
forms to revolutionary ends; made Ireland un-
governable except by himself ; extorted more
valuable concessions for Ireland ungovernable than
Ireland submissive would ever have received;
paralysed the great Liberal majority of 1880;
overthrew Mr. Gladstone's government; put Lord
Salisbury and the Conservatives into power, and
persuaded the Constitutional party to hold re-
markably civil language towards treasonable agi-
tators ; threw the Irish vote in Great Britain lor
the first time against the Liberal party ; attained
the balance of power at a General Election —was
for a moment the Warwick of the Empire ; forced
Mr. Gladstone to capitulate ; placed Mr. Glad-
stone again in power ; saw a Bill that would have
made him autocrat of Ireland rejected by a majo-
rity of thirty only in the House of Commons;
drove the most respectable of great journals to
the exotic course of attacking him on charges of
condoning assassination by fac-similes of letters
that were forged ; defeated the Times in the last
and most dramatic of his victories —only to bo
ruined by the divorce-oase, as completely as was
Queen Mary by the Casket Letters ; to be excom-
municated by Mr. Gladstone ; deposed by tlui en-
thusiasts who had re-sworn eternal allegiance 24
hours before ; hounded by his own pack ; crushed
by the blind forces hurled upon him by the
Catholic Church ; and to die very darkly, leaving
his party to irremediable anarchy, and his cause to
certain extinction.
* * * *
Mr. Gladstone said: “Parnell was the most
remarkable man I ever met. I do not say
the ablest man; I say the most remarkable,
and the most interesting. . . . He was a most
extraordinary man.” Mr. Chamberlain ac-
cepts him decisively for “a great man,” and
adds that he was unscrupulous, like Napoleon.'
Sir Robert Edgeoumbe expresses a common
thought: “Of all the men I ever met, Mr. Cecil
Rhodes alone equals Parnell in possessing that in-
definable quality, the power to lead men.” Mr.
Rhodes reports, for his part, that “ Parnell was
the most reasonable and sensible man that I ever
met.” Sir Charles Dilke gives his feeling happily :
“ Dealing with him was like dealing with a foreign
power,”
* * * •
To these tributes elicited by Mr. Barry O’Brien
we may add others. After Parnell’s death, Mr.
Frederick Greenwood hazarded the opinion that,
in the fatal precedent he had set of the perversion
of Parliamentary machinery to revolutionary pur-
poses, the career of Parnell was perhaps the most
significant Parliamentary event since the Whig
Revolution of 1688. Mr. John Morley compared
Parnell with Cavour in his realistic power of view.
The Times, the other day, compared him with Bis-'
marck, and gave it that his “ruinous force of
will” was even greater than Bismarck’s.
* • * •
With all this, it might still be possible not
to understand why Parnell was indispensable.
Mr. Justin M‘Carthy, in a passage of admirably
candid and damaging confession, puts his finger
upon the exact essential of the truth —
He was not liked by thejparty as a whole. But like or
dislike, all bowed to him, because all felt that he was the
one man who knew what to do in moments of difficulty,
and that he was always right. He had the genius of a
Commander-in-Ohief. It was that which gave him his
power. Others of us might be useful in fixing lines of
policy in advance. But when a crisis arose, when some-
thing had to be done on the instant which might have a
serious effect in future, we were no good. We were para-
lysed. Parnell made up his mind in an instant, and did
the thing without doubting or flinching.
• * * *
That explanation goes to the root. All the in-
genious plans of the excitable Celt will go to
pieces in a crisis. At the psychological moments
upon which the success of great enterprises de-
pends Parnell alone had the cold and devising
brain, the competence in emergency. We are re-
minded of the pregnant remark of Lord Roberts :
“ I have known many natives whose gallantry
and devotion could not be surpassed, but I have
never known one who would not have looked to
the youngest British subaltern for support in time
of difficulty and danger.”
• * • *
Ireland, in short, was the island of Delos, and
Parnell was the peg, the point of stability. ' To
pull away that peg was to pull that island to
pieces and to strew tLe wave. When Mr. Glad-
stone abjured Parnell he did what no mere enemy
could have done—he mined the Irish-party,
destroyed Home Rule, and was the fatal
agent of Unionism. When the Irish mem-
bers preferred Mr. Gladstone to Mr. Parnell
they did exactly what Mr. McCarthy declares
them apt to do; they took the wrong step in
an emergency. It was the power of coping with
crises possessed by Parnell alone that made the
characteristic cleverness of his followers’ inexpres-
sibly trivial by comparison. The one central
reason for holding by the leadership of Parnell, at
any hazard, was simply that Parnell was indis-
pensable. With Parnell everything might have
been retrieved. Without him nothing could be.
* * * *
The formidable fighting power of the Celt, when
dominated by a great personal force, and the im-
potent confusion of the Celt when released from
strong leadership, are a very curious problem. The
Irish have an extraordinary passion and aptitude
for politics. In organic enthusiasm, concerted in-
telligence, persuasive exposition, irritating criti-
cism, tactical instinct, Mr. Parnell’s party was
certainly the most effective ever seen in a Parlia-
ment. But where is that party now? It has
vanished no less completely than Hans Breit-
mann’s. Except Mr. Parnell, its items are what
they were. Without Mr. Parnell, the same men
are not the same. The once irrepressible and
effective items are lax, dull, contemned. Some
inspiration has evaporated. Mr. Gladstone in the
latter days saw their condition, and, in his con-
versation with Mr. Barry O’Brien, spoke of it as
something disastrous and inexplicable :
Healy was very clever ; he made very clever speeches.
I do not know what has become of him now, but under
Parnell he was admirable. . . . He (Parnell) succeeded in
surrounding himself with very clever men, with men
exactly suited for his purpose. They have changed since ;
X don’t know why. Everything seems to have changed.
This is a pathetic passage. Everything is changed,
indeed. Why is everything changed ? It is, let
us repeat it, because the Irish temperament, de-
prived of Mr. Parnell’s qualities, is abandoned to
its faults.
• * * •
Mr. Healy may be accepted as the .accurate
antithesis of Parnell and as the essential type of
the Celt in politics. Mr. Healy is an embodied
intelligence. Beside his preternatural brightness
of mind Mr. Parnell appeared a dull person. In
the days when a split in the Irish party seemed
unlikely and only desirable, it was a dear specula-
tion, often to bo seen in the Parliamentary corre-
spondence of the newspapers, that Mr. I lealy
might one day depose Mr. Parnell and lie
king. But Mr. Mealy is a leader who would
gesticulate with his sceptre and hurl the orb at a
demurring head. Than Mr. Healy there neverwasa
more Celtic illustration of the fatal incompatibility
between temper and policy. He is a most shrewd
and inventive politician ; but he is possessed by
the genius of retaliation. Whatever becomes of
his salvation he will shoot his arrow. Ho is a
born lieutenant. One of the saddest results of
Mr. Parnell’s disappearance was the waste of Mr.
Healy- “I do not know what has become of
him now,” said Mr. Gladstone to Mr. Barry
O’Brien, “ but under Parnell he was admirable.”
That is the cut of most subtle unkindness, which
Mr. Healy must have felt more than he bas felt
anything since Mr. Parnell died, and it leaves very
little to be said.
* * * *
Recrimination, the passion for replies, is the real
genius of Celtic anarchy. The Irish instinct is
never to conciliate an opponent who has made one
angry, but to throw one’s whole soul into the work
of replying to him in such terms as shall make
him an enemy for ever. It is by the passion for
replies that Mr. Parnell’s party has been broken
up into insensate factions equally barren in them-
selves, equally injurious to each other, and equally
ridiculous to their common opponents. How ine-
radicable is the passion for replies of the Celt in
politics has recently been shown by a most signifi,-
oant instance. Mr. Healy is merely the charac-
teristic type of the Celt in politics, in him the
I'age for recrimination would be expected. Sir
Charles Gavan Duffy is absolutely the highest
type of the Celt in politics, and lie has out-
lived all the controversies of Ills career. It
was profoundly suggestive to observe that a con-
spicuous feature in Sir Charles Gavan Duffy’s
autobiography, “My Life in Two Hemispheres, ”
was an unsparing reply to John Mitchell, who has
been a very long while dead.
• * * *
The lock-mouthed master of loose-lipped men,
Mr. Parnell, amid the volatile talents and passion-
ate levities of his followers; had the absolute fixity
of purpose with which feeling had never any more
to do than emotion with the laws of gravity. He
was equally beyond the contagion of enthusiam
and the provocation of hate. He was unexcitable.
There never was a more complete incarnation of
the Carlylean man, a more _ remarkable exponent
.of the power of silence. His imqaobility and his
' silence were deeply related. As he neither was
touched by devotion nor irritated by dislike, and
as the exercise of words was in itself distasteful,
he had no impulse to respond to supporters or to
waste reply upon opposition which he intended to
crush and did not care to answer. Mr. Parnell
was exempt from the passion for replies.
*' * * * *
He first appears to have made a profound im-
pression upon Mr. Gladstone when the latter
Fastened upon him a quotation “outrageous in its
lawlessness,” but never spoken by Parnell. The
Irish leader neither winced nor protested. He did
not object, and did not reply. He spoke privately
to Mr. Gladstone, and pointed out the error. It
is exactly such incidents which usually set the
whole Irish benches in a tumult, and produce the
Parliamentary “ scenes, ” in which some Irishman
is certain to injure his reputation in vindicating
his innocence. The famous indictment of Mr.
Forster was deeply designed to make the Irish
benches mad. But Parnell did not reply. When
the Lord Mayor of Dublin appeared at Morrison’s
Hotel with a cheque for £40,000, the civic dig-
nitary commenced a speech that would probably
have been adequate to the occasion. He began,
“ Mr. Parnell ” Mr. Parnell at once replied,
“I believe you have got a cheque for me.” The
Lord Mayor.had a cheque. Mr. Parnell put it in
his waistcoat pocket. There was no more function.
When shown for the first time the forged letter
charging him with an infamy, Mr. Parnell did not
invoke the gods nor apply epithets to the Timet.
He observed, putting a meditative finger on the
document, “ I did not make an ‘s ’ like that sinoe
1878.” When Mr. Cunynghame infonned him of
the findings of the Special Commission, half of
which were hostile, Parnell remarked, “ It is al-
most what I would have said myself.” Without
any change of expression he could look down
mutiny. It is needless to multiply proof, that while
the talent of his followers was subversive and de-
structive, his power was controlling and structural.
The lack of the architectonic faculty which Mat-
thew Arnold notes as the essential weakness of
the Celt in literature is also his weakness in poli-
ties. Mr. Parnell was the only great building in-
fluence that Nationalist politics have possessed.
His party was full of men who possessed the com-
mon kinds of cleverness in very considerable
degress, lie alone had distinction. Amid their
versatility ho alone had mass.
« * * «
Parnell was more important than Home Rule.
Home Rule had to be worked as well as won, and
he must have been a very credulous entli tiast
who did not know that only Mr. Parnell could
have worked it to the end of establishing the solid
framework of a new and successful order of things
in Ireland. The pity is that the first Home Rule
Bill did not pass. With its provision for the
exclusion of the Irish members it would have made
Mr. Parnell aut<x;rat of Ireland. He would have
become at ot\ce an Imperial force as strong as Mr.
Rhodes. He had a deep idea for the settlement of
Ireland. All Nationalist Ireland he had united
—priests, Fenians, tuid farmers. There remained
Unionist Ulster and the Irish gentlemen. His
first work under a Home Rule system would have
been to bring them in. Parnell was far too
great a man to pronose to govern I reland against
Ulster and the Irish gentry, or in any other way
except with them and through them. We see in
Mr. Barry O’Brien’s book the depth of his scheme;
it determined his opposition to the Plan of Cam-
paign. The land agitation he seems to have re-
garded as having secured for the tenant as near an
approximation to perfect justice as any class of
mankind can hope to enjoy in an imperfect world.
Parnell held that work to lie sufficiently done. It
had embittered that separation of classes which
was itself the social curse and the political weak-
ness of Ireland. To bring the Trish gentry and
Unionist Ulster into the new system in sup-
port of an Irish Parliament one thing was
necessary—-to drop the Land Agitation. This
is what Parnell proposed to do, and from
this point of view he never showed profounder
statesmanship than in his opposition to the Plan
of Campaign. Under a Home Rule Parliament
he would have dropped the land agitation. Within
six months he would have shifted his base, and
Belfast and the landlords would have been the
support of his power. Ireland would have become
a whole. The most piquant and pregnant passage
of Mr. Barry O’Brien’s two volumes is the con-
versation upon this subject between Mr. Michael
Davitt, essentially a democrat, not a Nationalist,
and Mr. Parnell, essentially a Nationalist and no
democrat
Mr. Davitt: “ But, Mr. Parnell, how on earth could you
resist attacking- the land system as a whole after all your
speeches? If you were Irish Secretary in an Irish Parlia-
ment', how could you defend yourself in the face of these
speeches? What would you do?" Mr. Parnell: “The
first thing I should do would be to lock you up.”
And he would have done it. He was of that
calibre. * >
-* • - • *
So much Mr. Parnell might have made of Home
Rule. No one else could have made anything
more with a Parliament than the fiasco they have
made of the movement. Parnell without Home
Rule gave the country what Home Rule without
Parnell neVer could have given—union, discipline,
“victory and law,” some perception of the nature
of political solidity, a new structure and a new
spirit. Parnell was as much more important to
Ireland than Home Rule, as Napoleon was more
important to France chan a Constitution. The
possession of Parnell was more important than the
hypothesis of a Parliament. It was because of the
enormous and characteristic failure to appreciate
that fact, in the moment of a crisis, that Ireland
has no Parliament and no Parnell. — Condensed
from Louis Gaevin, in the Fortnightly Review.


RS
■ - ■
0
m
fra?--
Sydney’s beading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
Symptoms
i of Dreaded Diseases whioh
destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finder and says,
“ Stop—be sad ! ” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
itH victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to tho young, unmarrried man,
“ Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FJIEEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoQ-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in tho last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
AT
60 Engravings.
16 Colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
Nsn/o(is Debility, LoSS of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society —you are troubled with stupid ness, bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. Ihe cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don’t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man —with an object in life—ambitious —successful. Don’t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and ic becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
lake, time.by the forelock—nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions,- pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting.
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modem
equipment and low charges.
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
CURED, we are ready to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO
-
m.
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities and
uiauuJSlS, completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
• diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a Period of ma,ny years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or exoesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &0., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, norvoua, and
AindiseHsesniay be quickly and permanently
CURED, without lohh of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the oure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed ir the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your ease requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dn. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid arid straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do nob feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find u list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every ease under-
taken by I)r. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but tho very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—■
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION
HOURS-Daily,
ATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW TIIE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy F. NT IHF L Y
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
* TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young: and
Old Men ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain same easily
and permanently Prof.
Read’B LIFE SYRUP cures the most obst-nate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, &c. _ A Written
Guarantee given in all cases The Life Syrup stim-
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constant dram of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how al.
nervous disorders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H, READ, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TUADE
THERA P'ro N
>
w
7k
' — - J
This successlul and highly popular reined) ,as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Lticord,
Kostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remaikady short time, otlen a lew days only,
removes ail discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of the blood, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, Ac., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewliolcsystem through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy-
climates, See. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Therai’lON ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
gents for Thekapion— FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and ROCKK, TOMPSfTT & Co.
A
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollaway Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE-NO PflYi
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NS W.-
NOTE-
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. H. Clayton’s
MARVELLOUS
VITALITY PILLS
Are.trw best medicine on earth for the Permanent Cure
of Nervous Exhaustion, Debility, Despondency,.Rheuma-
tism, Paralysis, Impotency, etc., and all diseases arising
from Overwork, Worry, Excess, Female Weakness, etc.
No matter how caused, or how long standing-. These Piljs
are purely a vegetable compound, made from rare and
fine drugs. Success guaranteed. Literature fi-ee on
application. Full directions around each box. fn boxes
at ss. and 10s., post free from the Dr. H. CLAYTON
MEDICINE COMPANY, Box 617 0.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Atrophy
, IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum -Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength,
Vitality, Manhood. losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
, book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacnum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Light and Life.”
Xnis valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt Of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
‘ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, ITobart.
SPECIAL on Newmarket Handicap.
4th March.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Drawn on Morning of the Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me 1 shares in the above.
. , Name . • .. . • :
Address ’
NEWMARKET H. March 4.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name _
AUSTRALIAN C. March 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ * :
BALLARAT C
March 24,
50,000 Subsorilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name -
£
*
Address
DONCASTER H. April 1.
25,000 Subscribera at 5 S
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
£
Address.
SYDNEY C. April 3.
25,000 Sutoacrilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


(aIaSS
of FaSbioo
ahthohy • Hordern s
rORTFOLIO OF . . •
SPRING & SOMMER
FASHIONS, 1808-99
IS NOW READY
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing: for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
■m
m
\
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood, Lugs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN S'I'OCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
j)avid graham m >
TAILORS, ,
Habit and Breaches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPOUTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - -
AT REFORM
PRICES
AT ; TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents f-r Cdnlar Clothing:
David Braham &Co.,
73 & '75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
THE
DEAF
9EAB
t*?~ “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness- and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
iSound Conductor. Safe to wear,
[comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
wire or metal attach-
'ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Airent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
8509 H
mmm
GrO TO ECELL-
* IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
_ ■ a » m # I Established 1849.
Australia!) ncitual Provident Society
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established Wl V/* • f ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors *—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman j TIIOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman • A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.,F.F.A.,F.S:S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head. Office : 87 Pitt-street Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secret art.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&S’ Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of tight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
HIXijLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
HARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
MELUNS
FOOD
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
j- THE MOST DELICIOUS SAIICK IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
sold ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold 111 Bottles, 6d., x/«, and *> each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for Blew South Wales:
TILLOCK & CO., KENT and I.IVEHI’OOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE
• Plum *
THB
‘ Plum*
s ENTLEMKN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Bein'' practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered, and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SVDNEIT
Price
Sole
Agents
3ST.S-
■VV. Carriage & Saddlery Manf Company,
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spnng
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
bounds, Silver Dash Hail
and Lamps.
£BlB. 6.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Prospect.
I am the last of all my race,
My race, that hath no goodly sons,
They live like devils in their place
Lame, barren, festered, foolish ones.
I know I am not such as they—
Some strong strain flows my blood within,
And I can read the bitter way
That men have travelled for their sin.
I tired of their inhuman wiles
And built myself a secret lair,
I found old books within the piles
That rise in ruin everywhere ;
And there I read how men had been
Great, glorious, godlike, wise, and strong,
With minds alert and bodies clean,
With hope for Right and hate for Wrong,
Until an evil thing began
To taint their flesh with rot and rust;
A poisoned garment grew to man
Of city life and city lust.
And city into country grew
Utxm one evon plan designed,
Until the poison filtered through
The farthest races of mankind.
Then many died, nnd some were slain,
And some made Death’s desire their own ;
And all were weary in the brain
And most were sterile as a stone.
All women wandered harlotwise,
And no man living said them nay :
Of such a few were born, whose eyes
Foresaw what mine have seen to-day.
I, ’mid these madmen sane alone,
I see the wheel of Fate complete,
See man’s fair flesh n carrion grown
For lusts to lash and sores to eat.
His fairer soul that Nature gave
To love her well with sight nnd sense,
A charnel-house, an opened grave,
Filled full of frantic iini>otonce.
They goad me with their evil hate,
They mock me in their brutish play :
Lord, thou hast kept the world too late —
Come quickly with the Judgment Day !
The hour speeds on ; no child is born ;
Their loins are barren with their shame;
The veil of Destiny is torn,
And man is nothing but a name.
I am the last of nil my line,
My line, that bore such goodly fruits;
These others are not kin of mine
But born of Satan and the brutes.
Via
THE PAGAN.
On tbe River.
Beneath the bridge's span of arch
I hear the rattle of the cars,
And note the never-ending march
Of tram-lights like a flash of stars.
They stain with orange and with red
The smoke of factory and train,
And purple mists from river-bed
And glistening silver of the rain.
A new moon through the rags of cloud
Peeps coyly in a mist of tears ;
The wind that yesternight blew loud
Whistles a space and disappears.
And o’er the river’s peaceful tide
I poise awhile my dripping oars,
And see before me, spreading wide,
The silent waters, lonely shores.
Of all the gifts to days and nights,
There is one gift for you and me—
The promise that, beyond the lights,
Some night of rest there yet may he.
Melbourne.
E.A.V.
The Incarnation.
I kneel within the temple of my love.
Tn solemn silence, through the twilight blurring
Thine image looks upon me from above.
No doubt is racking me; no breath is stirring.
And as in ecstasy I turn my gaze
Upward to thine, half waking and half dreaming,
I see upon thy brow, white through the haze,
The halo of divine perfection gleaming.
But presently there shudders in ray brain
A consciousness of subtle desecration,
The presence of some element profane,
The impulse to rebellious violation.
A thrill, that sends an angry flush of shame
Into my cheek, is trembling through my semes
Deliciously, and—whispering a name,
The name my soul adores and reverences—
Is gone again, has vanished into nought:
A pang scarce palpable, a vision fleeting,
A hint, a flash, the fragment of a thought,
A faint suggestion— but my heart is beating !
Uneasily I rise ; my eyes grow blear ;
There courses through my veins some magic potion.
A new aroma fills the atmosphere
And turns to red desire my pale devotion.
The transport of austerity has flown ;
The breathless spell of worshipping is broken.
I feel a longing I have never known ;
I hear a language I have never spoken.
I throw the panels open, and a flood
Of rhythmic song, that times my heart’s vibration,
Of summer air intoxicates my blood.
The incense of a passionate temptation
Drifts like a sacrilege o’er nave and shrine
Through the religious calm. And coldly dreading
Some sign of wrath, I raise my, eyes to thine.
And lo ! A blush —a human blush is spreading
Across thy saintlv-fair ascetic face.
A minute yet—that awe and wonder bridle —
And in one palpitating, hot embrace
I find the Woman, where I saw the Idol !
VON KOTZE.


Washington H soul & c?
NOVELTY
IL>
(BrOshes
fcVs>9 V ;•
OJA R4NTE6 THt
BAKING
rSapr
pERFOfiERY
The Australian OJidouis’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
H w1 1 icfHssues’s'p eo ia!'Policies'gra nltf ng— '* he USUaI *?""? ° f Assurance * is ‘he ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALI A
IL Pakl uii PoLi'v in 'i^ 1 ° f P rel P luni ' n the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
ii. a paia-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors :
„ rtt >£on. Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman:
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
exceeds £2ll, OOt.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
mo MAIf I MO nnmmiio miOTinnn miTiimir rnnn ... . -
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding-. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
• Utiegimlledfor the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. Ihe proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
lueudit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveitatrial
c , . . , Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS SYDNEY
GREAT STUFF THAT !
P*B
Ruberoid.
“ Mirilba,” Dandaloo, New South Wales.
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD., FebrUary U> m&
24 and 26 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l thought you might be glad to know that the 3-ply P& B Ruberoid which I
purchased of you to use in building my dam has proved a great success. I set posts across the
river five feet apart bracing them from the lower side. To the upper side I nailed 2in. timber
p 1? $> < 5 e A ITia vU joints on the posts. Then I covered the entire upper surface with your
l & B Kuberoid, which has proved itself absolutely waterproof, though the water-pressure against
it lB very great. You need not hesitate to recommend P&, B Ruberoid for building dams-it is
all nght.—Yours truly, &
(Signed) GEO. BACKHOUSE
—FOR SALE BY—'
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross& Jack, Agents,Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents ; E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
FEDEKAL PALACE HOTEL
• M: EIiBOTTTt TVTTTB •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
ss. to P® r D ay •• • }- Inclusive Terms \ . . 255. to £3los. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY-at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two Pin-ins R °oma (2s. 6D. &. Is.) and Cafe.
PITT STREET, i SYDNEY 9^9
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or leas
of four leading Theatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Every Visitor says: “Do not miss The Marble Bar/’
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.]
Painless Dentistry,
THE ....
London Dental
Institute.
K. S. JjBVRK, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASH UR, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Leyitimutely Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
w difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
id without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
ouhle. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
>XLY-98 KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
O All VERT’S
15 I'KR CBNT.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
Keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, ut Gd., 1/- and 1/6
. each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
in
Trade
Mam
At Disiislers Company I?,
EDINBURGH. •"**
i,;
. I>,l iirJijHjS
“-'u2k-K
Drink
fQoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“forthestomach’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L
West Australian
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FKED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street SYDNEY
mick simnoNS
: 4>
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
All Sportipg Materials at Lowest CGt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
HATS.—Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,5/0
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/0, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s Od
~ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International) 16s 6d
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-eane Handle (President) 13s Od
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s 6d
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14S 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 6s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s, 7s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
~ Fall Size 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ 6s, 6s 6d
» Men’s 6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s 6d
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 5s Od
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best 6s 9d
~ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
„ With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, Cs 6d, 8s 6d, lOsfid
~ Peltham’s ditto Os 6,1
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) ... 10m 6d
„ Lily white’s All-cane Handle 16s Oil
~ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 16s fid
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto .. 6/6,9/0,10/6, 12s fid
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) Ifis fid
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) Ifis fid
„ Dark and Sons’Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s Od
„ Dark and Sons’All-cane Handle ... 8s Od
GAUNTLETS.—-Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s fid
~ Blaik Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
~ , Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 6s 6d, 0s 6d, 8s od, 10s0d
„ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINA L GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match ... 3s 9d to 4s Od
„ Compo.—Nicholson's, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
» >i Match, 5J40z.,15; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s fid
„ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d; Men’s, 8/3,10/6, 12/0
Youth's Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s fid
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
Tobacco Manufacture in N.S. W.
Excise Returns show that during 1898,
Over 60 Tons More
of DIXSON & SONS’ Tobacco were sold than
that of any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf— DIXSON & SONS used in
manufacture
Over 149 Tons More
than all the other Tobacco Factories.
DIXSON & SONS’ Brands are :
YANKEE DOODLE, Dark and Bright Aromatic
CHAMPION, Bright.
CONQUEROR, Dark.
BONANZA ClGABS,—Machine-made ; contain the choicest
Tobacco, and are placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 990.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1890.
Prig* 6d.
“THE BULLETIN’S” MAP OF AUSTRALIA— SHOWING THE PROGRESS OF FEDERATION UP TO DATE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advanoe, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Poet Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea j. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, S000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JtlacTe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :— F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is note
£1, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Sie
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1899.
The Saxon Heptarchy: Australian
Edition.
The Bulletin offers eleven Federal amend-
ments for the consideration of the Premiers’
Conference :
(1) That all the public debts of the federating provinces
be taken over by the Commonwealth and consolidated
into a uniform Federal stock.
(2) That after the provincial debts have been thus
taken over no province shall borrow money on its own
separate account under any circumstances whatever.
(3) All State railways shall be handed over to the Com-
monwealth, and all railway construction and railway
management shall he vested in the Commonwealth
Government. It shall be an instruction to the Common-
wealth Government that in all future railway building it
shall utterly ignore provincial boundaries and separate
provincial interests, and its object in every case shall be
to give the cheapest possible access to the nearest avail-
able port or city.
(4) All rivers flowing through more than one State shall,
with all their abluents, be under Federal control.
(5) The Federal capital shall be built within a Federal
territory of (say) 5000 square miles, of which the Common-
wealth shall he the sole ground landlord for ever.
(6) The site of the capital shall be in the most central
situation conveniently available. It shall be in the
interior, remote from possibilities of invasion ; and as far
as possible it shall be placed where the natural increase of
population will develope new country, and thus make
land which is now practically worthless into a Federal
asset of great value.
(7) In the case of disputes between the two Federal
Houses the matter at issue shall be settled by a joint
sitting at which the vote of a bare majority shall decide.
Said joint sitting to be held within a month from the
arising of the deadlock.
(8) In all cases where there is any reasonable doubt as
to whether certain powers belong to the Federal or the
State Parliaments, the Federal Parliament shall have the
benefit of the doubt.
(9) If any district amounting to not less than, say,
30,000 square miles of territory demands separation from
the province or provinces to which it is now attached, and
a poll taken by the Federal authorities shows that two-
thirds of the adult population voting is in favor of such
separation, it shall be in the power of the Federal Parlia-
ment to grant separation, and either create the territory
in question into a separate State or attach it to another
existing- State, as the inhabitants may desire.
(10) The Federal Government shall have power to estab-
lish a uniform Civil and criminal code throughout the
Commonwealth.
(11) The control of Education shall be in the hands of
the Federal Government.
* * * *
The Bulletin submits its little list of
amendments to the Conference of Premiers
with no definite hope that any good will re-
suit. It puts them on record mainly for its
own satisfaction, so that in after years its
grand-children may be able to turn up the
time-yellowed leaves of this issue, and draw
attention to the fact that the old man
preached much solid wisdom to a deaf
and idiotic generation in the days of
long ago. At the present moment, in fact,
The Bulletin seems to be in a smaller
minority than it was a year ago, and, in a
certain sense, it likes the situation. Every
prophet who had a true story to tell was in
a minority in his own day. The advent of
dreary Dickson to the Premiers’ conference
appears to have strengthened the provincial
and correspondingly weakened the Austra-
lian element in the show. And most of the
amendments submitted by the New South
Wales Parliament the consideration of
which amendments is the real business of
the Conference—go to further weaken the
Australian spirit of the Constitution, which
was a much diluted spirit at the best. The
demand that one province shall have a lien
on the Federal capital—that the rivers, in-
stead of being Australian property, shall be
measured off'into lengths and that each pro-
vince shall lurk separately on the banks of
its own bit of stream—that the present
awkward and unwieldy provincial boundaries
shall be fixed for ever, or as near to it as
may be—that the debts shall be kept separ-
ate—and that each province shall manage its
own railways so as to keep up a perpetual
railway war with the next province, and
build them in accordance with what it re-
gards as its separate interests, not the
interests of Australia, are all signs of a
further falling away from the national idea.
So The Bulletin starts business once more
as a voice crying in the wilderness. The
wilderness is as good a place as any other to
cry in this hot weather.
* • •* «
And it asks the New South Wales politi-
cians, who seem to be running the largest
part of the proceedings just now, if it isn’t
possible for them to look j ust for once at the
Australian aspect of the business, even
from purely selfish motives, and let the
narrow local aspect slide. New South
Wales is the most populous province ; it
represents over one-third of the people of
Australia now, and there is no reason why it
shouldn’t represent one-third or more for
centuries to come. If the railways are
federated New South Wales will own over
one-third of 11,000 miles of line—equal to
3666 miles—instead of being the separate
owner of 2600 miles. If the liabili-
ties are pooled it will owe about £5O
per head of federal debt instead of
about £5O per head of provincial debt.
It will be one-third boss of a whole conti-
nent instead of whole boss of one-tenth of
a continent. It will have one-third interest
in the six capital cities of Australia and Tas-
mania instead of being complete owner of only
one, and that not the largest. It will have the
principal voice in the education system of
all Australia, and the largest share of
the ownership of the Federal capital. If the
provinces throw in their lot together unre-
servedly-*- the' people of New South Wales
will have the leading interest in and the
largest control of all Australia ; they will be
principal boss in Rome instead of being sole
boss in their own village. New South Wales,
under an enlightened policy, ought to be the
leading advocate of complete union instead of
one of the notable defenders of parochialism,
because it has more to gain by union and
more to lose by provincialism than any of its
neighbors.
* * * *
This is the purely selfish view of the case,
but it is put forward as an appeal to
those who refuse to consider any other
aspect. But it would be better—a thousand
times better—if the selfish view could be
wholly forgotten. Australia is now where
England was in the days of the Seven Saxon
States. It was a woeful shock to these petty,
one-horse monarchies when they were obliter-
ated and a united England was made out of
their ruins, and the kingdoms of Kent and
East Anglia and Wessex probably viewed the
horrible circumstance just as New South
Wales views its very similar circumstance
to-day. Nobody wants now to go back to the
days of the Seven Kingdoms, or remembers
. that he belongs to the monarchy of Kent,
and ought to look with loathing on the
monarchy of East Anglia, across the estuary.
Nobody remembers now that, when the
union was made, he should have arranged
for the absolute ownership of “ his ” rivers,
or that the commerce of Essex should have
been compulsorily dragged a long way round,
at great expense, to Yarmouth, because the
more adjacent London is located in the beastly
foreign State over the border—London being
to the old East Angle something like what
Melbourne is to the people of Riverina to-
day. The G. Reid of to-day probably looks
back with some scorn on the primitive Saxon
who would have prevented the forming of a
solid English nation, and thrown the pros-
pective British empire overboard, in order
that the North Folk, of what is now Norfolk,
might avoid losing their separate identity by
being merged into the same race as
their brethren, the South Folk of Suffolk.
Yet G. Reid is a primitive East Angle him-
self. His yearning to preserve the separate
identity of the provinces, and to make quite
sure that the distinctions between the New
South Welshman and Victorian and South
Australian shall not be wholly merged into a
common Australian identity, will look just as
ridiculous 1000 years hence as the similar
howl of his parochial progenitor does .when
it is looked at 1000 years back.
The Bulletin’s idea of Federation is to
make an Australian nation—to obliterate
the Queenslander and New South Welshman
and Victorian and all the rest so completely
that their separate existence will be for-
gotten, and make Australians of them all.
It would like to sub-divide Australia afresh
into 40 or 50 convenient-sized States or local
government areas according to geographical
conditions, so that the old lines where the
Cornstalk’s prejudice ended and the Gum-
sucker’s bigotry or the Crow-eater’s paro-
chialism began would be forgotten, and
people would drop the old provincial idea
through their inability to remember which
provincial idea they inherited. It would like
to make Freetrade so absolute throughout
Australia that every district and town could
trade freely with its most convenient
port, instead of being hampered by a
provincial railway-system whose object is
to protect * ‘ our ” big city at a grievous
sacrifice of national interests. And, instead
of the dictum that it is the first duty of
every province to preserve its own territory,
this paper would like to substitute the axiom
that it is the first duty of every Australian to
preserve the territory and interests of Aus-
tralia, but that the interior divisions of the
continent are merely for convenience in the
matter of local government, ( and the exact
boundaries of the part called Victoria or New
South Wales or Mudgee or Prahran or Wes-
tralia or Kiama (where the ghost used to be)
or Croajingolong or Queensland or One Cow
Point have no patriotic or national signifi-
cance at all. No Englishman nowadays
wants to quarrel or fight with his fellow-
Englishman because the boundaries of Nor-
thumbria or Mercia or Wessex have been
interfered with. The old Seven Kingdoms
have served their turn and been dropped,
and it is difficult to find out now the exact
point where the Wessex man or the Mercian
used to have dark suspicions (just like
George Reid and George Turner glaring at
each other across their little border) that the
other fellow was trying to steal his trade or
wanted to embezzle water out of “ his ”
river. Considering the intense loyalty
which most of the New South Wales provin-
cialists have for England, they would do well
to follow England’s good example in this
matter. The constant policy of the much-
reverenced “mother-country’ has been to
make of its island one nation and one people.
Australia is, for all practical purposes,
smaller and more compact than England was
when it effected its memorable union ; there
are fewer days’ travel between Brisbane and
Perth now than there were between Carlisle
and Winchester in the days when the Seven
Kingdoms shut up, or between Middlesex
and Caithness in the days of Queen Anne.
Just for once The Bulletin has a burst of
loyalty, and it invites the disloyal L. F.
Heydon, and other bad revolutionary charac-
ters, to join it in following England’s
example.
* • • •
Therefore, it drops this small seed of
national Australian sentiment by the way-
side, to be burnt up in the glare of George
Reid’s eye-glass, and scorched by the hot
reflection of Turner's brown suit, and
trodden on by the large, flat feet of Dickson,
the auctioneer from Brisbane. Still, it
hopes that its descendants may come along
and find some sort of a tree growing where
the seed was dropped. In any case, it will
have a certain satisfaction in knowing that
it dropped the seed, and didn’t hoard it up
in its weskit-pocket, where it would have
done no good in any case.
"Our” Rivers.
One of the N.S.W. Government’s proposed
“ amendments ” of the Federal Constitution has
just received practical illustration in a rather
sudden fashion. The illustration arrived from
Goodooga, some kind of a place away in the dry
north of Cornstalk Land, in the shape of this
telegram, with large anguished headlines :
THE INTERCOLONIAL CONTROL OF RIVERS.
COMPLAINTS OF SQUATTERS.
Goodooga, Tuesday.
The river below Dirranbandi has again been stopped,
and the water turned down the Narran by a dam at Cur-
rawildi, erected by the Australian Pastoral Company, so
as to supply their Yerranbah station with water. All the
settlers along the Biree, Bokhara, and Ballandool, num-
bering some hundreds, have to forego their right to the
water, and thereby lose large numbers of stock, till one
station is served. The sufferers on the N.S.W. side of the
border have to put up with this sort of thing from
Queensland squatters, and appear to have no redress
for their grievances. Even if the dam was let go at once,
the Biree cannot now run through, and there is no hope
of the water reaching here. The Bokhara for miles is
perfectly dry, and the only water obtainable in Goodooga
is from the bore. Federation would, indeed, be a boon to
this district if it would stop Queenslanders doing as they
like with the main watercourses.
* « * *
When the river question was before the Fede-
ral Conference, it practically resolved itself into
a duel between N.S. Wales (representing the
purely provincial aspect of the question) and
South Australia (representing the Federal
aspect). The other provinces were neutral,
or nearly so, having but little personal
interest in the matter. S.A., of course, took the
Federal view of the case through necessity, for
its one river of any account is the lower
Murray, and if the provincial doctrine prevails,
and it is held that each province can absolutely
annex all the waters of any river passing
through its territory, then Victoria and N.S.
Wales—but principally the latter—can drain
the Murray for irrigation purposes, and leave
S.A. only a dry ditch. The case for the Crow-
eaters goes into these few propositions : The
rivers were provided by Nature to water Aus-
tralia—or as much of it as they can be made to
water ; not merely a political 'section of Austra-
lia. They were there thousands of years before
man came and drew his ridiculous little boun-
dary-streak on the map, and their usefulness
shouldn’t be limited by any such streak. The
rains which create them are produced by the
evaporation of all Australia and all its sur-
rounding seas. If there is to be any union, or
any brotherhood, or any Australian nation,
then the interests of all Australia must be con-
sidered equally. It is a thirsty land, and its
people are somewhat akin to an isolated little
community living on a scanty dole of water on
axaft, and according to all fairness the precious
fluid should be shared out equally—not the
whole lot grabbed by the largest individual in
the crowd. Therefore South Australia pleaded
that all rivers flowing through more than one
province should be joint property under Federal
control, and that the Federal authority should,
when the demands for irrigation purposes get
in advance of the supply, dole out the water to
the communities along the river bank, so that
everyone would receive the same treatment
irrespective of political boundaries.
• * • •
Certain of the New South Wales delegates,
on the other hand, savagely resented the idea
of joint ownership or Federal control. They
called the Darling and Murray “our” rivers,
and declared that every drop of water therein
was New South Wales property. The claim is
wildly ludicrous even as against South Aus-
tralia, for N.S.W. is wholly dependent on that
province as an escape for the occasional flood-
waters which would otherwise drown out its
western country ; therefore if the Murray is
solely a N.S.W. river, that province can be
called upon to shift “ its ” river out of S.A.
territory, and is, in all fairness, liable for any
damage “ its ” river does in flood-times before
it is shifted. It is still more ludicrous as
against Queensland and Victoria, inasmuch as
a great part of the Darling waters come down
from Queensland, and the bulk of the Upper
Murray from Victoria—a fact of which the
blatant Rkid and Want crowd was, and appa-
rently still is, wholly ignorant. The Federal
Convention made a compromise on the ques-
tion, and one reason why the Reid Government
and its press organs urged the country to reject
the Bill was the absence of any absolute pro-
vision that each province could do as it darned
well pleased with “its” own rivers. And
among the amendments to be insisted upon at
the new Conference is one put forward by
N.S. W. that each province can use up all the
water in its own rivers at its pleasure, and let
the province further down the river get on as
best it may.
* • • •
Curiously enough, the first province to suffer
by this doctrine is N.S. W. itself. All the vapor-
ing of Premier Reid to the effect that “ every
drop of water in the Darling belongs to N.S. W.”
didn’t alter in the least the geographical fact that
Queensland has a mortgage on some hundreds
of miles of the upper waters of that great but
unreliable stream. And as the N.S. W. Govern-
ment holds that each province can do exactly
what it pleases with all the rivers in its terri-
tory — well, Queensland simply has done what
it pleased. It has annexed for irrigation pur-
poses all the water of three little rivers flowing
into the Darling, and shut off the principal
water-supply of Goodooga, and left the stock of
a few hundreds of N.S. W. settlers to perish.
And the simple-minded folks of Goodooga want
Federation to come along quickly, so as to stop
this injustice, being blankly ignorant of the
fact that their own Government is fighting
tooth and nail for a system which will make
the injustice permanent. At present the
trouble is only beginning, for irrigation and
water-conservation are hardly started yet in
South Queensland. When they are fairly
developed, Queensland, in dry seasons, will
probably wholly divert the Culgoa, Biree, Bok-
hara, Ballandool, and a number of other small
streams, and five N.S. W. counties may practi-
cally retire from business—that is, provided
the Reid Government’s river policy is adopted.
• • * •
To all present appearances, it will be adopted
—unless South Australia refuses to federate on
such terms and stands out. Tasmania and
Westralia have no interest in the matter, as
none of their rivers (barring a few miles of the
Ord where it diverges from W.A. into the
Territory and back again) flow through any
territory except their own. Victoria, on the
whole, is willing. For about three-fourths of
the distance over which the Murray forms
the boundary line of Victoria and New South
Wales it is fed almost wholly by Victorian
streams, and an arrangement by which Victoria
will be made sole owner of these, to use and
divert them as it pleases, suits Victoria well
enough. Besides, that province has always
claimed to use the Murray itself for irrigation
purposes as much as it desires, and, if that
river isn’t put under Federal control, there is
no one to stop it doing so—unless N.S. W. likes
to start a war over the question. On the
whole, the provincial idea of river ownership is
likely to suit Victoria well enough : it is
almost certain to get as much that way as the
other. And it certainly suits Queensland,
which wants to annex, for its own sole
use, the upper waters of the Darling
in dry seasons, and turn a considerable
part of norihern N.S.W. into a desert in the
process. And N.S.YV., which originated the
idea, reckons that it is suited also. N.S.W.
wants authority to rob South Australia of its
share of the Murray waters in drought seasons,
though using that province for drainage pur-
poses in wet cnes ; and Victoria and Queensland
are quite willing to rob N.S.W. in their turn,
and nobody is likely to seriously complain
except S.A., which hasn’t a chance to rob any-
body. Whether N.S.W. will get more out of
the "deal than it loses is an open question.
Queensland's share of the business will be clear
profit in any case.
* * ♦ *
Anyhow, the beginning of the whole miser-
able, sordid row was the claim put forth by
Premier Reid and his little clan of provincial-
ists that every drop of water in the Darling
river system belonged to New South Wales,
and that New South Wales would allow no
interference with it whatsoever. And the fact
that Queensland has asserted its ownership of
a great part of the Upper Darling system
by turning an important section of it off at
the meter, and that it may turn a lot more
of it off when its water conservation works
are further advanced, is a very interesting


comment on these bumptious statements and
on the bumptious gang which made them. The
sayings and doings of that gang over Federal
matters have brought them into contempt
and, unluckily, have brought their province
into contempt also. Now the Reid Govern-
ment has either to compel Queensland to cease
blocking or diverting its northern rivers, or
else tacitly acknowledge that its alleged sole
ownership of the Darling river system was the
usual lie—one of the many malicious lies which
it put forward to delay or prevent Federation.
The melancholy little sun-bleached town of
Goodooga, which fries sadly like a lost soul up
on the gridiron of the N.JS.W. border-land, is
waiting for information.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Foreign-trade Crank.
The following letter, signed “ Percy Wake-
field,” and dated from Bondi, Sydney Daily
Telegraph hadn’t sense enough to suppress,
but gravely published in full:
ENGLAND’S FAITH IN FREETRADE.
TO THK EDITOR.
Sir.—ln confirmation of the unanswerable statements
made in your leading article to-day, under the abovo
heading, I can give you a remarkable instance of the
evils resulting from the Continental protectionist and
bounty-fed systems. During a recent visit to England, I
was staying with some friends at Bristol, and one even-
ing after tea noticed a peculiar white sediment at the
bottom of the teacup. Thinking this somewhat remark-
able, I asked the lady of the house if it was due to the
Bristol water-supply, or to the kettle. She replied :
“No ; I never noticed it before.” We then all began to
feel the bottoms of our teacups, and to rub the sediment
between the forefinger and thumb. It wns distinctly
gritty ! Pater familias, on being appealed to, said, “ Oh,
that’s nothing. Thousands or tons of Bath stone are
being shipped away continually to the continent to be
ground up and mixed with the bounty-fed beet sugar, the
surplus of which is being sent over to England, and sold
at ruinously low prices compared to the West Indian
sugar. If you want good sugar, you must pay for it.”
That is the only consolation we got, and the look on his
wife’s face was anything but sweet!
But perhaps our Protectionist friends prefer a little
pumpkin in their jams or swede turnips by way of a
change—as they do in Victoria—instead of the genuine
article, If sugar and all the products of Nature were free !
One of the moat remarkable features about
these little Freetrade yarns is that the name
and address of the authority is hardly ever
given—the unanswerable argument generally is
that somebody writes to allege that some per-
fectly anonymous person told him something
and didn’t adduce any evidence in support of
his statement. In this case quite a lot of
questions crop up. How was it that family,
which knew all about the adulteration of
foreign beet-sugar, had never noticed the strange
sediment before ? How many thousands of tons
of Bath-stone are shipped away from England
annually to adulterate the 3,500,000 tons of
sugar produced on the Continent of Europe?
What kind of lunatic is it who imports stone
all the way from England to adulterate sugar
with, instead of using the local article —think
of carrying rock by sea to Trieste or Ham-
burg, and then humping it by rail into the
interior of Austria or Germany to mix with the
sugar, when these countries produce every kind
of stone that any human being could want to
adulterate with ! Bath-stone is very ordinary
lime stone, and the same sort of stuff can be
found all over the Continent. Further, accord-
ing to official statistics, Britain exports very
little stone, and what it sends out is mostly mill-
stones and grindstones ; while it imports vast
quantities—perhaps to adulterate its sugar
with. Moreover, considering the penal rigidity
of the anti-adulteration laws so far as food is
concerned in France and Germany—the great
sugar-producing countries—how does the im-
ported limestone escape notice ? And, if it is
only Protection that leads to adulteration, what
is the cause of adulterated milk, tea, coffee, and
butter ; and why is Birmingham, in Freetrade
England, a name that has become synonymous
with bogus goods ? Is there any evidence that
there is more turnip in Victorian protected jam
than in the protected jam of N.S.W. ? Also,
how does Percy Wakefield know that the
sugar he was using on that memorable occasion
was the imported adulterated Protectionist
article, seeing that about half the sugar used in
Britain is refined in Britain, and (if it has Bath-
stone it it) is adulterated under the great, pure
Freetrade system in the country where Bath-
stone is handy ? The event happened at Bristol,
too, a great sugar-refining town, which probably
uses its own product to save freight. Of course,
the Freetrader may be satisfied to jump to the
conclusion that grit in the sugar must have got
there through Protection, but it isn’t evidence.
And why does the Freetrade man always yell
at Protection for making things dear, and yet
curse it for making sugar cheap? Also, by the
way, lime is necessary for refining sugar, and
even the Freetrade refiner uses it—only, when
he is seen buying it, he does it from the purest
motives, and, when the Protectionist refiner
buys it, that fact conclusively proves that Pro-
tection is a most disastrous policy. Anyhow,
will “Percy Wakefield” supply the name
and address of his informant, so that he can be
written to for further particulars ; and has he
a sample of the grit about him ?
♦
The Misfit Man.
Up to now, Richard Burgess, the lonesome
tramp, arrested on general principles, is all the
Q. police have to show for their researches into
the hideous Gatton mystery, and evidently no
stone will be left unturned to hang that super-
fluous individual. In such a case as this, the
police have a whole flock of motives for hanging
somebody. For one thing, they want a rest,
and the only way to get that is to hang some-
body who looks, at least, reasonably probable.
Also, what is still more important, they want
to preserve their professional reputations, and
the only way to do that is to hang the right
man—or else to hang the wrong man, after
persuading themselves and the public that he
is the right man, which will do just us well.
The police started by trying to follow a track
from the crime to the man, and failed miserably
—partly because the Gatton bobby hadn’t
sense enough to prevent the crowd trampling
out every trace of the murderer or murderers.
Then they went out and found a man
who looked as if he hadn’t any friends, and
are trying to trace him back to the crime.
And their methods, so far as they can be in-
spected at a few hundred miles distance, seem
most rascally. Bekgkss was arrested and re-
manded on a charge of stealing a saddle. No
saddle was found in his possession; nothing
definite has been heard about anybody losing a
saddle ; and the police presently dropped that
accusation altogether, so apparently it was a
mere invention all along. Still, it served to keep
Burgess in gaol while the police were trying to
make him fit the big crime. Then they got
him two months for vagrancy —having just been
discharged from gaol without any money, he
was more or less a swagman from sheer neces-
sity ; and this gives them more time to fit him
into the crime. They wanted him identified as
the man who was at the slip-rails on the night
of the murder, so, instead of having him in-
spected immediately after arrest, they spread
his photo., full face and profile, all over the
newspapers, till everybody in South Queens-
land (to say nothing of the rest of Australasia)
could recognise him at first glance. Then
they got the witnesses to look at him, and
they all at once remembered him. They had
caught a moment’s glimpse of a strange man in
the dark, and didn’t know him from Adam—
but for weeks they had had Burgess’s photo,
before them, and had been unconsciously fitting
his face and head on to the shadow that flitted
across the road that night, so the recognition
was inevitable. Also, one man who saw
Burgess by daylight, and talked to him at
some length, recognised him also—but he swears
that he met Burgess on the morning before the
crime fifty miles away from the place where it
was committed. This witness, apparently the
most reliable one of the crowd, seems to be
kept very much in the background. In
reality, Burgess doesn’t seem to fit the
crime at all. He was a stranger, and had,
apparently, no time to get an accomplice, or
to get to know the Murphys, or to accumu-
late an animosity against them. The Mur-
phys, apparently, didn’t know him, and they
weren’t likely to let themselves be beguiled
into the bush by a perfect stranger. It isn’t
proved so far that ho had any revolver to
shoot them with, or any money to buy a revol-
ver. He was stone-broke, yet the three de-
ceased weren’t robbed. He isn’t covered with
bruises and scratches, though the murderer
seemingly had a desperate struggle with two
strong, healthy girls. It was hardly possible
for such a crime to be done by a single
person—yet Burgess appears to have been
a one-man tramp all through his wan-
derings. And even if he was the man
at the slip-rails that man hasn’t been con-
nected with the murder up to date—and the
ridiculous method of “identification ” makes it
impossible to place any reliance on the asser-
tion that he was the man. Of course when a
man with no money or friends is in gaol, so that
he can’t hunt up evidence to prove that he
wasn’t there, and there is no Crown Defence
Department to do it for him, and half the
police-force of Queensland has either cot to
prove that he was there or admit itself a failure,
and nobody really objects to his being hanged,
he has a very fair chance of being made to fit
the crime somehow. But Burgess certaiidy
looks a terribly bad fit. Perhaps the police
know something more about Burgess than
appears on the surface of things. If they don’t,
then Burgess is a cruelly-persecuted man and
entitled, should there be no further evidence
against him, to handsome compensation at the
hands of the Btate. If the police have deter-
mined to keep him in custody on mere suspicion
they should be honest enough to say so. His
committal for two months for vagrancy is a
shocking perversion of justice.
The “ Natural~Ally.”
Aeter all the eloquent assertion that Queens-
land is the “natural ally” of N.S. YV. in
federal matters, and that N.S. VV. should on no
account federate without its “ally,” the re-
marks of Premier Dickson at the Federal
Council were damp and cold. Oily James
didn’t hold out the right hand of friendship in
any enthusiastic spirit. He was a very cautious
auctioneer, and his language wasn’t so much
that of a cordial friend as of a severe man who
had called for the rent. Queensland, he says,
will demand that a formal Convention be held
to consider N.S.W.’s proposed amendments if
N.S.YV. insists on submitting them—not a mere
conference of Premiers. He objects to the
proposed constitution of the Federal Senate,
and considers that the Federal referendum
should be left out, and he remarks that a lot of
the Draft Constitution wants revision. Also,
Dickson holds that the Federal Government
should take over the State debts, which is
quite outside the N.S.W. programme; and he
wants the financial scheme revised with a
special view to the requirements of Queensland
—the province that needs a heavier revenue
tariff to keep it going than either Victoria,
S.A., or Tasmania. And in all Dickson’s
oration there wasn’t one comforting word about
fixing the capital on N.S.YV. territory, though
that idea was supported by sundry Tas. and
Vic. politicians. Queensland apparently doesn’t
feel at all like N.S. YV.’s natural ally, though
the latter province insists on regarding it in
that light, and intends playing a lone hand in
the new Federal movement. But the Northern
province has never been wildly affable to its
neighbor—in fact, the “ natural ally ” theory
has been a mystery all along. Queensland
maintains its own isolated mail service, unlike
N.S.YV., Victoria, and S.A., which run a
friendly partnership. It has hit N.S.YV. badly
with its coal duty, Tasmania being the
only other province which levies a duty
on N.S.YY T . coal. It is the only province
which charges an export duty on wool to
prevent it reaching the N.S.YV. railways or the
N.S. YY T . ports, and, having the heaviest tariff
in Australia, it has no special sympathy with
the one allegedly Freetrade province. Also, its
Tory Government and its nigger policy keep it
out of sympathy with its more democratic
neighbors ; and while N.S. YY T . regards it as a
humble friend and small brother, it regards
itself as a province of such vast possibilities
that it w'on’t be a small brother to anybody
under the sun. For such a mild, bald old man,
Premier Dickson appears to have remarkable
possibilities as a disturbing element. There
are even dark suspicions that he will insist on
having the Federal capital himself.
The Teacher’s Soul.
“ T.Y.K.” makes severe gashes in a very
tough question :
Ed. Bulletin.— The little wife of a very Iff" .State-
school teacher friend of mine attended a certain snUirlian
R.C. Church last Sunday, as usual. A vis mu lu iest.
pitched into the public schools of N..5.W., called them
jrodless places, sinks of iniquity, hotbeds of in natality,
and declared that absolution could not and would not be
given to those degraded R.C. parents who sent their
children to the hated State-schools. This was the last
straw. The pale little lady rose from her pew near the
altar ; “ Come along, children ! ” she said to her son and
her daughter, “ this is certainly no fit place for us.” Then
she walked calmly out, heedless of gapers and starers.
The priest got a bit of a jerk, but soon resumed his
vituperative career.
Now, I want, to have a word over this vital matter.
Priests have repeatedly denied to me that absolution is
withheld from R.C. parents who patronise public schools
—have laughed the matter off as absurd. Nevertheless,
I know fathers who cannot get absolution because
they will persist in sending their children to public
schools. Does the R.C. Church expect the numerous
R.C. teachers under the Public Instruction Department
to send their own children to R.C. schools on pain of
being denied absolution and Holy Communion, the
truest solace a devout Catholic can have? 1 consider
that R.C. public school teachers who send their own
children to R.C. schools are disloyal to the Department
they serve. Apart from this, however, the R.C. Church’s
position in this matter is most illogical. Surely, if it is
an evil for an R.C. child to be taught in a public school,
it must be an immeasurably greater evil for an R.C.
parent to teach in one.
If the Church were honest enough and game enough to
be logical instead of being wedded to expediency it
would henceforth forbid, under pain of excommunication,
any R.C. person to enter such an allegedly immoral ser-
vice. Of course such a step would be er inexpedient,
because in many country townships tho R.C. public
school teacher is the only decently-educated male member
of the congregation, lie is invaluable for running concerts,
getting up subscription-lists and organising bazaars,
besides being always good for a guinea when the Christ-
mas offerings and the Easter dues come along.
Only one priest, out of the many whom I tackled, ever
attempted to argue the matter out. He said that tho
Church did quite right in forbidding R.C. boys and girls
to attend public schools, while permitting—nay, even
encouraging—them to run the risk of losing their immor-
tal souls by entering the service of the P.I. Department
as pupil-teachers—because the presence of so many good,
devout Catholics was the leaven that prevented the whole
system from becoming totally depraved. But why not
push the argument further and encourage pious but
brainy Catholics to leaven the wicked professions of the
bookie, the bilker, the bludger, the burglar, the spieler,
etc. ?—especially etc. ?
I am a Roman Catholic, but fortunately I am not. a
public school teacher. If I were, I don’t know that I’d
nave grit enough to act like the little woman who dis-
dained to sit meekly in church while a priest was doing
his best to make her children ashamed of their fat her and
his profession by publicly stating that that father was a
frequenter of an immoral place.
If the immorality of the public schools of this province
is so pronounced, all conscientious R.. 0. public school
teachers should resign immediately - and damn the inex-
pediency !
The Fly-Speck’s Bobby.
Centralisation of police—badly wanted for
many years—has at last arrived in the Land of
Sleep-a-Lot. Hitherto, in many parts of Tas-
mania, the municipalities controlled the police-
force ; and, the average municipality not being
much larger than a fair-sized paddock, the
spectacle of a constable endeavoring to ride-
down a suspect was like a fat man chasing a
rabbit on a cart-horse. The alleged criminal
simply got through the boundary-fence and
walked into the next district, leaving the dis-
tressed peeler sitting on his horse ; and as it
took some time to pass the warrant on to the
officer in charge of the adjoining paddock, the
aforesaid a.c. often walked through several dis-
tricts undetected, and sometimes clean out of
the island. Mostly, however, he stayed just
where he was, which was by far the safest
game considering the general tactics of the
municipal police-force. Some of the most sen-
sational crimes perpetrated in Tasmania of late
years happened within municipal control, and
out of half-a-dozen one only was sheeted home.
One has hub to mention to Tasmanians the
triple Fullerton murder to bring the glaring
stupidity of municipal constables to t heir recol-
lection. The slow arrival of centralisation was
chiefly caused by the love of a little brief
authority shown by the municipal wardens and
councillors, and their dislike lo relinquish it.
To be saluted by the township hobby was as
good as a dinner to their washups of the coun-
try bteneh, and to be suddenly dropped by the
Guv’ment peeler is a nasty powder that will
stick to their tongues for some time to come.
♦
Wanted—A Tasmanian Labor-party.
The blockaded Austrians—allowed to land in
Maoriland on the shipping co. giving security for
their maintenance—were invited to proceed to
Tas., where work was offered them as navvies
at 7s. per day. The VV. Coast miners and Hobart
workers protested, with the result that Premier
Braddon cabled the Austrian consul at Auck-
land, warning him that there were already
hundreds of unemployed in Tasmania, and that
shipping co.’s landing aliens would have to
enter into a bond of .£lOO per head that none
of their passengers were likely to become a
burden on the State. Tas. toilers are not
satisfied with the Premier’s action, charac-
terising it as inefficient. The weary Premier
says there is no law or regulation that will allow
him to move “ any forrarder ” in the matter,
and he really doesn’t know what to do next.
Now, if the Austrians go to Tasmania they will
go under contract, and their importers are not
likely to allow them to become a burden on the
State charities ; therefore the shipping co’s are
not alarmed at the stiffness of the proposed
.£lOO bond. Though the Austrians are certain
to become a burden on the labor of the State
by reducing wages to the sauer-kraut and garlic
level, that is a matter which, in the absence of
a Labor-party in Tas. Parliament, the Premier
is not likely to take into consideration. And,
after all, what better can be expected of a pro-
vince that, in the matter of Chinese, persists in
remaining the dirty back-door of Australia?
*
The Universal Clontarf Bill.
There is a growing tendency to regard the
“ push ”as a purely Australian endemic. Yet,
whether the cause of the evil be the spread of
education, the lessening of the hours of labor,
the absence of municipal recreation rooms, the
vacuousness of the average family circle when
sentenced to “solitary ” with itself, the filtra-
tion “ downwards ” of che habits of University
students, the decrease of reverence, the accessi-
bility of beer, the “comitatus” of the football-
club, or the amateur J.P., no one who reads
the British and American papers of last year
could have failed to notice that the evil was
practically universal. The N.Y. papers
have been full of correspondence on the
subject. The good old “ flogging ” argu-
ment with the usual anachronism about
the suppression of garrotting in England was
trotted out, and in some parts of America there
was even talk of “ Vigilantes ” clubs to cope
with the trouble. In London the same: lead-
ing article after leading article appeared on
Hooliganism, as (another injustice to Ireland !)
pushism has, during the last year or two, been
called there, and ail sorts of remedies, mostly
brutal, some of a well meaning, socialistic
sta'mp, were proposed. Manchester suffered
from an acute form, which had its special
name. Belfast suffered severely, especially
during the football season, but there, no doubt,
the fact of its having been the year ’9B had
something to do with the traces of color notice-
able in most of the local pushes. The facts
available would seem to indicate that as no
merely local causes engender pushes, more
radical remedies than any yet proposed are
necessary for their extinction.
A curious letter from “ Yang Anyut
Dear Bvi.listin. — Having recently given police-court
evidence about a serious Sydney street row I happened to
witness, I was approached by one of the arresting con-
stables with “ If you’ll leave me your real name and
address I’ll sec that parts up with a quid should
tile lines he paid.” Now, considering the policeman’s
matter-of-fact assumption that 1 had, upon oath, given a
bogus name and address, isn’t it time to ask how often
are convictions obtained by means of such “ tips?" The
only reason 1 had for giving evidence at all was that half-
a-dozen persons who 1 know witnessed the affair posit ively
disclaimed all knowledge thereof, and 1 saw that, if I
didn’t speak, the cowardly rulliuns would escupo punish-
ment.
+
Ed. Bulletin. —You voice the disgust you feel
that sucli a charge us oonspiracy-to-murdor
should bo publicly made against a member of
N.S. W. Parliament, and that there should
follow the accusation no demand by an out-
raged public for rigid investigation. “If
N.S. Wales,” you remark, “ does not wake up
to the gravity of I his sort of thing she will find
her name a byword among even the South
American States,” &c. But had you, dear
Bulletin, looked deeper into the matter and
considered facts which are within the know-
ledge of everyone, you would have seen that
the public lethargy in this connection is not
duo so much to lack of abhorrence of the crime
attributed to the politician referred to, hut to a
lack of confidence in the motives of those who
have permitted their names to be associated
with the accusation. From which political
clique have all the sensational, baseless and
unproved accusations that have disfigured N.S.
Wales history for the last ten years emanated?
Please answer and then tell me if you can
honestly blame the public for refraining from
going into spasms of denunciatory eloquence?
The public, I fancy, mutters to itself “ A
plague on both your houses ! ” and then sensibly
holds its collective jaw. I have no regard for the
accused—absolutely none—but candour com-
pels me to say that the aspect of the affair that
stings me most as a citizen of N.S. W. is that
there should be amongst our Parliamentary
representatives persons whose deliberately-
made public accusations of an atrocious crime
should be received with an indifference so
marked as to form an indictment against the
accusers. The accused’s position is not an envi-
able one, but what is t he posit ionof his accusers
in face of the ominous silence of the people of
N.S. W. ?—T.P.
♦
According to the scanty information supplied,
the Federal Conference of Premiers started with
Reid’s 1700th repetition of that old, thread-
bare, time-yellowed wheeze with which every-
body is so familiar:
The amendments must, lie of a substantial nature, or he
felt certain that the N.S. W. people would not be ready to
accept the bill. The sacrifices which the mother colony
was willing to make in the cause of Federal union were far
greater than those of the sister colonies. That being so,
he held that some consideration should be given to the
claims which N.S.VV. made for a revision of the Common-
wealth Bill, on the lines suggested in the resolutions.
That daily moan about the alleged sacrifices of
N.S.W. has been repeated very, often now, and
yet not a soul has ever attempted to seriously
define these “sacrifices.” It is simply stated
that the “ sacrifices ” are so self-evident that
anyone can see them, and the subject is left
there. Here is the situation :
(1.) N.S.W. proposes to keep its lands and railways—
like the other provinces.
(2.) It takes no responsibility for the debt of any other
province.
(3.) It will pay exactly the same taxes as the rest—not
a copper more or less. Having more people than the
others, it will probably yield more Federal revenue, and
it will also get more Federal expenditure and more of the
Federal surplus, to make things square.
(4.) It proposes to keep its own rivers under its own
exclusive control, and wants authority to cut off S.A.’s
water supply also.
(5.) N.S.W., Westralia, and perhaps Queensland, may
be said to represent the revenue-tariff element, Victoria
and the other provinces the Protectionist element in Aus-
tralia. They all put their fiscal systems in the melting-
pot together, and take the same chances.
(6) N.S.W. can do with a lower revenue tariff than any
of its neighbors, and the Reid Govt, demands that the
Federal tariff shall be fixed to suit its requirements, and
that the other provinces shall take their chance of bank-
ruptcy. The financial scheme of the Draft Constitution
left the tariff question absolutely open. The provinces
(N.S.W., Victoria and S.A.), whose customs revenue is
below the Australian average took the risk of having to
raise more revenue than they actually wanted ; Tas-
mania, AVestralia, and Queensland (if it came in) had to
face the hazard of not having enough revenue. The
Reid Govt, declares it won’t stand an arrangement
whereby it shares the risks with the other states.
(7) N.S.W. demands possession of the Federal capital
in return for the concessions it doesn’t make.
. (8) The one concession that is made the equal repre-
sentation in the Senate—is given almost equally by
N.S.W. and Victoria to the small t provinces, it isn’t »
special concession made by N.S.W.
Where are these wearisome “sacrifices”’
Despite official re-assurances c,ic .poly of
water at Pera (N.S. W.) artesian ■ v .tlement,
near Bourke, doesn't improve, ; nd toe settlers
have been unable to get enough to iCcep their
crops going. But to them the most • xasperating
feature of the business is that, thougu they have
to get a living from their blocks ana the Govt
hasn’t, the State experimental farm anti orchard
have first call on the supp.. .


The Leading Insurance Company of the H orld.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
ASSETS, DEC. 31, 1898, NEARLY £57,000,000 STERLING.
About Four Millions greater than those of the next largest Company,
Results for the Year ending December 31, 1898
(Just Received by Cable) :
ASSETS exceed £56,985,000
CONTINGENT GUARANTEE FUND (com-
monly termed “Surplus”) exceeds ... • »,tu-J,uuu
Increase
Increase
... £4,873,000
1,382,000
TNSURANCE'and ANNUITIES IN FORCE mWOO Increase T^OOO
INSURANCEand ANW , arger than those reported by any other Company.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT :
Z. 0- RENNIE, General Manager, Company’s Building, Martin-place,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NEW SOUTH WALES...
VICTORIA ...
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
BRANCH OFFICES:
... Company’s Building, Martin-place, SYDNEY.
... 289 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
... 210 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
... 73 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
...St. George’s Terrace, PERTH.
*" ... ... 93 Macquarie Street, HOBART.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Hotel Australia
* *
Rates from 12/6 per Day
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
“The Australia” is not a
cheap Hotel. But it does
this. It treats you better
for the charges it makes
than you can obtain else-
where for 50% more money.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Geisha.”
Lyceum “ Flying’Scud.”
Royal “ When London Sleeps."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Alhambra Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Adventure of Lady Ursula.”
Theatre Royal “ One of the Best.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Flinders st. & Spring st. Corner— Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
“ Forty Thieves ” ends its career at Her
Majesty’s next Wednesday. It hasn’t been a
strikingly successful pantomime, despite its glit-
tersome costumes, and the armoured Amazons,
and the pomp and splendour of Bagdad, and the
gaudy fooling of Gulliver and the Ass. The audi-
ences have thinned off latterly in a way to which
the Firm’s pantomimes are not accustomed. The
book is largely responsible for this ; that frail,
little streak of literature was never strong enough
to stand the burden laid upon it, and a great mis-
take was made in trying to centre one of the
biggest jokes round Hooley when that blighted
bubble was so dead and gone and extinct
that he might as well have tried to
pass a bad cheque on the megatherium.
In these last days Hooley drifts more and more
into the background, and the Ass—which has
taken to drink, by the way, in addition to its
other iniquities—carries an increased share of the
burden to make things level. Also Albert Whelan
lets himself go in a series of imitations of popular
actors, which are even better than those he did of
yore. Whelan, as a mimic, has no rival in Aus-
tralia, and the pity is Australia isn’t big enough to
give him a fair show.
• • • •
The “Geisha,” after doing a highly suc-
cessful season in Melbourne, is due at Her
Majesty’s on Thursday, February 9.
** * *
Old “ Formosa ” has done something like
consistently crowded business at Sydney Lyceum
for two weeks—an unusual thing at the Lyceum,
where a thin sprinkling of people so often smatter
over the big house till it looks like a large wilder-
ness flecked over with an Israelite here and there.
But “Formosa” has really gone with a rush. It
is well-mounted —barring a remarkable bridge in
the last act, which stops short in the middle of the
river, as though the materials had given out—and,
so far as the leading parts are concerned, the co.
does its business well. The Jenny Bolter of Miss
Helene Burdett has undoubtedly a great deal to
do with the success. That very new young actress
has improved greatly in the last few months, and
her Potteresque head, surmounted by the Potter-
esque hair, shows signs of having a promising
brain inside. Also, she dresses Jenny Boker as
that gorgeous Queen of the Flossies should
be dressed, which counts for a great deal. It is
absolutely no use for the enthralled Johnny to
kneel before his siren and tell her that her
loveliness has driven him off his globular little
head if the lady is attired in an ill-fitting grey
bag which looks as if it had been blown on to her
with dynamite. Thus it happens that the dowdi-
ness of one at least of the two good girls, who
seems to have rushed at her clothes in the dark,
spoils her little illusion completely. And in the
same respect Diver and Bert Bailey stand out
in conspicuous contrast with two of their
male accomplices—especially the small accom-
Elice whose coat looks too short and his
elltopper too big. As for Fred Patey,
he is attired chiefly in a hairy cap and a gruff
voice and a dog, and looks his part well enough ;
and Harcourt needs little in his character as old
Boker save a pair of large boots and an honest
heart; but among the presumably well-dressed
part of the show the small gentleman with the big
sad hat is a kind of a shock. Fortunately, he is a
person of little consequence. Jenny Boker will
be a vision of loveliness in her gilded halls of sin
for only a few nights more, and, all things con-
sidered, the writer will be rather sorry when she
makes her exit. “ Flying Scud ” will follow.
** * *
The Sleeping of London at Sydney
Royal comes to an end next week. On Friday
night that city will be wakened up and informed
by its landlady that the bed is wanted for the next
boarder, and the “English Rose ” will take posses-
sion on Saturday (February 11). The old piece
has fairly established Charles Holloway’s reputa-
tion in Sydney as a city manager, and as it has
boomed consistently all through it should have
also added much wealth to nis bank account.
Sydney never took C. Holloway very seriously
before. He was regarded as a small migratory
individual, not so much himself as Plain Bill’s
brother, and city people didn’t really expect to
see him —only to learn occasionally, in an obscure
corner of the paper, that he was bogged some-
where in a wet season while trying to take a small
company through toßoggabri or Boppy Mountain.
And when C. Holloway suddenly rose and demon-
strated that he was a front-rank manager, with a
big, capable company, and put through a large
drama in excellent style, and filled the Royal for
five weeks without a change of bill, he created a
surprise. If the performance isn’t a mere Hash in
the pan, and can be kept up for a few months
longer, the new lessee of Sydney Royal will never
be Billolloway’s brother again. The difference
will be that Bill will be C. Holloway’s brother.
Anybody who has ever been anybody else’s brother
will understand the difference.
** * *
Lieutenant Frank Travis, a ventriloquist
of groat weight, figuratively speaking, will appear
at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday. Report has it that
Travis is the most wonderful ventriloquist in the
world, and can obliterate a receipt-stamp with his
voice at forty yards range; and The Bulletin
Bees no reason why these statements should not be
strictly true. The Tivoli, for some weeks past,
hasn’t had anybody on the programme who was
the most wonderful something or anything in the
world, so the new man will be all the more wel-
come. A very pleasant item on the present pro-
gramme is the ‘ ‘ Terrible Storm, ” furnished by
the Sisters Phillips and-Brothers Lorenzi—strange
how the variety stage is crowded with youthful
“sisters” and “brothers,” yet no couple ever
think of announcing themselves as the Aged
Parents Smith, by way of a change; and Miss
Peggy Pryde keeps finding new songs in the
depths of her inexhaustible basket.
* # * *
Two Sydney theatres closed up last week»
and thereby considerably relieved the pressure of
competition. Rufus Dawes left off at the Cri-
terion after being flogged to moderately good busi-
ness for some weeks, and the Ori. is deserted.
Also the J übilee Singers have started on a sub-
urban tour prior to their departure for Maoriland,
and the Palace is again peacefully eating its own,
or Mr. “Tattersall” Adams’s, head off in Pitt-
street. Probably, however, it will again be occu-
pied before long. The luck of Dante and the
Jubilees has removed the impression that the
Palace was synonymous with misfortune.
f B it B
“One of the Best,” a drumful military
drama in seven tableaux and ever so many kilts,
made an imposing reappearance at Melb. Royal
on Saturday. Three years ago this was an
original work of fiction, but since then Blandolt
has founded it on the Dreyfus case, to the glory of
Zola and the confusion of Major Esterhazy. In
fact, The Bulletin begins to believe that Bland
Holt wrote “ One of the Best ” under instructions
from Victor Napoleon. Anyway, he has brought
it up to date with a flourish of trumpets, and Mel-
bourne evidently intends to take a serious view of
the proceedings for twelve nights, or even longer.
“ One of the Best ” is a well-built melodrama for
the most part. The hero is a reasonable young
soldier, who earned the Victoria Cross for valor
before the curtain rose, but who afterwards
does nothing in particular beyond getting accused
of another man’s treachery to Hinglanu. Also,
the actual purloiner of the papers from General
Charley Brown’s safe is a well-balanced skunk,
and the general’s daughter, who plans the burglary
for the skunk aforesaid, and ultimately gives him
away to papa because he refuses to marry her,
strikes one as being a life-like exponent of hysteri-
cal sin. Even the cheerful cockney humor of
Bland Holt’s comic relief has a reasonable side to
it, whilst Mrs. Bland H. gets better chances than
have fallen to her lot on several previous occasions.
“ One of the Best ” is the drama where Mrs. H.,
cutting a jolly little figure in a knickerbocker suit,
produces a letter for Walter Baker from her
ta-ra-ra pocket. Perhaps it isn’t usual for a
lady’s-maid to carry billets-doux on a bike; never-
theless, the natty knicker suit is full of human
interest, and the ta-ra-ra pocket scores an over-
whelming success.
• • * •
Some excellent scene-painting, a big brass
band, and a Scottish regiment which carries many
legs manfully, make this an interesting spectacle.
As a serious [>lay it is well acted by Miss Watson,
Walter Baker, Arthur Styan and Miss Ross. In
a less degree Albert Norman and Charles Brown
are satisfactory representatives of Hingland’s
glory, and sundry six-line parts are neatly tilled.
The only conspicuous fault of the first night should
be easily remedied. Walter Baker’s degradation
was fully three minutes too long in coming to a
climax, but when the scene is curtailed in accord-
ance with the military fitness of things it will be
quite as distressing as on Saturday, and much more
enjoyable. A modern audience likes them to
hurry up with the grief and woe.
* * * #
The Broughs closed their Bijou season
this week with four performances of “Dandy
Dick,” the revived Georgiana Tidman and red-
headed Noah Topping proving to the satisfaction
of all concerned that they are somewhat more
effective than ever in their good old parts. By
the way, Mrs. Brough is lucky in having three
good characters —Madame Sans-Gene, Niobe, and
the Weary Fragment Tidman—which will be
better suited to her age ten years hence. Reg.
Dartrey, as the Dean who dabbles in horse-
doctoring and gets arrested for his secret error,
gave a fairly successful sketch of a commonplace,
smug parson. Mr. H. Rotherham was a service-
able butler, and Miss Bessie Thompson made a
capital wife for the awful Noah. Other bright
points in the show were Mario Majeroni,
MTntyre, and Percy Brough’s make-up as a
prematurely bald majah with a wrecked liver and
a languid disposition to pack up a few charcoal
biscuits and toddle when duty calls.
# * * *
The new Brough season at the Princess’s
is to open on Saturday, and Anthony Hope’s much
eulogised comedy, “ The Adventure of Lady
Ursula” is the bill fixed for the occasion. Un-
doubtedly the Brough co. has been gaining
popularity of late at the Bijou, and the interesting
question as to whether it will flourish at the
Firm’s house is likely to be answered in the
affirmative.
* « * m
Rickards closes the Opera House on Fri-
day, leaving that rather decrepit structure in the
hands of the rebuilder and architect. On Saturday
he will start “doing his utmost to deserve a con-
timiance of the public’s kind patronage,” &c., &c.,
at the Bijou aforesaid. A pantomimic quartette
party—Sisters Phillips and Brothers Lorenzi —will
figure in the centre of the inaugural programme,
and considering that manager Rickards nas well
and truly striven to build up a lucrative past The
Bulletin herewith commends his Bijou future to
the care of his grateful patrons, and Providence in
general. Especially Providence. The Bulletin
doesn’t put much faith in public constancy.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus has introduced a Grand
National Steeplechase by way of further strength-
ening its hold on Melbourne’s horsey affections,
and the show still runs to eight performances a
week.
** * *
To-night (Thurday) is the last but one of
“The Geisha,-” at the Princess’s, and the manage-
ment, out of its great love for womankind, has
arranged to present everv lady visitor with a pic-
torial souvenir. Also, the yearning for souvenirs
will be so great that the distribution will almost
inevitably be repeated on Friday. Meanwhile,
anyone anxious to get a souvenir without going to
the theatre can obtain the coveted rapture on pay-
ment of two-and-sixpence. This is a most thought-
ful offer.
** * *
London Referee publishes a letter bear-
ing on the matter of first-night demonstrations
and counter-demonstrations. The writer says:
“A good deal of what has been wrongly called
organised opposition would be done away with if
managers of certain West End theatres would
consent to keep their ‘ paper ’ out of the unreserved
parts of their houses on a first night. Thero is
nothing more annoying to your average first-
nighter than to find a number of people frantically
applauding everything, whether it possesses merit
or not.” Which reminds The Bulletin that faint
mutterings of “ counter - demonstration ” have
lately been heard at one or two Australian theatres
where the management inclines to the “bluff”
system of first-night applause. It was all right as
long as the public in general belioved the indis-
crimmating enthusiasts to be genuine fools, but,
now that it has detected a method in the madness
of these noisy nuisances, the public begins to
growl ominously.
** * *
Wilson Barrett returns to Australia in the
middle of the year to further enlighten our
dramatic darkness. Since his return ’Oino, Wilson
B. has posed throughout the country as a mission-
ary fresh from the heathen. According to news,
pars., he found Australia in a condition of barbar-
ism so far as Art (Barrett’s Art) was concerned,
and left it educated, elevated, and worshipping
the one true god, Mr. Barrett.
PROLOGUE TO UNWRITTEN DRAMA: “THE
CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN."
[This prologue to be spolcen (or ranted) by Wilson Barrack,
Esq., on his return to Sydney after his controversy
with No-gent Itobertson.]
Wilson Barrack, Esq., advances with stilted strides to
centre of stage, halts and strikes an attitude like a
footrunner about to start for a race, and then pro-
ceeds :
Once more I stand on Sydney’s fatal shore—
Alas ! how changed from what I was before t
I came, I saw, I ranted ! pawed the air !
Tore passions into tatters everywhere.
Talked as no human being ever talked,
Walked as no mortal creature ever walked.
For this 1 earned my due reward, God wot—
Some feeble maunderings of Lewis Scott
In columns of D.T. Quick did I note
A chance to advertise ; and so I wrote
A line or two in praise of that dull elf,
With half a column praising up myself!
Then Scott wrote back and praised himself (and me),
And all things were as merry as could be
Until there came, with unexpected jar,
Some cursfcd outcast, signing “ A.N.R.”
Great God 1 It makes me green when I recite
The frightful things the ruffian dared to write.
My Wilfred Denver weak and ineffective !
My Hamlet played like Hawkshaw the Detective 1
M.v finest speeches stigmatised as platitude 1
Great Heaven, I cried, I’ll strike—and struck an attitude '.
All hell shall stir for this 1 Let folk be warned,
Hell hath no fury like a mummer scorned !
I called my minions, Hodges and his crew,
And Carter (mind the hyphen) Edwards too.
And Lewis Scott came forward with the rest,
A volunteer— Thank God we did our best.
We dubbed him drunkard 1 Called him, in our rage,
Conceited as a monkey in a cage !
Though never monkey, caged or free, could beat
Our boundless, baseless, infinite conceit.
With personal abuse and feeble witticism
We tried to meet his nasty, carping criticism.
We cursed him soundly for his interference,
We cursed his manners, morals, and appearanoe;
But that the editor had had his fill
And stopped us we’d be cursing of him still 1
But now the play awaits me and I go
Once more to murder Shakespeare 1 Soft and slow
That music there ! The Limelight man, What Ho !
If any critic dare to show his head
May Jove send thunderbolts to strike him dead.
Or, if Jove fail me in that consummation
ril stun him with my English Reputation.
So let us to the play ! Kind friends adieu !
Luck, and the Limelight man, will pull me through !
At Poverty Point.
Ada Reeve, who is supporting Arthur Roberts in a new
musical farce, gets a burst of enthusiasm from critic
Carados, of the London Rekeree “ Miss Ada Reeve,
who plays the part of a French singer, is a d-licious
morsel. ' When she comes on she brightens up the stage
just as much as if they had turned up all the lights.
Her acting and her singing and her dancing have a
piquancy, and a little of that sort of thing goes further
than a bushel of ‘ chaff.’ Her acting has the quality of
genuine sensibility; you can see that when she sings a
coon song, by the way in which her movements correspond
alvvavs with the expression of her face. What an expres-
sive face it is, too, with her pretty little teeth, and her
laughing eyes, and her saucy nose perched there like a
little bird!”
Max Beerbohm, dramatic critic of Saturday Review
(actor Beerbohm Tree's brother), says that Ada Reeye,
with a good part, “ would make the fortune of a legiti-
mate farce.”
Charles Kenningham, undoubtedly the most successful
of latter-day musical importations, has been “ resting ”
on full salary since the start of “The Geisha,” in which
there is no tpnor part worth mentioning. Looks as
though the Firm had great hopes of “La Poupee when
Kenningham was engaged, and didn’t think of producing
the other opera yet awhile. As matters stanil, the un-
employed tenor represents a discount of £25 a week off
“ The Geisha ” profits.
Tenor Kenningham possesses the rare faculty of being
able to distinguish musical pitch. Mozart, was the first
known instance of this. The possess' r, on » chord being
struck in an adjoining room, instantly names the key,
and this can be done also with a single note, which can
be named. Kenningham is also a fine pianist and organist.
The reformatory ship Sobraon is proving very valuable
to N.S.W. bands in search of recruits. Some four or five
members of the Permanent Artillery Band are ex-Sohraon
boys, and Bandmaster Hutchinson now asks for more
reinforcements from the same source.
The waxworks people are, no doubt, already faking
effigies of the Gatlon Murphies and the Melbourne ’ead.
The catalogue of one Australian show is practically all
“ Chamber of Horrors.” Butler, Deeming, Dean,
and the Makins have the boldest type in the book,
and much space is also devoted to ungrammatical
accounts of the bushrangers and their exploits. Glad-
stone, Bismarck, Parnell V— well, they are essential evils
who have to he sandwiched, somehow, between the
baby-farmers and Captain Moonlight.
Melb. Opera House, now about to be demolished, holds
the Australian record for a successful show. The first
production of “Tambour Major” ran 101 nights at the
Opera House.
Thk Bulletin's London correspondent recently took a
rather pathetic view of Lottie Collins' attempted suicide.
Another correspondent—the cynical and gruesome one-
writes the story thus “ Lottie Collins, the original
* Ta-ra-ra ’ girl, made sundry half-hearted attempts to cut
her throat, the other week. She was taken to a London
hospital by ‘ two policemen and a man who described
himself as a relation,’ from which it may be supposed
that Lottie is now a ‘back-number’ who didn’t lay up
treasures on earth in the boom-de-heyday of her success.
It is getting to he the rule for faded celebrities to seek the
bubble advertisement even at the blade of a pocket-knife.
A very short time ago half London would have helped to
carry Lottie to the hospital or the police-station or some-
where, if her shapely throat was even scratched."
They have struck the bedrock of cheapness at Victoria
Hall, in Melbourne, where free are now
advertised—“ dancing, singing, and boxing.” “Free"
means that tickets for admission are given away with a
pint of beer.
Rip Vun Winkle Jefferson, who visited Australia in the
early sixties, and will be 70 on Feb. 20, has retired from
the stage. His father, grandfather, and great grand-
father held distinguished positions behind the footlights.
"T.D.” : I presume that, the authors of the Napoleonio
yarn now running through Sydney D.T. intend to drama-
tise their effort. It would, of course, need muoh working
out in the explanatory part, at present adroitly
“ slummed ” by Paolo's inordinately lengthy letter to his
dear ma—which would cost something like two guineas
if sent through the N.S.W. post at ordinary rates. If two
men are discoverable who are able to make up alike, and
behave with a fair degree of similarity to Emperor Nap.
and to each other, the “double ” idea should do well on
the stage—always provided that playgoers have not grown
too tired of the First Empire.
“Viator”: I never heard of a city where theatrical
managers are all so friendly as in Melb. Nor am I sure it
is the best thing for the public.
Wybert Reeve, the veteran lessee of Adelaide Royal, has
a fine collection of Thespian autographs and letters and
old-time playbills. One much-prized epistle is from
Walter Montgomery, offering to take him into partner-
ship, in London. Amongst others are original letters
from Charles Dickens, Chas. Mathews, Edmund Kean,
dramatist Sheridan, Wilkie Collins, Edward Sothern, and
Tom Taylor. Wybert Reeve, who is now far over 70
years old, claims to have given Henry Irving one of his
first engagements.
An educated baboon is appearing in a serio-comedy at
the London music-halls. After going through a per-
formance the hairy beast sits down to dinner, and is eat-
ing voraciously when his wicked friend (the trainer) fires
a revolver at him, whereupon he throws up his arms,
takes one last despairing look at the vittles, and falls
dead. Curtain. Then the baboon comes before the cur-
tain hand-in-hand with his assassin, and gravely bows
to the audience.
A ponderous ex-mummer, travelling on a coastal
steamer, saw an acquaintance reading Irving’s “ Tales ot
the Alhambra.” “ Ullo 1” he exclaimed, “ ‘ Tales of the
Al’ambra”’(thinking of the London showhouse). “ Oo's
it by?” “Irving.” “ Wot, ’Enery?” “No; Washing-
ton.” “ Never’eard of ’tm. Written anything else?"
“Yes; ‘Rip Van Winkle.”’ “Garni An’ ‘ Arrah-na-
Pogue,’ too, I s’pose.”
Thus an irate handmaiden to two belated pro’s at a
Maoriland hostelry—“ What’ll ye have? There’s cold
roast beef.” And they chose cold roast beef.
Fregoli, the first quick-changist in the field, drew a
salary of £2BO a-week during a recent engagement at the
London Alhambra. The management had also to pay
income-tax on the salary.
A Sydney cinematograph show exhibits, amongst other
attractions, a spirometer, or lung-tester. Visitors are
considerately informed, per programme, how many
inches a healthy person of certain height ought to raise
dial-hand. And the list is rounded off with the pleasing
p.s., “In the first stai-e of consumption less 30 p.c. ;
second stage, 63 p.c.”! One way to spend a pleasant
afternoon—go to a biograph show and find out whether
you’re in galloping consumption 1
The disastrous Maurice and Bateman - 'season at Melb.
Royal had one good result. The stage properties fell
into the hands of the Theatre Royal proprietary, and
some of the marine scenery, which was comparatively
ineffective under Maurice’s management, makes an
astonishingly fine show in Bland Holt’s production of
“New Babylon."
Not long ago, at a St. Kilda (Vic.) Druids' meeting, a
Chow half-caste defeated (15) all-comers in a sentimental
singing competition. By the way, are Indian hawkers
eligible for admission to the Ancient Order of Druids ?
“Poverty Point ” continued on page 15.


E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
Grilfillan and MoCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 4:14 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17" and 38" by 60" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6ewt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world. *
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent.
Sydney Agency t
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S *
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLT.NER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt.-st., Sydnev.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field,
u
Tb€ RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
aarriaon. &: Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
C"3
HING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 7V7.
All Mining’ Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 6S Currie-fit., Adel. ;27 Eagle-street,
Brifib. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
E. A. DAWBAEN & CO.,
MKJtCHA NTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEfeP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cablegraphic report of the Mutual Life Insur-
ance Co. of New York at 31st December, 1898 : Insurance
in force, £199,530,000, being an increase of £7,203,000 on
the amount in force at 31st December, 1897 ; assets,
£56,985,900, being an increase during the year of
£4,873,000 ; contingent guarantee fund (being the surplus
of assets over liabilities), £8,673,090, which is £1,382,000
more than the surplus at the end of 1897. In each case
the Mutual of New York shows the largest increase
recorded among insurance companies for the year.
The New Zealand Insurance Co. ended a very
bad year on 30th November, 1898, with a loss of £15,541.
In addition to this it paid a dividend of 10 per cent.
(£20,000) which made the year’s loss £35,541. As the
profit balance was only £2734 the co. deliberately ab-
stracted £35,000 from the reserve-fund to pay the divi-
dend with—a proceeding whose utter folly requires to be
expressed in language that Tiib Bulletin' doesn’t chance
to have about it at the present moment. A few recent
records of the New Zealand Insurance Co. are as follows :
Net Profit Dividend
1891 .. £29,228 12J per cent. = £25,000
1892 .. 40,142 15 ~ 30,000
1893 .. 28,805 13} „ 27,600
1894 .. 26,905 13} „ 27,500
1895 .. 21,453 13} „ 27,500
1896 .. 29,097 13} „ 27,590
1897 .. 11,074 ll| „ 22,500
Net Loss
1898 .. 15,641 10 „ 20,000
Profit £171,163 Dividends £207,600
During these eight yonrs the New Zealand In-
surance Co. has once paid a large dividend against an
actual loss, anil three times it has paid away a consider-
ably larger dividend than it earned. On the whole, it
has paid away £36,337 more than its net earnings, and in
addition the amount set aside to cover depreciation of
assets has not kept pace with the losses, so the investment-
fluctuation fund has dropped from 119,910 in 1891 to
£3266 in 1898—another falling-away of £7644. Also, two
notable items in the investments are Transvaal Govern-
ment Bonds, £5726, and Argentine State securities,
£24,600 ; latter, at all events, looks none too reliable.
The New Zealand Insurance Co. has a paid-up capital of
£200,000, and its total reserves are ' 205,459, so it is still
an exceedingly strong concern. But even a very strong
concern can't afford to take such liberties with its consti-
tution as this one has done in the past two years.
• • • •
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vic.)
realised a profit of £2906 during the half-year ended 31st
Dec., 1898—about £4 3s. 7d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds (capital £85,000, reserve £54,000).
The past 4years’ profits of the Ballarat Banking Co.
have been :
December, 1894 ..£3710 June, 1897 .. ..£2BBl
June, 1895 .. .. 3449 December, 1897 .. 2637
December, 1895 .. 3463 June, 1898 .. .. 2785
June, 1896 .. .. 3250 December, 1898 .. 2906
December, 1896 .. 2936
After a period of decline, the profits of the Ballarat Bank
have now showed an increase for two half-years in suc-
cession. The usual 6J4 per cent. div. absorbs i 2337 ;
£5OO is added to reserve, making it £54,500 ; and the re-
maining £69, added to previous balance, leaves £2279 at
•credit of profit and loss. The reset ve of cash and Govt,
securities (£67,773) is equal to 32 per cent, of all liabili-
ties to the public, so that both profit and cash
reserves are above the average. The Ballarat Banking Co.
■occupies a unique position in its province. It pays the
biggest dividend among the purely Victorian banks, and
the only ones in Australasia which give better returns to
the shareholders are the West Australian, N.S.W., Com-
mercial of Sydney, Australasia, and Bank of Adelaide. It
is the only Vic. bank which paid dividends steadily all
through the smash ; the only one which lost none of its
capital or reserves in that disastrous period ; and also the
only one which has added to its reserve every half-year
all through the depression era. Which makes a pretty
good record for the Garden City’s bank, even though the
gorgeous 11 per cent. divs. of the days prior to ’92 are no
longer available.
• • • •
The twelfth half-year of the Australian Joint
Stock Bank, dating from the 1893 reconstruction, and the
third dating from reconstruction No. 2, closed on 31st
Dec. with a net profit of £266. The career of the A.J.S.
during the six years in question has been a good deal
varied :
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1893 .. £12,221 .. Nil.
December, 1893 .. 51,040 .. 5 per cent, = £22,951
June, 1894 .. 32,083 ..6 ~ = 24,869
December, 1894 .. 21,915 ..4 ~ = 21,530
June, 1895 .. 24,932 .. 4 „ = 22,676
December, 1895 .. 25,825 ..4 ~ = 23,354
June, 1896 .. 20,629 .. Nil.
Loss.
December, 1896 .. 48,200 .. Nil.
June, 1897 .. 63,507 .. Nil.
Profit.
December, 1897 .. 1,725 .. Nil.
June, 1898 .. 3,746 .. Nil.
December, 1898 .. 266 .. Nil.
December, 1897, was the date when interest was reduced
from 4J per cent, all round to 3 per cent, on the A and B
■deposits (about £4,000,000) and 3}/, per cent, on the in-
scribed stock deposits (£787,664). At this cheap rate a
bank that is in reasonably good condition should he able
to earn a decent profit, but the £266 realised last half-
year is only equal to tenpence per cent, per annum on the
-shareholders’ alleged funds (capital £1,167,887, and re-
serve £52,000). If it is a fair thing to assume that a sound
bank, with all its assets written down to actual present
value, and getting its deposits at a very reasonable price,
should earn 2 per cent, per annum even in these hard
times (and 2 per cent, certainly looks a very moderate
■estimate), then the A.J.S. Bank, on last half-year’s
figures, needs to write-off £1,193,000 as lost, out of the
£1,219,887 shareholders’ funds in the balance-sheet, and
start fresh with a paid-up capital of £26,600.
There is a great lack of information in the re-
cent balance-sheets of the A.J.S. Bank, by which to
judge its position. It doesn’t show how much the new
deposits amount to (they are lumped in with the recon-
structed A and B liabilities), so it is difficult to say
whether the new business is improving or not. It is im-
possible to say accurately what the reconstructed A and
B deposits are, or how much was paid off during the half-
vear, or what price they were bought at (though it is
known that a considerable amount were repurchased at a
large discount), or how much profit was made out of the
transaction. It isn’t even mentioned that the profit thus
made went to reduce old losses, though apparently it
must have done so. No estimate has ever been supplied
as to the amount of losses to be provided for. The old
bank’s reserves (nearly £890,000) were set aside in 1893 to
cover losses as they came to light, and when last heard of,
some considerable time ago, this fund was reduced to
£96,000. Probably it is all gone by now. The A.J.S.
wrote off hardly any of its capital at the 1893 crisis, while
some other institutions which certainly look more promis-
ing made enormous provision for losses from this source.
A while ago it was alleged in London that the losses
w mid swallow up almost the whole paid capital. But the
pa lful subject dropped there, and the A.J.S. makes no
sig i of cleaning things up and explaining its real posi-
tion.
The note and bill circulation shows a good in-
crease for the half-year, which looks as if the current
business was keeping up. The cash and liquid securities
(£1,406,007) are fully £200,000 more than they were six
months ago, and equal nearly 20 per cent, of liabilities to
thp public, which also looks well enough, and deposits
have increased a little. But it is impossible to do other-
wise than assume, from the profits shown, that there are
large losses not shown in the balance - sheet, which
losses, unless values improve greatly, must be provided
for somehow. If the profit on buying up the old deposits
at a discount can be made to cover them, well and good,
but though the A.J.S. is supposed to have made a
considerable saving in that way lately, the situa-
tion seems to have improved backwards instead of
getting better. If losses can’t be covered in that way
they must come out of the capital and reserves, and the
whole of these are not equal to the amount which the
Commercial of Australia lately wrote off atone fell swoop.
And the A.J.S. has only £391,505 of uncalled capital to
fall back upon, if necessary—a smaller amount than the
reserve capital of any other bank of its size, or near its
size, in Australasia. Altogether, there are very few
promising features about the A.J.S. just at present.
• • * »
The City Bank of Sydney announces that its
earnings for the half-year July-December, 1898, were
£Bos3—the smallest half-year’s return save one for a very
long time past. The profits shown since ’93 have been
these:
December, 1893 .. £10,730 December, 1890 .. £BO7l
June, 1894.. .. 11,408 June, 1897 .. .. 8048
December, 1894 .. 10,004 December, 1897 .. 8395
June, 1895.. .. 10,930 June, 1898 .. .. 8273
December, 1895 .. 19,020 December, 1898 .. 8053
June, 1890 .. .. 8,108
Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum (£8000) is declarisl,
and the remaining £63 makes the accumulated profit-
balance £9029. The City Bank has declared 4 per cent,
dividends since June, 1890, and it has earned just the re-
quired amount so accurately that the balance only varied
from £4B to £395. In its previous 5 per cent, days the
balance varied from £4 to £3O. But it is generally under-
stood that the City Bank reserves a portion of its profits,
amount not known, to write down the book-value of
its assets, the amount of losses and depreciatio n
to be provided for not being known either, and that when
the unspecified amount thus reserved accumulates in an in-
definite number of years to the indefinite amount re-
quired to provide for the depreciation, whatever it may
be, the visible profits will expand—always provided no
further depreciation turns up in the interval—by an un-
known quantity, and the dividend may possibly increase
by something per cent., and even then leave £r, or even
more, to be added to the reserve. These remarks are
based on an explanation made some time ago by the boss
director at the annual meeting, and, of course, the
inference is that the balance-sheet does not show
the present value of the assets or the present
position of the bank. But a little thing like that
is too common in Australia now to be worth men-
tioning. Only it would be a vast amount better if every
bank which has losses to provide for put the estimated
depreciation plainly among its assets, and showed in each
balance-sheet how much of the profits were set aside in
reduction of the deficit. Then it would appear exactly
whether the gross profits were increasing or diminishing,
and how far the dividend was justified.
The half-year’s profits as set down in the
balance-sheet, are equal to £3 4s. 4d. per cent, per annum
on shareholders’ funds. During the half-year note circu-
lation has increased by £3OOO ; deposits by £43,000 ; cash
by £91,877. The latter item now stands at £377.843 —
equal to the solid provision of nearly 32 per cent, on
all liabilities. (The City Bank has no reserve of
State securities whatsoever.) Also the long-stationary
item of £138,843—“ Premises and Furniture” has
been reduced by £6 18s., which looks as if the bank
had at last started to make a little allowance for deprecia-
tion of its furniture and props. But the share-market,
which sometimes knows what it is talking about, still
estimates City Bank stock lower than any other bank
stock in Australia on which dividends are paid regularly ;
the new issue, £8 paid, is offering, on date of writing, at
£3 10s., at which price it yields £9 2s. 6d. per cent, per
annum to investors.
» * * *
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) for 1898
makes the best showing to date, the profit being
£3220. The increase in profits has been very steady as
shown hereunder:
1891 .. £1716 1895 .. £2571
1892 .. 2035 1896 .. 2967
1893 .. 2414 1897 .. 3995
1894 .. 2702 1898 .. 3220
The balance of £592 from 1897 leaves £3812 available. A
dividend of 7 per cent, (hitherto the div. has never ex-
ceeded 6 per cent.) absorbs £1750; £l5OO is added to
reserve-fund, making it £7OOO, and £562 is carried for-
ward. The Perpetual Trustee Co. has now got charge of
estates to the amount of £3,367,256, whereas three years
ago they only amounted to £2,424,413, so the busi-
ness is growing rapidly ; and the £975,000 uncalled capi-
tal is a tolerably solid guarantee that the amount due to
the widow and orphan will be found there when it is
wanted. No private trustee that Tiib Bullbtin ever
heard of has £975,000 uncalled capital to make good any
possible deficiencies in his accounts.
r * ♦ * *
Broken Hill Proprietary Co.’s shares drift
steadily Europewards ; 609,597 are now on the London
register, and 350,403 scattered over Australia. Adelaide
has 186,398; Melbourne, 118,914 ; and Sydney, 35,105.
The Australian shareholder has apparently come to the
conclusion that the co. is within speaking distance of
another reduction of divs., and so retires in J. Bull’s
favor. Last half-year, for which the accounts are out,
the usual £144,000 was paid ; but, after allowing for de-
preciation, a net profit of £122,151 only was made. The
directors and officers attempt to excuse the shortage by
saying that the removal of smelters and other changes
have been detrimental; but it is certain that sulphide-
treatment cannot be carried on, according to present
knowledge, on a scale big enough to pay £144,000. And,
though there are many tens of thousands of tons of ot her
ore still in the mine, the gradual increase in the propor-
tion of sulphides worked must go on; that seems
absolutely inevitable. Though, therefore, the causes
mentioned may have operated to reduce the past half-
year’s returns, other still more powerful influences will
be at work in the future.
* • • •
Local people at Broken Hill, observing the
diminishing profits of the B.H. Prop, and the economies
everywhere introduced, begin to fear a reduction of
wages and the trouble that that means ; and there is no
difficulty in gaining credence for any such rumor as that
a thousand or two Austrians or Spaniards (both the
manager and the assistant-manager, as well as the
manager of the next biggest mine, have for years past
worked chiefly with Spaniards) are on the water. Special
pains have therefore been taken to show shareholders
what great improvements have already been made in their
interests. Thus the last half-year and the corresponding
half of ’9O are compared, and it is shown that 94 per cent,
more ore (much of it intractable sulphides) was handled
for 7 per cent, less money, notwithstanding that the
operations of extraction are carried further now than they
used to be.
The big co. used to publish with its accounts a
“ working summary,” which showed the net cost and net
profit per ton of ore treated for each half-year ; but this
interesting and valuable table was dropped in ’96—pre-
sumably the fall in profit was too catastrophic. But, any-
how, the statement of the reduction in average cost per
ton would have been an assurance to shareholders that
the workmen have suffered as well as themselves—not a
convincing assurance, it is true ; but the assumption
would have been that way. Taking 1890 (the year when
the railway line was in use first) it is found that the cost
per ton was in one half of the year, £4 10s. 9d., and in
the other, £5 Is. lOd. In those days it was nearly all
good smelting ore. By the end of ’95 (still on smelting
ores) the cost had been brought down by General
Manager Howell to about £2 ss. This last half-
year, costs amounted to £419,220; the quantity of ore
handled was 200,584 tons (though some more was mined
and stored) ;so that the cost per ton was £2 Is. 9d. But,
then, in this last half-year over 70,000 tons of sulphides
were treated, involving, as regards by far the greater part
of it, the successive processes of concentration, roasting,
smelting and refining, instead of the comparatively in-
expensive smelting and refining which served in the old
days.
The increasing proportion of sulphides means
slower smelting; hence the demand for still further
smelting power. The co. will, it is understood, transform
three present 80-ton furnaces at Pt. Pirie into 120-tonners,
and add two 120-tonners to the plant. The struggle to
maintain the divs. will apparently not bo abandoned
lightly. Fortunately the B.H. Prop., unlike almost every
other mine on the Hill, has not anything like reached its
hauling capacity.
B.H. North’s balance-sheet and accounts for
the half-year to Bee. 31 are made to show almost a dead
level—income (additional to a mysterious “interest.
£330,” item), £20,960 ; expenditure, £20,961. Writer saiu
“ made to show," because the co. hasn’t charged itself
with depreciation. This sort of thing is becoming pretty
common with Barrier co’s, whose directors seem to play
with this item. There is promise of greater things in the
now-current half-year, when the development work lately
proceeding will allow’of several more ore-faces being tapped
and greater economy practised. Possibly the mill will
run three shifts daily instead of two ; and a little cheaper
work may thus be done. But per contra the ore, always
hard, is getting harder, and that will take off much of
the very thin coating of gilt that the North gingerbread
was likely to have. One thing in shareholders’ favor is
that there are only 100,090 shares in the co.
• * • •
“ How annoying to think that, with this fine
price (copper) before us, one of our greatest mines, the
Glrilambone, is suffering so terribly from want of water.”
If the G. is one of the greatest in N.S.W., then Heaven
help the little ones. The Girilambone has been a good
brokers’ mine, anyhow. One Sydney broker alone boasts
that he has made£37oo out of commissions on scrip-sales.
• * * •
Eloanora. N.S.W., once more closed down, and
a meeting called in Adelaide to consider the situation.
What amount has been sunk in this mine since it was
bought for some £35,000 cash ?
* • * *
Clarke and Co. (Adelaide) give an excellent re-
view of Westralian mining for ’9B in their January circu-
lar—a long way ahead of any other issued in Australia.
Admitted that the market has been disappointing in the
face of increased gold-yields and divs. All but four of
the big Kalgoorlie mines have fallen in value, while
numerous co.’s in London and Australia have either ceased
to exist or have been wiped off the market slate. Over-
capitalisation and a glutted market have sickened things
generally. A want of confidence exists in the directors
controlling some of the biggest mines, and the exposures
made in several cases have not helped to restore it. In
nearly all cases directors in London are too heavily paid,
while in several they participate in profits—a robbery
hitherto unheard of in Australian mining. The mines,
too, have not realised the anticipations of the beginning
of last year. Lake View did not increase its pro-
duction as expected. Associated milling returns fell
off and Lake View South and L.V. Extended
proved unpayable. Brookman’s has gradually be-
come poorer. The Perseverance and N. Boulder
returns from oxidized ores fell away, and the Kalgoorlie
Mint ceased to crush. Mines that have come right up to
the mark, as well as those which have dropped far behind
it, are enumerated. At Kanowna, Menzies, Coolgardie,
Bulong, Cue, and the Norseman leases have been thrown
up right and left—in too much' haste in many cases. The
results of the depression have been too drastic, just as
those of the boom were carried too far in the other direc-
tion. In several instances good gold has been won by
miners from claims abandoned by English co’s as reck-
lessly as they were floated. Only one flotation of anv
moment is recorded for the year—what a falling-off is
here !—Sons of Gwalia, at Mt. Leonora. Of course there
have been many reconstructions, the chief of which are
given while “ cats ” innumerable have been allowed to
pass away unobserved in their sleep.
• • • •
Whispered in London a few months back, and
the rumor came to Australia, that Whittaker Wright was
going the way of Hooley and most other boomsters—that
he was giving 10 per cent, for money, etc. Stocks in
Westralian Mines which he largely controls came tumbling
in the face of big yields and developments. It would now
seem that this rumor, as well as the war-scare, was well-
engineered by some person kindly disposed to him. It
has worked that wav, anyhow. It gave him a show of
getting out at the top and in again at the bottom, un-
mindful of yields, divs., and developments ; whether he
took it or not no man here knoweth. First a bull and
then a bear. How often the remark—“ the bear has the
best of it in mining stocks ” ? Better still, writer thinks,
the position of the man who can be a bull one month and
a hear the next. All manner of nasty things were said of
Wright while away from London on holiday. Soon after
his return he brought out the Le Rio mine, British
Columbia, capital a million, £950,000 payable in cash, the
balance (£50,000) for working capital—and he got it.
The shares were largely over-applied, and were at a sub-
stantial premium when the mail left.
* * * *
This note, which reaches Thk Bulletin from
Buldamia, 21 miles N.E. from Norseman, is given for
what it may be worth :—“Prospectors at this place since
its discovery 2} years ago have had much graft and
struggle. Some crushings have yielded 3oz. per ton. The
battery is four miles from the field at the Lake ; it leaves
a lot in the tailings, some of which have assayed as high
as 2Joz. The want of proper gold-saving appliances is
severely felt. The richest sulphides on the Norseman
goldfields are here ; some have assayed up to 70oz. Some
stone recently treated by the Gold Recovery Co., Kal-
goorlie, gave from one 2ft. reef here lOoz. 18dwt. 12gr.
gold per ton, and sample from another 4ft. reef 15oz.
6dwt. 2gr. gold per ton ; neither showed visible gold. All
the reefs and lories are vertical, and the stone is like the
Kalgoorlie ore in all particulars. One peculiar feature is
that the sulphides live very close to the surface. The
country is hard, and no particular depth has yet been
explored. The country is a vast dyke with an east and
west trend, and extends about two miles in length. A co.
that would put up suitable plant would make things
hum.’’
Small parcel of Maritana stock sold at /d. !
One of the first, if not the very first, W.A. mine floated,
and its prospects at the time were equal to those of the
Great Boulder, anyway !
• * « •
The divs. from all the W.A. goldfields outside
Kalgoorlie are insignificant. Kalgoorlie, £667,000; Men-
zies, next best with £50,000. The rest nowhere. The
boss camp contributes nearly one-half the gold-production
and more than five-sixths of the divs.
* » ♦ •
White Feather Main Reef, W.A., crushings
since March, ’9B 8036 tons, 83320 z. Two divs., Is. and
6d.—£10,500. What has become of the White Feather
Reward ?
* * « *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
» # » •
Block 45, Hannan’s : Still away from gold, but
with £7OOO it should find some or prove the mine a duffer
before the money goes.
* * « •
Kalgurli mine, Hannan’s, decided to adopt the
Lake View methods of treatment, and this after getting
every possible information from Mt. Morgan,'Cripple Creek,
and elsewhere. Plant designed to treat 0000 tons a
month. Upwards of £30,000 in hand and 10,000 reserved
shares.
It was baldly cabled some weeks ago that
the resolutions of the Great Boulder committee to rescind
the milling contract, etc., had been lost—with the infer-
ence that the directors had won right along the line. The
resolutions, Tint Bulletin finds, were carried by 1)01(1
votes—a substantial majority, but short of the proportion
requisite to alter the articles. The first resolution was a
vote of censure on the directors, and the articles do not
provide for a three-fourths majority in this case. The
directors’ hides, however, will probably have been found
thick enough to stand it without resignation. Manager
Hamilton's wire anticipating success for the Konemann
process was, of course, referred to, and several persons
barracked all they knew for the directors, including Louis
Aarons, formerly of Sydney Stock Exchange. He read a
cable predicting big success for the process, and after de-
clining to reveal the name of the sender, admitted, under
great pressure, that it came from “William Smith,” at
which announcement the meeting fell over itself with
laughter. W. T. .lones, up to the time of the meeting,
was regarded as a director dissatisfied with the contract,
but, at iast moment, he turned tail and even declared that
if Konemann offered to cancel the bargain he would be no
party to it. The process may turn out all right. Writer
hopes it will, and that the Boulder co. will pull out on the
deal. But will that excuse the directors in making a con-
tract under which theco. finds all the money for the plant,
pays 12s. per ton—double the cost of the most effective
system known so far—sacrificing 40 per cent, of the
residues of the gold recovered, and takes in return a
half-share in the profits made? Estimated that the
working of the process will eat up 20 per cent, of the
mine's profits, and it will need to be a great process to
stand that. They now declare that it is going to revolu-
tionise the gold history of Westralia. The same has been
said of every gold-saving machine or method. The pro-
cess has never been tried elsewhere. Should the process
fail, or do ho better work than cyanide, it is to be hoped
that the directors who launched into this extraordinary
milling contract, and wrapped the whole thing in mys-
tery till it was dragged from them, will modestly con-
tinue to hold on to their seats, so that they can be
ignominiously fired at next meeting.
Shares in the Mt. Reid Co. (a British concern of
150,000 shares at £1) have had a good rise recently.
Owing to sensational rumors that the co. had “ struck it
rich," and not seeing any official report in local or other
papers respecting same, shareholders naturally dropped
in at the legal manager’s office, situated, of course, in
Hobart, to make enquiries as to the truth of aforesaid
rumors. The management cheerfully admitted that
phenomenal assays had lately been made (one going as
high as llOOoz. silver and 30oz. gold per ton), but as the
co. had not been in the habit of publishing assays, good
or bad, in the past it was not going to do so now, or
in the future. How consoling, especially for interpro-
vincial holders of scrip, who are absolutely in the dark as
regards reason of improvement in prices, and who may
have sold some considerable time after the extraordinary
discoveries at the mine without being aware of any
improvement having taken place.
Rocky River (Tas.): “Fair amount of yellow
copper distributed through the whole formation.” But
what is a fair amount— 3 per cent, or 30 per cent. ? What,
too, has become of the £30,000 worth of ore at grass men-
tioned when the thing was floated, as well as taken account
of as a sort of asset in the co.’s balance-sheet? What has
become of the report made on it by the acute Holroyd,
of telluride celebrity ? Why not published ? Is it because
He declared the ore at grass valueless, and that the mine
was not much better? His report might not be interest-
ing reading to some people, hut it is doubtless bona-fide,
and the comparison with other reports would be found
remarkable.
» * • »
Mt. Lyell Blocks: Two-thirds of the property
offered for £25,000 working capital. Chair nan regretted
that he could not disclose the names of the buyers, but
had every reason to think the sale would couie off. Share-
holders have already waited long.


3
J-
c:
ORIENT
CLOTNIN6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR,
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
j
GEORGE & BARRACK
STREETS,
SYDNEY,
3PJREMEO V.
1-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.
Brisbane Branch-
-64 Queen Street.
IT WILL PAY YOU
to CUT THIS OUT.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIALS of every description
and of Latest Makes are kept by us.
It is our business to study the developments of PHOTO-
GRAPHY. Inventions, New Chemicals, Improved Appa-
ratus, and everything of proved value is at once stocked.
CAMERAS of every kind, CHEMICALS for every
Process, and PHOTOGRAPHIC APPLIANCES of all
sorts at Lowest Possible Prices.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue and Supplement.
Harrington $ Co. ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 King-street, Sydney.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
The alleged appointment of somebody
described as Earl Beauchamp to be Governor of
N.S.W. is probably a cablegraphic eri’or ; the new
Earl Poulett is more likely the individual meant.
There are several reasons for this idea. In the
first place, hardly anybody out here ever heard of
Beauchamp, and almost everybody has heard of
Poulett. It is certain there is a Poulett and not
at all certain there is any Beauchamp. The re-
port states that the new Governor is musical, and
as Earl Poulett, when Viscount Hinton, lived for a
number of years by grinding a barrel-organ in the
streets, he obviously fills the bill. N.S.W. is very
earnest just now over the teaching of cookery, and
AN ILL WIND.
HE : “ This wind is awful —it spoilt a silk hat of mine this morning."
SHE : “ Yes; and it necessitates wearing such expensive petticoats!"
as the present Earl Poulett is the son of his dis-
reputable old father and his father’s cook, his
appointment would be touchingly appropriate. If
Poulett doesn’t know something about cookery be
certainly ought to. Moreover, the kind of cookery
Poulett knows about is doubtless the cheap kind
just suited to Australia’s present circumstances ;
he was fired out at a very early age, along with his
mother, by the old earl, and has run after his
vittles in a precarious sort of way ever since, and
he wasn’t brought up on the rich sirloin of beef or
other extravagances.
Earl Poulett, N.S.W.’s suspected new Governor,
has lived mostly in the odour of tripe and cheap
pigs’ feet and twopennorth of gin, and by reason
of his inexpensive upbringing he would probably
be glad to take the billet for half salary, and the
other half could go towards paying off Raid’s de-
ficit. N.S.W., too, is essentially a sporting com-
munity, and the new Earl Poulett, as a person
who has been in gaol for getting a gun under false
pretences, has a sporting air about him which
seems to fit the case right down to the ground. If
there is no mistake, and it really is Beauchamp
and not Poulett who is coming here, The Bulle-
tin reckons that an immediate effort should be
made to swap peers. Beauchamp is said to be a
piously-inclined young man who doats on Gre-
gorian chants and will be like unto a long, dull
hymn in a dry land. A rakish costermonger-
earl with a barrel-organ and a bashed hat, who
would preside at meetings of the Executive
Council with a black eye, and a pipe, and a bull-
pup (or a monkey) under his arm, would be much
less oppressive. Australia has had Brassey and
Buxton already, and is quite tired of serious-
minded Governors.
* * * *
“ Alclieringa ” to The Bulletin: :
Is it good policy to encourage Governors to become
popular ? Given a demand for the thing and the supply’s
sure to come regularly in time, until ultimately we’ll get
a Royal Prince billeted on us—and permanently. Surely
there’s enough sickening lip-loyalty in Australia just now
without irritating into existence a sore that will ensure
perennial issues of it. This in mild deprecation of
published comments on Brassey’s “ nearness.” It may be
Machiavellian to say so, but from the patriotio Australian
point of view the more mean Governors we have the better
for our national sturdiness. Wasn’t it Ballance who
opposed elective Governors on the ground that the fact of
. e °. t . l °”. wo ' ll d dangerously enamour the people with the
lns 1 u lon t £>o ln thla^ matter of munificent Governors,
w , . * *
. *' nen the Governor s salary was last under
discussion in N.S.W. Parliament a side motion
was carried indicating that <£sooo was enough,
J™ 8 leH extras out of the question. Premier
Reid, re-submitting the matter, moved for £7OOO,
an( l 80 talked that the House as a body understood
that that round sum would cover all extras. The
Estimates for current year, laid before Parliament
the other day, provide £7OOO Jor the Governor,
£4OO for private-secretary, £275 for clerk to p.s.,
<£l6o for porter, <£6l2 for three orderlies, and
<£3oo for contingencies. Altogether, the Gover-
nor’s charge upon the public comes to nearly
,£9ooo which shows that the vigor of the debate
to reduce the old allowances was, in the main,
vocal and nervous force wasted.
* • • •
If true, as stated, that Premier Reid was
consulted prior to the appointment of Gov. Hamp-
den’s successor, then the selection of an unmarried
figure-head may he due to a cunning suggestion.
Heigh-ho ! for the tightening of those “ silken
bonds ” if the Earl finds his “ Countess ” amongst
the Sydney “Naieest ” !
Curious to note how ready the Sydney
morning papers were to drop the Gatton and
other similar affairs as soon as something else—
the Samoan embroglio—came along. For three
weeks they had boiled and re-boiled the bones of
the various local corpses — and whereas the
Dubberke confession was a relief in its way, the
Samoan coup was a positive godsend.
• * • *
The theory that the Gatton slaughterer
afterwards killed his accomplice is in accord with
the practice of the logical criminal, who never
loses sight of the fact that what is known to two
is no secret. Mister Tod, please note.
• * * *
The very newest police-theory about the
Gatton murder is that Burgess, the alleged
assassin, whom so far, apparently, no one can
connect with the crime, afterwards butchered his
accomplice—that mysterious person whom nobody
ever saw or heard of—and buried him in some
place unknown. This makes the matter even
more complicated than before. Burgess, so far as
he can be traced on both sides of Gatton, was a
solitary, seedy battler, with no mate. He is not
known to have brought a mate to the district, and
as no mate has gone amissing there, lie seemingly
didn’t take one away from it. But, as no one
man could well do that stupendous butchery
single-handed, the other man has to be assumed,
and, as he isn’t to be found now, his grave has to
be assumed also. So it is concluded that the man
who doesn’t seem to have been there got rid of the
fellow who apparently wasn’t anywhere by knock-
ing him on the head with something, and putting
him nowhere in particular. Of course, the police
may “know something,” but that is how the
matter strikes outsiders up to now. So —
* * * *
The wholesale and general identification of
Burgess as the man at the slip-rails on the night
of the Gatton murders and as the dubious
stranger who was seen all round the district for
many miles in every direction just before and
after that date, is a fine sample of something or
other. Every paper of plant and respectability
in Bananaland printed a picture of a man with
all the more prominent features of the accused
and labelled it “BURGESS.” Consequently
every person who has looked at him since has
been startled to find him strangely familiar—seen
him somewhere. And the mind, struggling to
locate the recollection, fits it on to the figure of
the first person who comes to memory of whose
features no impression was retained. To those
good people who saw in the moonlight the
rough outline of the man at the slip-rails the
features of the picture fit naturally into the blank
below the slouched hat. In all probability if
Burgess could be secretly carried about the country
he would be unflinchingly identified everywhere
as the man Miss Hysteria and the resident church-
warden saw behaving in a suspicious manner on
the night of the local crime.
* * • •
Some more aibout the boot-box tragedy :—
The veteran Dr. Neild, in maintaining that the boot-box
victim, Mabel Ambrose, died of suffocation, was probably
right, as the girl Dubberke, telling the awful story of the
unhappy Ambrose’s death, deposed that Madame Rada-
lyski said she “ had placed her hands over the girl’s
mouth to stop her from screaming, and her eyes were
starting from the sockets.” Dubberke, who avers that
she confessed because her conscience pricked her, is in-
deed a cool hand, and a queer study of a 20-year-old girl.
Her conscience evidently didn’t prick her much until she
found the police had struck her trail. To many who live
in the neighborhood of South Yarra, Dubberke was
pretty well-known as an average, smartish style of girl,
such as may be seen in scores any Saturday night in
Chapel-street, Prahran ; her only point of real beauty
being a pair of exceptionally deep, dark eyes.
This sweet charmer, according to her own story at the
inquest, suggested that one of the dead girl’s teeth should
THE PRIDE OF SEX.
SHE : “ Why don’t you go out and look for work?”
HE : “ ’Ow can I with these disgraceful clothes on?"
SHE: “ Well, I had—and mine arc worse."
HE: “ You ’aren't no position to keep up — and,
besides, a woman ’asn't got the same pride a
man ’as.”
bo knocked down her throat to prevent identification.
After the squeamish Tod declined to help remove the
body from one room to another and cram the dead girl
into the trunk, Dubberke kindly volunteered her able
assistance, stripped the body, cut oil most of the hair,
bent the legs so as to lit the box, helped to burn the
clothes, and then made herself a cup of tea while further
arrangements were discussed. Then she went with Tod
at dead of night and helped to draff the trunk over a
fence across a lonesome paddock by a lonesome riverside,
hiding it in some bushes till a belated pair of lovers had
departed and left the way clear. Also she helped
to fix the wire and Btone to the trunk, and grisly
deed !—to slide it into the Yarra at one o'clock
in the morning. Then the girl with the protruding jaw
returned to the house and no doubt took more lea, her
Conscience having evidently been mislaid in the hurry of
circumstances. For sheer deliberateness, it would be
hard to recall many characters in the history of crime fit
to straighten the jaunty hat of this Dubberke girl. At
the detective office: “ Her first request was for a cup of
tea, and on its being supplied she threw herself back upon
a sofa and leisurely sipped it.”
The beautiful Sunday-school side of young man Tod's
character is revealed in Dubberke’s confession: "Tod
was at the house the night before Mabel died and slept in
her room. . . . About half-an-hour after breakfast
Madame told Mabel to go upstairs and go to bed. Tod
was then with witness in the kitchen. They heard Mabel
crying out, and Tod asked her what Madame did that
caused her to scream. She replied that she did not know,
but that Mabel always screamed when Madame was treat-
ing her. lie seemed much concerned. When Mabel
stopped crying Tod called out and asked whether Madame
had finished, and Mabel answered ‘ Yes.’ Tod went up-
stairs, and, on returning, said to witness, ‘ Poor girl, 1
can't help having some regard for her.’ ” It is at such times
that the plain, unvarnished sinner appears to better advan-
tage than bis church-going brother, whose saintly family
connections forbid him to be associated with an illicit baby.
If the author of Mabel’s unborn child bad been a blas-
phemous, wrong-thinking youth he would probably have
shut down on the abortion scheme at the sound of bis
paramour s agonised cries. Whereas Tod—reared in an
odour of sanctity and necessarily a coward when exposed
to the risk of scandal—waited till the screams had ceased
ere going to console his girl, and then took credit for his
kindness in not being' able to “ help having some regard
for her.” The good young man, whose donah died.
Verily, Dubberke has marvellous nerve. Before being
called at the inquest, she yarned away with the “d.”
sitting beside her, laughing lightly at intervals, picking
out “ nice hoys'' in the court with tier big blue eyes, and
now and again glancing down at the little patent-leather
shoes which she twiddled in the sunlight. When called,
she crossed the court, and to those who saw her for the
first time, seemed almost younger than her 20 years. Her
hair was hanging down, her dress was a trifle short and
girlishly cut, and altogether she would have easily passed
for a schoolgirl of 17. But the evidence ! What a con-
trast to her appearance ! The police witnesses—some of 30
years’ experience—were arrant chumps compared with this
girl on a witness-stand for the first time in her life. As
soon as the Crown Prosecutor said “Get into the box,”
and made everybody think of the dead Mabel Ambrose
getting into her box, people saw another Thekla. Men
present, who had seen every “big” case for years,
reckoned her absolutely the best witness they had ever
met. Apparently possessed of an education far in ad-
vance of the average farmer’s daughter, Thekla described
in a soft, ladylike manner how she had suggested ham-
mering out one of the dead girl’s teeth. From start to
finish there was not a mispronounced word nor an
ungrammatical sentence, and Thekla stepped down as
fresh as paint after standing up for nearly three hours.
She concluded by a triumphal admission to solicitor Levy
that she had been visited by “ dozens of sweethearts.”
The trend of the cross-examination had obviously been
to show up the fair witness, but the latter beat Levy
badly by calmly owning up to all his accusations with
the air of a Madonna. “ Isn’t Mr. Levy a horrid man?”
she commented at the rising of the inquest. “He asked
me such nasty questions. But I didn’t care; I was de-
termined to speak the truth, and he didn’t expect that.”
• * • *
The one touch of humor about the Melb.
Sing hey for the Earldom of Beauchamp,
And the prayers each day
Of the girls by the Bay
That to share it he’ll only beseech ’em !
THE NEW BRAND OF WORCESTER-
SHIRE.
“ Earl Beauchamp is an earnest Christian
worker, and devoted to hunting and racing.”—
Daily Paper.
Across the seas Lord Hampden goes
To see his sonnie’s wedding;
And on an ocean-liner soon
Earl Beauchamp will be treading.
The Church smiles brightly at the thought,
This writer makes grimaces,
He doesn't take this brand of sauce :
Church-prayers with Eandwick races.
’Twould be a sin in other men—
Say those who come by steerage ;
But vices unto virtues change
If you are in the peerage.
The priests, unlike the Nazarene,
O’erlook Blue-blood’s bad places ;
Be hut an earl, and they won’t mind
Your small sins at the races.


V,
I Mm
IJ'IH
ForcoT tem
iTMljftii?."
WIVES!
PERSUADE YOUR HUSBANDS
TO DRINK
Sydney Lager Bier
AND NO OTHER LIQUOR.
The Rational Drink
is the best.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Last year Maoriland gained 2697 people
by excess of arrivals over departures.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S. W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
Preliminary Advertisement.
Woollahra Point.
THE Grounds surrounding the well-known
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE will be offered
at PUBLIC AUCTION in SUITABLE BUILD-
ING BLOCKS at an early date, with a
FREEHOLD TITLE.
An opportunity will thus be afforded intending
Purchasers to acquire the FINEST WATER
FRONTAGE LOTS ever offered to the Public.
Agents for the Estate —
RAINE & HORNE,
2 Hunter-street, Sydney.
SoftCaoVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 54-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for I
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
boot-trunk inquest was provided by a tall, fair,
handsome young man—married, of course, who
came forward and calmly swore that he couldn’t
remember anything. The Crown tried to jog his
memory by placing a portrait of Mabel Ambrose
in his hand, and when he said that wasn’t the girl
at all, the Crown was rude enough to ask “ what
girl?” Eventually witness admitted that he had
met three girls in the street one night. To the
best of his belief it was one night, but he wasn’t
exactly sure. He and two friends went with the
girls— to the best of his belief—in a cab
somewhere. He didn’t know whether it
was South Yarra they went to or not, but
they called at a house and he stayed there
a few moments and then left. Apparently
he didn’t discover where he was when he left,
either, but he admitted that to the best of his
recollection he was sober. His reason for embark-
ing on the enterprise, he explained, was because
he thought he might as well go home that way—
which is much the same as taking a short cut from
Redfern toDarlinghurst through Manly. The only
thing he was certain about was that, although he
couldn’t say who any of the women were, he had
not “ mashed ” them. They had been introduced
—of that he was convinced, though every other
fact was to the best of his belief. And, with a
sense of having bravely done his duty by being
introduced, he proudly “stood down.”
• • • *
The Caledonian strain in the youth Tod,
charged with complicity in the Melb. boot-trunk
murder, came out strongly at the inquest. When
Tod’s girl left her home for the purpose of abor-
tion he went to a boarding-house keeper of the
locality in his capacity of commission-agent, and
said he oould got her a nice, rospeotable young lady-
boarder, and would ask only half-a-week’s money
as commission. Mabel Ambrose duly turned up
at the house to explain that she intended to stay
for a week only, so her Scotchbyterian “boy”
drove the particularly keen bargain of getting a
week’s board at half-price. Tod is quite lost in
gaol. He should have remained at the Sunday-
school and^ good-fellowship union.
The childlike innocence of somo Molb.
constables is really touching. The other night a
local officer observed a man ooming away from a
big house on St. Kilda-road in the early a.m. His
HE MISUNDERSTOOD
HER.
HE: “Cheer up, my love; time flies quickly—think
of my return
SHE (sighing) : “Ah, yes! That’s what I AM
thinking of!”
suspicions were aroused. He purposed an arrest,
when the individual, perceiving him, stepped up
on tip-toe. “Hush!” he whispered, “not a
word ! This way. There’s a man stealing fowls
round at Mr. Smith’s, where I work. Come, and
we’ll catch him red-handed.” Bobby followed to
the back of Smith’s premises, where the resource-
ful stranger took a key from his pocket and tried
to open the hack stable door. “There’s some-
thing wrong—it won’t open,” said he; “ come
around the side way. I’ll get over the fence.”
The unsuspicious constable gently helped him
over the fence, and, going to the side-door, waited
for his friend to open it, thinking of his timely
capture of the villainous fowl-stealer and the
“ sthripe ” attaching thereto. He waited quite a
while; in fact, he waited long enough for his
friend to attach the fowls, put them in a bag,
open the side-gate, and silently remove them and
himself to a more desirable locality. Finally, it
occurred to X to investigate, and when he got
into the back-yard he found the house-father in
slippers and pyjamas railing about some man he
had seen from his window leaving the yard with
a bag over his shoulder.
* * * *
A clergyman at Golden Gully (Vic.),
is a militant Christian with “ a quick left. ” The
other Sunday a “ push ” entered his church and
began to raise Cain. The parson expostulated,
but, as the roughs refused to “get,” he climbed
down from his pulpit and threw one or two of
them into the street after “a very willing go.”
None of the congregation offered to give the shep-
herd a hand, having no inclination to spoil sport.
The members simply perched round on the pews,
and barracked for the good cause. The local
paper decla-ros that the collection that morning
was exceptionally good. The Bulletin doesn’t
doubt it, and begs to call the attention of parsons
generally to the fact that the public will always
pay handsomely to see the minister fight it out
with a representative of Satan in a 16ft. ring,
where they wouldn’t give a red cent for mere
windy disputation.
• • * •
The Chinese Australian Herald issues
as a New Year (Chinese) supplement an array of
greetings from leading Sydney commercial insti-
tutions to their celestial clients. A word-to-word
translation of the “card” of the Bank of New
South Wales is: “ New South Wales money-
house—chief man’s salute.”
* • • •
In a Bayley-street (Coolgardie) cafA
Boarder enters, accompanied by collie dog, and
speaks to waitress. Waitress, in a loud voice:
“ Porridge, two ; grill-steak, one ; bones for a dog,
one.
• « * »
Sydney Transit Commission recently re-
newed the license of a man who has been oab-
dnving in the city for 60 years. What a lot of
the less obvious aspects of life this half-century
must havo seen ! “ The Romance of the
Cab has yet to be written.
The P.O. young
man had handed
to the wife of a
. prominent resi-
dent a 2d. stamp.
The lady went
outside to post
a packet, then
bounced sudden-
ly back and pro-
ceeded to search
excitedly about
the counter for
her purse, which
she declared she
had left there;
and, as there had
been nobody else
in the office, she
promptly ac-
cused the clerk
of annexing it.
The local bobby
took copious
notes, and
thought he had
a strong case.
Then Mrs. P.R.
went home and
told Mr. P.R. ;
who, noticingthat
she still carried
thestamped [jack-
et, asked why she
hadn’t posted it,
anyhow ? Some-
thing seemed tostrike
Mrs. P.R., and she
breathlessly rushed off
again to the P.O. She
had posted the purse in-
stead of the letter. The
only reparation tendered
the maligned official was a
“ Really very sorry, you
know.”
“ Antalien ” : At North
Sydney recently saw two vege-
table hawkers with carts: one, a
Chinaman with a half-caste child,
t’other a Caucasian with two small boys.
Chinaman did all the door-to-door biz him-
self, while his youngster brought along the cart;
Caucasian drove his cart, while directing, with
much superfluous blasphemy, the house-to-house
canvas of his kids. Now, which of these twain
were the better citizen?
• • * *
S.A. Chief-Justice Way’s illness is causing
his friends much anxiety. What was originally
an attack of influenza has developed into pleurisy
and, at time of writing, a very serious case. The
little man’s health has been indifferent of late
through overwork consequent upon Judge Bun-
dey’s illness and Gov. Buxton’s absence ip Eng-
land. Meanwhile S.A. lawyers complain that big
cases which have been hanging over for months
will be further delayed, unless at least two acting-
judges are appointed to assist Boucaut, the only
one well enough to do his work.
• • • *
A Sydney suburban bootmaker has his
Bign—“Boots souled and healed.”
It is touching to watch Sydney street-
cleaners in the early mornings. When the man
with the hose comes round he has been preceded
by the lean and hungry dosser, and the bony and
famished mongrel, and the all-devouring goat,
with the result that all the casual rubbish-boxes
on the sidewalk have been investigated and most
of their contents spread about the gutter. Some
of the refuse is gathered up and
replaced in the proper receptacles,
and when the hose is turned on
the remainder floats down street
and accumulates in masses at
convenient places. Half-an-hour
later all the boxes have been over-
turned again, and the scavenger
who comes round by-and-bye
spends most of his time in
gathering up the cabbage-
stalks and empty jam-
tins again, and the
remainder in curs-
ing the dosser
and the mongrel
and the goat, and
the Mayor and
city aldermen, and
his predecessor with
the hose, and the uni-
verse.
“ Porthos ” : Re cri-
minals wearing moustaches
as a general rule. Is it the
hair on lip that causes them
to fall from grace, or is wicked-
ness a good hair-stimulator for
the upper lip? Possibly a law
prohibiting the growth of these
sin-producers might be the short-
est way to the millenium. Give
wickedness the cut direct.
Sleath, M.L.A., tho loudest and probably
also tin* dullest and most ignorant lioro in N.S. W.
Assembly, appeared in Sydney Central Polios
Court last wooi< in a squalid matter concerning an
old woman and two young ones and a wine shop.
The old woman alleged that Sleath haunted her
wine-shop, and pawed her two daughters while
they sat on his knee, and that he called
her blastiferous names when she attempted to
interfere, and rushed at her with threats of
“ screwing her neck." Therefore she asked that
Sleath, M.L.A., who is a married man with a
family, should be bound over not to screw her
neck. Tho old lady alleged that Sleath tried to
haul her on to his knee on one occasion, but that
lion, member repudiated the charge with indigna-
tion and declared that none of the family ever sat
on his knee. Me admitted, however, having
threatened to “tip" the old lady's head in the
sink once when he was in having an ice-cream.
The aged mother fled fron. the wine-shop after that,
her alleged reason being that she was scared off
by Sleath, M.L.A., or afraid lest her daughters
might get off that politician’s knee and rush at
her, or something of the sort. The daughters in
their evidence rather backed up Sleath (one of
them is reported as having stated that he had
“ slept at the house frequently since the night of
the dispute ”) and accused the old lady of can-
tankerousness ; also, Sleath offered to take his
“dying oath ” that he wouldn’t address her again.
In the end the hon. member was ordered not to
molest old Mrs. Brown for three months, but he
gave notice of appeal, so the alleged pawing of
the Brown family in a cheap wine-shop will pro-
bably be discussed in a higher court. But it is a
miserable, dirty, squalid little row.
The people who run the Cinematograph missed
a good thing by not being on hand to reproduce
the police-court antics of Sleath aforesaid. It
was, without exception, the most awful exhibition
of inane conceit and crass stupidity this writer
ever saw after watching N.S.W. Parliamentary
debates for years. When “Wileannia” took
charge of the case he put one foot on the chair and
preceded every word with a series of guttural
grunts, such as “er-haw, hah, er-ah, erhaugh,
and heehaw.” He had evidently come to court
with the idea that the affair was a huge joke, and
whatever elements of danger were in the case
would be quickly scorched into nothingness by his
burning eloquence. His remarks were absurd,
his questions utterly irrelevant, and a cynical
crowd laughed derisively. Every time they
laughed Sleath stopped, folded his hands, and
leered complacently—he actually thought they
were laughing at his wit. And when the scornful
hilarity became thunderous, Sleath’s crazy bellow
was loudest of all. The case lasted from 11.30
a.m. till 2.45 p.m. without interval for lunch.
Towards the finish the statesman staggered
the Court by asking it—“ Even if it was
true that there was anything wrong between
him and the females he was pleased to de-
scribe as young ladies, was it not the duty of
this wicked old woman (the young: ladies’ mother)
to have screened it, and hid it?” When the
P.M. suddenly burst in on the flood of his elo-
quence with the terse announcement that Richard
Sleath, M.L. A., was bound over to keep the peace
for three months, in default one month’s beastly
common jug, the legislator gaped at him in aston-
ishment. If the sun had burst and the earth got
off its axis, he couldn’t have been more dumb-
founded. For 30 seconds he went “off his
kadoova ’’; then he jammed his hat on and strode
towards the door in awful fury. Two policemen
made at him, and signalled for more ; but they
were not needed—terrible Dick quietly submitted
to be bound over.
* * * *
Two Sydney doctors are arguing. Each
A GOOD TIME COMING.
CUSTOMER (who has called for a, shave, and over-
hears terrible noise overhead): “Great heavens I
what's that row? ”
THE BARBER'S WIFE: “O noth ink; it's on'y my
'usband 'avin a fit. He'll be right in a minnit,
an'll soon be down to attend to yer. ”
has his Sunday organ. One maintains that a
vegetable diet means health ; the other yells for
flesh and swears that fruit and cabbage spell
diabetes : “ eight out of ten persons in Australia
exhibit the most pronounced diagnostic feature of
that dreadful disease ” —Rats ! —owing he says, to
“ tho craze for eating fruit. Meat did not produce
it—sugar, fruit and farinaceous foods in excess
certainly did.” But doesn’t much meat help on
albuminaria—and which is the more deadly in
Australia, albuminaria or diabetes? The fact is
simply this —what is food to one is poison to
another. Look at those two doctors. Some men
are built to calmly eat fruit, others to ferociously
gnaw chops. Go and inspect the pair.
“When a man is forty, he is either a fool or a
physician.” Both those doctors are (at a guess)
just over forty. Each has probably found out what
suits himself. But let him not measure other
people’s corn by his own bushel.
• * * *
The Bulletin regrets to hear that the
Sydney “ Pen and Brush 'Club,” as it was pro-
posed to call the ink and paint amalgam, has gone
bung. This paper sorrowfully predicted its down-
fall some time ago, as it could not see how a
Bohemian dub could succeed in Sydney without
the help of the Philistine. The idea of a club—
where the musician would regale his brother artist
of evenings with inspired music, while the news-
paper-man would read aloud passages from his
paragraphs to assembled multitudes, and where
the painter would hover round, making life-studies
of the distinguished men alluded to —had no
vitality in it. The musician, after eight or ten
hours’ teaching, wants to get miles away from any
music, while the newspaper man would rather bo
fired from the mouth of cannon than read any-
thing of his once it has appeared in print. Be-
sides, there are no Bohemians now. Everyone’s
married, and who ever heard of a married
Bohemian ?
* * » •
S.M. Herald advt. (23/l/'99) :
HOSPITAL.
Applications for the posilion of NURSE will be re-
ceived up to Ist Feb. Salary ,£2O per annum. Ap-
plicants to send certificates of competency and
physical fitness, also testimonials, and to state
length of experience and when they could commence
duty.
T. C. LODGE, Hon. Secretary.


GOOD BOOTS
Good for WEAR
Good for FIT
Good for LOOKS
Just the class of Boots
that
particular
Gentlemen
like ...
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
REDUCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks,
“ Dent’s ” Austrain Lamb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent’s” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
“ Dent’s” Chevrette Washing Suede, in white, 1/11
i) „ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2/11
The “Merlier” Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 3/11
Superior Chevrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
“Dent’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt and special attention.
W. T. WATERS & CO.
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have N 0 B > mL
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 30, 1899.
My Dear Myee —
Judging by his portrait, the new N.S.W. Gover-
nor is going to take his place in the same class as
the tryingly-intellectual “M.E.J.,” who used to
cause frightful tremors among just-ordinarv people
by starting casual allusions to the orations of
Demosthenes at her Govt. House Garden Parties.
Earl Beauchamp is 27 years old, has the head of a
well-fed Shelley—or other “shirt-collar” poet —
and is said by those who have gazed upon him in
the flesh to be too Beautiful for anything. He
doesn’t wear a moustache, has every single taste
Ouida might have showered upon her heroes, loves
hunting as well as Homer, divides his soul between
gardening, blowing the saxhorn and Thucydides,
and—-but I might go on like this for ever. His
Ex. isn’t married, and has a big sister who
adores amateur theatricals. Govt. House will
probably receive its ownest own—for there’s
no doubt about it, this appointment is
simply the rarest good thing Sydney sassiety has
ever dreamed of in its wildest flights—early next
pat,ip shop tmm and Mi* rent, sky-high.
The hereditary interest which new Gov. Beau-
champ takes m Gregorian music will commend him
to that section ot oydney Anglicanism which has
taken to plain chant. Gregonamsm is seemingly
gaining converts m Sydney, for Arthur Smyth,
the instigator of the soulful craze at St. James’s,
is now inoculating the people of Christ Church
against the florid banalities of modern music.
Our only two remaining male gubernatorials,
His Ex. and Captain Fielden, came down from
Sutton Forest for the Anniversary Races, taking
the Regatta on their way. Lady Hampden and
the Brand girls have not been seen in public for
quite a long time, and Rand wick had to depend
on itself, as it were, on Thursday for good dressing,
Certainly there was an excited rumor that a live
Duke was wandering on the lawns, but the flutter
subsided when the only Alba turned out to possess
thin little legs and a big nose, and a generally-
decayed appearance. His ducal charms were
further discounted by a grey shrunk suit and a
straw hat with a dark-brown past. Despite all
the slurs cast on local snobocracy, Sydney does
not condescend yet to dukes who dress anyhow.
> th® Duke, who left for London by
the Himalaya on Saturday, must carry away an
awful opinion ot what Australian girls will say
under no pressure whatever. At the Anniversary
races, chatting away to a party, he remarked in
the clippy fashion now in vogue that a certain
race was N.1.8.D. Don t you know what that
means . said he to the prettiest girl in the group.
She answered without turning a hair, “ Not too ”
—well, i cant go on with it, but the Duke
blushed up to the tint of lus strawberries, and
n loC i ke ? a j r tha A w ° uld
SwS C Ki 1 lo ° kS \ f l i°f Slble -. And
that- fhimrq wprf.'“ NT *T tu eIU - eC IJ J Bll ?> Uate
that things were Not Too Blooming Dusty.
In frocking at the races the pretty wife of a well-
known bookie cut the most conspicuous figure.
She wore a bright-rose polonaise looped up
over a sea of pallid flounces, and was slender
enough to carry off the construction satisfactorily,
This kind of frock generally finds its way on to a
big fat lady with a red face, where it looms in the
air like a red brick coming you from an
enemy s sung'- Miss Inez Bensusan s dark color-
ing was brightened up effectually by a pretty
piped blouse of cerise glace, worn with a white
alpaca skirt braided in black velvet, and a large
black picture-hat. Mrs. Tom Watson had a cool,
collarless blue-and-white muslin, with a black
velvet neck band. Mrs. Ma,carthur Onslow’s
black foulard was sprinkled with white pepper,
and topped with a black-feathered hat. One art-
less little white frock had a transparent muslin
bodice, through which you divined the pink
ribbons run in-and-out of the camisole beneath.
Another sweeping white dress was serried from
toe to throat with tucks and invaluable lace, and
was served up on a pink silk slip. But white
over pink never sends thrills through aesthetic-
minded people. Those white-muslins-over-pink-
glazed-toilet-tables of the past have somehow
taken the keen edge off the otherwise delicious
combination. A great many simple white gowns
were in evidence. After white came black-and-
white checks, most of which were touched up
happily with cerise or turquoise.
The two days were “off,” as far as local swelldom
goes, so there was a big increase in feminine punt-
ing. The stand never hugs the ring so hotly when
society is looking on, you know. I noted curiously
how callously the male kind repel any timid little
enquiries as to “ What do you fancy for this race,
Mr. Browne ? ” The common parry is a blank
“I’m not betting this afternoon,” which sounds
well from the lips of hardened turf-eaters like
Blank and Dash and Asterisk, who couldn’t keep
off if they were paid. But really the persistent
way in which some women pursue men with half-
crowns, and demand, on the ground of the very
slenderest acquaintanceship, that the pursued one
shall go and lay that half-a-crown on a dead cer-
tainty that couldn’t fail if it tried, must be a sore
trial to encounter at a race meeting. Particularly
when the plunger says, confidingly, “111 leave it
all to you, Mr. Browne; just put it on whatever
horse you think is going to win,” and adds, as an
epilogue, later on, “ why didn’t you put my
° n Skinbone they all said he was bound
? And \ SU P.P° S ® you backed him for your-
se}f' and Sllmlar insults. Which isn t the sort
of amusem ent a real live man goes to seek at
races J or so I have been told.
Saturday’s meeting was chiefly remarkable for
the emptiest members’ stand for years. A few
well-dressed women were brave enough to show
that they were not spending their off season in
fashionable summer haunts, and were rewarded
by an extra amount of attention from the crowd.
Mrs. Boyd wore one of the nicest dresses on the
lawn—a light fawn voile on a gold slip, with a
tucked front of yellow silk under rich applique,
Mrs. Monty Severn’s black and white checked
silk was a familiar number, as was also Mrs.
Macnamara’s lovely blue embroidered lisse. And
then there were the numberless muslins that come
upon you at festivities like your own familiar last
summer’s frock on the wash-woman. The trail of
the sale isn’t easily eradicated.
oftS ?** T/fr
meeting, including His El LA'iiSL aid*
hastening towards the Association Grounds,
Starched white frocks again characterised the
dressing here, and amateur hat-builders brought
out a big display of curious erections on which
undiscovered flowers hob-nobbed with fowls of the
air, and tinselled nets were stitched over all to
keep them still. Some of these efforts are the
most genuinely hard-worked tributes to the
cricketers’ charms that ever will be eventuated.
As yet Bananaland lias supplied the loveliest
example of what a devoted girl will do in the
throes of cricket measles. Two badly-strioken
girls watched young Clem. Hill eating peaches,
one day, and when he had finished and moved off,
one of them made a rush at his plate, and carried
off a peach stone. By the light in her eye as she
showed it to a friend she might have captured a
whack of diamonds. Somebody told the pretty
story to Clem, afterwards. Whereupon the
youthful hero broke into language that showed a
horrid lack of sympathy with the poet’s sentiment
about “A clod, a piece of orange peel, the end of
a cigar, once trod upon by a princely heel, how
beautiful they are ! ”
Local art-circles have been grieved to hear of
the death of Miss Catherine Devine. She was at
one time a member of our Art Society, and, while
she was in Sydney, exhibited some flower-painting
of no mean order. Nine or ten years ago she re-
turned to England, and was commonly supposed
to be doing well there. Her talented sister, Mrs.
Stoddard, whom she resembled personally, was
shortly going home to join her. And now comes
the news of her suicide in a fit of temporary
insanity.
The second meeting of the Press Bazaar didn’t
bring things much nearer the goal, somehow. The
newspaper proprietors again failed to roll up; an
additional Herald representative, in the shape of
Mr. Samuel Cook, being the only new male comer,
Miss Gordon, of the Sun, offered her services as
secretary pro tern., and Mr. Crawley, of the
Sunday Times, is to share her labors. Mr. Cook
was appointed chairman of the committee, and
that is about the extent of the business done to
date.
The scare about Dolly Vane’s retreat to a con-
vent hit Sydney hard one day this week. A
certain journal’s notice-board put up in big black
letters “Miss Vane Enters a Convent!” and
everyone rushed for a penn’orth. Beyond the
sell there was nothing in the news to feed excite-
ment. A clipped interview mildly stated that
the popular little Dolly had determined on taking
the veil in two years’time—having already found,
possibly, that all is vaneity. YVhicli announce-
ment has started everybody asking “ Who is he?”
. T c „
A s ®f ond vlslt fc ° ‘ Wben L °i ldo ?l Sl . ee P B .
tbe san ‘f good-natured crowds elbowing in
to tbls deep-blue drama The long run is telling
on Miss Gresham and Miss Duggan and others,
who now get rid of their sentiments in a somnam-
style, as though they had forgotten what
ttie Y meant.
A band of resourceful Tasmanian girls, kept out
of the running for eligible navals by too-severely-
straight-laced parents, lately took the game into
their own hands, and schemed to give themselves
a night of unadulterated joy. They rented a
furnished private house, invited a crowd of naval
officers, and made quiet preparations for a ball,
The local big ballroom was engaged that night by
a Personage’s At Horne, and as soon as the heads
of the family had set out for this function the
“girls” made ready and slipped off to their
rendezvous. The ball was naturally a wild
success.
Which recalls a somewhat similar society
function that happened in Sydney years ago. A
number of school-girls in pig-tails and short dresses
—none of them were over fifteen—conceived the
idea of giving a ball in the Town Hall. They
boldly interviewed the Mayor, who was Young
then, and coaxed him into lending the building,
sent out invitations, and ran, “all on their own,”
a highly successful hop. Its only failing was a
scarcity of supper, but the unusuai number of
brilliantly pretty girls in their own natural bloom
made up for all short comings. Among the
perpetrators of this daring festivity were Lady
Bertie and her sisters, Mrs. Livingstone-Lear-
month, and Mrs. Allison.
The Jubilee Singers farewelled Sydney last
Saturday, and are now taking their rich voices
round the suburbs. Madame Orpheus McAdoo
certainly has a rare insight into frocking. On
Saturday she ivas wearing a dream of a frock in
black embroidered net over white silk, with one of
those skirts that cling at the top and flounce out
at the bottom, and have the look of fitting and yet
hanging away from the wearer. The whole dress
was exquisitely jetted, and a ruched white bebe
ribbon outlined the pattern of the jet uniquely.
Long, transparent sleeves were crossed with this
fine white ruching, and three bold dabs of gera-
nium red brought the frock into a becoming light
on the wearer’s dusky face. Also, Mrs. McAdoo
wears her frocks with more daring and chic than
any other platform lady known to Sydney.
History repeats itself, but often reverses itself
as well. Prof. Wood sailed from us with a bride.
Mr. Henderson comes to us with one. Mr. Hen-
derson, who took a brilliant historical degree here,
went to England subsequently for the Oxford
course, and while there won the same prize for
history that is the brightest jewel in Prof. Wood’s
crown. It was, therefore, quite fitting that he
should be recalled to explain to the youtli of Syd-
ney how noble a thing is history, while his senior
is sporting in the shade with the tangles of
Neaera’s hair. But it was not so meet that he
should have played such a joke on Prof. Scott, the
beloved bachelor professor of the University.
Prof. Scott, most hospitable of men, wrote to the
new lecturer, asking him to share his abode in
Sydney. “I shall certainly come,” wrote Mr.
Henderson in reply, “and bring my wife with
me.” In the least possible time after the receipt
of this letter in Sydney Mr. Henderson received a
cable bearing the pregnant message, “ Don’t.”
I am sorry to have misled you regarding tho
wedding of tho trader who has won all Grenfell’s
fair hearts by supplying delicious confections for
Grenfell’s fair heads. The wedding has not yet
eventuated, and the luxury attributed to tho cere-
monial which didn’t take place was apparently the
work of the local imagination endeavoring to
launch a popular personage into matrimony with
suitable splendor.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Melb. Softgoods Association had an annual
pionio on Jan. 20th, when a mighty gathering of
yard-measurers, job-liners, and gentlemen who
‘walk the floor’ took a noble pride in their con-
nection with the Trade. None but a draper can
properly appreciate a draper's greatness, and oven
then it is necessary for him to have ‘ served in the
retail ’ if he would realise how high he stands
above the little world outside of The Trade. J. M.
Bruce, speaking for the Softgoods Association,
said he ‘looked upon it as being a power in the
land,’ and he advised all young men in the various
departments, especially the ribbons and under-
clothing, to ‘ put their bands to the plough ’ and
help to accomplish Federation. Whereat tho
assembled association washed its hands with in-
visible soap and looked towards Heaven, saying
‘ What’s the next article ? ’
“The formal opening of the Federal Council
was a wretched show theatrically. It was done
strictly on the cheap. The two rows of Naval
Brigade-men who line up on Parliament House
steps on the occasion of the opening and closing of
the Legislature, were not brought along on this
occasion. A few loafers hung round tne top of
Bourke-street, and about a score of ladies went
into the galleries, including Lady Brassey in a
grey silk dress and her regulation smile.
“From the ‘State’ dinner-party given by Gov.
Brassey to the Federal Council, and to which
ladies were invited, Mrs. Alfred Deakin was
absent, though her eloquent husband was there.
Mrs. Deakin never goes to any public or semi-
publio function. She is one of the handsomest
women in Melbourne, and quite the tallest of any
importance, but hides her inches under the family
roof-tree. Being studious and having other in-
terests, one of the most interesting of Melbourne
ladies is thus totally unknown to social life.
“ Only a few Federal councillors have brought
their women folk with them. Smartest among
the visitors is Mrs. Neil Lewis, wife of the
Hobart politician, a very chic woman, always
well-dressed and stylish. Ancient Adye Douglas,
game old dog, brought along his young wife, who
appeared like a daughter looking after her pa,
though certainly Mr. Douglas, despite his 80 years,
can look after himself.
“At Mayor M‘Each aril’s theatre-party at the
Princess on Thursday night appeared the Hon. de
Moleyns, back from sugar-caning in Bananaland
and much fatter than of yore. He still wears his
spec-pincers and wild, innocent, round - eyed,
ready-to-be-shocked expression. The old sassiety
K’rls cackled round him in the interval, and sent
ving messages to his haughty sister, the Coun-
tess, in Edinburgh.
“Lady Turner’s breast-work of jewels blazed
beside tne star-decked vest of Premier Braddon—
that st&oped, wrinkled - faced, aristocratic old
statesman —at the theatre-party. Sentimental
society girls say there is a romance and a blood-
curdling story in every one of the five deep, dark
wrinkles that form a musical scale on his forehead.
“ The Brassevs came ever so late to that theatri-
cal matinee. The lights were so low when the
vice-regal party tip toed in that they had enough
to do finding their way. Lady B’s costume was
heliotrope and black. Her small daughter wore
one of the quaint, tight frocks prevalent just now,
with close-fitting tucked sleeves, while her hat had
a blue satin crown and brim of pleated white
chiffon. Little Miss Brassey, rather pale and
button-nosed at the present moment, evidently
inherits her mother’s elegance of deportment
She sits bolt-upright in her chair, disdaining to
lean back, and carries her bits of arms exactly
according to maternal tactics. Other juveniles at
the matinee were two small Wesley-Halls, clothed
completely in tiny tucks and real lace, each con-
nected with a point-lace kerchief gathered in to
fit the wearer’s head and crested with Prince of
Wales plumes. With them came their new aunt-
stepmother, her three sisters, and a brother-in-
law. The bride—a tall, pale, plump damsel with
bright grey eyes—sported an ostrich boa, with
appliqued grey cloth cape and silver straw hat,
trimmed with grey and white chiffon.
“Mrs. Brough, with silver threads showing
among the pale-gold of her hair, worked hard
among the tea cups, in a simple white frock. Lily
Titheradge, a blue-eyed, breezy, unaffected damsel
off the boards, nibbled sweets with school girl
zest, and discussed dad’s approaching London
apjiearance in a congenial Pinero piece, though
only a curtain-raiser. Elizabeth Watson, in grey
tweed and green velvet belt, looked twice as
attractive off the stage as she did in the Bland
Holt contribution to tne programme—a scenefroin
‘One of the Best.’ Miss Kerr, the statuesque
belle, who ‘ looks well ’ in Bland Holt’s tableaux,
hung over the baok of the d.c. elaborately gowned
in white, with Napoleon hat to match turned back
over her auburn hair.
The first feminine firm of duly-qualified dentists
starts in Melbourne next week, when Miss Alice
Berry (the popular daughter of ex-Speaker
Berry) and Miss Ethel Godfrey (eldest daughter
of M.L.C. Godfrey) open their forceps to the
molars of tho multitude.
“ Have society functions anything to do with
the inefficiency of the Melb. detective in tracking
crime? The Melb. detective is a person of one
idea—his whole intelligence is concentrated upon
safeguarding society against itself. At a recent
big private At Home, at which vice-royalty was
present, the detoctivos stationed at tho entrance
doors averred that of tho whole 800 guests there
was only one—a man—whom they didn’t know.
All tho same, they never saw the active thief,
who, getting mixed up with the going-away throng,
was merrily helping himself to ladies’ purses and
so on. They left him to the eare of a stout coach-
man, and although there was quite a scuffle
between the two, owing to the thief being made
to give up his prey, they never noticed it—they
weren’t looking for pickpockets in his direction.
“Elaborate invitations for the Osborne-Madden
wedding wore flying round the whole of last week;
and 1 Cloyne,’ the C. J’s town house, has been done
up from cellar to attic for the big festivity on Ist
March. Gov. Brassey is taking quite a fussy
interest in this particular nuptial demonstration.
Unlike the Yallange importation, who exhibits an
ever-increasing lankiness, the forthcoming bride-
groom falls in nicely with the Madden standard of
plumpness ; as the leading lady herself avers they
are ‘both fair, bbth fat, and both contented,’and
both cousinly good friends—all the elements of an
equal match.
“The procession of the Vice-royalties, aug-
mented by the whole Madden family, less ‘ papa ’
who is still away concluding matters with his
future son-in-law, was voted by unsooietv folk as
the best show-piece at the Empire Bazaar on
Saturday at Melb. Exhibition Building. A bride-
elect, in pink muslin and blue chiffon hat, being
led round by a live Governor, is of more interest
to the feminine mind than second-rate cosies and
photo.-frames. No one bought, but everyone
looked at the group as much as they wanted to.
Lady Brassey, still olinging to her iovely yellow
and white, looked regal at the head of the march.
“Whether all the Christians in Victoria were
rejoicing together during the Xmas holidays at
Mornington it is impossible to say for certain, but it
is a fact that the most fashionable hotel in Sorrento
was this summer entirely occupied by Jewish
families, with but one exception—and that family
was named Ham !
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 25.; postage 2d. extra. W.
H. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.*
The Manhattan Luncheon and Tea Rooms.
The coolest, largest and best-lighted room in
Sydney. A speciality is the dinner of three
courses. Is. 6d.—from 6 to 7.30 p.m.


SMOKE
three castles
awe*
ms
£3
er*
38
CIGARETTES.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Tlae Famous French,
Chocolate,
EUCOUTHEIIIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale __ __
Agents: JF. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 Georye-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Thus far, there has been no charge of
piety against Burgess.
“ Jacob’s Well.” Very well provided for
by his former chief, Reid.
Premier Braddon will be 70 in June. He
has been 20 years a resident of Tasmania.
Beauchamp will be the third earl appointed
Governor of N.S.W. Jersey and Belmore pre-
ceded him.
It is confidently stated that N.S.W.
Speaker Abbott will resign his office at the close
of the Parliamentary recess.
Beauchamp, at 27, is the youngest N.S. W.
Governor. Loftus, appointed at 62, was the
oldest at date of appointment.
The Bulletin has at last discovered some-
thing really serious concerning N.S.W. Minister
Oarruthers. He was born at Jamberoo.
Remarkable transformations in the life of
a N.S.W. small-celebrity—parson, M.P., manager
of a private detective office. To wit — pray, pay,
pry.
Ex-Premier Hugh Nelson 40 years ago
headed a movement to separate what is now
Queensland from N.S.W. Then he was a graziers’
mouthpiece.
Lord Beauchamp, the new N.S. Wales
Governor, must talk well; he was president of the
Oxford Union, an honor held by Gladstone in his
University days. Also, by our own B. R. Wise.
“Sammy Ballarat,” Anglican bishop of
the Garden City, has been fined for “furious
driving.” Samuel pleaded absence of mind or
something—probably imagined he had the A.N. A.
under the whip.
Dicky Speight Is back in Melbourne from
Westralia on his way to China. The jovial victim
of David Syme’s “reforms” has secured a good
appointment in connection with the Anglo-Chinese
Railway TYeaty, or something to that effect.
Dr. Higgins, R.C. Coadjutor Bishop of
Sydney is one of three whose names have been
submitted to the Pope for the vacant see of Meath,
Ireland. His name has been similarly submitted
for over half-a-dozen sees since his arrival in
Sydney.
THE QUESTION OF THE HOUR—"When
shall we three meet attain ” to select the rest of
the team?
Tom Doyle, publican and Mayor of
Kanowna, was once reported to have found a big
nugget which, however, like the since-famous
Uolden Sickle, was never seen by anybody else.
When a new-chum arrives on the “ Feather ” he
is generally “ kidded ” to go and ask Tom a few
questions about his “slug.” New-chum, as a
rule, has afterwards to patch up his innocent
countenance. Tom’s “ slug ” is absolutely mur-
derous.
Julian Salomons, who now takes the boots
of Saul Samuel as N.S.W. Agent-General, was a
colleague of Samuel’s in the Cowper Ministry of
29 years ago. Samuel was Treasurer and Salomons
Solicitor-General in that Ministry. They are the
only survivors of that Govt. ; Cowper, Forster.
Robertson, Sutherland, Manning, Egan, and Owen
having all passed away. Samuel and Salomons
to ff ether In the second Robertson Cabinet
Oi 1000.
The true story of Premier Reid’s Q.C.-
ship is said to be this : Shortly before last N.S.W.
general election, a very high member of the judi-
cial bench sent for the Same Old George, and “put
it straight ” to him whether he thought it would
be right for the Premier of N.S.W.-in case of
defeat, mind you—to go back to the junior Bar.
1 his appeal was not in vain, and the P.C. became
a Q.G., knowing that he had burned his legal
bridges behind him.
Most “ Crimean veterans ” who pass out
nowadays are toothless old battlers with worn
crutches. South Australia’s latest contribution to
the roll, though, was a young fellow of 63
George Amb who was in the Crimea with the
Sutherland Highlanders, under Colin Campbell
and later at the relief of Cawnpore. And the
thing that he seemed to remember with most
affection was that, within three years of ’listing
he stocid fourth man in the rear rank on the
right-hand side of the colors.”
. Mclntyre’s soreness at being deposed from
the leadership of Vic. Opposition by Gillies was
due to his hope that “by virtue of his poseetion,”
R ’ ( . be , . wou 4’ I,ke Madden, have got his
K. -M G.-ship. At present he is only an un-
deeorated knight, but he “ wants nothing but a
n ” bol } anc * a . Btar to make him shine, the very
phosphorus of our hemisphere.” Now poor old
Mac s chances are nil. The mere fact that such a
man got any sort of a title is a proof of the worth-
lessness of so-called “ honours.”
SOME SUNDRIES—principally Victorian, at the final Vic.-
N.S. W. match.
Lady Florence Dixie, whoso approaching
visit to Australia is cabled about, was the indirect
cause of John Brown’s demise. That faithful
gillie caught his death o’ cold in going over to
make “kind inquiries” re the dreadful outrage
which proved such an awful hallucination.
The election in England of retiring Gov.
Buxton (S.A.) to the presidency of the Anti-
Slavery Society is a proxy compliment to grand-
father Buxton, who worked zealously and spent
copiously in the anti-slavery cause, and who
thereby won a niche in Westminster Abbey.
A prospector who found in Westralia an
alleged mine much puffed by the Forrests, but
which, so far, hasn’t come to anything, now
carries cards (gilt-edged, but not gilded out of
that mine), on which he is described as Mr. So-
and-so, “explorer.” Shades of Sturt and Giles!
Also he gives his address as “ Australia.”
The lately-deceased nonagenarian Rothery
built 60 years ago the house he died in, 10 miles
from Mandurama (N.S.W.). This house was
often threatened by bushrangers and was actually
stuck up by the Frank Gardiner gang, but the
tough old man in building it had judiciously
loopholed the structure, and he quickly routed his
foes.
The Argus, in a recent leader on names,
gushed much over the beautiful suggestiveness of
the name “ Thekla,” and then proceeded to point
out with what horrible and creepy cerements the
boot-trunk business had invested it. But why
not follow out the moral and similarly hold up the
young lady’s second name, Regina, to universal
detestation ?
Burgess is in Australasia a sinister name
it was that of the leader of the Maungatapu
assassins—Burgess, Levy, Kelly and Sullivan.
Burke, an alleged alias of the Gatton suspect,
recalls Burke and Hare, the English murderers,
the former of whom gave a verb to the language. ’
J. Butler, S.A. Minister of Agriculture,
who has been visiting Melb. and Sydney, disputes
with Treasurer Holder the honor of being the
thinnest man in S.A. A wag once placed Holder
and Butler together, and offered to wager that
even when combined they couldn’t throw a
shadow.
GOOD HEALTH WITHOUT DRUGS.
4.—Mothers and Children.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa made with hot milk. Deli-
cate men and women, who have weak lungs, to be
hale, robust, and healthy, should use Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all men who
have to be exposed to the bleak uncertainty of our
trying climate should fortify themselves before
they face their daily toil with Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, and they can then brave the fury of the
elements with equanimity. The writer speaks
from personal experience and from observation of
beneficial effects on others. Tea opens the pores
and temporarily excites, coffee stimulates the
action of the heart, whilst Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa
gives strength, stamina, and builds up and
strengthens the lung-tissues. It is indeed a
wonderful food beverage. Nothing has ever been
discovered that can approach it in giving lightness
of heart, joy of life, fleetness of foot, and that
general feeling of comfort which only comes from
a full capacity to enjoy every pleasure, moral,
intellectual and physical.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Merit, and merit alone, is what we claim for
Dr. Tibbie’s Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
send to any reader (a postcard will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa.
' Writer was one day stand-
ing under the shop-verandah at
corner of Bourke and Elizabeth
streets, Melbourne. It was raini-
ng hard, and the water in the
gutters overflowed the iron foot-
bridges. A priest and a Presby-
terian minister were among those
who took shelter at this spot. A
woman with a baby sought to
cross the street. She hesitated to
plunge through the rushing
waters. The burly priest darted
across, caught the woman in his
arms, and landed her and the
kiddy, safe and dry-shod, on the
pavement. The Scotchman re-
garded this somewhat unusual
performance with grim approval.
“That was verra weeldone, sir,”
said he kindly to the priest.
“Ah well, d’ye see,” smilingly
answered the latter, “ the thrue
Church is ever foremost in good
works.” “ Hum ! ” said the
minister, “ maybe so. But ye’ll
obsairve, sir, that the Kirk o’
Scotland kens hoo to keep oot o’
the wet.”
Lord Augustus Loftus is
not only the oldest-retired Aus-
tralian Governor—he is far and
away the most important political
character, now that Grey is dead
—who has figured in the vice-
royalty of Australasia. Most
people have forgotten Loftus as
British ambassador at European
courts in thesixtiesand seventies.
Doubtless he was a good diplo-
matist of the plump, somnolent
kind. Lord Cromer—wasn’t it?
—said that the best ambassador
is one of whom the newspapers
have little to say. Loftus got
through without making a re-
markable object of himself.
Colonel Spalding, though
ousted from the Chief Magis-
tracy, does not propose to leave
Norfolk Island. He owns a plantation there, and is
building himself a house, where he hopes to live
down “ calumny ” and put money in his pooket.
Note that the family motto of young-man
Beauchamp (pronounced Beecham, please, and
see that the name is on every box) is, “ The lot is
fallen unto me in a fair ground.” Which blessed
motto is bound to be claimed as particularly ap-
plicable to N.S.W.
E. J. H. Knapp, about the windiest teeto-
tal and general bore on earth, is spoken of as
strongly in the running for the Governorship of
Norfolk Island. What the unhappy islanders
have done to deserve this The Bulletin doesn’t
know. However, “the greutest good for the
greatest number ”: better that they should be
tortured than that the blood of a big community
like Sydney should be turned to gall at the break-
fast-table by Knapp’s hideous prosings in the
daily papers on every subject under Heaven.
Keely, the most persistent impostor of the
century, is dead, and there are some men and
newspapers in America who think that he died
with the seoret of his alleged new motive force un-
revealed. His “motor” gave him a great lift —
the idea was strong enough to take down many
weak people for their money. Keely would never
submit his inventions to the public eye, and as
many people love darkness rather than light, and
only respect the unknown, he became notorious
and rich. It must have been a pupil of Keely’s—
he came from America—who took Lansell down
with “a perpetual-motion machine,” the details of
which fakement and taking-down would make
good reading.
THE VICTORIAN CRICKET TEAM.—Winners of the Sheffield Shield for this season and last.
Brehon anent “An Attorney’s” dis-
barring of Premier Reid for being a P.C.
It. has to be remembered that the highest court of
srsarss s„£”i h by „“ A bi“„ o, „7'Srs
Council as hold or have held “ hig-h judicial office.”
“ High judicial office” includes only the Lord Chancellor,
paid Judges of the Judicial Committee, and Judges of
the Superior Courts of the United Kingdom. The Appel-
late Jurisdiction Acts of 1876 and 1887 make this clear.
So that Reid, Turner, and Kingston are not members of
mr „ , , , .. , , „., _
Ine completely satisfactory ldentifica-
tion of Burgess was one of the biggest farces ever
P‘ a yed in the name of law—even in Lagland.
With the photo, of the suspect in full face and
profile published everywhere he would have been
as easily identified among a dozen prisoners as the
late Parkes—or Rassmussen the pill-man. The
identification may not have lacked certainty, but
as for its being “ satisfactory ’’—Rats ! Also,
there was a Toowoomba man named Weaver who
says he saw Burgess seven miles from Toowoomba
on Dec. 26—the day of the outrage—and talked to
him in broad daylight; and told the police. But
he wasn’t asked to identify; his identification was
at the wrong spot for the police theory.
Somebody is exhorting Melb. National
Gallery trustees to buy one of Tudor St. George
Tucker’s pictures ere that somewhat uneven artist
goes Ome. Tucker, indeed, has done some excel-
lent figure-painting but his high-flown front
names somehow or other make it hard to take him
seriously. There is at least one Melb. man who
cherishes a bitter scorn for those front names.
The snorter in question is a solicitor. He com-
plains that he lost a case through having to call
Tudor St. George T. as chief witness for plaintiff.
Tuckers manner of proclaiming his historical
titles gave a splendid opening to the counsel on
Vavasour, or Perkin Warbeck Fitzwilliam, until
the jury took the case for the side which called
him to be all a joke, and found for defendant.
Some Australian birthdays for February :
Editor Finlayson, of S.A. Register, 56 on 3rd;
Arthur Garner, 48, and ex-editor Haddon, of the
Argus, 60 on Bth ; General Downes, ex-Military
Commandant, S.A., 65, and B. R. Wise on 10th;
Judge Molesworth (Y.) 57 on 23rd ; Judge A.
Inglis Clark (Tas.) 51, and Julius Vogel (M.L.)
64 on 24th, and Premier Reid 54 on 25th. His
Yes-No attitude is symbolised by She fact that the
year of his age, 54, just reverses the year of his
birth, ’45.
“G.S.”: Lieut. Gaunt, who figures so
prominently in connection with the Samoan
trouble, is a native of Ballarat and a son of Vic.
County Court Judge Gaunt. When a boy of
between 13 and 14 he with his younger brother
had his imagination much inflamed by stories of
bushranging. His uncle, a well-known western
squatter, while on a visit gave the boys a sub-
stantial cheque for pocket-money. Whereupon
the lads suddenly disappeared. Days passed
without a trace of them, but at last the parents
got a wire to say they had shipped for Launces-
ton. When the boat arrived they were detained.
Both were armed with revolvers and knives.
“What’s your game, boys?” inquired the In-
spector of Police. _ “ Bushranging," was the
answer. Now, one is a Lieut, in the Navy and
the other a Lieut, in a British dragoon regiment
in which he first enlisted as a private.
NO WONDER!
“John Dunkin, a baker, of Armidale, dropped
dead while reading a paper on Sunday.”
Some Australian papers reprint from
London Daily Mail the weary chestnut about
ow l*te millionaire Tyson once went on a
steamer trip, and “ not knowing that the s.s. 00.
* iad made an alteration whereby passengers were
to be fed by the company for the same amount as
ac * hitherto been paid for the passage only, took
a h»m and a loaf of bread on board, and ate of his
humble fare during the trip. When they told
him on his return that he had spent money in
vain, Jimmy’s wrath at the loss was terrible to
behold.” The story—which is told of Grimaldi
in Dickens’ life of the famous clown, and was pro-
bably ancient then—goes on to say that Tyson
was very mean in the matter of clothes. Now, aa
a fact, the old man when in town always lived at
first-class places (such as Petty’s Hotel and the
Warrigal Club), and in Sydney always got his
clothes from a fashionable George-street tailor,
paying full price and never quarrelling about the
bill. Present writer once spoke to him about the
ham-and-steamer story. “Yes, that is an old
tale,” said the man with the blue-grey beard and
the steel-blue eye—“they said I took a ham-bone
into the berth and gnawed it like a dog. To tell
you the truth, mister, I never greatly liked boiled
ham. They should have made it corned beef.”
How history repeats itself—with varia-
tiotis ! The servant who at the Gatton inquest
deposed that on the night of the murder she heard
/*».&'■£
Aspinall. For which legend apply at the smok-
ing room of any club.
-r> ~ ~ . ,
* iar etiquette 18 not nearly so strict in
Australia as in .England. Even if there were an
etiquette in the matter at all, Premier Reid would
“ a strict English rule that a Q.C. must have a
junior when he appears in court. Bryan O’Loghlen
a few years ago, intimated to the proper authori-
ties in Vic. that he intended to appear without a
junior. Not a ripple of the waves of etiquette
was occasioned by this blasphemy ; he appears
frequently without a junior, and is a Q.C. still,


ThreeGoodThings
MADE IN ENGLAND
OLBROOKS
Sauce
Vr NEGAR
p“ s gM sg^ 5 g^
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Euwant and
Effkctivb.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- 2>e>' Half-dozen, free In/ post throughout
A astral in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
FKANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
McADOO'S JUBILEE SINGERS.
Photo., Alba Studios, Strand, Sydney.
“B.B.B.” : In an Australian country-town
dwells a professor of “ magnetism,” who bas ob-
tained such influence over another resident as to
induce him to give up his business and take his
family to reside on a farm, where, according to
the prescribed regimen, the eldest son, who was a
smart, handsome fellow, now drinks olive-oil by
the quart, and has let his beard and hair grow till
he looks like a Domain-dosser. The female mem-
bers of the family haven’t taken kindly to an order
of things which ordains that their hair shall be as
short as the men’s is long; and an attempt by
paterfamilias to “shear” mater while asleep caused
the lady to make a bolt of it with her daughter.
One of the exercises prescribed for the father and
son is to ride the plough-horses round the paddock
every morning, at daylight, the horses minus sad-
dles and the riders clad only in shirts, after which
the pair adjourn to a sawpit for a “ sawdust-bath.”
Looks as if the biggest lunatics are outside the
asylums !
• * *
“ Scotty ” : The struggle for a crust. Ad.
appeared in Melb. dailies seeking manager for a
small sheep-station. Apply box 002, G.P.O. One
young man, testimonials in his pocket, shepherded
that box for two whole days. At last an old
gentleman came for the letters, and the candidate
buttonholed him on the spot. Got the billet, too,
and has been over a year in it. Saw him yester-
day. Leggings ; cummerbund ; helmet; “ squato-
ter’s-gap ’ ’ shave, and all complete.
• * » *
“Terrick”: When I was on Oondamine
station the darkies assured me that when a dingo-
slut produces a litter of pups she leaves them in
charge of a mate and lights out to where she
knows there is a lot of pups nearly half-grown,
arranges a swap, and carries back one of the other
slut’s progeny, the mother following behind to
select one of the blind squeakers and return with
it. Mother of younger pups is afraid that while
she is away foraging they may crawl out and be
snapped up by eaglehawks or other enemies. The
elder pup has been taught to stay in, and conse-
quently when mamma tots ’em up at night she
finds that they are all there. I thought this was a
“ fairy,” but have verified the fact for myself.
* * » «
“Y.”: He ants. Whilst admitting all
“ Jeh ” (8., 24/12/’9B) has written to be correct, I
would go further. Once saw an ant wandering
far away from the nest, and wondered what he
was after. Watched for a while and saw four
others come up to him from opposite directions
and lead him home, lie had got “ bushed ”
possibly because he was minus antennae. Saw a
great fuss once among a community of these little
blackfellows, and presently a single ant was led
forth by three custodians, who “lost” him and
returned. Followed expellee to another colony,
and saw him also get the “ kick-out ” there. Evi-
dently he had been marked so that all respectable
ants might know him for a bad lot, and he had to
wander off cheerlessly on his own. Interesting to
watch a colony shifting camp when disturbed by
bush-fires. The young and aged are removed first
—then the eggs and “ tucker.”
* 41 * *
Harry Stockdale, re assertion of a Sydney
D.T. correspondent that “in our eucalyptus
forests no one should die of thirst, as all the
young trees contain, even in the driest seasons, a
supply of very drinkable water, which can be ob-
tained by cutting them into convenient lengths
and standing their small ends down, a vessel being
placed underneath to catch the water ” :
Evidently the first thing for a lost and nearly thirst-
dead man to do is to make sure that he is in a “ eucalyp-
tus forest”—then feel in his trousers pocket for the
station-axe ; and if he wears a waistcoat the vessel for
catching the water is sure to be in his watch-pocket. If
not, the only thing to do is to lie on his back and let the
blessed fluid drain in. Unfortunately for the value of
this suggestion eucalyptus forests are not often to the fore
when men (ret lost, and few men, lost in a dry country,
have had the forethought to take along an axe and a tin-
dish ; and even if they had, when thirst got properly
hold of them the articles would soon be dropped. Many
even have been so thoughtless as to get lost when there
are no forests, eucalyptus or otherwise. There certainly
is a mallee tree the roots of which yield water
when cut and stood on end, but it is not every
kind even of mallee that is so endowed. Also,
no man can possibly tell what another or even he
himself would do if “ lost.” When a lost man’s drinking-
water is done, the excitement and dread immediately
create a frightful thirst, and if the weather is hot and the
man keeps on trying to “ find ” himself he will not last
long, unless he finds shade, when he may linger two or
three days. On Christmas Day, 1882, on Cooper’s Creek,
Central Australia, two men called at Trappamerry
station (where I was) and got dinner. They filled their
billies and started again, but turned up a big blind creek
in mistake for the Cooper, and, having finished their
water, they came to where the creek forked. One went
up one bed, the other up the other, agreeing to make
back to the fork on finding water. One man got water
and, returning, waited till evening and then went in
search of his mate, whom he found within a few miles
dead—so rapid are sometimes the combined effects of
heat-thirst and anxiety.
* * * *
“Jinda”: A sly-grog shanty on one of
the Western (N.S.W.) rivers has caused the death
of a constable, a senior ditto, and a sergeant of
police. Horrors, all of ’em ! Also, ia teamster —
who drew third horse in one of “ Tatt’s ” minor
sweeps—“did in” .£l9O, jumped a new waggon-
ette and pair of horses “over the bar,” and finished
up by dying in the fowlhouse, where he had been
thrown “ to make room for someone who could pay
his way ! ” It took three years to kill the police-
men—in instalments—but five days sufficed to lay
the bullock-puncher out.
* * * *
“L.A.E.” : At a Morpeth (N.S.W.) pub.
was a “ pet ” ram so vicious that he had to be
locked up in the stables ; whenever he got out he
would charge anything that came in his way.
Once he got a fowl in his stall, and, as it could not
fly over the partition, he made pulp of it. Was
very partial to beer, and visitors used to “ shout ”
for him for the fun of it ; but, after once getting
too drunk to keep his legs, he could never be got
to look at “ the mocker ” again.
Strange to watch the
evolution of error in native
names ! Carratbool, near
Hay, was originally Carra-
dook native - companion.
Then a draftsman in com-
piling a new parish map
mis printed it Carradool ;
the railway came, and it
was altered into the present
Carrathool. Gillenbah and
Narmdera, were respectively
Gillelbah and Narandoora.
Can anyone say why G’naroo
should have the silent G’ ?
This is a native name, and,
when first written, must
have been spelt phonetically;
why was the G stuck in, un-
less it formed as near an ap-
proach to the native pro-
nunciation as the recorder
could compass ?
“ Samuel Ballarat” tes-
tifies to the wonderful re-
sults of bringing Victorian
aborigines under the influ-
ence of Christian principles,
as exhibited by the well-kept
and thriving station on tne
Murray, run by our native
breibren. “Lake Condah
station has been turned into
the homo of a community of
orderly, industrious, cheer-
ful, and oontented Austra-
lian aborigines. . . . They
listened to my sermon with
keen interest. . . . For they
are dying away. I once met
130 blacks here—l now meet
G 4. The cemetery holds the
dust of some 130.” Which
is eminently satisfactory,
from a Christian point of
view. At least, Samuel
Ballarat seems to think so,
for he signs the record, and
says there is no room for doubt of the agency by
whioh all this has been accomplished.
* • 4 *
At a South Coast Agricultural Show Brown
(say) had two pens of cows, and other competitors,
having three pens each, chaffed him about not
being able to raise another. Then Brown knocked
up another pen of “any sort” of milkers, and
this took Ist prize.
• * • *
“ W.H.C.” : Came up recently from Bris-
bane in steamer with new-ohum. Talk turned on
ticks, and we got some small crabs and showed
them to chummy as ticks. Chummy: “Good
Lord ! ” he said, “ if a few hundreds of these got
on an ox there would be nothing of the beast
left t”
* * • *
About 30 years ago an enterprising young
Cornstalk joined the police, and promotion began
to come so rapidly that he would
by now probably have been In-
spector-General had not someone
wanted to know how he was doing
it. A squatter had been losing
sheep, and Robert was set to
watcn the hut of a suspect. When
the man had gone out, the trooper
killed and skinned a sheep, hung
it in the humpy; and, when the
poor devil returned, followed him
in, and arrested him for sheep-
stealing. Result—a stripe. His
next essay was to fire a bullet
through his saddle, and assert that
it was done by a desperado with
whom he had had an encounter,
in which he displayed great valor.
The hole was right through the
saddle; but, when saddle was
afterwards put upon horse, it
struck the inspector as singular
that the animal escaped uninjured.
So singular was it that the police-
man was suspected, and fired out
of the force. Afterwards it tran-
spired about the sheep-killing,
and the imprisoned man, after
doing two years, was liberated —
but, of course, without compensa-
tion.
* • •
“ Wal.” : The paper-bark
tree (“ H.M.T.” 7/l/’99) is not
peculiar to W.A., being found
also in Victoria. Have seen it
growing along a tributary of
the Thompson River, Gippsland.
Bark easily removed from trunk, and
divides into thousands of fine sheets. Pro-
bably the tree exists in other parts of Australia,
most likely on river-flats where there is sufficient
moisture.
* » * *
The largest death-adder ever received at
Sydney Museum (31£in.) was recently forwarded
from Murrumburrah.
» » * *
“Gobung”: While fishing in the Fitzroy
(Q.) recently I was using a defunct sea-mullet for
bait. Went down the river bank to find a better
spot to fish at, leaving the mullet to lead an un-
obtrusive existence on the grass till I returned.
When I got back, saw mullet disappearing down
an old grey mare’s throat, the tail being just dis-
cernible, sticking out of her mouth.
* * * ♦
Recently an army of cockroaches invaded
the office of the C.P.S. at Lodgetown, in the Big
Scrub, and devoured several pounds’ worth of
shilling legal stamps, leaving the _ “ tuppences ”
severely alone. The C.P.S. industriously applied
himself to the task of capturing the offenders;
and cockroaches are now found to be attached as
stamps to plaints and summonses. Apropos : to
clear out cockroaches —paint the walls of the in-
fested room with Paris green (poison, by the way).
Paint also the legs and bottom sides of kitchen
tables, &e.
* * * *
“ J.W.H.H.” asks
Is the term “ goanna ” distinct from “ iguana,” or is it
merely a corruption thereof ? Is the “ iguana " proper
found in Australia?
“ Goanna '’ is a corruption of “ iguana,” but the
lizard to which the former term is applied is not
even of the same family as the true iguana, which
is not found in Australia.
* » * *
From an English paper : “ The Australian
savages eat the little green ant raw. They stamp
on an ant-hill till the ants come out and run up
their legs. These they then scrape off and put
them in their mouths.”
* » • *
“Yar.”: Have never seen a red-bellied
black snake climb a tree, but once found one in
the spouting of a house 12ft. from the ground ; m
that it must have climbed up the wall Saw one
the other day having a great feed of brown beetles
that were falling helpless from a pepper-tree. He
had, apparently, the “oomehither ” on ’em.
Tom Fitzgerald believes firmly in the
genuineness of his “ Bunyip,” but he has ceased
to advertise it as sich. The bunyip of Australian
tradition is a terribly noisy myth, combining the
bulk of a hippopotamus with the soul of a croco-
dile, whereas Fitz.’s zoological exhibit is a gentle,
little, fur-coated conundrum terminating in a
naked periwinkular tail that seems to have been
pioked from a shell with a pin. It lives on flowers
and fruit, and when the expectant multitude was
asked to reoognise the long-lost Bunyip in the act
of holding a rosebud between its four little fingers
and a thumb, the multitude said “ Gam ! ” So
Tom Fitzgerald bowed to popular superstition
and took the Bunyip out of the advt. But his
faith remains unshaken. It seems to be built on
the fact that his unique treasure utters small,
plaintive cries in the night time only, and was
captured under bunyipian circumstances.
GAOL
LITERATURE.
WARDER CASEY (to
prison librarian): “If ye plaze , noomber
twinty-siren sends his bukback, and wants some
loighter raydin'.”
LIBHARIAN: “ What book is it? ”
CADEY (examining the volume): “Share, it's some-
thing about a ‘joompin’ frog'!"
LIBRARIAN: “ Lighter he wants, does he? Give
him. ‘Samuel Cook's Jenolan Caves’."
“Wallaroo”: Among prominent bovine
traits are curiosity and a sense of humor. Imagine
the feelings of a solitary, timorous new-clmrn
when several score of hi trued, bellowing brutes
rush at him with erect tails and lowered heads.
Of course he flees, and of course the jocular kmc
give chase with hilarious upheaval of heels and
sportive antics. While those nearest experiment-
ally poke the person of their victim the others
gambol round, laughing and rooting the ground
HE “DIDN’T WENT!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a bold Australian youth—
Full tall, and strong and ruddy—
But in his speech the oftest word
Was something like—well, “ gory.”
“ Where is your schoolmaster ? ” I said.
Quoth he, “I never seen him.
Unto his school I might have went,
But love there’s none twixt me’n 'imj
“ He hasn’t come to me of late ;
My time’s been badly spent.
But when I seen I could learn ’im,
Why, then—l didn’t went 1”
w
W.P.B.
NO CHOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ When I was a kiddy and away out-hack,’’
Said the man with the salt-bush lingo,
“ My dogs, two cattle-dogs, grey and black,
They gets fair on to the blinded track
Of a walloping great big dingo !
The savagest beast in all the pack—
Oh, he was the real old stingo ! ”
“ They rounded him up till he climbs a tree
And of oourse he was mighty glad to.”
“ Hold on,” says I, “for I never did see
A dingo yet os could climb a tree
And I’ve seen ’em run real bad, too 1”
“ You say that beast can’t climb a tree ?
By the holy smoke he had to 1 ’’
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODOR.


KEEP AWAY EROM HOTELS
WHERE THEY DO NOT SELL
WOLFE ’§ THE ONLY REAL SCHNAPPS.
What the police are doing! Three boys,
aged 7,8, and 9, fetched up at Port Melb. court
for bathing in the ocean ! The beak scouted it
out.
“APENTA,”
The Best Purgative Water.
“ The gentleness of its action makes it particu-
larly adapted for women.”— Practitioner.
Sole Exporters: The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.
Jacob Garrard, when N.S.W. Minister tor
Industry, slanged the unemployed for hanging
around Sydney waiting for Govt, windfalls. When
Jacob became an unemployed he followed the
custom with, to him, excellent results.
Lady readers are recommended to try the
Albatross Lamp and Stove Wick. They fit any
lamp, require no trimming, are clean and save
trouble. In the sick-room they are invaluable.
With better light use less oil, prevent explosions
and broken chimneys.*
PRESCOTT’S &. CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME
LIME
JUICE^^-
AND
JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents j
or Sydney:)
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
ALL THE PLEASURES
AKE IN
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
“S.S.” : Have never seen a good Chinaman on the stage.
There have been two attempts happening nightly in Mel-
bourne : Lauri’s Wun Li in “The Geisha,” and Johnnie
Wallace's All Luck at. the Royal. Botli of these are
warmly praised by the notice writers, but neither pre-
sents even a glimmering of true Chinese character; and
vet with the opportunities our comedians have of study-
ing the raw Chow in his lair, the thing should he done
excellently here. Lnuri ana Wallace give us the tea-
caddy Chinee us 1 imagine him to be made in London.
“ Poor Lottie O dims, the originator of ‘Ta-ra-ra-boom-
de ay,” writes The Bi li.ehn'h London correspondent,
‘ has found her domestic t roubles too much for her, and
al tempted suicide. Far and away the cleverest, brightest
and most dashing the music-hall stage, Lottie
made a pro.essionai blunder some time back which did
tier no good as blunders will. A newspaper charac-
terised an ‘ item ’of hers as a vulgar song. Action—ver-
dict against the charucteriser and henceforth more or
I 'ss boycott of L.O. Certainly her giddy sparkles are a
trill • risky. Poor Lottie's only child was born Wind. It
is now live, and becoming deaf -hence a mother's woe.”
Albert. Marsh, now “on the road ’’ (writes The Bulle-
tin s London correspondent), has married Harriet Vernon,
one of the massive, shapely pilasters of the nmsicalls.
II was formerly wiih Rignold in Sydney, where the idea
somehow got about that be was the husband of Emma
Chambers.
Mnguie Moore is not without rival in her triumph
over the frailty of too much flesh. London papers
have been gushing over the success of Mrs. Kendal
in “The Elder Miss Blossom,’' at the St. James’s.
Eat, fair, and as much over 40 as the imagination
Of the boldest spectator cares to suggest, she takes
the house by storm in a piece of which the interest
is wholly sentimental, and in a character that is
dangerously near the ridiculous all the time. A
middl-ageil woman receives a proposal (by letter)
meant for her niece, gets ready for her marriage,
and discovers her mistake on the arrival of the bride-
groom. That is all it is, and such as it is, it is
played by a leading lady whose tendency to fleshi-
ness is tremendous, yet the audience weeps oyer
the picture of the woman’s desolation.
Dear Beu.BTiN. — Some time ago I wrote to con-
tradict the statement that John Coleman had copied
his “ Scarecrow Dance ’’ (as we in Australia call it)
from Billy Ashcroft. Will you allow me further to
put you right on the subject of James Milburn
and the suggestion that he was the originator of
Coleman's dance? First it was Ashcroft, and
then Milburn 1! You publish a letter from one-
legged comedian Jimmie Shields, as follows: “Rt
par 24/12/'9B. 1 saw Milburn at the Theatre Royal,
Yarrow-on-Tyne, 20 years ago, doing the ‘Scarecrow
Dance.’ Milburn is still alive. I saw him before I left
England on the 11 11 ’98.” I am struck by the fact that
Shiflds had no sooner landed in Australia than somebody
(who must have got Coleman “set”) induced him to
write the note you innocently printed. Shields hadn’t
seen Coleman dance. He simply told you that he saw
Milburn do the “ Scarecrow "20 years ago. Which scare-
crow, what scarecrow, and how scarecrow? I knew
Jimmy Milburn’s business 20 years ago, also 30 years ago,
and 16 years ago, and I can assure you he was not the in-
ventor of the dance which is known as the Scarecrow
Dance in Australia, and which is altogether foreign to
Milburn's style. Let me add that Milburn's style was
formed before one-legged comedian Shields was born, and
that 20 years ago Milburn had a daughter married to G.
H. Macdermott, the “ Jingo ” man.— Fred B. Norton.
“ Pro.” : Demised Edwin Kelly came to Australia from
America as head of Kelly and Leon’s minstrels. Leon
was the feminine impersonator. Other members of the
troupe were Edwin Lester, Courtright, Fredericks and
Surridge.
“OY.H.”: The first night “Inclement” Wragge held
forth on “ How I got snowed up in Kosciusko” it rained
in torrents on the heads of the just and the unjust popu
lation of a northern village. The house netted abou
205., and it “ sarved ” the weather-prophet right I
A theatrical co. has been stranded in an Australian
capital for some time, and there have been ructions.
Hardly an evening has gone by without a strike either
among scene-shifters, performers, or orchestra. The
manager departed at the very start, and his address is
unknown. On one particular evening the orchestra took
Cossession of the stage, and declined to allow the show to
egin unless arrears were paid. As a compromise, they
took the “ gate ” for that and succeeding two nights—it
totalled £3 10s. all told. The latest strike was amongst
the men who attend to the front tor a few shillings a
night.
“Taney” : The female elephant, in circusability, is far
beyond the male. Fitzgerald's Bessie is a reminder of
Cooper and Bailey’s Titania. She died in Auckland,
through eating her keeper's monkey-jacket, in which was
a box of phosphorus matches. The show left next day
for South America, by the ship Golden Sea. It towed
poor Titania far out, and left her. Fishermen afterwards
reported on her as the sea-serpent.
A pretty actress once well-known in Australia has
a considerable temper. One night her best scene was
partly spoiled by the mistake of a young actor, and she
bit him very enthusiastically when the act was over.
Comedian and pantomimist Joe Tolano, of the bygone
Rignold days at Sydney Majesty’s, now- runs a little pub.
in a Sydney suburb. Still acting—for Boniface has to
seem a “ good sort" to everyone for 16 hours a day, and
a man must be an artist to do that successfully.
Dear Bulletin : You have been making several refer-
ences to lightning shorthand reporters of late, and I
would like to ask any of these champions if they under-
take to “take” Peggy Pryde for a quarter of an hour’s
turn, and transcribe* the notes correctly afterwards.
Peggy is willing to wager that she will break up nine-
tenths of the claimants to 200 and 220 words a minute in
about five sentences, and all the experts I know would
sooner take 10 Bartons and 15 Deakins than the sprightly-
little coster girl. So far I know of only one man in the
world who has ever taken Pegg.y Pryde, and that is her
husband. —McG.
Most visitors to “Robbery Under Arms ” expect to find
A. Dampier, as Starlight, charging wildly through the
piece on the fiery Rainbow ; and, when they' discover that
he doesn't mount a prad all through, they mostly go
away thinking that the veteran actor has never been
aboard a horse in his life. As a matter of fact, Dampier's
first start in the show business was as a circus-rider. A
quarter of a century ago he was a star bare-back per-
former in England, and it was not till a big smash per-
manently incapacitated him from riding that he ever
thought of “going on the stage.” One of Dampier’s
fellow circus-performers was the present English come-
dian, Terry, who was clown.
“ Beerbohm Tree, by sheerbrawn and bull ness," writes
The Bulletin's London correspondent, "isnight by night
ousting Irving from the ‘ flies’ of the theatrical profession.
The gaunt mannerist is ill, and methinks Ellen Terry,
jealous of his solicitude for Dorothea Baird, she of the
‘ Trilbies’ and Irving junior's wife- as yet—determines to
Bever the co-operative fortunes. Irving is quivering,
gasping nerves (proser’s license), while the Beerbohm
represents dour intelligent muscularity, a Jcoarser fibre
that wears better and >««tg longer in the London footlight
ring."
Temple, the and rubicund author of the late
lamented “American Girl” libretto, claims to be a
nephew of the Bishop of London of that ilk. He was for-
merly a curate under his uncle’s charge. From curate
Temple arose to the heights of commercial travelling for
hides, and thence to theatrioal managership. Another
link between Church and Stage.
The resemblance between Bel Lorimer and Eunice
Graham, In “ New Babylon," is not incredible when it is
remembered how thq courtesan Oliva, personating Marie
Antoinette, deceived Cardinal Rohan, in the Tuileries
Garden.
A picnic for theatrical antiquities, many of them pen
sioners of the Distressed Actors’ Fund, was brought off
In the Dr.imatio Home (Melb.) grounds t'other day.
The venerable roysterers indulged themselves with an
entertainment after their little feed, as a matter of
course. Once an actor, always an actor. A sentimental
ootogenarian went so far as to pipe a song expressive of
warm young admiration for the hostess (Tom Kennedy's
wife), who accentuated his devotion on the banjo the
while.
“ llaresfoot” : I went to school with the Just-deceased
Morrison, professionally known as Harry Power, at Canon
Perk’s, Bt. Stephen’s, Rlohmond, Melb,, other school-
mates there being S. V. Winter, Howard Vernon and
Harry lledley, the cricketing "Mid-On” of the Leader.
Morrison was nephew of Rev. A. Morrison, of Oollins-
street Scots Church, not to be confounded with Scotch
THAT FASHIONABLE DRAWL.
“ I want to see some laice, please.”
“ Wrong shop, miss. Try the poulterer's, next door.”
College Morrison. The comedian began under the name
of Harry Morrison. At Ballarat, Manager Hoskings
advised him to call himself Power, because he excelled in
Irish comedy—though he was Scotch. His powers
seemed to me slim, but he made two hits. One was as
the Girl of the Period, in Sydney, the other as Jim Swain,
in “ Black Sheep,” with Chas. Mathews. He was acting
the Limerick Boy, in Calcutta, and sharply whispered for
Reuben to come on. Reuben was reclining against the
wing, and fell down dead.
Dear B. —Saw a nervous wreck of an actor playing a
parting-scene. Had my own girl by my side in the stalls
and my feelings towards her were a measure of the actor's
art. Result: Art bad. It wasn’t affection in him—l
knew that by my own girl—but mere disordered excite-
ment, proved physically besides by his voice getting
harder as the scene progressed. Now, Love does not
harden the voice, as I could prove—l have tried it on my
own girl. This is the reason why so many middle-aged
people despise the theatre. They have been there and
their lives furnish them with criteria of love-making that
actors cannot satisfy. Why should I pay to see a man
make love when I and my own girl do it better every
night?— The Stroller.
A LARGE ORDER
PARSON'S WIFE : “ I'm tarry my husband is not at home; but is there anythin I can do for you? ”
MR. SHYBIRD: “ Well, yes. Will you marry me, please?”
till someone arrives to disperse them. After such
an experience you couldn’t persuade that new
('hum to venture within two paddocks of a cow.
The most interesting sight, from a bovine point of
view, is a stumped bear —probably from the fact
that it is the only creature they can stump. Have
seen whole mob of cattle surging round one for
half a day. There was much hollowing and
menacing shaking of shaggy heads, but they
didn't harm it.
* * * *
“ScotW.”: Amongst timber, n footman
can dodge any horseman. It is also known that a
good runner can beat a horseman, both starting
from a stand-still, 50yds. out and back ; but with
a handy propping beast of tin- old stock-horse
type the quad, can win. 1 once won (on foot) by
getting my friends to yell. The horse, an old
racer, thought it was a finish, and bolted. Re-
cently, at Narandera, a trooper ran down a young
man who failed to reach the trees. A few yards
more and we should have had a game of hide and-
seek, or rounders, or catch me if you can.
• * * ♦
Dear Bulletin. — Generally considered
that honey from manuka-flowers is poisonous, also
tea made with manuka-bark whilst the tree is in
blossom. Can anyone enlighten me? Have often
drunk tea of the hark when tree wasn’t in bloom,
with no ill effects.—C.C. (Maoriland).
« ♦ * *
Two well-known Big-Scrub blackfellows
recently inarched into a Twowharves shanty, got
two drinks, and were clearing-out
without parting. “ I say,” rasped
out the shanty-boss, “ v’aint paid
for those drinks yet.” Whereupon
RELIGIOUS FOOTBALL.
THE REV. MR. SPLODGE: “I am grieved to hear
that you persist in wearing football colors in
your hat, Bingo. A disgrace to the sanctity of
your calling.”
THE REV. MR. BINGO: “Perhaps you are not
aware, Mr. Splodge, that I am now chaplain to
the 'Seaside Stoushers.' Buried three umpires
and a gcal-sneak yesterday. Good biz for
raking in fees, I can tell you."
Tommy Pipeful, suavely, “ Never mind, boss,
mine tink it we’ll trust ya ; yowi! ”
» * * *
“Baract”: He causes of cattle-rushing
and ghosts (E.S.G., B. 24/12/’9B). I remember
once at a camp called Horse Shoe Bend, near
Stanton Harcourt, on Gayndah Road, I saw cattle
stampeded by ducks flopping suddenly down into
the water-hole. Again on the Bogan in ’B7 I saw
a rush caused by an accidental bang upon a
kerosene tin, and in the same year on the Barrett
saw another stampede caused by ducks. Wood
ducks make most noise.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must apj ear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
B. (Melb.): As you truly observe, the squabble
is “ reminiscent of Little Pedlington." Then why
write about it? .....Zaire: Some harmaids are not
provided with airy bedrooms. This journal is not
going to agitate for a Special Commission of Enquiry
into fair Hebe's sleeping apartment—though the matter
should be carefully attended to by the licensing authori-
ties L.B. : You over-rate Mr. R.’s performance, which
is satisfactory, but strictly unoriginal. And to call the
lady unsurpassable is absurd C.E.P. : You have in the
nearest town to you a brilliantly-qualified and up-to-date
medical man—M.D., London—whom personal health-con-
siderations alone compel to live in the hush and heal
cookies. Why not consult him ? .... G.W.B. (Cobar):
Many thanks Wongabri: No room for epics about
king-parrots Moko :No use bombarding-office bon b-
Sroof O.T. : Ballade may go; not rondeau D.B. :
o snap G.G. : Cleverly rhymed ; but long and unin-
teresting Psappha : “Pagan” tvili do; "Passion-.
flower" not quite ; others flat Remnant: Yes, several
remnants M.S.F.: Declined .... Oleander : Not a blos-
som Laura: Some observation ; too domestic for B ...
F.W.H.: Nice pink, blue, green, rosy—echoes R.E.H.:
Bald as Jupiter when Juno found out about Danae
J.K.L. (Tas.): Glad to hear from you occasionally
A.Q.C. : Declined with great enthusiasm Barkis: H.
will hardly bear your comment Trotter : Thanks
Milky: Far too long for point 0.P.Q.0.: Verse tedious.
L.M.D.: “John” not bright enough.. Prospect:
“ Bush ” bit too echolsh 1.n.N.: Pegasus throws you
every verso F.F.P.W. : No value... Precocious Jack :
Keep on wondering. Licensed Surveyor : (1) The
Robertson Act didn't provide, as Tub Bulletin's scheme
does, for heavily taxing anyone who owns land beyond a
oertain value, and increasing the tax os he gets further
beyond the limit. (2) The selector wouldn’t sell out to
the banks (the banks wouldn’t let him do it) if every
addition to their accumulated estate made the heavy
land-tax still heavier. (8) Tim Bulletin never said or
hinted that a tax on calico or boots would prevent the
accumulation of big estates. That is your purely idlotio
invention P. : Certainly. If there was a State liquor
monopoly the State would run the bar of a big hotel, not
the hotel itself. As a case in point, the Slate runs a
poBt-oflice in Sydney Exchange, without running the Ex-
change itself; and it would be Just as easy for the State
to sell whisky us to sell stamps Broker: Brief poem
beginning with "blast" received E.S.: “The Soul of
the Departed ” has left suddenly Arcadia : Competi-
tion being an illegal gamble, Bulletin prefers to stand
out 6 x 8 : “Please let me know the fate of above.”
Well, its fate was too sudden to be worth mentioning.
Bob Ridley : Can’t decipher your scrawl. J.
Davies(W. A.): Not to hand Quis : Should be " spon-
taneous ignition ”; “combustion" is consecutive, not
spontaneous Baract: To give yourself a chance, write
larger, and in ink Long Un : Very tame ghost-yarn....
John S. K. : Thanks; but photo, wouldn’t reproduce
F.O. : Foolishness! The “ bloodthirsty dailies ” are com'
meroial ventures, and have to give the bloodthirsty publit
what it wants—or bust! N. Melb. :A " bar" crosses
shield horizontally, and cannot therefore be either
"sinister” or “dexter.” The illegitimacy-mark is the
“ baton sinister.” Eoro : Thanks; but we feel so old in
this weather that we’ll soon be fit for either N.S.W. Leg.
Council or the Marine Board Yarrum : Sladen-incident
too emetical Jaybee : Did you really expect the publi-
cation of your heartless jibe at an institution so unpre-
tendingly benevolent?... H. J. Mac. : Thanks ; but our
oflice-naturalist knows that as well as you do. Scientific
usage has often to give way to typographical necessity
Fiji: The fun fizzles Jonah : Hove you overboard with
deep unregret 1 N.T.B. : Meaning must have fallen
out in transit oxB : To hand. Yes, more amenable.
Toby G. : No “ bite.” P.P. : Fairly good handling
of well-worn situation Dan H. : We haven’t any
“ ring.” We’d “ fire ” Shakespeare if we didn’t like him,
and we’d publish even you if we found you up to mark.
Ben Sun : We “dunno," either. Will consider both.
Warrigal : May be “ fact,” but it’s foolishness all the
same O.C. : No use for plain, hard lying like that
D.O. : We never do give full name in unfavorable answer.
W.H.F. : Yes, we allow for that Mom: New I
Why, Ptolemy Philopater used to think it rather a
good-’un W.J.G. : We “pass" bright blue items,
however smart otherwise 8.8.8. : Mould thick on
yarn about arresting innocent Chow to make up tally
Nox : Appropriately obscure Rigel: Old wine in old
bottle. For us, at least either, the wine or the bottle
must be new Rab : When we came to “ Avaunt I ” we
at once avaunted Ben: Rather slovenly versification.
...M.K.A.: You have strength, but hardly know how to
apply it yet R. 0.0. : verses rhyme with curses
Patrick 0. : We print your tuneful “ Bird." Moko :
Under consideration Geebung : Lots of people send
along great masses of literature advocating all manner of
things that Tub Bulletin loathes, and they mostly “ rely
on your well-known fairness to give them insertion.”
In other words, they rely on our fairness to fill Tim
Bulletin with columns of matter advocating things
it was established for the express purpose of op-
posing. Ask the Trlkorath in its well-known fairness
to publish a tremendous leader in favor of Protection.
O’M. : “ E.K.”—a pretty idyll, but very weak and in
definite J.M. : Alas, no literary flowers bloom in
“ Our Garden.” H.S.: “ A Devil’s Vengeance ’’is over
loaded with big shriek-adjectives, and plot is wholly
commonplace D.J. (Benambra) : Plot very old and con-
ventional Gains : So near good enough that it will
probably crowd through later on Spartan: Thought
.you died at Thermopylae Peter Lynch : You won’t
subscribe to Tim Bulletin any more. We hereby bet that
you will. For your days will be a blank without the
grub and-big-snake yarn in the “ Aboriginalities," and
the Billjim poem, and the Xmas narrative about the girl
who went wrong and was afterwards found in the tank
Siccus: Interesting; but the man mightn’t like to have
the leg-irons recalled Nee’r-do-weel : Founded on a
very familiar yarn ; also, we tried to cut it down, but
find it too long anyhow for interest Teomo : Yes, The
Bulletin is scientific enough to thoroughly believe in
vaccination —under proper conditions. John M‘G. :
Don’t care for Dutch rhymes—after Leland—though
yours is excellent of its sort ...A Studio Sketch : Some-
thing in it, but hopelessly crude ... Louis M. : Not bad
drawing, but legend unsavory J.H.W. : Snappy little
rhyme Frank 0. (Brisb.): Thanks—handed to artist. ...


THE GLORIOUS TWENTY-SIXTH!
PREMIER TURNER: “My friend, you'll have to get off your pedestal presently, to oblige a lady."


Earl Beauchamp, the newly-appointed Governor
,of New South Wales, will sail from London for
Sydney in April next. He entertains the hope
that- his sister, Lady Wary Lygon, will accompany
'him. .
Joe Chamberlain : “ I say, old follow,
why not take some other fellow’s sister,]
eh?” ' I
“He is very fond of £
horses.”— Cable. \
Bookie :“***!!”
London, Jan. 25.
Viscount Hinton, who has for some years been an “ organ-
grinder on the London streets, and who claims the title of Earl
Poulett, was informed of the
death of Earl Poulett while
grinding his organ in the
street.
Earl Beauchamp “is-?
very fond of music.” A
horrible suspicion here darkens The Bulletin
mind. Can it be that the cable has got Beau-
champ and Poulett mixed ? And are we to have
an organ-grinder for a ? Perish the
thought! /
IiADY DarmNORST; “You’re a single-man, I b’lieve, Earl Beecham,
ain’t you ? ”
His Ex. (pleasantly): “That is my unhappy state.” ,
Lady D. : “ Well, you’re like my ’.usband. He came out here a single
gent, and when he’d saved up enough he married a Hostralian girl (that’s
( me). You see it saves one fare ;
rs *> J that’s were it is.”
“ The members of the Girls’ Friendly Society have also shared
in his generosity.”— Cable.
The Girls’ Society here will be anything but “ Friendly " in theie
rivalry for vice-regal attentions.
Mrs De Point Potts : “ T saw yer Lordship talkin’ to that
there old cat, Lady Darhnurst, just now ; well, if I was you
1 wouldnt. Her potative father was »ei\t out here, and—he
didn’t come by no P. and O.” ’
“ Earl Beauchamp is very fond of gardening.”— Cable.
The Old General : “ Now, then, Gladys Jane, drop that tennis-racket and go an’ get your waterin*-pot. The
new Govnor’a kerridgo will pass by here directly, and you and me’ll arrange ourselves into a pretty rustic tabelow
as he passes.” * «—^
) “He has always taken
a keen interest in agricul-
tural matters.”— Cable.
Pumpkin Smith : “ Alas! he comes too late !
What could not I have taught him ! ”
“The present Ear], like his father, takes a keen in-
terest in religious work.”- -Cable.
Holy Brunker: “Now, my lord, if me and you
“ He is very fond of music.”— Cable.
Mrs. Dodgett : “I want my darter here to have
some lessons on the—the—Wot is that instrument
you play on, perfesser ? ”
Professor: “This, madam, is a Stradivarius—a
Shinnyvine Stradivarius.”
Mrs. D. : “ Yes, that’s the name. What’ll ye
charge to give my dartef a few lessons on the Shinny-
whine Straddlevarious ? ”
ir )
Tha C<t**Z<: </*s**> f' fyt^T/oy
7j, c (fov j£opc7oj:
CONCERNING THAT NEW GOVERNOR.


WHAT IS “D.C.L.”?
“D.O.L is a brand applied to whisky, and is a
guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and of
a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for “D.C.L.’''
(Black Bottle) Scotch.
The transfer of Macgregor from torrid,
fever-stricken New Guinea to torrid, fever-stricken
Lagos, on the African Slave Coast, is promotion
from the Imperial standpoint. The Empire does
not voluntarily study the health of an officer. By
the way, Lagos is described as “ the centre of the
palm-oil region.” How certain Queensland poli-
ticians must envy Papuan Mac 1
SPORTING PAMPHLET"
The Art of Successful Wagering,
by
A well-known Australian Sportsman of
Twenty Years’ Standing.
AN INVALUABLE GUIDE TO BACKERS,
POST FREE, 1/1.
Sole Agent, Box 1324, G.P.0., Sydney.
Coxon’s AccordeotiB
AND
Campbell’s Gold
Medal Melodeons.
With organ and celestial
tone and charming bell
accompaniment. No
home should be without
one. The solemn psalm,
the soul-stirring hymn,
the cheerful song and the
merry dance can all be
played on these wonder-
ful instruments. No
knowledge of music re-
quired. Special offer to
readers of this paper.
Campbell's Gem Melodeon (with instruction and song
book), 15/6; ditto Miniature (ditto), 25/-; ditto Paragon
(ditto), 30,6; ditto Favorite (ditto), 37/6; Coxon’s Lord
Fauntlerov Accordeons (ditto), 15/6 ; ditto, indestructable
bellows (ditto), 21/-; ditto, special size (ditto), 22/6; ditto
ditto, 28/- Twenty other different kinds, from 6/6, to
select from. Carriage paid to any part of Australia, care-
fully packed. Send P. 0.0. for the full amount. Write
and send 2d. for catalogue. We are sole agents for Aus-
tralasia. W. F. COXON & CO. LTD., 745 George-street
(opp. Christ Church), Haymarket, Sydney.
HOW to PRESERVE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 800 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
ONE HONEST MAN.
T\EAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering: from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing: to sell, but, being: now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
VHi 1C LIS S Fluid Diainfeclnut is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
The remnant of whites at Thursday Island
was eating imported Japanese potatoes when last
heard from.
The Melb. poet Purtell is on the ball
again. Price one penny :
For this crime of abortion is on the increase,
And we must be severe if we want it to cease.
Don't study their friends, or sign a petition,
But think of that girl in a certain condition.
Think of a crime most cruel and base,
Cast in the river, and iammed in a case.
Missing Friends.
TAMES COMAN, formerly of Kerang and
Bendigo, Victoria, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, write to his brother, Thomas Coman,
133 Grattan-street, Carlton, Victoria.
CAROLINE HICKS, St. Leonards on-Sea,
Sussex, England, spinster, deceased. NEXT
OF KIN please furnish proofs of identity to
Murray & Magarey, Solicitors, Eagle Chambers,
Adelaide, South Australia.
DRAWING an OVERDRAFT
OH THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c., &cUse
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLERS’ BAG BHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood, and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CS2LTJTIONT. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENOS Patent.
s.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
BAILEY’S
Complete Sanitation.'
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronag-e.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens; Imperial Institute, and in the
midst Qf the Fashionable Quarter.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
“TOKOLOGY”
A BOOK FOR EVERY WOMAN.
. . BY . .
ALICE B. STOCK HAM, M.D.
Dedicated
To all women who, following the lessons taught in
this book, will be saved the sufferings peculiar to
their sex.
“ To be wcU-b' i n is the right of every child."
Sent post-paid on receipt of price, 12s. 6d., to
any address in Australia.
Chicago Publishing Co.,
232 Clarenoe-st., SYDNEY. \
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY
"I ■ OLLOIVAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
J I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these errand medicines have not jeen
recognised hv thousands of su'ferers. I:■ all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nuw Oxfokd-st., Jxindon. Pur-
chasers should look to the Uibel on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SPUING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9; Records, 8s
each ; Needles, Is Od for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
102 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
7" K Talkip? Machine P«P°t.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Oraphophones from i!4.
Kinetoscopes, Oineniatographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Oatalbgue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COM PAN y, 102 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
MASCARA HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR'S CUBEBS CICAREITES. Astbma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA ;
Efficacious from iho purity of
the Oil, anti free from (ho ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Cavaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Presentation
Silver-plate & Jewellery fOl . UJedding presents
A. Saunders’ Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable
Kindly send your orders to us —we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Pure Silver-plateJ, £2 17s 6d.
Others chanre you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
m
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 30s. Chased
Silver back, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 16s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s. Similar styles, 21s,
255. Silver-plated, 18s 6d. Mirror, 20s.
sag -
WA
I i
mi
• --
M B ill!
■;; ;
m
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled cases),
£2 10s, five years' guar-
an tee, extra quality ;
£4 4s, 15 years’ guar-
antee; ditto, 14c, Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20
years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £2O
watch.” Ladies’, beau-
tifully ornamented, same price. Mind, “ the above watches are guaran-
teed with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
uphold it.” Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders’
HANDSOME and U&EFUL PRESENTS.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 103, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. S <.~iiders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 16s,
strong- and pretty. Silver, 6s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 7s Cd ;
with cover, 8s 6d.
SR
A Saunders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s 6d ; Fluted Bands,
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d.
3^
m
Wrwm
m rm
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-botile Cruet, 30s;
similar styles, 21s, 255, 35s ;
6-bottle, Sss, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-
glass Puff Boxes, 15s 6d,
very cheap.
18c. Gold, pure Double
Cut Diamond, 15 6s;
Larger, .16 6s, 17 10s,
£8 10s, 110, 112108,
116, 120.
18c. Gold, 5 pure Dia'
inonds, 1410 s and £6-
3 Sapphires or Kubies
and 2 Diamonds,
1810 s. Send for book.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar Scuttle,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Larpe Diamonds, £3
15c. Gold, 20s, 255, and 30s.
18c. Gold Band, Pure Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
V-J
_A_>
3m£
U
A. Saunders.
4 o’e. Teaspoons and Tongs, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, without case. ss, 7s 6d halt-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in silk ease, 255; will
Tongs, 80s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding- (Biscuit), £3,
£3 10s, £4 ; handsome present.
«f * or
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10s and )3. Any Name or
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8s 6d;
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.


fti,f 4
■mh
*>%£#<(
j;" *j.' - --*
«R 3
r*„
"»
40
a&w
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bkar : * What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Srcoxu Bkar : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there!”
First Bkar : “ Have they got guns ? ”
Sboond Bkar : “ No ! Kodaks ! ’’
Australian Depots
KODAKS.
iSmRs
Catalogues and Instructions Free,
BRKER #ROUSE
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
2CO COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
STUDY THIS WELL
Do vour Eyes feel weak from Overwork, Study, etc. ?
Are they affected from Blight, Sun Glare, Granulations, Stings of Insects 7
Do they feel painful after exposure to strong winds, dust?
Are the Eyelids Inflamed or Scaly?
IF SO, THERE IS ONLY ONE REMEDY-
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
It STRENGTHENS and PRESERVES the SIGHT, and may be used on
BIRDS, POULTRY, CATTLE, &0., with the same wonderful
result.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PEOPEIETOB :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only o /
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
yOU ars SGre to get tbs Best Piaijo
* At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
RONISCN FanjoGS Piaijos ot)\y to be bad
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
B€CNST€IN SGperb P\at)os oijly
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
I6NON Piafyos, World Rspowocd, oi>ly
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
M
NANON PiaijoS Wooderftillv 0)«ap °oW
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
NO otbtr Notifies ar« ip witlj
NTCHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU WANT!
Tki*kphosk 2216.
p"i-n WILL
i! ANDRADE
SfIPUB USHER
& IMPORTER.
|HS
CHEAP BOOKS
WIL.L ANDRADE TiTi
Wife's Guide and Friend ;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the riurht to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugb, prose-
cuted work, Is ; post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riaqb Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. La test edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Marla Monk. Post, 1/9-
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Maupassant’s Spiced Talks, ninth senes, Is.; post Is 3d-
Crisp Talks from tiik French, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is ; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post. Kobbery Under Arms, new complete
edition. Is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster; or. Howto Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d. Friquettb, French, 1/3.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
■ Tommy Atkin's Mary, by Paul de Kock; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d, post free. The
S ame for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
Dr. Beaxey’s Private Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d. Phallic,or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid
wifery, illustrated; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of thi
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron of Navarre, and
Works of Rabelais, all in cheap ed., illus., unexpurgated
MoUi Flanders, Balzac’s Droll Stories, Zola’s Novels,
»11 cheap ed. How to Excel in Business. Post free, Is 6d-
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere.
WILL ANDRADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
opposite Waxworks.
The Bank of Victoria Limited.
TWELFTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT.
To be submitted to the Shareholders at the General Meeting to be held at Noon on TUESDAY, the 7th FEBRUARY,
1899.
The Board of Management submit their twelfth report to the shareholders of the bank, together with the balance-
sheet for the half-year ending 31st December, 1898, duly certified by the auditors in the forms prescribed by the Cony
panics Act :
Balance of undivided profit on 80th June, 1898 ... ... ... ... ... £22,649 10 IQ
Net profit for the past half-year ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 27,800 8 8
Together ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... £60,449 19 1
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows
To dividend on preference shares, at 5 per cent, per annum ... ... £10,419 0 0
To reserve fund, making it £70,000 ... ... ... ... ... 20,(XX) 0 0
To balance carried forward to next half-year... ... ... ... 20,030 19 1
£60,449 19 1
An instalment of one-third of all remaining deferred deposits will be paid in advanoe on the 13th March, and the
board has in view to discharge the balance of these receipts as quickly as possible.
The dividend on preference shares will be payable in Melbourne on and after the Bth February, and at the
branches and in London on receipt of advices.
The transfer-books of the company will be closed from the 26th inst. to the 7th February, both days inclusive.
EDWARD MILLER, Chairman.
J. D. LAW, General Manager.
The Bank of Victoria, Limited, Melbourne, 16th January, 1899.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANE OF VICTORIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year ending 31st December, 1898.
Dr. (Including London Branch to 14th November, 1898.) Or.
To proprietors' capital, viz.
41,676 preference shares paid in cash to
to €lO £416,760 0 0
240,000 ordinary shares
paid-up to £2 10s ... £600,000 0 0
Amount of calls actu-
ally paid in cash ... 689,877 10 6
£1,139,377 10 6
Less 27,760 shares
forfeited 79,688 18 0
1,069,798 12 0
6
1
0
0
7
4
4
1
9
11
0
£7,214,703 12 7
Uy coined gold and silver
and other coined metal
~ (fold and silver in bul-
lion and bar
~ cash at hankers
„ Government, munici-
pal, and other intl/lio
stocks and funds and
other debentures
~ hills and remittances
in transitu
~ notes and hills of
other hanks
~ balances due from
other hanks
~ stamps
£061,474 IB 10
76,046 2 11
7,047 9 6
218,040 0 0
480,601 16 7
01,141 9 2
88,487 2 4
1,771 12 10
„ real estate, consistinjr of hank pre-
mises, at cost to the hank
~ other real estate, at cost to hank, less
£81,501 Os. 6d. written off
~ shares in other companies
~ advances, exclusive of provision for
had or doubtful debts
~ hills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above,
exclusive of provision for had or
doubtful debts
„ liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as
per contra
1,646,010 9 2
239,648 11 2
226,108 12 8
4,001 18 2
4,687,004 19 6
489,089 911
124,179 17 0
£7,214,708 12 7
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To current expenses—Head office and 61
branches and one sub-branch ... ...£36,744 13 4
To bank-note tax ... ... ... 1,168 19 11
To balance ... ... ... ... 60,449 19 1
£87,363 12 4
Which the directors propose to apportion
as follows :
To dividend on preference shares, at 6 per
cent, per annum ... ... 10,419 0 0
To reserve fund, making it £70,000 .. 20,000 0 0
To balance carried forward to next half-
year 20,030 19 1
£60,449 19 1
By balance from 30th June, 1898... ... £22,649 10 10
By (tress profits for the half-year ending
31st December, 1898, after deducting all
interest paid or due to customers, and
rebating bills current, and providing for
bad and doubtful debts ... ... 64,704 1 6
£87,863 12 4
By balance
... £60,449 19 1
RESERVE
... £60,000 0 0 |
FUND.
By balance from 80th June, 1898
... £6O,
To balance
HALF-YEARLY REPORT
—OF—
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Banking House, George Street, Sydney, on
Friday, the 20th January, 1809.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
31st December, 1898, and present the following report . . . . „ .
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed
deposits reducing premises account, paying note-tax, and providing for land and income taxes and bad and doubtful
debts, amounts to ; £66 > 081 3 0
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-vear at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum... £40,000 0 0
°Balance being undivided profit 16,681 8 0 £56,681 3 0
During the half-year branches have been established at Chatswood in this colony, and at Emerald, in the colony
of Queensland, while the branches at Albion Park and Burrowa in this colony have been closed.
The Dividend, free of income-tax, is now payable.
EDWARD KNOX, Ohairmak.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 31bt DECEMBER BY CABLE.)
Dr.
To Capital
~ Reserve Fund
~ Reserve Capital
£ s. d.
... 1,000,000 0 0
... 1,010,000 0 0
... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
£ *. d.
To Capital Paid-up ... 1,000,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Deposits and other liabilities ...
Profit and Loss Account
2,010,000
443,079
752,063
10,248,129
62,677
0 0
0 0
6 1
7 11
8 10
£13,515,949 2 10
Cr.
By Coin and Bullion in
hand
„ Cash at Bankers ...
„ Govt. Securities ...
„ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes
„ Remittances in tran-
sit
~ Notes and bills of
other banks
£ 8. d.
2,273,835 5 2
187,191 11 8
1,281,731 7 9
41,566 0 0
702,961 0 10
23,460 16 0
Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank
Bank premises, furniture, &c
£ 8. d-
-4,610,746 1 0
8,586,503 1 10
418,700 0 0
£13,515,949 2 10
: 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills £6,996 6 10
Dividend Account for payment of a
” dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 8 per cent, per annum ... 40,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year 16,681 3 0
£62,677 8 10
By Amount undivided from last half-year... £16,810 17
„ Profit for Half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1898 46,860 11 7
£62,677 810
We hereby
Office of THE (
Branches, and
RESERVE FUND.
1898—December 31st £1,010,000 0 0
EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, 9th January, 1899.
certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in the Head
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED, and have compared the returns of the
have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
E. S. CAPE,
F. T. HUMPHREY,
Auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously J . , . . . ~ ,
“ That the Reports and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among
the Proprietors.”
“That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the
Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Managsr.


A Good Innings. The Crack Eleven.
RIGHT TO A TEA.
This is how Popular Opinion places our TEAS, &c. &c. :
BlLLY—Captain.
WHITE HEATHER—Long-
on.
GOLDENIA —Point.
RANEE —Cover-point.
LOTA—Wickets; stops long
in favour.
JUMPER —All over the
field !
DONOOLA—Square-leg.
API OM—Best bat. Yes,
sir ! Ask for it.
OOOBE CEYLON—Scorer ;
and a good ’un, too.
GRANUMA—Best bowler.
Porridge Bowl! See ?
ZENANA—Mid-on, and A 1
at that!
JAMES ING-liIS & GO.,
Sole Agk:; r *—WHOLESALE Only,
Salvitis Remedies, Electric Cleanser feoap, Granuma,
Commendador Port, Fodah and Homah.
THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA ! !
Wines, Spirits, Spices, Meals, Baking Powders, &c
DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY ; and at Brisbane.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
A Man Can’t Work
WHEN HE IS
SUFFERING WITH LIVER DISEASE.
HE CAN’T EAT, SLEEP; CAN’T GET
COMFORT ANY WAY BUT ONE—WAR-
NER’S SAFE CURE WILL CURE HIM ;
GIVE RELIEF AT ONCE.
Just a little pain may so distract a man’s mind
that it will cost him ten pounds. Life is a battle.
To succeed one needs all his energies: and a clear
brain. Liver disease, torpidity or weakness,
makes a man irritable, prevents sleep, causes head-
ache, flatulency, insomnia, and a tired, run-down-
out-of-sorts condition.
The treatment is simple, readily obtainable, safe
and sure. Mr. Robt. Hoystead, Bellair’s Hotel,
Wagga Wagga, says : “For years I was a terrible
sufferer with my liver, and tried several medical
men at considerable expense without any good
resulting. Therefore I determined to try War-
ner’s Safe Cure. Before long I found a change for
the better, and by persevering with it' was com-
pletely cured. Now lam never done recommend-
ing it to my friends.”
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of. Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
E 3?" Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltek Bkadley & Co., 324 George-st
POINTICAL
POINTS
Tasmanian Federalist’s name of the
Federal capital—Unitia. It would surely be nick-
named Sneezeville.
It is quite a mistake to imagine that the
president of Sydney Water and Sewerage Board
should be a civil engineer. To succeed, it is
necessary to be a political engineer.
The freak of Q. elections is the appearance
of mummer Walter Bentley Begg as a Labor
candidate. Begg’s sudden affection for the horny-
handed and enthusiasm for political and social
reform smells—Bentleyish.
Premier Reid doesn’t want Federation.
Now, he has only to work his monkey-tricks to
remain boss in his own country. In a Federal
Parliament he would have to address, as it were,
not a vulgar jury, but a bench of Judges.
Edward Braddon (Tas.) is now Premier,
Treasurer, Postmaster-General, Minister of Educa-
tion, and Minister of Agriculture ; and if he would
consent to be Chief Justice, Bishop, Governor, and
a few other little things, it might be managed,
and would be a great saving.
HARMONY. —On a Collins-street tram.
The preponderance of Church of England
adherents over the adherents of other churches in
N.S.W. is, to some extent, accounted for by the
fact that Gov. Macquarie’s order that all orphans
were to be brought up C.E. was observed to the
letter for over a generation.
Several S.A. M’sP. are quaking in their
shoes as to which Assembly constituency ex-Agent-
General Playford will contest next April.
“ Honest Tom ” is a certainty for any of the pro-
ducing districts, several of which are now repre-
sented by violent anti-Kingstonians.
Both Sleath and Willis voted against the
Suffield Royal Commission motion, notwith-
standing that Sleath got one to clear his character
in the Bennett case, and Willis wanted one to
clear himself of the dummying charges. Let
their constituents make a note of it !
The long-looked-for Q. democratic weekly
is about to arrive. Early in Feb. will appear the
first issue of Progress —“a journal devoted to the
advancement and prosperity of Queensland as a
colony, and as a state of the Australian Common-
wealth.” The venture will be owned and edited
by Mr. Drake, an experienced and able journalist.
A new political party is on the warpath in
Victoria in view of vague rumors of an early
dissolution. It is called the Workers’ Political
Party, has the usual 1001 planks of every ephem-
eral organisation of political Labor, and its
manifesto is endorsed by Hancock, Maloney,
Prendergast, Stephen Barker, Toomey (from
N.S.W.) and Temple, of the Shearers’ Union.
Things political are lively up North.
Labor Central Executive—president, Glassey—has
been busy endorsing candidates. For Clermont
editor Lesina was chosen, although sitting Labor-
member Cross submitted his name for approval.
Cross is now' running “on his own,” backed by a
flattering letter from Glassey. What is the
leader’s position in this case ? As president of the
Executive he endorses Lesina’s nomination ; as
Tom Glassey, he barracks for Cross. The dual
positions are untenable, and must lead to party
upheaval. If Glassey intends to ignore the deci-
sions of the L.G.E. he should cut himself adrift.
If the Jap is the curse of the pearling
business, the Chow is the curse of the other Q.
fishing industries. Hoo-ki-lah fishes seven days a
week ; uses a small net —often of illegal mesh ;
and, last but not least, never spares a small fish.
Let him once tackle a stream and the European
fisherman can make tracks as soon as he likes, for
John will exhaust the spot, sell all the fish he can,
and live on shark and miscellaneous refuse.
Premier Kingston will come into sharp
conflict with S. A. Labor-members when Parliament
meets again, on Feb. 28, if he persists in confining
its discussions solely to Federation. They want
to talk at large on the unemployed question, etc.,
while, as they nearly all represent city districts,
they will not be so anxious to get away electioneer-
ing as their provincial colleagues will be. The
elections are likely to be postponed from April to
June.
S. A. Labor-party has decided to run a labor
candidate against Works Minister Jenkins at the
approaching Assembly elections. A similar
attempt was made to oust him at the ’96 election,
and Democrats were so disgusted at the labor move
that they put Jenkins, who has been a consistent
Liberal since he first entered Parliament, 12 years
ago, at the head of the poll. Incomprehensible as
it may seem, there is every probability of a labor
man opposing Premier Kingston in West Ade-
laide !
Whispered—only behind thick walls and
in desolate places—that Q. Minister Chataway
may soon secede from the Dickson Cabinet.
Alleged that Chataway is the only man of fine
feeling and gentlemanly instinct (!) in the Q. Govt.,
and that his conscience revolts at the dirty
trickery of the Ministry to secure a continuance
of perks. The rumor even attributes to Chataway
a desire to fight Dickson in the latter’s electorate
if Labor and Opposition will leave the course
clear.
Cairns, the nondescript city of N.Q., is
howling for a fresh M.L.A. Hoolan, the nonde-
script politician, erstwhile Laborist, is apparently
touting for a fresh seat—with the result that
Cairns has asked the gyrator to come forward and
represent her in her full, smellful, alien dignity.
John will probably consent. Little Lissner
allowed Hoolan to get the credit of pushing for-
ward the Cairns-Etheridge railway claims, with
the result that Lissner has practically got his walk-
ing ticket.
Premier Dickson is cautiously waiting to
see how the Federation cat jumps in Bananaland.
Is a Federationist, of course (they all are) •
declines, however, to express himself definitely on
the Commonwealth Bill. Is just as hazy and un-
satisfactory on the question as were Byrnes and
Nelson and just as slippery. The Q. elections
are just at hand but the Federation question is one
you hardly ever hear mentioned. Roads, bridges
railways to Dead Dog, are the order of the day and
everything else may go hang.
Pastor Bevan says he thinks Premier Reid
is influenced by the true Federal spirit. All the
same, he considers it has been impossible for Yes-
No to avoid being tempted to look upon Federa-
tion from the party standpoint. But he hopes
and trusts the Chameleon will at last stick to one
color—and that the right one. But, altogether, the
curly soul-saver fears that popular interest in
I ederation has thinned out, and - er—somehow—-
ah—hum—just so. Which is just about as satis-
factory as an average sermon.
Apropos of the fact
that N.S.W. is fostering
its sugar-cane with duties
while Victoria is trying to
create a beet-sugar indus-
try, it is notable that beet
has now left cane far be-
hind as a means of sugar-
production. The world’s
consumption of beet-sugar
now exceeds that of cane
by fully 2,000,000 tons a
year. N.S. W. produces
what experts have declared
to be the best beet in the
world for sugar - making
purposes, and it was pro-
posed a while ago that some
one should go to England
and cry pitifully there for
the money to start a new
sugar industry. The sub-
ject, however, seems to have
dropped. Cane - growing
began in the days when
N.S. W. hadn’t yet got into
the habit of always asking
Bull to lend the money be-
fore starting anything, else
it would probably have
dropped too.
The loudest cry of
S.A. Leg. Council against
Kingston’s proposed refer-
endum re Council reform
was that “No Ministry, in
any English-speaking com-
munity, has ever so acted
before.” Which is a jibe
of much smaller tonnage
than it looks. There are
about 15 English-speaking
communities that have had
Ministries for periods, rang-
ing from a good many years
to a few centuries, and it
would take many years to
wade through all their
dusty, forgotten records
and see if any of the Minis-
tries ever acted before as
Kingston is doing. The
statement is probably a lie;
anyhow, it is a lie for all the S.A. Tories know
to the contrary. And if it is true it means
nothing. All progress consists in somebody doing
something that wasn’t done before.
So far, as the signs go, Victoria has no in-
surmountable objection to the Federal amend-
ments proposed by N.S.W. Parliament, one of
those relating to the Federal capital only ex-
cepted. It seems agreeable to have a Federal city
planted on Federal territory somewhere within
N.S.W., Riverina preferred, but it isn’t taking
any Federal city at Sydney. Also, it is solid on
the theory that the capital should be on Federal
territory, sa that the extra revenue which will be
created by the gathering of population round the
Federal centre shall be the joint property of the
provinces, and not be all snavelled by one of them.
A slab of Fysh’s banquet-speech :
The people of these colonies now numbered four mil-
lions, and it was a strange coincidence that when
the United States of America declared their inde-
pendence they numbered about four millions.
And he hoped that a generation to come
would be able to speak of another
greater consummation still—that the
example set by America would be fol-
lowed by Australia. There was
room for an immense people
in these lands. In America
in about 150 years, they had
built up 70 millions of peo-
ple, and so in Australia in
another 150 years there
would be scores of millions
of people, and who would,
perhaps, bear in mind the
efforts of her public men
who to-day were making a
commencement of great
things by striving to bring
about Federation. (Ap-
plause.) However, in using
the words he had he hoped
he would not be taken to
have spoken treason against
the work he had now under-
taken. He believed that Fed-
eration would soon be ac-
complished, and that
might be a reason why
he should make a spee-
dier return to Tasmania
than perhaps he otherwise
would. (Hear, hear.)
That P. O. Fysh, the boss Im-
perial barracker in the Southern
hemisphere should use such words
—even at a banquet—-has filled
the souls of the “Gorsave”
folks of Tasmania with a
vague, indefinite dread of
they know not what. A. I.
Clark, in his pre-Judge days,
might have whipped up the re-
publican spirit without causing
surprise; but for P. O. Fysh,
K.C.M.G., to say such things is simply
Awful.
Premier Dickson’s cold and grumpy atti-
tude towards Federation in his Melb. speech
was a surprise to many people. Queensland has
apparently so much to gain by getting its sugar
admitted free to the other provinces when inter-
provincial tariffs are abolished that more enthu-
siasm was expected from Oily James. But, on
the other hand, Federation would put an end to
the Q. duty on N.S.W. coal, and Queensland has
great coal deposits to develope when it gets rested.
And Brisbane has an idea about Federation being
a deep, dark swindle for stealing its trade away to
Sydney, just as the Sydney provincial crowd
reckon it a bottomless scheme for snatching the
Sydney trade away to Melbourne.
The old Glassey-Powers duel looks as if it
might be fought out again in Bundaberg. Against
any other opponent Glassey is quite safe —but
Powers is hugely popular in Sugar-town. The
Govt, party, recognising the hopelessness of put-
ting in any other local nominee, is prepared to
support Powers’candidature, and has requisitioned
him accordingly. If Powers should stand, the
recent agreement between Opposition and Labor
as to contesting of seats will be, of course, null
and void. It appears, however, as if the local
organisations are going to set aforesaid agreement
at defiance ; in which case Drakeite and Laborite
will do the Kilkenny-cat trick, and the Govt, can-
didate grin happily at the spectacle.
THE IDENTICAL SHEEP-DIP.
QUERIST (to German) : “ And what brand of Baptist do you belong
to —the Sprinklers , Hardshells, or Dippers? ”
THE DEUTSCHER : “ Oh, ve believe in de dip right under. Look at
de vord ‘babtise ’ — bab, down; tise, ged oop again.”
The Age, in a carefully-figured-out esti-
mate, reckons that the .£202,000 which it is pro-
posed to expend on a new Melb. railway-station
will yield 6 per cent, clear profit per annum. And
it is proposed, as usual, to borrow the money.
Why not pay it out of revenue? Isn’t a 6 per
cent, investment good enough for Victoria to put
its own money into?
Several S.A. Labor-leaders who have not
had a chance at Parliamentary life say openly
that they think some of the present members, who
have held seats for six years, should retire and
give them a show. “ Wbat’s the good of putting
us up to fight districts we can’t win while they
stick to the pocket-boroughs ? ” However, there
are very few of the present men who could be
bettered by the available talent of the party.
THE GROUND OF LOVE.
“He said he loved the ground I stood on.”
“Were you on your own property at the time? ”
Adelaide Observer, which lifts up its
voice in the interests of Proputty, declares that
the Kingston Ministry, when it proposed taking a
popular vote on the question of council-reform,
seized upon “a craven method of effecting its
object. Then it moans this sad, unreasoning
moan :
Granting for argument’s sake that the electors are in
favor of the measure lately before Parliament for the re-
form of the Council, the new Assembly will be returned
pledged thereto.
In short, if the Kingston Govt, refers the matter
to the people at a general election, mixed up with
all the other current issues so that no absolutely
certain verdict can be obtained, it isn’t craven.
And if it refers it separately so as to get an un-
mistakeable verdict it is. Which makes the
matter very lucid indeed.
Apropos the right claimed by Premier
Seddon to exclude aliens from Maoriland : It was
long ago decided by the British Privy Council, in
the case of Chinaman Ah Toy against the Yio.
Govt., that there is an absolute right to prevent
the ingress of foreigners, and Ah Toy didn’t get
in. A similar right is exercised in S.A., and the
N.S.W. Govt, excluded pertain aliens very sud-
denly only the other day when it refused to let a
band of Romany wanderers across the Murray.
The Austrian Govt, not only exercises the right
to exclude foreigners, but it sometimes decides,
after the foreigner is in, that he is undesirable,
and fires him and his other collar and shirt across
the border at very short notice. The Seddon
Govt, had precedent enough for its action—if the
precedents had been collected in a heap the top-
most one would have been visible only through a
telescope.
The man who selected Queensland’s dele-
gates to the Federal Council was indeed a humor-
ist. What a combination ! Dickson is the least-
inspired man on earth, whose greatest surprise in
life was finding himself Premier; ex - Lands
Minister Barlow—whose administration was so
foolish and blundersome that he simply had to re-
tire to save annihilation—is distinguished mainly
for his unpleasant countenance, hungry voice, and
blind and swaggering hatred of Labor politicians ;
Glassey is Barlow’s red rag and Labor’s local god,
also formal assailant of the Q.N.B. ex-directors ;
Morehead is a Q.N.B. ex-director who, in his full-
blooded days, once publicly slapped Glassey in the
eye, and whose after-dinner amusement used to
consist of mimicking, ridiculing and laughing at
the dull-witted, platitudinous, and funereal L)ick-
son. The other delegate, Foxton, is probably
present in the capacity of valet to his chief.


A (Hood PiaQo
HAS
3 Essential
Qualifications,
NAMELY,
Tone,
Touch,
AND
Durability.
“ Victor ” Pianos.
Uebel Pianos.
Ecke Pianos.
Belling Pianos.
PALING’S
PIANOS
POSSESS
THESE
POINTS OE
EXCELLENCE
Steinway Pianos.
Brinsmead Pianos.
Lipp Pianos.
Penricli Pianos.
CATALOGUES
FREE
LOWEST
PRICES.
HIGHEST
VALUE.
PALIN6 & CO., Ltd., deal exclusively ii) Musical Goods, aod Stock
€very koowi) MtiSical loStrGroeot-
ESTEY ORGANS are tile BEST and CHEAPEST.
Oil
33S GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
57 QUEEN-ST., BRISBANE.
HUNTER-ST., NE JVC A SITE.
VITADATIO
THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY.
Registered.
If you have suffered for 20 years VITADATIO will cure
you, and don’t forget it. VITADATIO will cure you
(without operation), even when the eminent doctors of
London, Melbourne, or any other part of the world have
failed ; be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Con-
sumption, Piles, Gall Stones, Liver or Kidney Complaint,
Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Indigestion, &c.
TESTIMONIAL.
375 Bay St., Port Melbourne,
„ October 3rd, IS9B.
Mr. W. Webber,
Proprietor of “ Vitadatio.”
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure that I write you
few lines to tell you what your great remedy,
Vitadatio,” has done for me. At the beginning of my
illness I was living in America, and was attending a ball
to see the “ New Year in,” in 1897. On my way home I
took a very severe cold, through going from the heated
ballroom out into the cold air (the snow being two or three
teet deep). I was laid up for some considerable time, and
1
BEFORE.
'
ill
i
AFTER.
treated by some of the most eminent physicians in
America, but all to no advantage. Hemorrhage of the
lung set in, and my doctors said that I had “ gone into
Consumption,” and that there was no cure for me, and
advised me to return to my native land, Australia. So
on the 4th June, 1897, I arrived back in Melbourne. I
then consulted many doctors, and tried all sorts of medi-
cines, but got no relief, so naturally began to despair.
My husband heard from our friend, Mr. H. M'Kenzie,
sewer contractor at South Yarra, how his son had been
cured of Consumption by the use of “ Vitadatio.” Mr.
M‘Kenzie urged my husband to give me a course of the
remedy, which he did ; and right glad I am that he did,
as the hemorrhages have ceased, and also the terrible
racking cough that used to keep me awake all night. I
can now attend to my duties, and can truly say that
“Vitadatio” has cured me. For the sake of other
sufferers who may be in the same plight as I was, I give
you full permission to use this letter as you may think
fit. We are well known in these colonies, as my husband
was in the furrier business for years.
I remain, Yours truly,
F. A. CLARK.
PRICE of this Wonderful Medicine is ss. 6d. large bottles, 3s. fid. small bottles. Ask your
Chemist or Grocer for it. If not obtainable locally, send to any of our Institutes.
S. A. PALMER, Sole Agent for Australasia;
Head Office—4s and 47 Bourke-st., Melbourne, Yic.
South Australian Institute, 244 Rundle-st., Adelaide. Agencies throughout the whole of New Zealand.
Prepared only by W. WEBBER , Launceston, Tasmania.
The fl.Hl Gold Stakes-£l4O
The GREATEST SCRATCH RACE held
in Australia has again been won by
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION—
R. WALNE
ON
■Duniqp Tyres
AND
jjunlop'Ulelch
RIMS
FIRST IN 1888.
FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Ml. fflont k Paete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
CASTLEHEAGH ST.,
SYXSNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
I*awnbro king Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOWTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200,000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
jvssuxme
HEAD OFF ICC
INTERSECTf ON HUNTER,BLIGH and
Castlereagh Streets.
* Sidney•
Fiji. £ STAB LI SN ED - §879.
We Off iceinAustr*V'*/
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed£2oo.oooSterling
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
JAMES BURNS, Esq. Dire i Ctols FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined' Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIBE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D.’BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
file §ank of iorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
SECOND-HAND
AND
NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY PROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing’ of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past punter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
OUIUISLTj’S Fluid Disinfectant clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €x€cCitorS,
AND
Qonjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £73,375 15 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ... £6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun t of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,032,511
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
©urrie, Esn., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Emhling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornky, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : i-L L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
Xiohdon Office: 1 Xishopst/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,4!0.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,615.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. Knn>. Diabilty. |
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, clc. 8
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Mkeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. OIiYNB ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Japital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Coiien, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Lion.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Richard Jones, Esq. ; T. A.
Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. J. Humphery, M.L.C. ; E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United iQSftraoce Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Eisks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Mates very Low,
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning- grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE lIAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 66, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITXEN,
680 - 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The gfkand hotel, zeehan.
This fine new brick building is NOW OPEN for
BUSINESS. Splendidly furnished, and up-to-date in
everything, it offers visitors all the comforts of a first-
c’nss metropolitan hotel, at reasonable rates. Address
letters and wires to Manager, Grand Hotel, Zeehan.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday,Feb. 4,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 11, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 4,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 4,12 Noon.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 4, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Feb. 7, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 11, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG 'i
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT | I
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c. J
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 4, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 11, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST fl IHMIM' IMRIiS TO ATT TOUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Special Trip
to .. IST*
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming’ a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Kates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to—
Gibbs, fright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company. Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Gres, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OEEICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Lion. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address— ltiuMSniL. Telephone No. ii'jo.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. ;U7, (i.
Adelaide.
Clarlsie «& Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOELIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Lel ger Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, February 4.
S.S. Rockton, Friday,February 10.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
February 4.
-
S.S. Roekton, Friday’,
February 10.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Saturday,
February 4.
Best <£ Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY!
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [Lie
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirrent Rates.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen's Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
M'fEuiraith, 10‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES,
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn St Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc,., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOFIMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnantom
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cu isine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


sgraphophone.
50/:,
L.p?
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
60s. up.
THE “ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
w « e n a nfnnhones Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
o SSSnts and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
world— “ The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d Trade sup-
pled Our Prices are considerably below others.
BISHOP’S
CITRATE OF
MAGNESIA
A
\^AP^
REMEMBER IN TA&
NURSERY IT IS A POSITIVE
NBCESSITY, A 5 AU- CttJLDISH
AILMENTS GIVE WAIT To A
DOSE oR TWo
TJSE
SpOOI?€
„00NC*
6 *o"
1 BROWN LEATHER
| ROOTS St SHOES
IiOFUL DESCRIPTIONS
SOJRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
PRCSSIM6,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
Worth. Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
JAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
m
Vh
1
I
-
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN.
, It's centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
en Joy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QXTX2ST,
LOWER DOMAIN.
R. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Eue St. Georges, Paris, Franoe.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
Medicine Sent Free~
nno MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVE TROUBLES
- 1 - WEAKNESS, ATROPHY, DEBILITY, VARICO-
CELE, etc., etc., no matter how SEVERE the case may
he. THOUSANDS cured annually. Remedy sent by
mail in plain package. WHEN CURED we charge you
not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. Write
to-day. Address—
HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
P.O., Box 347, SYDNEY.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
D .S .MAI R
g#>
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2,6 ; Hairspring, 2 6, Jewels,
2/6; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIK, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
FORTUNfc
TEJLiXjINGr Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LET'I Eli 8.
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
PackaK?
is.
(Continental Supply Agency,
? Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf - - Monday
Leather - Tuesday
Bark - - - Tuesday
Bur Skins - Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
Dr. TARRANT,
V.K.0.5.E., L.E.0.P.E., L.K.0.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
- -
v: ;
■I ;.
:\, -*' •> 3F
illß
m i
Is a leg-ally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Ciarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
Mew Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulse formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited, by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This Mew Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide then-
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the systein, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
IKT o Mlaxi or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is vour intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS. ”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations arui’Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are. a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerows Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desii-e for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva ■
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely UNTo Cliarge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint. including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat. Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fuies, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male o,r female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney \ or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THJE FOOTSTEPS of the WISH
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing; in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, 423 3-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 0. Dress Suits to Measure, 34
Clerical Suits to Measure, 425. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
.Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/1 1 . Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
ISI ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT
FOR ft FEW WEEKS .ORLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOR —
13s. 6d.
Gut this Coupon out, forward
together with your M easure-
ments & Remittance of 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you, post free
apair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide
toes. <
t/ELLIS
&COUBGN
/GUINEA
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST PEEK to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight awav with ease and comfort.
Orders, accofnpanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address:
W. 3. ELLIS,
Sydney.
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
1
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING-
-1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE: —
I T*E T*M* r-R E-E-Y-O-Y |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir. —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, IS9B.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A. Solid. Silver 'Watch.
Absolutely GIVEN AWAY. Can You Read This?
| W A* S } T* E j T* M * |
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter M atches (Ladies’ or
Gentlemen’s) to every reader who sends us the correct
reading of the above rebus. Conditions—that your
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely with
the object of introducing our catalogue and advertising
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stainped-addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Address:
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch & J ewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
Cramps'
i Colic,
\ Colds,
\
Croup
Coughs
Tooth
ache,
Cuts , \
Burns, '
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
(PEEEY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO-
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.


HUSBANDS!
Give your Wives
Sydney gayer Bier
and no other liquor.
The Rational Drink
is the best.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
Printed that the liquid assets in the estate
of the late James Tyson total <£999,000, as
follows: —.£200,000 in Q. Government Savings
Bank, also current account representing <£90,000,
and fixed deposit receipts as follows: —Commer-
cial Banking Co. of Sydney, <£250,000; Q.N.
Bank, <£200,000 ; A.J.S. Bank, .£31,000 ; Bank of
Victoria, <£200,000 ; Commercial Bank of Austra-
lia, .£48,000.
yz- yz-
U- kt U;
*
*
—■< ! *%4 —»*2S4
3* 3^
*
The Most Experienced Cyclists invariably Choose the
“RED BIRD SPECIAL”
as their mount when they do not receive salary and other inducements to ride
other wheels. An examination of the ’99 Models to be seen at any RED BIRD
Agency will prove a revelation to you.
The Goold Bicyle Co. Limited,
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY ;
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.
Factories-Brantford, Canada.
I 245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.;
] VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Adelaide Saleroom — Rundle-st.
Agents in Town and Country.
Sunliglit in Your Homes.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
TTSZE THE
New Sunlight ”
Incandescent Burner
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s, (id.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It is generally reckoned that the N.S.W. win
over Victoria about represents the relative strength of
the sides, the conditions of wicket and weather, even all
through, tending to the result—although the follow-on
must have slightly favored Victoria, which retained the
wickets from 3 o’clock Friday till 4 o’clock Monday. Fol-
lowing were the figuresN.S.W., Ist innings, 442; Vic.,
Ist, 215 ; 2nd, 396 ; N.S.W., 2nd, 170 for 2 wickets. The
leading scores were—N.S.W. Ist innings: Noble, 100;
Iredale, 98; Dorman, 60; 2nd innings: Mackenzie (not
out), 62. Vic., Ist innings : Giller, 87 ; Stuckey, 28 ; 2nd
innings : Graham, 124 ; Worrall, 68; Laver and Giller, 55
each.
• * • •
Sturdy Jack Worrall successfully “knocked”
the delusion prevalent in Sydney that Pye could bowl
him whenever he liked. John had evidently heard of
this belief, for when Pye was put on for his especial
benefit in Vic.’s second innings, he spat on his hands and
smacked him to the fence so often that the cricketing
apothecary was taken away and carefully kept off until
Worrall had been got rid of. Worrall is going to be the
hitter of next. Australian Eleven, and will be a worthy
successor to Lyons whenever he gets going on the srnail
’Ome grounds.
The most unpopular cricketer, if he will cease
pottering and begin to hit, can soon bang his way into
the hearts of the average crowd. A couple of years ago
Worrall couldn’t appear on Sydney ground without being
“ boo-hoo-d ” owing to his alleged remark that Corn-
stalks could be done without in an Australian XI. But
since he began to slog, no one is more popular with Syd-
neyites. Sydney is full of good, careful batsmen who
make a lot of runs in a long time every year and still are
never picked in first-class matches, whilst if a hitter
ever comes along, even if he only makes a score occasion-
ally, he is soon given a chance of distinguishing himself.
Vast Alick Mackenzie would have been picked for’Ome
long ago had he only tried to bat in “ big ” as he does in
club cricket.
Graham’s century in Victoria’s second innings
was up to his best of a few years back and will probably
just get him a trip ’Ome. He started slowly, for the
bowling was good, but after a while he seemed to tire of
steady play and stepped out in his good old style—and
then the spectators saw brilliant strokes—he went from
60 to the hundred in 20 min. “His old cheeky game
again,” said one of the Vic.’s, as “Brummy” coolly
walked up the pit'-h and pulled one of M‘K‘ibbin’s off
balls right round to leg. But he tried it too often-
missing one, Kelly stumped him just on time.
* • * *
Pye, coining out to bat on Anniversary Day in a
heavy sweater, caused some amusement amongst the
sweltering thousands who were being baked at a shilling a
head on hill and terrace. But sweaters are English, quite
English, you know.
* * » *
Newell’s hesitancy, after Crockett’s decision,
was noticed by some of the dailies. To the writer, it
seemed a bit stagey—an attempt to lessen the bitterness
of his early dismissal.
A little excitement was aroused when “Noss”
Iredale and “ Mary Ann ” Noble were running for the
first century, in the Vic.-N.S.W. match. “Noss” is the
more popular, though neither approaches Howell in public
esteem. “No frill” wins every time on Australian
grounds, and, as a striking proof, one need only mention
the popularity of Tommy Horan and Sydney’s own some-
what erratic Sammy Jones.
Why does Gregory never change ends with his
bowlers? All the other interprovincial skippers do so,
and frequently with good results, but Gregory keeps his
pegging away from the same old ends, wickets or no
wickets.
Baimerman no-balled M'Leod, and he was
transferred to the other end. Some people who saw all
the match are wondering just how far Crockett would
allow a howler to go up the pitch before he similarly
penalised him. Also, several of the N.S.W. team have
expressed themselves very opehly and strongly on some
of this umpire’s decisions.
* * • *
N.S. Wales’s two wickets for 176 in the fourth
innings of a match (Gregory scoring 44 and Iredale and
Mackenzie 49 and 62 respectively, both not out) was a
fine performance.
* * * •
As Howell holds the bowling average for this
season’s Sheffield matches, he is a pretty good certainty
for ’Ome.
* * • •
When Iredale was batting, Stuckey returned a
ball which struck “ Noss ” a blow on the neck that would
have sent to sleep half the alleged pugilists. Worrall
offered Iredale time to recover, but the batsman came to
time, and batted in fine form afterwards.
* * * *
Young Trumper’s “ cake is dough ” as regards
the English trip, but he certainly had bad luck in his only
innings in the last match. He chopped a ball down oh
Johns’ foot behind the sticks, and it bounced into Wor-
rall’s hands.
• • • •
Newell’s luck was out in both innings, but more
particularly in the second, when he sacrificed himself to
save Gregory and was run out off a “ no ball.”
* * * *
What price the extra men for England in Ire-
land, Howell, M'Kibbin and Giller—although Alex.
M’Kenzie, who has recovered his health, should come
under consideration. Mac holds the batting average
against Stoddart’s team with 80.25—composed of 80, 59,
130 and 52, made in double-quick time, the very thing to
suit English wickets and three-day matches.
* * * *
Giller seems a hard one to get out. He has no
strokes, but can keep the ball down and off his wicket;
87 and 55 were two good scores under the circumstances
of the match. He bowls a bit, too, and completely
googled Harry Donnan out when well set.
* * * *
Adelaide papers have been deluged with letters
urging Geo. Giffen’s claim to inclusion in the Australian
team. Various remedies are suggested, one being that
S.A. should decline to play the other provinces any more
if the great man is excluded, but the boldest suggestion
is thatGiffen should lead a rival Australian eleven through
England, taking the position of captain and manager him-
self. This would just suit George right down to the
ground, but a financier is needed.
• * * *
Alleged that Howell, if he goes to England, will
stay there, as Phillips guarantees the Sydney bowler a
billet with the progressive Middlesex club.
* * • •
Vanitas, the Sydney horse that has been win-
ning big races (including the Viceroy’s Cup at Calcutta)
in the East, is now owned by a Chinaman, who races
under the fraudulent alias of “Mr. Mackie.” The expor-
tation of Australian thoroughbreds is more than ever a
matter of sad regret. Fancy Vanitas carrying the colors
of Tan Poo Liat, otherwise “Mackie” 1
* * * *
A strange coincidence that those connected
with the place-getters in last Metrop. Handicap have had
no luck since. Houseman, who rode the winner, Cravat,
is dead ; young Flanagan, jockey of the second, Robin
Hood, was butchered at Caulfield, whilst Richard Craven,
who owned the other place-getter, Woodlark, has also
gone over.
* * * *
Sydney 14.1 pony, Red Rose, some months ago
disqualified for inconsistency, is now engaged in putting
up a record that should stand long. Since returning to
the track she has started 9 times—6 wins, 1 second, and 2
thirds. Five wins consecutive.
* * * *
Blair put up a big performance by carrying
13st. 21b. in the Corinthian Plate, at Randwick, on Satur-
day, winning in a canter. To carry the average amateur
and win is a big feat at any time, but when said amateur
and his gear total nearly 2cwt. it goes close to being re-
markable. With only 8.11 up, Blair, if fit, should have a
lot to say in the settlement of Newmarket Handicap.
* * * *
Kirry’s record (six furlongs) in the Challenge
Stakes, at Randwick, was a very genuine go,and all hough
he only knocked off Precaution’s best, the two per-
formances cannot be compared, as Kirry’s pace was alone
responsible for his record, whilst the flying mare had a
gale of wind to help her along. Proudfoot, who finished
second, was wound-up for this race, and the crowd behind
him went for a big win, and had bad luck in bumping
against a record-breaker. The unlucky horse of the race,
however, was Eastern King, who dead-heated for third ;
had he got a decent run it is hard to say how much would
have come off the record. Left at the post with Hop-
scotch, he had to work a rough passage through the big
field, but he ran into a place, and was galloping faster
than anything at the finish—which, with 9.3 up, is a big
performance in a record-run sprint. Eastern King is by
Sunrise, whose stock are steadily making a name for him
on both Vic. and N.S.W. courses.
* • • •
Alf Joseph (salute!) is back from Maoriland
looking all the better for his trip. When he left Mel-
bourne last year, fleshy Alfred felt almost persuaded that
his end was near, and his parting drinks with his pals
were awfully pathetic—full of gin and trouble, as Peggy
Pryde would remark. “ You may never see me again,”
said Alf to one or other. Then he raised his glass to his
pallid lips and drank to his dear departing self in solemn
silence. That’s the worst of getting into a large way of
business as a bookmaker. Your big banking account and
expensive knowledge of dead ’uns makes you afraid of
being cut down like a flower at any minute.
* * i *
Jockey Durston was scarcely laid under the turf
when the crack lightweight, D. Cook, received terrible,
probably fatal, injuries in the smash-up at Randwick on
Saturday, when five horses played sacks-on-the-mill under
the very nose of the grandstand. At the inquest on
Somerville, killed upon Sydney Cricket Ground while
cycle-racing, the jury did not go deeply into the question
of the safety of the track, nor, probably, will they dive
deep to discover, should Cook succumb, whether even the
lordly Randwick course can accommodate with safety 34
horses in a race. Yet a whole regiment of police is
present to see that no nose-blood is drawn at a spar.
• • • •
Wait-a-Bit, Cocos and Woodlark have boss
chances for the Australian Cup on paper.
* * * *
Geo. Gray has turned his chair round to see if
he can improve his luck. That is to say, he has removed
George Frederick and other costly gee-gees from Red-
fearn’s stable to the care of Harry Bellamy, who learned
his business as trainer in the employ of the Millers. A
sanguine owner like Gray couldn’t have a better adviser
than the typically cool Bellamy.
• * • •
W. R. Wilson states that Symmetry, in the
opinion of the stable, is only a speedy sprinter. And echo
answers—” Why, O why was the mare entered for the 2J-
mile Australian Cup ? ”
* * * *
Touching the victory of Homespun in the
Hunters’ Flat Race at Williamstown, last Thursday, it
was stated in Melb. Age that Mr. Albert Miller, not hav-
ing been able to give the hollow-backed gelding a satis-
factory trial, didn’t put a sixpence on. And yet this
scribe fancies that Mr. M., who was not in evidence at
the time, won £l5O at the risk of a modest “ tenner.”
True, he didn’t fancy Homespun, which accounted for
the small books laying as much as 15 to 1, but if he had
been sweet on Homespun he would have needed to out-
lay £3O to win the same amount. Snapshot, winner of
the Anniversary Stakes at the same meeting, is said to
have gone so badly in his work beforehand that the
owner, or owners, were astonished to see him get home,
although he started at B’s—in the newspaper reports.
* * * •
Mr. “ Bill” Long won two races at Randwick on
Saturday. Parthian, victor in the Nursery Handicap is
by Mr. Long’s unbeaten champion, Grand Flaneur, from
Archeress, and may later on revive some of the stable
glories. The other win was in the High Weight Handicap,
when Beachcomber beat the speedy Gozo mare, Dozon, in
1.14 J.
• * • *
Randwick, as usual, was not happy in its
solitary selection of The Barber as an example of incon-
sistent running. On Thursday The Barber ran nowhere
in the Hurdles and on Saturday won the second Hurdle
Race hands down. But why The Barber should have
been picked upon as the only culprit is one of those
things the S.T.C. alone can understand.
* * * *
There were 12 entries for the All comers’ Scull-
ing Handicap, at the Anniversary (Sydney) Regatta, for a
£5 ss. prize, which looks as if the old sport only wants a
little encouragement to make it boom again. There were
some fine specimens of men amongst them, the winner
turning up in W. Fisher, lOsec. behind. All the com-
petitors pulled in stump-outriggers, the style of craft
rowed by the “ colonials ” in England, and about the
merits of which the English waterman have grave
doubts. But then the Britishers don’t take kindly to the
Australian starting-gate, which started 30-odd horses at
Randwick on Saturday in an unbroken line. “ Colonials ”
have proved the stump-outrigger to be as great a success
as their horse-barrier. And the Englishers will find it
out later on.
The new course for the rowing races, from
Bradley’s to the High-street wharf, was an improvement,
but the quality of the amateur rowing showed sad
decadence. The Senior Fours, erstwhile the rowing
event of the year, fell through for want of entries. North
Shore R.C. won the Maiden Fours, and Balmain R.C.
beat two other crews in the Senior Fours. The contest
to the bitter end which used to take place 20 odd years
ago between the Sydney and Mercantile R.C.’s at the
premier regatta of the year is a thing of the past.
The sailing races of Sydney Anniversary
Regatta were of an interprovincial nature, as no less than
13 boats hailing from Brisbane (which did so well against
Sydney boats last year) were completely beaten off, failing
to secure a place in either the 22ft. or 18ft. classes. Effie,
with “Nick ” Johnson at the tiller, proved her title to the
championship of the 22-footers by completely outsailing
her field, and Federal, Stella and Australian, all of
Sydney, finished in the order named for the 18-footers.
The trueness of this sailing was proved on Saturday last
in the 18ft. challenge race in connection with the inter-
provincial carnival, when Federal and Stella again ran first
and second.
* * * *
The biggest item of the Sydney Sailing Carnival
was sailed last Monday afternoon, when the three Sydney
22-footers, Effie, Keribee, and Plover, sailed for the 22ft.
championship against three Queenslanders, Stanley, Vic-
toria, and Caneebie. Effie again outsailed her opponents
and won easily, the three Sydney boats finishing in front
of the Bananalanders. Joe Donnelly had luck in the
Plover winning her first face, as Mr. Sam. Hordern had
agreed to give an increased price for her if successful in
her maiden effort. Repeated trials have since shown that
last year’s champion, the Effie, still holds pride of place.
• * * *
The Cyclists’ Touring Union of England has
appointed a “ consul ”at Sydney. Presumably the gen-
tleman will wear a cocked-hat and a sword and have
entrSe at Govt. House levies, or know the reason why.
* * * *
The cyclist is no respecter of persons. Gov.
Brassey and Premier Turner were standing at the edge of
the banked track in Melb. Exhibition Ground during the
A.N.A. wheel-race. A sprinter wishing to get through
had taken the high ground, and seeing their toes and—er
waistcoats where his wheel and arms would be, yelled
out, “ Get out of that, you fat old colonials.” The last
word is reported differently by the phonograph. There
was a howl of disgust, reproof, wonder, and laughter
mixed, but the cyclist says he doesn’t “ care a ball-bear-
ing if it was the Prince of Wales ; the cows want to be
taught sense. They have no more sense than a rabbit.”
* * • •
The soldier of Pompeii was not a circumstance
to Tom Coomber, clerk of the course at Vic. League of
Wheelmen’s sports, whose Draconian rule has frequently
been resented by visitors to the arena at cycle meetings.
Coomber assumed his old position at Melb. Exhibition
track on Foundation Day, and, during the afternoon, a
select coterie of the Naicest, headed by Gov. Brassey,
Mayor M'Eacharn, and others, was led on the sward by a
kow-towing committee of the A.N.A. As they halted in
the middle of the green a heat was about to start, and
the ever-vigilant Coomber came forward. “ You
gentlemen will have to. sit down,” he remarked,
glaring at Her Majesty’s representatives with a
steely eye, and, as the A.N.A. officials shook with
fear and awaited a thunderbolt from Heaven, the clerk of
the course added, in explanation : “ The public have paid
to see the race, and they can’t see through you ! ” The
explanation was even more fierce than the demand, and
Uncle Tom sank with a dull sickening thud to the ground,
from which position he and the rest of the suite viewed
the race. All the rest of the afternoon the ruler of Vic.
strolled round the Exhibition building with two sus-
picious-looking green spots on the knees of his grey tweed
pants.
• * * *
The cycling at the A.N.A. celebration at Melb.
goes, firstly, to show what a near thing Wren Matthews
was to the last Austral ; and, to prove that the
half-caste youth, Gordon, is the coming man. Matthews
won his £250 in the big race in a style that made one
marvel that he did not carry off the Austral, and it was
apparently only the unknown powers of the big Finnegan
and his assistant pacers that stopped the speedy young-
ster from getting up. Gordon it was who won the
League Cup of £5O on Saturday week, and he followed
up this victory with another of £4O at the A.N.A. meet-
ing. Gordon has good staying powers, a rattling finish
that leaves men—now reckoned better—standing, and he
has lots of pluck to carry him through.
» * * m
At the Police Club (Syd.) Swimming Carnival
F. Lane won the 300yds. championship in 3min. 51sec. ;
but it is a pity he did not go the distance all out, for as
he finished easily in 3.51, he might have knocked big
holes in the records. Bishop, who beat Lane in the
100yds. at Bathurst, was too unwell to start.
* * * *
The two old-timers, Dooley and Fogarty, met
up Coolgardie way recently, when Michael knocked James
out in a couple of rounds. Fogarty used to have a “ dirty
right ” in the old White Horse days, provided he could
get close to his opponent. Fogarty’s chief hit was a half-
arm blow, which he got on to C. Dunn in two matches,
one breaking his jaw, and the other knocking him in-
sensible. Dooley’s long left jabs would hold Fogarty
safe. Fogarty fought Choynski in the old Darlinghurst
Hall, Sydney, but after Choynski had dropped a few of
his piston-rod lefts on to Fogarty’s nose the latter coolly
pulled off the gloves, and said it was no use standing up
to be chopped to pieces.
* * * *
The little darkie, Jerry Marshall, who made
such a good mill with Griffo years ago at Darlinghurst
Hall, Sydney, beat Billy Needham at N.Y. last Nov.
Marshall was a great disappointment to Australians by
his poor showing in the States. After his Sydney per-
formances, it was expected he would more than hold his
own with the best at his weight in America, but he was
beaten by everybody. Pluto, the clever colored lad who
went to Klondyke last year, must now be back in the
States, as a Yankee paper lately said he was on the look-
out for a match in N.Y. How clever Pluto was may be
gauged from the fact that he fought three draws with
Griffo, twice with gloves and once with knuckles. Pluto
is a stead}’, shrewd little fellow, and, as he has never
knocked himself about, should still be able to hold the
Australian end up. And Australia is surely in want of a
champion. A few years back she could name one in
every class, but to-day her fighters are all has-beens—bar
Fitzsimmons, and it remains to be seen if he has not
earned a place in the list.
• • * *
George Hamilton, the 18-year-old Sydney boy,
who won the five-mile amateur championship recently,
has every chance of being selected to represent Australia
in the World’s Championships, to be held at Montreal,
Canada. Hamilton has a wonderful jump, and, as Bill
Martin puts it, “gives his opponent several lengths of
* Red Bird tail ’ to play with.”*
■*» * *
It having come to the ears of the Dunlop Tyre
Co. that many cyclists are under the impression that a
number of cycle agents hold stocks of the ’99 Multiflex
Dunlop Tyre," but refrain from selling the same owing to
their trying to work off their old stock first, the company
therefore desire to notify the riders of their tyres that
the new Australian ’99 tyre will not be placed on the
market until the end of February. By this time, the
company expect to be able to supply the demand for the
new tyre, which will be found the tyre par excellence for
all purposes, the improvements making it so simple to
handle that the merest tyro will be able to detach and
replace the new Muliflex Dunlop with the greatest of
ease.*
* * * *
In view of the smashings-up in all sorts of sport
lately, it seemed only natural that cricket should get its
share on Saturday, when young Norman Turnbull fell
whilst chasing a ball, terribly shattering his left arm.
Mr. Norman W. Turnbull, young Turnbull’s father, one of
the most widely-known men in N.S.W., is of Herculean
physique, and a decade or more ago was a champion
amateur weight-lifter and wrestler and an authority
generally on athletics. Young Turnbull is a splendidly-
grown lad and promises to develop the physique of the
old man. Fears are entertained that amputation will be
necessary.
* * * •
Strong-man Sampson’s feats pale before the pro-
posal made some years ago by. “ Mons.” Victor Becker,
during the tug-of-war contests in the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion-building. Annoyed at a decision given against the
French team, which he had been coaching, he offered to
pull, single-handed, against the entire assemblage—“one
down, t’other come on.”
* * * •
The once-famous Surrey wicket-keeper, Pooley,
who played in Australia, some years ago, is now a pauper
inmate "of Lambeth Workhouse. But it must be ad-
mitted that poor Pooley didn’t go the right way to get
himself provided for in his old age.
T. Drew, S.A.’s sprightliest lacrosseur—and
lacrosse has “caught-on ” more in Adelaide than in any
other Australasian city—goes over to Melbourne this
month to continue his medical course, which cannot now
be completed in his home town. Drew was tried last
season in the interprovincial cricket games, too, with
but moderate success. He is a son of a Broken Hill early-
bird.
• * • • •
N.S.W. Agricultural Society cuts up .£5O into
four prizes of 1:20, £l5, £lO, and £5 for a wood-chopping
contest at its Easter show.
* * ** *
Tom Cannon went under, recently, in America,
to one Tom Jenkins. Cannon then offered to Grseco-
Romanise any man in America for £5O a side. It is 12
years or more since Cannon was in Sydney, so he must now
be getting well into years. Yankeeland is now bristling
with terrible Turks and gruesome Greeks, herculean fel-
lows who are carrying all before them, so old Tom is not
likely to be long getting a match.
* * » *
Charlie Bannerman’s idea of doing away with
the follow-on-rule altogether is deserving of consideration.
The rule was made at ’Ome where matches have to be
finished in three days. Out here all big matches can be
prolonged till the crack of doom, and it is manifestly un-
fair to handicap a successful first innings.
* * * *
“ Melb. Abgus has the gall to quote this from a
London paper “ Every racing man would welcome the
starting-machine, excepting, perhaps, those whose path
on the turf is a crooked one. As they at present
start, jockeys not on the job can get away pretty much
where they like and do what they like in the early part of
a race without the public knowing whether a bad start or
anything unusual has brought about their favorite’s
defeat ; but with a starting-machine there would be no
half-measures. If they did not try to get off they would
be left a sufficient distance that everyone could see, and
next time the horse ran it would not benefit much by
previous trickery.” Now Australia has had three or four
years’ experience of the starting-machine, and during
that time the paths of the crooked ones have undoubtedly
grown crookeder than ever. The public here see jockeys
getting away badly and doing just what they like in the
earlier part of a race ; they see the “form” of horses
improving about 3st. within the space of a week—and
what happens ? Nothing. The excuse for an animal’s
defeat is “ bad start ” more often than not, and consider-
ing that the stewards never charge a jockey with having
done pretty much as he liked to avoid getting away, the
public would like to know where the virtue of the start-
ing-machine comes in.
6 m m m *
“P.A.” : Had often heard of fish being caught
by hand, but couldn’t believe it. Was out off Eden lately,
and couldn’t get a line to bottom for leather-jackets ; but,
by drawing line up slowly, induced them to follow bait to
where the boatman was holding over a piece of ripe shark.
They gathered thick round this, and he was able to put
about 50 in the boat with his hand in a few'minutes.
Their rough skin gives good grip.
* * * *
The first electrical auto car has appeared in
Melbourne —a buggy-like arrangement, on four pneu-
matic-tyred wheels, "somewhat larger than bike wheels.
It travels easily at about 10 miles an hour, and, so far, has
not caused any undue excitement among local horses.
It is the breeders that do the shying.
• • » *
There’s a ring of manliness in the confession of
the Queensland jockey arrested for stealing a racehorse.
Drink was driving him to the devil, he said. He thought
that a couple of years in gaol might do him good and
prompt the public to raise a little money for his wife.
• ft * 9
A North Queensland paper publishes a parson’s
tale of a scrum in his corner of the vineyard:. “ It was a
horrible sight. There were two strong men in the best
possible condition, knocking one another about for 15
rounds. And only me there ! Dear me ! They opened
the first round carefully, and Tom missed with his left,
and got Jim a daisy within half a hair of the point. He
went down like a log, but I got him up and fetched him
to with a drop of water from my bag. And he sat on my
knee till time was called. ‘Who called “Time?”’en-
quired a parishioner. ‘ I did,’ replied the parson. 1 You
see, there was no one else. They sparred the next round,
and made it very willing, and I saw that no undue advan-
tage was taken on either side. Jim went down again
from a chop in the wind, and I had to give him my knee.
Ah ! they were doing wrong, but poor Jim was suffering,
and I have always a knee for a sufferer. And I advised
him to work moire about the body, which he did, and he
vanquished Tom in the fifteenth round. And now they
both have faces on them like paint-tins which a cart-
wheel has passed over.”
“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page SI.


The excellent portrait of Mabel Ambrose,
v in a recent Argus, is the first example
f" Australia of process «„rk issued from a rotary
The time is at hand when, as in America,
Foarse-screen process will be used as freely as line
on the rotary machine.
Her Majesty the Queen, says Melbourne
Argus, always gives simple presents, “as she
Ahnrouehly understands that the value of a gift
Henends, not on the gift, but the giver, and has
1 vavs set her face against all ostentation in
nreserit-giving.” It is not thought necessary to
remark that H.M.’s rule doesn t work both ways
_I s he will accept any gift however costly.
More Sydney Telegraph (leading article of
January 30)
The other colonies have not said “no to anything;
New South Wales has. They accepted the Convention
■ill without comment of any kind; New South Wales
rejected it, with distinct comment upon the unsuitability
of some of its provisions.
Same old lie ! Also same old liar ! ButN.S.W.’s
unqualified acceptance of the Convention Bill by
53G7 majority stands on record just the same, and
the D T. struggles to put back the universe and
make it a minority all to no purpose.
There is no lese majeste about this, any-
how When the Kaiser was nearing Berlin, en
route from Jerusalem, etc., the Berlin leaders of
finance and stock-exchange magnates desired to
solid a deputation to welcome their Wilful Wil-
liam. But the authorities thought differently;
said they—“ Indeed no; our beloved monarch, on
his return, shall at least have a decent home-
welcoming. But were you gentlemen to be first
to meet him at the city gate, the first glimpse of
you would cause him to fancy he had taken the
wrong turning and was again entering Jerusalem.”
And then the gentleman, whose surnames ended
mostly in stein, sadly returned to their money-
spinning.
After the somewhat irreverent paragraph
in another column referring to Mr. E. J. H.
Knapp’s ca didature for the Governorship of
Norfolk Island had gone to press, it was printed
in the Sydney evening papers that Mr.
Knapp, while suffering from mental depres-
sion, had attempted suicide with a razor
and was not expected to live. The Bulle-
tin is sorry, for it only wanted to get rid of poor
Knapp in his epistolatory capacity, and did not
wish him to die, but only to go to Norfolk Island.
Many others will also much regret his terrible
misfortune, for the old blue-ribbon bachelor is
generally recognised as a man who means well and
has lived a life of self-sacrifice.
Henry C. Cargill, the talented writer who
for years, with characteristic frar ‘ss, let himself
be known to old-time Bulletin readers as “ The
Dipsomaniac,” is dead at the age of 40 or there-
abouts. There are many pressmen who though
made of mere Philistine stuff take to themselves
the title of “ Bohemian,” but not of these was he
who has passed away. Never did there live a man
batter fitted by genial recklessness and erratic
talent to , typify the world of which Henri
Miirger wrote. Few more talented journalists
have adorned the Australian press, nor, when
temporarily free from the invincible thraldom
against which he so often and desperately strove,
was there ever a more industrious or honorable man.
The deceased, who passed away in Brisbane hos-
pital, an hour or two after he had been admitted,
on breaking a blood-vessel, leaves a wife but no
family.
Recent British shipping item : “ Port-
madoc.—The Twelve Apostles went ashore at
Hell’s Mouth and became a total wreck. Crew
saved.”
The one redeeming feature of the Seven
Hills (N.S. W.) outrage is the action of the criminal
in poisoning himself. Few such atrocious ruffians
have the decency to snuff themselves out, and let
society utterly forget them within 48 hours of the
inquest.
Messrs. Sulman and Power to The Bul-
letin :
Stated (“ Woman’s Letter,” B. 21/l/’99) that the
Walker Convalescent Hospital was designed by the late
Col. Rowe. As the work was entirely designed and
carried out by us, we shall be obliged if you will insert
this correction.
It much surprised people to read that the
estate of the late Q. Premier Byrnes 'had been
sworn for probate at under <£20,000, the impression
having somehow got abroad that deceased was
not possessed of as many shillings, and that the
Treasury was to be appealed to on behalf of his
relatives.
At the Gatton inquest suspect Burgess
when asked if he had ever been “in trouble,”
drily replied that he had “never been out of it.”
A Yankee sailor of 35 is a man who may reason-
ably be expected to have seen some “life.” Under
the heading “peculiar marks” in the discharge-
sheet Burgess is described as having old wounds
on his head, his arms, his back, his chest, his legs
and other parts of his body, evidence of the knives
he has run up against. Also he has a bullet-
wound in his right shoulder and another in his left
wrist. “Never been out of it.”
Sydney Morning Herald actually pub-
lished a leading article, the other day, to demon-
strate that the new century commences at the
beginning of 1900, instead of the beginning of
1901. The Herald’s argument
It seems inconceivable that any doubt could attach to
the solution of what appears one of the simplest of all
possible arithmetical questions. What do we mean by a
century? We mean merely a hundred years. In the
present case, having in view the event from which the
computation is taken, we mean a hundred birthdays. It
means this and it means no more. Just as a man or an
era is one year old on the first birthday reached, so is he
or it 10 years old on reaching the tenth birthday, and 100
years old on reaching the hundredth. The year, the
decade, and the century are complete when the first, the
tenth, or the hundredth anniversary is reached. It
is impossible to enter into the frame of mind of
those who argue that there must be a hundred
years and one year more to complete the cen-
tury. To the passenger from Sydney to Melbourne
the moment he reaches the hundredth mile-post on his
journey his f.rst century of miles is complete, and he has
not yet to travel eight furlongs to accomplish the number.
We are bound to suppose that those who maintain that
after the hundredth anniversary or the hundredth mile-
post is reached a year or a mile has still to be traversed
have some principle of numeration in their minds, but
we must confess that we are unable to understand what
it can be. . . . Clearly the century is complete at the end
of 1899.
And yet as you go from Sydney to Melbourne, or
from any place to somewhere, you don’t come to
the hundredth mile-post till you have got to the
end of the hundredth mile, and consequently you
don’t come to the 1900th mile-post or birthday or
anniversary till you have got to the end of the
1900th mile, or year, or whatever it is. Think of
the united intellect of the Herald being unable
to see a little thing like that!
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Seven or eight weeks ago, Count Thun,
Premier of Austria, declared in the Reichsrath,
apropos of complaints that Germany was expelling
Austrian subjects, that every country had an
“ undisputed right ” to expel aliens who were con-
sidered “ undesirable,” and that the action of
Germany was neither a breach of international
law nor of treaty obligations. Now he is trying
to gammon Salisbury that a British colony has no
such right. And Premier Seddon simply winks
tbe other eve.
WHAT WE SAY THEY’LL DO
THEY DO DO . . .
In the final of the £4OO Austral
Wheel Race, the greatest of atl Cycling
events, for which 187 of the world's finest riders
accepted, the 16 winners of heats started on
Saturday last. Of these 16, 7 were mounted on
English-made machines, 5 on Colonial-made
machines, 2 on American machines, and 2 on the
Easy-Running Canadian Massey-Harris. In
the 11 heats, bi-
every kind made
country in the
The result of this
perfection in
ness of propul-
the 2 Mas-
Bicycles
Ist and 2nd.
Meeting-, Massey
won not only the
Wheel Race, but
oftheClassic
cycles of almost
in almost every
world were used.
I exacting test of
'quality and easi-
sion resulted in
sey-Harris
finishing
At the Austral
• Harris riders
Great Austral
3 out Of S
Austral
International Scratch Races,
including the Austral Derby, in all of
which they secured world’s records,
and earned £472 lOs. prize money,
more by £lO3 10s. than half of all offered.
We have all along claimed for Massey-Harris
Bicycles that “ They Run Easy and Keep Run-
ning Easy.” What we say they’ll do they do do.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street. Melbourne
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
.. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment ..
also,
‘ Perfect/ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank Grimley
It'
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THU « ICUs< U.\T,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Klhs’ Kin “•street t'otlee Palace, ” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
DON’T BUY A GUN unless you first look at the
name, or (should you happen to survive the first shot)
you will regret it. GENUINE GREENER GUNS
can be obtained from all principal dealers in Australia.
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to Vic. Rep.,
O. W, BUCKLAND, 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melb.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
t T. F, McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 87 MARKET STREET, SYDN EY
BICYCLES
• • FOR . •
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden City’
Wheel is the Best "Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
{
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
THE ’99
The opening of the New Season has brought with it some important changes in last year's models , and especially so in the
11 Austral Swift f a light machine which may be called a Road Racer , or Light Roadster, according to fancy. The history of
the “Austral Swift ” is shortly this: —
% .
Since the commencement of what we may call the “ Swift Boom,” the Australian public have consistently shown some unwillingness to accept the
recognised English models without some modification, and the modifications called for have almost invariably tended in one direction. A careful study of
the question led us to the conclusion that it would be more satisfactory to instruct the makers in Coventry what alterations were necessary to meet Australian
views, and to ship direct the perfected machine which we called the “ Austral Swift.”
Before going into detail, it may be as well to say that the chief feature aimed at in the “ Austral Swift ”is STYLE. This we insisted upon, as we have
found it waste of time to lay any model before the Australian public that did not at first glance claim to be STYLISH. The fact that the “ Austral Swift ”
is the most stylish machine ever seen in Australia proves to us that the Swift Coventry Company have carried out the instructions we gave them both in
letter and spirit, and the first consignment we are now unpacking satisfies us that the whole of the order is to be up to sample. Among the leading
features of the new machine we may mention the following :
A SHORT HEAD, assuring rigidity and strength.
. LARGE HUBS for smoother running.
PERFECT SIMPLICITY in pedal attachments, the pedal pins being screwed into the cranks with left and right threads.
BIG GEAR WHEELS for easier propulsion.
BROOK’S SADDLES as per general desire.
PERFECT FINISH in every part of the machine.
Another feature —and an important one, too—is the price, and here again we have endeavored to meet the wishes of our Patrons,
the “AUSTRAL SWIFT ”is £2O. Terms : £2l for six months’, and £22 for twelve months’, extension.
The Cash Price of
SOLE AGENTS for “SWIFT” CYCLES fitted with DUNLOP TYRES:
The Austral Cycle Agency Limited,
-SV-V-. ■ - -
391 Georg*e Street, Sydney;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, «£e. &c.


Are You
Poisoning
Yourself ?
You might make a single meal of rich pies
and cakes, and not mind it. But you could
not live on these all the time without ruining
your digestion.
Yet, week after week and month after
month, you allow your brain and nerves to be
fed with impure blood.
The general debility, thin blood, pale
cheeks, nervousness, loss of appetite and
depression of spirits, are loud warnings from
nature. Your nervous system is weakening.
Before the ruin comes take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
It removes the poisons from the blood, and
thus removes the cause of all your trouble.
It aids the digestion, strengthens the nerves
and supplies the body with rich, red blood.
For constipation take Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly and surely cure. Take them with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
A Stitch in Time Saves Mine!
This inducement is Offered You to know the
TIME to STITCH !
--- WATCH THIS ---
The British Watch Co.,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
every' household its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
rings, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle :
W*T* H T* E T* M *
CONDITION: Send your answer with astamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of our Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch. aw,/)
Address-THE MANAGER, PRICE &tf ; O.
British Watch Company,
George Street,, Sydney.
<*•
o
ss:
ip
OLD
RMS
ic
SUNBU
fing
9
HA
’ID
r
V
One.
Y
J^ETORS
DA. j. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as-likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Rev. E. D. Madgwick, who died at Cook’s
River, near Sydney, a few days ago, was known
all over Australia, but especially in Queensland
and N.S.W., as the most valiant-tongued Orange-
man of the day. Unlike the political Orangeman
who fire-eats for votes, Madgwick sincerely belie ved
Orangeism to be a divinely-revealed religion which
men should fight and die for. He was born in
England and brought up on the Hunter River.
He ministered as a Wesleyan in Queensland (no
■real all-wool Anglican clergyman ever worriesabout
Orangeism) and as a C.E. about Sydney, but the
country knew him best for his lava oratory on the
color question.
Sands and M‘Dougall have been prompt as
usual in issuing their Melbourne Directory for the
year. This is the 43rd Melb. directory published
by the old firm, and the mass of information con-
tained therein seems almost too large to talk
abouL The name of every householder within
10 miles of the G.P.O. is duly recorded ; all empty
houses are marked vacant in the book ; also, the
map of Melb. and suburbs has been carefully
brought up to date. Messrs. Sands and Mac.
are making a specialty of pictorial printing in
three colors, and a specimen picture, enclosed in
the Directory, gives a touch of sentiment to that
otherwise severely practical volume.
Another Northern correspondent to The
Bulletin :
A careful scanning of the Q. political barometer strongly
indicates a further lease of power to the gang-in-posses-
sion after the coming general elections. Of the 72 sitting
members, the seats of some dozen only are seriously
threatened, and at time of wilting all the Ministers are a
“ certainty.” The Dickson crowd will probably lose two
or, at the most, three followers ; the Labor-party get a
couple, or less ; and the somewhat tired Drake will get a
joint or two more in his “tail.” Practically, it will be
“as you were.” Several causes may be given for this
truly dreadful state of affairs —(1) the clever manipulation
of the Election Act by the Buicockers ; (2) the supine
attitude of the Drake crowd, and its failure so far to
put a programme before the electors ; (3) the unworkable
41-plank platform of Glassev and co., of which they
refuse to abate a shaving ; and, lastly, that tired feeling
which permeates all things political and social in this
sluggish piebald land.
zfkin Wi6ea4e4.
j# f 9letH WkeoOery
”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.. ,
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir,—For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne ” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene,”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “ Cum Grano Solis,” and was in-
clined not to use it ; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured ;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all mv friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligomoliiene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAYS
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitas,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRYMALYON,
Manufa during Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable ’from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sa. aixcl 7s. 6cl. Eacli.
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, Sydney.
Positively the Best Dressing
pn
pfILENE
o
w
n
(ML.
*5
JaCiSJhV: <S=^vo
FOR
PRES ERVINS 8c BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAELENE”
WORLD RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes. Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” CO.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W.C.
6/6 tSF* A WATCH and CHAIN for 6s. 6d•
To every purchaser
of one of our 2s. 6d.
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent’s
Curb) we will pre-
sent on payment of
4s. extra an OPEN-
FACE KEYLESS
WATCH (as illu-
strated), which we
guarantee. There
are no conditions or
fruessing- about this
watch. We send
the watch and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of
postal note for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage. We make this
extraordinary offer merely to circulate our price-list, and
will send, as a FREE GIFT, a Beautiful Pendant Charm
Penknife to hang on the Watch Chain. Mention The
Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
fringes,
KfiTur.il Curly, from 3/8 each.
PI,AITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, f>/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ye per oz.
We are the cheapeStln Aus-
tralia for all flair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W„ H. Wigzsll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List-
Prompt attcntion'given to Country Orders.
12-
T*OOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated v- : th more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ;by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by in-. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
Tiie Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
lleptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is: Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
JHow to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais,'faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB, BOEEBT BEAB,
Claeap Bools Depo ti
16 PARK STREET, SIDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRAKTT OF AFFOIUTMEKTT TO “TUB QXJEEKT.’
Jk& k for
Wbi&ky aijd
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
Braijdr/ aijd
‘Scb^cppc’
SO DA WATER, &c-
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Xllawarra),
SY33NEY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS,
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
psig '#s
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAVAREA’j
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of G3LL, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BiILLIJN
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wbinbkrg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


H err RaSSrgtiSSco’S Alfaligc Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever,
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
a Few of Them.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
cn press which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
f“ ]ly ’ A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir—l lhink.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of mv friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERE, RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin- —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing'
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fid.es of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydnej'.—“Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir, —Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN'S
IDission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, ancj continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Paiisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Dale Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons tha t his
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
&50 REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Register e ci).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press. Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“ H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
APVK€ FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(begistkkkd.)
HERE RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Oentur.v, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Alfections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability
no matter how caused or of how long- sianding.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-<.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment —Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy' for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINB VITALITY PIIAS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Byesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: - 54*7 Georg*e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BRISBANE ISO Queen-street (near Creek-street)
Melbourne"" 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)*
ADELAIDE 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel)
IST.Z, WELLINGTON „ 91 Lamb ton Quay
PERTH, W. A. H ay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COQLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindeH's, Jeweller)
EANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street’


“ Gr.F. ” to The Bulletin :
Re your recent comment on Maoriland R.O. Bishop
Grimes. I think there must be somemistake about his
having said that “one of his missionaries went on one
"'ccasion nearly 400 miles to irive the last sacrament to a
,<tan who had not seen a priest for 40 years.” He must
have meant that the dying sinner had not for that time
seen a priest officially as an absolver of sins. I’m a heretic
myself, but have observed in many countries the earnest-
ness with which the self-sacrificing-R.C. cleric endeavours
to brighten the last hours of a repenl it sinner. In the
R.C. religion itself lies the source of the universal spirit
of self-sacrifice on the part of the priests. It is not de-
pendent upon the disposition, or left to the vagaries of
any individual priest.
The Boulli Tin’s advice to its readers—
don’t go to a draper’s shop to look for iron-
mongery, and don’t go to the ironmonger’s store
to order your clothing; but go direct to McLean
Bros, and Rigg Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney, for
cutlery, electro-plate, tools, guns, cartridges—in
fact, every line in hardware.*
Beautiful item from Adelaide :
At the Aug. sittings of the Criminal Court, John Holt
was sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment for having
garroted John Odea, who said he had no doubt the
prisoner was one of the three men who assaulted him at
night time. Holt, in vehement language, protested his
innocence, nevertheless he was sentenced and the Judge
said he narrowly escaped a whipping. Recently two men
who three months later were sentenced for burglary, con-
fessed that it was they who had attacked Odea. Inquiries
are being made, but the police are inclined to believe that
the story has been made up by the three men, who are
confined in the Stockade together.
Of course the police are much more inclined to
think the story made up than that they captured
the wrong man and got him seven years. Any
two men would naturally be so anxious to get
seven years, with a chance of a flogging as well,
that they would make up a little thing like that.
Edward Dyson’s “Below and On Top”—
which contains all his best Australian stories
and many others nearly as good—is selling like
the proverbial ripe cherries. A first edition of
2000 was soon cleared out, and the demand con-
tinues, and grows, throughout Australia and in
Maoriland. The book promises to become a per-
manent institution. “ Below and On Top ” is
published at 2s. 6d. in paper wrapper; 3s. 6d.
neatly bound in red cloth. Messrs. Geo. Robert-
son & Co., who are about to place this budget of
Dyson’s yarns on the London market, expect it to
“go big ” in Hingland.*
During the month of last Sept, the New
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
supplied the German warship Falke with 6000
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use on the >
voyage to Samoa and Apia. During the vessel’s
stay in our harbor 600 gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute to the
excellence of the local lager comes from the Ger-
man .warship Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart
bottles of Sydney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk lager daily.
Both ships’ crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney lager. As the firemen,
officers and crews come from the country that has
always been famous for lager production, it is
clear that the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
deserves all that has been said by every con-
noisseur in favor of its lager.*
Prevention of Seasickness. —The extra-
ordinary nature of the new remedy is the subject
of a letter from Mr. G. Cunningham, of Auckland
(N.Z.). He writes :“ 1 was very pleased with the
result of the * Seajoi ’ I purchased from you.
I have done a lot of travelling, but this trip
is the first I have enjoyed; on all former occa-
sions I have been a martyr to seasickness.”
“Seajoi ”.is sold by Albert Sharp, 257 George-st.,
nearly opposite Bridge-st., Sydney.*
In Sydney a few days ago a young man
was killed through the overcrowding of one of the
State-owned tramcars —he was hanging on to the
footboard when a motor on the other line struck
him. The State fines ’bus-owners and ferry
steamboat captains for overcrowding ; what does
it think of itself in the same circumstances ? Of
course it is no use for the State to fine itself in
the usual way—in other words, to indignantly
order itself to forfeit to itself a sum of money ;
but it might do some good if it fined the Railway
Commissioners and gave the money to the hospi-
tals, or to those dependent on the deceased. The
State makes a good thing out of overcrowding.
It gets extra revenue out of its trams by its over-
crowding, and it also gets the fines that are levied
on other people who commit the same offence.
The man who knows his wav about in this
hard, cold, sinful world always drinks Watson’s
Whisky and Sazerac Brandy. They put soul and
energy into him, and make this ancient and
rather battered globe seem young again ; and the
faded gum-tree is bright to look upon after them,
and the brown paper that blows through the
streets at the tail of the southerly buster
is less intolerable. Watson’s Whisky is an
old-established drink that is founded on
a rock ; it is mild and rich and rare
and the fierce blast of competition blows on it in
vain. Sazerac brandy is still older ; the sunshine
that shone on the grapes of France in the days of
the Buonapartes is bottled up in it ; also, it is as
pure as the new snowball, and has a flavor which
is Paradise condensed. And the only trouble is
that man hasn’t two mouths so that he can drink
both of them at once.*
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&e., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
WnirM A"W Chemist to the Governor,
JN i-i W ITliiil , 78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
ss.
ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
In Goods You Can Select Yourself.
A SENSATIONAL OFFER.
In order to introduce the “MARVEL” Solid Silver
Watches (for which we are Sole Agents), and cause the
quality and value of our goods in general to be recognised,
we make this MARVELLOUS offer. The “MARVEL”
Watch is solid Silver, engine-turned, f-plate movement,
patent regulator, fully jewelled, crystal glass, seconds
hand, enamelled dial, perfect timekeeper and GUARAN-
TEED, sold retail for £2 2s. ; but we will send either
Gent’s Keyless or Ladies’ Regd., post-paid any colony, for
One Guinea. And with same our latest Illustrated Cata-
logue, from which you may select goods to the value of
55., and on receipt of your order we will send goods
selected without any extra payment. Don’t waste your
Time and Money in guessing-competitions, but send
P.-note or money order for 451 Is., which pays for the
Watch, postage, and the ss. worth of Goods to be selected
by yourself. NO RISK, because, if you are not fully
satisfied, we hereby guarantee to return money in full.
H. POTIER & CO., Importers,
24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Mrs. Em
JLYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Mai/vern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing ior the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean. Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. 1 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD,, .
16, Bevis Marks, T t ondon, England.
Amusements.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUMI
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
CALLAGHAN. Wanted the address of
Andrew Callaghan, or Brothers of the late
Eugene Callaghan. Address—E. Ryan, Digger’s
Arms, Cooktown, Queensland.
HAWES, WILLIAM STIBBS, write at
onee to Alfred, 79 Leadenhall - street,
London ; call on Robert B. Parry, Esq., 177 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Important.
Death.
CALLAGHAN, on the 25th November, at Gira
goldfield, B. N. Guinea, Eugene Callaghan,
native County Cork, aged 36 years. R.I.P.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST SIX NIGHTS!
of the Comical Spectacular Pantomime, in 3 Acts,
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THURSDAY, Feb. 9, will be presented the famous
Japanese Opera, THE GEISHA ; A Story of a Tea House.
Plan, Nicholson’s. HW PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
rp H EATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY:
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
6th WEEK 6th
LAST 8 NIGHTS! LAST 8 NIGHTS!
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular and Powerful Dramatic Company, in the
Enormously Successful Original Play,
When. London Sleeps.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES —35., 25., Is.
T~ TVO L 1 T HEAT RE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Richards.
First Appearance of the WORLD’S VENTRILOQUIST,
LIEUTENANT FRANK TRAVIS.
Splendid Success ! Continued Brilliant Reception of
Miss Nellie Wilson Miss Ethel Yorke
Miss PEGGY PRYDE.
Mir. FRED. POPLA.R
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE and SAYLES,
CHAS. W. COGILL, WALLACE KING, and our Double
Company. Matinees every Saturday.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Horace Wheatley Cora Oaselli-
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
CONLEY & CAREW. Mr. SYD. DEANE.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
NOTICE.-—On Saturday, Feb. 4, Mr. Richards's Company
will make its first appearance at the BIJOU THEATRE.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee ... Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative for Mr. Brough, Mr. Hamilton.
SATURDAY, 4th FEBRUARY,
The Adventure of Lady Ursula.
PRICES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
Six Nights OnlYi
THE GREAT DREYFUS DRAMA,
ON€ OF TH€ B€ST.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
The circus boom.
HE CIRCUS BOOM.
. .Fitzgerald’s . .
New Cotpbipgd Shows.
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
TWO BTG \
SENSATIONS /
The Tiger and Horse.
The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act.
HII the |||ay from America.
By the last American mail an order came from W. MARTIN, the well-known
Cyclist, for Two Cases of FISHER and CO.’S Famous KOLA NUT TONIC.
Bill wants it for training purposes, having tested its value in Australia.
Mr. W Martin swears by Fisher & Company’s.
He will have no other, however far he has to send for it. (Beware of Imitations).
ALL HOTELS, WITH SODA WATER, 6d. PER GLASS.
TO AVOID RUBBISH, BUY IT BY THE BOTTLE.
2/6 AND 4/6 PER BOTTLE, ALL CHEMISTS.
SPECIAL WARNING teTcOUNTRY RESIDENTS.
When ordering through wine and spirit merchants, brewers, or any wholesale house, be sure that
you receive FISHER and CO.’S. Some merchants buy up cheap imitations at a very low price and
send these to their country clients, charging them full price, and stating that they are just as good as
the original. Beware of these unprincipled men, and insist upon receiving FISHER and CO.’S, not
Fishers, or any colorable imitation. Why not have the GENUINE and ORIGINAL when you pay
for it ?
It is the greatest Appetiser and Pick-me-up in the world. KOLA NUT TONIC, with cold soda-
water, is a most refreshing and beneficial drink in the morning—Cleansing the Palate, Clearing the
Brain, doing the Liver good, and strengthening the whole Nervous System.
Take it regularly every morning with a little soda water, and you”will always be healthy, and live
as long again.
Telephone 2338.
Melbourne, September 24, 1897.
To Messrs. FISHER and CO.
Gentlemen,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent properties of your
FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal success in Australia as
a Cyclist to the use of it. The staying powers it possesses have been well illustrated
in some of the races I have won, and I will still continue to drink it. —Yours, etc.,
W. MARTIN, American Cyclist.
“MIGHTY ALOK ” (Registered) is the same Tonic, the only difference is that it is more
palatable.
PHARMACY: 337 GEORGE-ST., nearly opp. General Post Office.
In the Afternoon-after taking Fisher and Co.’s Mighty “ Alok.”
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar 3XTone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is suet
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purelv
theproductionof thecolony, composed ofwildplants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, tlie
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this letter and Try ,for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co. .
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your .To-ephson’s Oint.
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you fed
disposed. ■
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSONB
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Diver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30,1886.
Baron Berzilius’-
~ Buchu. Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These : Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chromo
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, pausing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness. ’
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-streefe.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Goughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’f WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


Christmas
and New Year’s Presents.
A
Tennis
A. H. MOORE & CO.
416, 418, 4540
Georffe-st., SY D NEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- ~
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- ~
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- ~
Repairs, 6d. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
• 12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATOH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ALSTON'S L a o t n ent
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line ; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is a FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me jour requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Q ueen ’ s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Me ltoo urae.
—Bill H/virii , -iMiiamr "m-a
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. GdL.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS
Books Books
Published Second
~, , ‘ • Price. Hand.
Chambers Encyc-lopoedia, last edition,
10 vols., 1887.: £7 10 0 £2 15 o
picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols 16 16 0 310 0
popular Educator, 6 vols 400 100
The Home Physician ... 2 5 0 017 6
Large Family Bibles, colored plates... 40 0 15 0
bkinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 255.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
The-Soiled Dove : Miss Skittle 3, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art pf Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free ls 6d ; The Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
Aing Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Hazard, Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
P°|tfr ee Is ; Robbery Under Arms, ;by Rolf Boldrewood,
is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
K. W. SKINNER,
Telephone, 3043.
New and Second-hand Book
\rcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Sydney.
there are two worlds.
4,V 1 '" y "lie an ' a World of M nsic. Which do you inhabit?
■ the latter, y..ur world is hot complete without our iiiamond
-Jollection of Songs. As the name implies, it is a musical
J ewel. Songs of all nations and kinds, humor, pathos,sen-
timent and patriotism, boo gems that appeal to all tastes )
m °r Ds AN D music.hound in beautiful covers, witlisewed
J!“ lu e that allows it to open flat on piano or organ. A list
OI them it you sgnd stamp for it. All yours by mail, post
free throughout Australasia for o N LY 2/6, stamps, 2d. extra
Agents wanted Angi.o-Amekican I'ubli.-hino ( 0., Com-
Wrip' 11 <^am * ,ers ’ Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this paper when
T
HE LAST OF SIX.
Price Is; per Post, Is. 3d.
Long ’Un S.A. railway service isn’t
always so very slow. “ Are you in a hurry, sir ?”
asked the guard on S.E. train, of the only passen-
ger. Told him wasn’t particular to a dav or two,
as Govt, was paying exes. “Well, there’s a
kangaroo inside the railway fence, and we’re
going to try and nail him.” But the kangaroo,
when chased, took to the line ; so they sooled the
engine on and had him beaten in the first mile,
when the ’roo stopped and started back again!
Driver reversed engine and off again in pursuit.
And so on, backwards and forrards for half an
hour, till ’roo, getting done-up, tried to cross line,
and was mincemeated by “the catcher.”
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Moekis’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Rots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
Dear Bulletin.— Be ability to bear pain.
All your cited cases are of compulsory endurance.
Let me now mention the Dyaks, who have their
front incisors drilled through and gold or copper
studs inserted, besides undergoing an unmention-
able operation which must necessarily be most
agonising. The suffering entailed in Chinese-girls’
foot-constriction, also, is awful, yet millions sub-
mit to it; and Buddhist priests in China submit
annually to having molten lead dropped upon their
heads as a penance. In China, too, where begging
by a sound adult is punishable, men have bound
copper wire round the ankles till the feet have
mortified and dropped off, and this only that they
might beg a few years till death ensued, preferring
it to a life of toil.— Yangan.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The lending department of our Public
Library (writes a Melb. correspondent), closely
following the traditions of the Turner Govt., is of
i very grasping disposition, chasing the humble
“ sprat ” and the casual “ tray ” with great vigor.
It charges 3d. a day for all books kept over time,
including Sundays and holidays. Recently a
borrower who lost his book duly reported this and
paid the cost of a new copy, but when, a month
later, the lost volume turned up he immediately
handed it to the librarian and suggested that as it
had not yet been replaced his money might be
returned. The official agreed, but set off as contra
a bill of 7s. 6d.—3d. per day fine for 30 days,
j This being more than the cost of the new book
' the borrower “ wasn’t taking any.” He was then
j desired to hand over the lost-and-found volume, it
| being the property of the Library trustees, in con-
sideration of which they would graciously remit
the fine ! It’s not safe to talk to that man about
the financial genius of the Turner Govt.
mROFICAL HELMET, with Special Air
■A Space ;in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Smith i son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6/6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the:trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG- & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
iirWS
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d ; 150,5 s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
£oj [mm
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds , Bruises, etc .
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
V TO ALL
|\DOMESTIC /
a^ANIMALs/jf
/destroys^
noxicus
INSECTS
HARMLESS
•v TO ALL
iSyDOMESTIC A
jfe\ANIMALS/^l
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
S. TO ALL
A
All
NOXICUS
INSECTS
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by ,
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. ' At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct-healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally. -
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
SYDNEY’S MODERN PHARMACY.
MAIL
ORDER
Respectfully
Solicited.
Shots that
Reach the Spot
Clarke’s Blood
Mixture, 28 ;
Eno’s Fruit
Salts, 2/1; Fel-
lows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, 1/11; Pain Killer(Perry Davis’),
1/- ; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. Everything in pro-
portion.
Dr 4 Clarkson’s
Jte-Inviff orator
We still offer
£lOO Reward
for any case
we cannot
cure. This Remedy stops all Ailments
in 24 hours; restores Vigor, cures
DEBILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER,
and all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed to any part of
the Colonies, 7/6 bottle, 3 bottles JEI. Guaranteed to Cure.
Caution to 'Women!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY’S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box ; extra strong, 10s. ; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE HOUSE.
Pyramid
Pile Cure.
THE LATEST SPECIFIC
for Curing
Hemorrhoids
. The most Chronic and
Obstinate character of Inward or Outward YILIZS
yield readily to this improved mode of treatment.
PRICE 3/6 per Box ;or 3 for 10/-; postage 6d. extra.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-R'aje List on application.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE. SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HAVE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
■ sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
a
30 Days' Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Eleclric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS and
other DISEASES i»
all stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a st eady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
*■ NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
| PROVED BY 100 YEARS USE.
8 DRROBERTS’
Ipaad mans Friend
■sbssw
SO/?
Mial MEASEf
AND WOUA/DS
OF £T V£R Y
Descrip T/orf
Sofia™ p,us
*l for SKIN DISEASES
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL DISORDERS OF THE
STOMA CM «£ LIVER .
or ALL CHEMISTS //// X 2/JEACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. BR| DPO R,T
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss— Mastic—without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
limn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
“I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypart.of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
m
The Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
(DEAF)
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
'how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes; Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & GO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 108 pages x illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Missing Friends.
HOLDSWORTH & CO., 101 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
Unparalleled Success.
HOLDSWORTH 'k
HOLDSWORTH |
HOLDS WORTH f
HOLDSWORTH J
The “Sherlock Holmes”
of real life.


STEWART DAWSON * GO.
Everywhere Popular >- -v —Always Reliable—>■ •< —Business Daily Increasing^
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS! Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No. 176 a.
18ct. Gold Band Ring 1 .
21s to £2.
No. 180.
Gent’s 18ct. Gold Ring,
3 fine Diamonds, £2l.
No. 171.
18ct. Gold and fine Opal
King, t’2 10s.
18ct. Gold and fine
Diamond Ring, £25.
No. 46. 18ct. Gold Ring,
5 Diamonds and 5 Rubies,
,£l3 10s.
No. 172. Gent’s 18ct. Gold
and fine Diamond Bing,
£lO.
No. 168 a.
18ct. Gold and Diamond
Ring, £3.
m
.
No. 107. Oct. Gold, Pearl ana Euby Brooch, 17s 6d
No. 102 A.
Oct. Gold and Pearl Brooch, 14s 6d.
No. 110.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, 13s 6d.
No. 113.
9ct. Gold Brooch, Diamond centre,
17s 6d.
No. 196 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15ct., £llss.
Silver, 4s Cd.
No. 194 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 392. Set Studs.
9ct. Gold, 14s ; 15ct., £1 6s.
Silver, 4s.
No. 193 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 12s (id ; 15ct. Gold, £1 ss.
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 198 a. Set Links.
Oct. Gold, 15s 6d ; 15ct., HI 10s.
Silver, 4s.
No. 121 a.
15ct. Gold Bar and Anchor Brooch,
£1 10s.
No. 117.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby Brooch,
£1 7a 6d.
W
No. 129 a. lfct. Gold and finest Opal Brooch, £2 10s.
No. 104 a.
9ct. Gold Trace and Shoe Brooch
11s 6d.
No. 149 a.
15ct. Gold Band Bracelet, set fine Diamond, £5.
No. 134 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Opal Half-Hoop Bracelet, £lO.
No. 141 a.
9ct. Gold, Pearl and Ruby Buckle Bracelet, £2 10s
No. 122 a.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Sexagon Amethyst,
£2 7s 6d.
No. 115 a.
9ct. Gold JBiooch, with Amethyst
Centre and Heart, £1 ss.
No. 1111. 9et. Gold Safety Pin Brooch,
with 15ct. Heart, set with Pearls,
£1 Is.
No. 116 a.
9ct. Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
18s 6d.
No. 124 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 201. Medal.
9ct. Gold .. Jill 1 0
15ct. Gold .. 117 6
Silver .. .. 0 3 6
Ct'-Ci*
m
m
*■&>-
turn.
No. 231.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
3 Diamonds, £i 10s.
No. 263.
Cross.
9ct. Gold
8s 6d
loot.
17s 6d
No. 230.
9ct. Gold Compass, 11 5s
15ct. ~ „ £2los
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 262. Cross.
9ct, Gold .. £llO
16ct. „ .. £1 15 0
No. 231 a.
15et. Gold Locket, set with
3 Diaruonds, 4 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
m
I
m
No. 265. Medal.
9ct. Gold, £1 10s; 15ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
No. 128 a.
15ct. Gold Diamond and ltuby Butterfly
Brooch, Jt'3 7s (id.
No
Fine
Diamond
Others i
New Moon Brooch
stock. £6 10s.
£lO
Ills
10s
mm
3*3
m
zjimiiMimiMi
No. 268 a.
Set of Silver Manicure Instruments in case, 17s 6d.
No. 336. Twelve Silver-plated Tea Spoons and
Tongs in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 1174.
15ct. Gold “ Merry Thought” Brooch,
set Pearls, Sapphire, Ruby and Diamond,
£3 7s Gd.
a
■ m
No. 295. Silver-plated Napkin Rings.
2in ease, 8s 6d ; 4,16 s 6d : 6, £1 ss.
No. 302 a. Two Solid Silver-mounted
Brushes in case, £3 3s.
No. 300 a. Combination Case, containing
best Silver-plated Butter Knife, Jain
Spoon, Pickle Fork, Sugar Tongs, and
Sugar Spoon, £1 ss.
No. 1171. Case, containing- Solid
Silver Shell Butter Dish, with Solid
Silver Knife, £1 ss.
r t.M,
No. 330. Case, containing Solid Silver Sugar
Sifter, Jam Spoon, and Butter. Knife, t'l ss.
No. 126 a. 15ct. Gold and Diamond
Set Swallow Brooch, £4.
sH
No. 319. Silver Button Hooks and Sir
Lift in case, 16s fid.
* W
No. 304. Two Solid Silver Hair Brushes
and Silver-mounted Comb, in case, £4.
NOTE —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which wiU be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


Thousands of Latest Novelties.
REGS
14s.Jid.
OUR LATEST REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
“Solid Gold”
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 6d.
REG*
Without Pendant
138. 60.
Solid
Gold.
Kew Bird Heart
and
Beil Brooch.
Remarkable
Value,
15s. each.
Ms. 6d.
o
o
£
D
P
I
JV
s
&
c
Jl
A
I
N
P
P
JV
D
A
y
T
S
G
O
X
D
P
I
N
5
6
c
H
A
I
y
p
E
N
D
A.
N
T
S
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6/6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ ~ 4/6
„ Heart, 7/6 „ „ 5/6
~ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/
Gold Xmas Bell Brooch, 10s. 6d.
Our New Wild Soar’s TusTe
Brooch,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, 6s. 6d.
Gold-mounted, 14s.
LINKS TO MATCH.
Silver, 4s. 6d. ; Gold, 10s. 6d. pair.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
Real Amethyst
Hutto?i IfooTc
Very Pi etty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
Our Ifew
Twin
Bird
Brooches.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair
NOllS—Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BRUSH’S
mil IKTOUH GENT’S SADDLES.
BRUSH
(vone*.
Natural Saffron
AND
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
brush.
Maicr
Sydney.
i/tci
1 S.J
lfv># wi'w.VN'?
No. 19. No. 21.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, with
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
Bit-ULSIX, r, Sydney, Registered.”
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit for
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, .£3 5s ;A, <£3 15s; B, £4;
C, >£4 10s ; D, .£5 ; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired.
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d. .
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is .desired-No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations of
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Sou, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The London & American
Supply Stores
SUPPLY
UPPL
ORES
LONDON&AMER!CAM
■■
o
. . FOR . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. AW- FERNE & CO., Directors.
A Melb. daily wonders how it happens that “ an
artisan visiting England as a member of an Australian
Eleven will be welcomed in that part of the pavilion at
Lord’s which is reserved for amateurs, but he must not
row at Henley.” Well, a professional cricketer is the
paid battler for a club; he draws a salary and works
under contract, and his status is clearly defined. A
cricketer’s “amateur” qualification consists in his not
being a pro. At Henley, the powers that be are “ gentle-
men ” in the Oxford, Cambridge and Eton sense, and
their law, although snobbish at . heart, is not ridiculous.
An amateur oarsman, they rule, is one who doesn’t earn
his living by any considerable exercise of his muscles
ashore, and is in no way connected with business on the
river or at the river-side. A boat-builder’s son is dis-
qualified from racing at Henley regatta. The amateur
there is understood to have no muscles worth mentioning,
except what he has developed through pure love of sport.
Physical strength is absolutely essential to success on the
river where the men compete against one another for
prizes—singly or in couples, fours, anfi eights. At
cricket they don’t compete for prizes, nor does a very
strong man possess a tremendous advantage over a slim
one, consequently pros, and amateurs meet together and
mix on fair terms, and Sampson would not be disqualified
from performing with the Gentlemen v. the Players.
But, inasmuch as he lives by his muscle, Sampson
couldn’t rank as an amateur at Henley. This is about
the best bit of special pleading for exclusiveness and
haw-hawism that Tub Bulletin has ever been guilty of.
* * * >
The two most prominent Queensland amateur
oarsmen are Denis, a blacksmith, and Slack, a butcher ;
under N.S.W. Rowing Association’s rules both these
would be debarred, unless as cast-iron professionals.
* * * *
The short wager-boats rowed by the Australians
in England do not find favor with the English critics, but
they will get there all the same. Chris. Neilseri, who,
although not a boat-builder by profession, is an artist at-
the game, gave long versus short boats several trials on
Parramatta River, and always with same result —short
boat on top. The late young Cruise (who used to show a
great burst of speed for a short distance) and Neilsen one
morning tried several quarter-mile spurts, changing boats
each time, and whoever rowed the short boat won. Neil-
sen builds his own boats, and they are works of art: some
23ft. 6in. in length, weight under 241 b., very flat in the
floor, with only l|in. spring. The skin is all one piece,
drawn tightly over the timbers, but not nailed to them
as in the ordinary outrigger.
* * * *
Strange that Queensland, which is in most
matters ahead of S. A., should have to take humble pie
before the crow-eating province at cricket. Unlike S.A.,
Queensland has never produced a champion, unless
Coningham was once in that category. Perhaps in time,
however, when the kanaka ami the Jap. put on the togs
and compete for the smile of the little brown women in
the pavilions, Queensland will be able to play the other
provinces combined.
* * • *
Clem. Hill’s cricketing record from his debut in
first-class cricket in *94 to date is one that will, perhaps,
never be beaten. In that time he his made nearly 4000
runs, and holds the remarkable average for 98 innings of
43‘13. He has knocked up eleven centuries, four against
N.S.W., four against All England, and one each against
Victoria, Derbyshire and Surrey respectively, the highest
being 206 not out against N.S.W. In interprovincial
cricket this season he has an average of something over
60. As Clem, is only 21 he should last for ten or twenty
years yet, which is something for our bowlers to look for-
ward to.
* * * *
Why cannot a seat be run all along the fence at
Sydney Cricket Ground ? By so doing seating-room for
many hundreds would be provided, and some disgraceful
squabbles re people standing up averted.
* » * *
“ Victor ” : The Sydney Cricket Ground autho-
rities should really issue pass-out checks not only at
lunch time, but also at “tea” interval. Some people
don’t care to pay 6d. for the questionable pleasure of
drinking-lukewarm “shandy.”
* • • •
Another injustice to Ireland. Although the
Berritish, Scottish, Australian and numerous other flags
are flown from the members’ stand of the Sydney- Cricket
Ground during the progress of a match, the “grane ” flag
of ould Oirleand is conspicuous only by its absence.
Phwat is the manein’ uv this?
* * * *
Very tiring are these recurrent cables about A.
E. Trott’s bowling feats against S. African provincial
clubs of the calibre of a Teddywaddy eleven. Bowlers
who could not take some of these wickets couldn’t hit a
fence.
» * * *
From recent Border Watch
“ INTERNATIONAL CRICKET.
N.S. Wales v. South Australia.”
How does that look for Federation ?
* » * *
An old-time cricketer, who once promised to
make a big name, Albert Evans, brother of the famous
Ted Evans, died at his native place, Emu Plains, N.S.W.,
the other day.
* • • *
The little dears who go to Sydney Cricket
Ground to gloat over the bicycle men’s calves by electric-
light, would, no doubt, be scandalised at Spanish girls
attending a bull fight. And yet, at the present rate of
going, the odds re a fatal or permanent injury are about
10 to 1 on the bicycle man as against the toreador. Somer-
ville, who fell the other night and broke his skull, is dead.
* * * *
N.S.W. cycling authorities, backed up by
several local papers, constantly abuse the Vic. wheeling
bosses for trying to ruin the sport by countenancing bet-
ting, but meanwhile their own efforts to squash the evil
at Sydney are of a very harmless character. In the stand
enclosure at the recent electric-light races writer saw
representatives from all the city betting shops openly lay-
ing the odds and doing brisk biz., and no one seemed to
object. Betting on bike-races has evidently become part
and parcel of the sport.
* * * *
The League of Vic. Wheelmen should be more
careful in its advertising methods. Announced its recent
meeting by a house-to-house delivery of bogus “ sum-
monses” (to attend the sports) properly printed in regu-
lar form on blue paper, and the sight of the familiar
document gave quite a number of pysons a shock from
which they have hardly yet recovered.
'*• * »
Advice by the South African mail, just to hand,
confirms the defeat of Van Heeden, the South African
champion, in his match race with William Martin, at dis-
tances of 1,5, and 10 miles. Van Heeden is the rider vvho
lately created a big reputation for himself, by breaking
many important unpaced world’s records, but he struck
a “hot cake ” in Martin and his “ Red Bird Special,” as
he was badly beaten in every event. “ Plugger Bill ” has
just about as good a claim to the world’s championship
as any rider we know —having now defeated acknow-
ledged champions of Australia, England, America, Italy
and South Africa.*
* * * *
The stiffened gee-gee rarely gets home ; but he
does occasionally, and then, the cronk owner and the
books in the swim get their deserts. A recent glorious
instance was the case of a hurdler who had been bottled
up for months, and at last got fairly thrown into a hurdle
race, to be immediately pounced on by the public and
backed down to a short price before the owner got a
chance. Of course, he was “ put in the bag,” and the
fact made known to sundry bookies who lay the dead ’un
till the cows come home and whack the proceeds with
the owner afterwards ; but this time the nag evidently
thought it was too good a thing to miss, and, refusing to
be pulled back, fall, or run off, he won with his head in
the air by many lengths. The horse was cheered for his
brilliant win, and the books decided they had been had,
and resolved never to put one “in the bag” for said
owner again ; whilst the punters, and they were many,
who had been told by the obliging owner to get on to his
good thing, unknowingly rubbed it in by rolling up to
thank him for the information and buy him wine.
An Acquired Knowledge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shop was nearly empty. In fact the last
customer left on my entrance.
The barber looked up from his strop as I filled
the doorway. He was a pale man with biggish
head.
His mouth opened with a click—" Shave or
hair-cut ? ”
I pulled off my hat and coat and sat on the pre-
pared throne. In a few moments he had.my chin
lathered.
“ ’Orrible attemp’ at sooicide, that, yesterday,
sir! ’ he murmured as the razor jumped a wart on
my left cheek.
“ Yes,” said I, “ but if the man had only under-
stood a little more about physiology, he wouldn’t
have made such a mess of the job.”
“Hindeed, sir.”
He went on quietly shaving till he had half
finished, then, dipping the razor in hot water, he
asked in a peculiar tone, “ W’y, could you cut a
throat better’n ’e did ? ”
“ Certainly,” said I; “ I’m a doctor and ought
to understand a little about that sort of thing.”
Being a newly-fledged surgeon, I was naturally
a little vain and anxious to show off my know-
ledge. ‘‘You understand,” I explained, “if he
had drawn the knife from under the left ear
and so on, severing the vein you see here ”
(pointing at the big artery in my own throat),
“his recovery wouM have been hopeless. He
would have bled to death in a few minutes.”
The barber nodded his head, and his eyes
seemed to me a little queer as he bent over me
again and lifted the razor.
A horrible thought flew to my brain. . . . His
damp fingers seemed to pluck the skin and judge
the throat.
I gripped the long arms of the chair and closed
my eyes to shut out his beady blue ones.
He suddenly stopped working.
“Excuse me, sir ; f think someone calls.” And,
wiping his hands on his apron, he vanished behind
a private door.
The gas had not yet been lit, and it was getting
dark. I sat in the chair, looking at the shadowy
reflection of my scared face and white chin in the
big mirror opposite. He seemed a long time in
returning, and I felt lonely. The lamps outside
were beginning to flare, and I could hear boys
crying the news. Still he did not come.
I began to grow impatient, got off the chair,
picked up a paper and tried to read, but the light
was too dim. I went back and sat down again.
But no barber. Several customers came in and
punched at the outer counter, but getting no
response left almost immediately in a cloud of
curses. And yet he did not come. Suddenly the
private door opened, and a little figure with a
white apron darted hurriedly in. He was evi-
dently the assistant.
“Guess yer’ll ’ave ter finish yer shave some-
where else, mister.”
“ Why, this is preposterous ! Has Mr. Peters
forgotten me and gone to his tea? Confound his
impudence ! Please come here and finish the job
for me.”
“ Not much! Ole Peters’ cut ’is froat, an’ I’m
orf for the cops ! ”
EMSEY.
“Daylight Mac.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mao. was mostly sitting on his doorstep waiting
for daylight. At the first streak he called his
men, who came out all together on one pair of
legs. He, it, or they answered to the name of
Brown. Now, Brown had to work twice as hard
as anybody else’s man to keep his billet. Also,
he worked two days a day. That quadrupled
him. So Brown was Mac.’s men.
Mac. had the name of being mean. He called it
“’conomy.” The menu for breakfast at Macs
was porridge, meat and pumpkin. Each man had
two plates. One was . used for everything ; the
other for covering it afterwards —to keep the cat
and dog from licking it. At dinner-time the
cover was removed, and the plate used again.
Same at supper. Then the plate and the cover
were wiped for next day. The cloth was washed
on Sunday—weather permitting.
When Mac boiled a piece of meat he’d cut oft
enough for each, and put it back in the water.
Next meal it was hauled up through the cake of
fat, the required quantity cut off, and returned
once more to the pot-liquor, where it was kept till
finished. Kept the flies away, and saved the cost
of a dish-cover. Nothing was ever wasted at
If a tramp happened along at a critical moment
Mac would rush in to his amalgamated men.
“ Clear awa’, mon ! Clear awa’, wul ye ! ”
“ What’s up ? ” asks the amalgamation.
“ Losh, mon, there’s a tramp makin’ fo’ ’ere, an
I wadna hae the sicht o’ tucker increase his appe-
tite.”
The tucker is put out of sight, and when the
tramp arrives Mac asks him for a smoke ! . . .
Mac was economical, too, with his clothes. He
never took his hat off at table, and never lifted it
to a lady, because fingering it wore it out. There
was nothing more extravagant to his mind than
wearing a shirt in bed. He turned-in stark naked.
Consequence was his shirt lasted twice as long.
He took his boots off to go riding, and left his hat
at home on cloudy days : saved ’em a lot of wear.
In the bush, after lighting his pipe, Mae would
blow out the match and put the stem back in the
box. At night, the slush-lamp or the fire would
do as well as a head. Thus one match would light
several pipes. Once he borrowed a match from
his men, and, after using it, returned him the
stem. “I owe ye a head, me mon,” he said.
Mac was once in love, and had serious thoughts
of getting married. But when he came to size-up
his Jean, he found that it would take far too much
print and calico to cover her. So he let her slide,
and deoided to wait till a much smaller woman
should turn up.
One day I happened to call at Mac.’s about
dinner-time, and as I had tucker with me Mac.
asked me to fetch it in and eat it at his table?
Thought I’d leave some, I suppose. Failing that,
I was bound to knock off some crumbs. Anyhow,
I sat down and “ proceeded.” Mac. went to his
place —with his hat on and his boots off —and the
first thing he did before seating himself was to
take his trousers off also. I was quite astonished.
I’d never seen a man dress for dinner that way
before.
The Brown combination explained afterwards :
“ It saves the seat of his pants ! ”
EDWARD S. SORENSEN.


Burglars who broke into a Melb. pub. the
other night stole, amongst other things, the pro-
prietor’s insurance policy against loss by burglary.
Which recalls the Bendigo man who invented a
burglar-trap, and was himself caught in it when
he started after the burglar who was getting away
with his valuables.
At Heidelberg (Vic.), a few days ago, a
German musician objected to “ kiss the buke.”
P.M. Keogh suggested an affirmation if he had
any conscientious objection. “No, it’s not that,”
replied the witness, “but—so many have kissed
it. That’s all.” He was ordered to open it and
find a clean place, which was done after much
scrutinising care ; having lightly pressed his lips
thereto, he dropped the dirty volume in haste,
shudderingly. Yet this P.M. doesn’t seem to be
aware that Vic. law makes provision for taking
the oath in the Scottish manner—with right hand
upraised. “ Kiss the germ-grower ! ”
Stead, the pious, red-headed meddler of
the Review of Refuse, is selling a “Twentieth
Centum New Testament,” which is the ordinary
New Testament translated into up-to-date lan-
guage. If Stead brings the whole Bible up to
date, and his volume gets a wide circulation, he
will probably do more to kill the Christian belief
than any other man living. The hold which that
old, long-enduring volume has on the public lies
greatly in its language. It is the only book in
general circulation which is written in archaic
diction ; its stately old-world style makes it a
thing apart from the rushing, ephemeral ruck of
literature. And if it comes down from its pedes-
tal to talk in the ordinary language of the street-
corner and of Stead, then it will have to hustle
at the street-corner for its literary existence just
like any other volume. Stead, the uneasy Non-
conformist, revises the old work like this :
“Gathering the twelve round Him, Jesus said to them
— ‘ Listen ! We are going up to Jerusalem; and there
everything that is written in the Prophets will be done to
the Son of Man. For He will be handed over to the
heathen and mocked and insulted, and spat upon ; they
will flog Him and then put Him to death ; and He will
rise up again on the third day.’ The Apostles did not
take in any of this ; His meaning was unintelligible to
them, and they did not understand what He was
saying.”
“ The Apostles did not take in any of this ! ”
The next revision will probably set forth that the
Apostles didn’t drop to it, or that the twelve
failed to tumble, or that the Lord’s statement fell
flat, or that his followers “ weren’t taking any.”
Special value in Tennis Shirts. We will
post to the remotest corner of this great colony one
of our Special Value Tennis Shirts (just the thing
for cool, comfortable wear) upon receipt of N.S.W.
stamps, postal note or P. 0.0. for 3s. 6d. (three
shillings and sixpence). Good unshrinkable
washing materials, plain whites or colored, stripes
and checks. Collars and pockets attached.
Address orders : —HORDERN’S, Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
DR. ROURCHIER, DID., F.S.Sc.
HAS MUCH PLEASURE IST RECOMMENDING
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
TO HIS PATIENTS AND TN€ SCNCRAL PUBLIC.
(Lond,), J P.,
Late Govt. Medical
Officer, N.S.W.,
READ DR. BOURCHXER’S LETTER.
127 Redfevn Street',
Sydney, NS. W.
To the Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
Sydney,
Dear Sirs,
For some time I have
been in the habit of recommending
Dr Williams’ Pink Fills to my patients
«with excellent results.
Asa tonic , their effect is most satis-
factory and permanent. In Anaemia ,
Chlorosis, and allied diseases I have
found them very valuable, and in
irregularities of the menstrual period
they are unequalled.
(Signed) /, G. BOURCHIER, M.D.,
F.S.Sc., (Lond.), J.P.,
Late Government Medical Officer, N.S.W.
A PALE, THIN GIRL MADE BRIGHT AND
SPRIGHTLY.
Miss Ada Richabds, of Karabar-street, North Auburn, near Sydney,
says“ About twelve months ago my strength seemed to fade. I suffered
most severely from the effects of the heat, although before this I had been
fairly strong. My blood became very thin and poor. I was seized with
extreme lauguor and weakness, and also severe attacks of giddiness, and I
was'often compelled to sit down that I might recover myself. My appetite
deserted me,.and I could only crawl about the house. These painful symp-
toms'were accompanied with neuralgia, and most severe pains in the chest
and sides. My spirits sank, and I became most depressed and disheartened.
I thought every fresh month might see the end of my sufferings, but relief
seemed as far off as ever.
“My system was completely debilitated ; I felt as if I could do no
work, and was drowsy and exhausted all day. I was much reduced in
figure, and my face and lips were quite bloodless. Any noise upset me.
At last I purchased two boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills at the local store.
I started taking the pills according to the directions, but experienced no
relief till I had nearly finished the second box. Then I began to notice a
change for the better, and I determined to persevere, for anything was pre-
ferable to my former statt , I procured more, and continued ; a steady
improvement now took place, much to my relief. As days passed on, and I
still progressed, it seemed as if I were gradually emerging from a dark wood
into the open sunlight.
“ Every day my daily work was less of a burden to me. I took nine
boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and they effected a
complete cure. The past seems just like a dreadful dream from which I’ve
awakened. My blood has become richer, and I’ve regained my color. The
oppressive pains in my chest and sides passed away, and I began to eat with
an appetite, Even in the hottest weather I feel strong and light-hearted.
I am stronger than ever I was in my life, and can rise early, and walk and
eat as well as anybody could wish.
Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills have
cured sleepless-
ness, debility,
indigestion,
liver and kid-
ney troubles, all
ladi e s’ ail-
ments, measles,
rheumatism,
neuralgia, par-
tial paralysis,
locomotor-
ataxia, St.
Vitus’ dance,
nervous head-
THESE ARE THE PILLS WHICH
-
m
ILLS
FOR
ALE.
DR. BOURCHIER RECOMMENDS.
ache, nervous prostration, influenza, dengue, typhoid and scarlet fevers,
severe colds, scrofula, chronic erysipelas, &c. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers generally ; or the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, will
forward, on receipt of stamps or post-order, one box 2/9, or half-a-dozen 15/3.
The Nameless Bird.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A lonely seabird, winging
O’er wave and moaning bar,
To wild and ruined places,
Unlit by moon or star.
The gleam upon its white crest,
The light upon its wing,
Far deeper than the beauty
Of any earthly thing.
A trail of splendour bringing,
In silent ways apart,
The touch of wild desiring
Aflame to brain and heart.
Oh ! darker grew the spaces
Between the earth and sky,
And mournful on the stillness
The wailing of its cry.
A sullen light from seaward
O’er frowning headlands grew,
And every covert nestled
A foul and noisome crew.
And strangeness gathered over,
Like shadows of unrest,
The sombre city rising
Out of the doomed west.
About its spires for ever
The nameless bird shall be ;
The stain upon its white breast
To bring again to me
The long and lonesome journey,
O’er mountain ways forlorn,
With wild-eyed shadows keeping
Their vigil wild and worn ;
The cry upon the niglitwind,
The rushing sweep and swing,
And then, 0, God 1 the surging
Of drooping crest and wing.
And though by distant casement
Oft-times I sit and dream—
As ’neath the gathered starlight
Barbaric all things seem—
Of wondrous beauty trailing
The bye ways of regret;
The hopes so fairly carven,
In dreams of wisdom—yet,
A spectral light shall glimmer
On foam-tipt isles afar,
And every wind shall fathom
The moaning on the bar.
A weird and wistful crooning
Shall come from ways apart—
-01 Bird of Desolat ion 1
Engraven on my heart.
Sydney.
PATRICK CARNEY.
On Our Selection.—Casey.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
It was when Dad and Dave were away after kan-
garoo-scalps, and Joe was looking after the selec-
tion, minding the corn, keeping Anderson’s and
Dwyer’s and Drown’s and old mother Murphy’s
cows out of it, and chasing goannas away from
the front door, that Casey came to our place. A
starved-looking, toothless little old man with a
restless eye, talkative, ragged and grey ; and he
walked with a bend in his back (not a hump), and
carried his chin in the air. We never saw a man
like him before. He spoke rapidly, too, and
watched us all as he talked. Not exactly a
“ traveller” ; he carried no swag or billycan, and
wore a pair of boots much too large. He seemed
to have been “ well brought up ” —he took off his
hat at the door and bowed low to Mother and Sal,
who were sitting inside, sewing. They gave a
start and stared. The dog, lying at Mother’s
feet, rose and growled. Towzer wasn’t used to
the ways of people well brought up.
The world had dealt harshly with Casey, and
his story went to Mother’s heart. “ God buless
y’,” he said when she told him he could have some
dinner; “but I’ll cut y’ wood for it; oh, I’ll
cut y’ wood ! ” and he went to the wood-heap and
started work. A big heap and a blunt axe ; but
it didn’t matter to Casey. He worked hard, and
didn’t stare about, and didn’t reduce the heap
much, either; and when Sal called him to dinner
he couldn’t hear—he was too busy. Joe had to
go and bring him away.
Casey sat at the table and looked up at the
holes in the roof through which the sun was
shining.
“ Ought t’ be a cool house,” he remarked.
Mother said it was.
“ Quite a bush-house.”
“Oh, yes,” Mother said—“we’re right in the
bush here.”
He began to eat and, as he ate, talked cheerfully
of selections and crops and old times and bad
times and wire fences and dead cattle. Casey was
a versatile ancient. When he was finished he
shifted to the sofa and asked Mother how many
children she had. Mother considered and said,
“ twelve.” He thought a dozen enough for any-
one and said that his mother, when he left home,
had twenty-one. —all girls but him. That was
forty years ago and he didn’t know how many she
had since. Mother and Sal* smiled. They began
to like old Casey.
Casey took up his hat and went outside, and
didn’t say “good-day ” or “ thanks ” or anything.
He didn’t go away, either. He looked about the
yard. A panel in the fence was broken. It had
been broken for five years. Casey seemed to
know it. He started mending that panel. He
was mending it all the evening.
Mother called to Joe to bring in some wood.
Casey left the fence, hurried to the wood-heap,
carried in a armful, and asked Mother if she
wanted more. Then he returned to the fence.
“ J-oe,” mother screeehed a little later, “look
at those cows tryin’ to eat the corn.”
Casey left the fence again and drove the cows
away, and mended the wire on his way back.
At sundown Casey was cutting more wood, and
when we were at supper he brought it in and put
some on the fire, and went out again slowly.
Mother and Sal talked about him.
“Better give him his supper,” Sal said, and
Mother sent Joe to invite him in. He didn’t
come in at once. Casey wasn’t a forward man.
He stayed to throw some pumpkin to the pigs.
Casey slept in the barn that night. He slept in
it the next night, too. He didn’t believe in shift-
ing from place to place, so he stayed with us alto-
gether. He took a lively interest in the selection.
The house, he said, was in the wrong place, and
he showed Mother where it ought to have been
built. He suggested shifting it, and setting a
hedge and ornamental trees in front and fruit
trees at the back, and making a nice place of it.
Little things like that pleased Mother. Any-
wa Y’. w °md sometimes say to Sal, he s a
useful old man, and knows how to look after things
about the place.’’ Casey did. Whenever any
watermelons were ripe, he looked after them, and
hid the skins in the ground. And if a goanna or
a crow came and frighteued a hen from her nest
Casey always got the egg, and when he had
gobbled it up he would chase that crow or goanna
for its life and shout lustily.
Joe got on well with Casey. Casey’s views on
hard work were the same as Joe’s. Hard work,
Joe thought, wasn’t necessary on a selection.
Casey knew a thing or two—so he said. One
fine morning, when all the sky was blue and the
butcher-birds whistling strong, Dwyer’s cows
smashed down a lot of the fence and'dragged it
into the corn. Casey, assisted by Joe, put them
all in the yard and hammered them with sticks,
Dwyer came along.
‘ Those cattle belong to me,” he said angrily.
“ They belongs t’ me,” Casey answered, “ until
you pay damages."’ Then he put his back
to the slip-rails and looked up aggressively
into Dwyers face. Dwyer was a giant beside
Casey. Dwyer didn’t say anything—he wasn’t
a man of words—but started throwing the rails
down to let the cows out. Casey flew at him.
Dwyer quietly shoved him away with his long,
brown arm. Casey came again and fastened on
to Dwyer. Joe mounted the stockyard. Joe
seized Casey with both hands, then there was a
struggle—on Casey’s part. Dwyer lifted him up
and carried him away &nd set him down on his
back, then hastened to the rails. But before he
could throw them down Casey was upon him
again. Casey never knew when he was beaten.
Dwyer was getting annoyed. He took Casey by
the back of the neck and squeezed him. Casey
humped his shoulders and gasped. Dwyer stared
about. A plough-rein hung on the yard. Dwyer
reached for it Casev veiled “ Murder ' ” Dwver
f 1A r i!fU, I?!; ° * . Cj y
fastened one end of the rope round Casey s body
underthearms—and stared about again. Andagain
“Murder!” from Casey. Joe jumped off the
yard to get further away. A tree, with a high
horizontal limb, stood near. Dad once used it as
a butcher’s gallows. Dwyer gathered the loose
rein into a coil and heaved it over the limb, and
hauled Casey up. Then he tied the end of the
Jo.
as he walked away, ‘‘ cut the rope.'”
Casey groaned, and one of his boots dropped
off. Then he began to spin round-to wind up
and unwind and wind up again. Joe came near
and eyed the twirling form with joy.
Mother and Sal arrived, breathless and excited,
They screeched at Joe.
“Undo th’ r-r-rope,” Joe said, “an’ he’ll come
w-w -wop.”
Sal ran away and procured a sheet, and Mother
and she held it under Casey, and told Joe to un-
fasten the rope and lower him as steadily as he
could. Joe unfastened the rope, but somehow it
pinched his fingers and he let go, and Casey fell
through the sheet
* * *
For three weeks Casey was an invalid at our
place. He would have been invalided there for
the rest of his natural life only Dad came home
and persuaded him to leave.
STEELE RUDD.


It Keeps the Blood Pure
Gives Nerve-power, Prevents Nervous Exhaustion,
Keeps up the Physical Strength.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
V/
am a Professional Cyclist.”
** lam anxious to obtain all the prizes and honors possible. To do this I
know I must keep my blood and system in good order. For this purpose I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and the results have always been satisfactory.
“Training and racing make an excessive nervous strain and loss of nerve
force and physical strength. To quickly restore this loss of nerve energy and
power I have never found anything equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. The Sarsa-
parilla keeps my blood pure and this tones up and strengthens my whole body.
“Today I have the honor to be the champion cyclist of Forbes, thanks to
your wonderful medicine. I send you my portrait on my good steed that has
carried me with waving colors over the track.”
This is the testimony and portrait of the -well-known cyclist, H. H. John-
son, of South Forbes, New South Wales.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out all impurities from the blood. It changes
thin blood into rich, red blood, such blood as healthy nerves and muscles must
have. “Ayer’s ” and only Ayer’s is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
All who are thin and r>ale need it. All who are weak and easily tired need
it. All who are nervously depressed from a warm climate need it.
Sarsaparilla
That 8 Cures.
St Invigorates the Whole System,
Ayer’s Pills Cure Biliousness and Sick Headache.
“Go and Tell the Others.”
Theke were eleven of us in all, four women and
seven men. We were passengers on board the
sailing ship Black Squall, 900 tons, bound from
London to Calcutta. The crew had mutinied and
marooned us on Amsterdam Island—a great,
bleak rock in the Indian Ocean. Ten days passed.
We had consumed most of our provisions and all
our water. Thus far we had vainly sought water
on the island. No rain from the heavens, no sail
on the sea ! Our tongues were cracking like up-
lands in a drought. You have read of the tor-
tures of thirst. May fortune confine your know-
ledge to that.
One more attempt; the last. Two of the men—
the least feeble —started. Hours went by, hours
that smote like hammers and burned like clots of
molten lead. Exhausted and despairing the men
lighted upon a spring half hidden under a remote
cliff. Each took a few swallows. Then one of
them fell fainting on the ground, just able to say
to his companion, “ Go—go tell the others I”
People say that suffering is the mother of selfish-
ness. Often it is so; not always, thank God.
Anyway, the sense of relief ever glows with gratis
tude and pity. Read the following—a woman’s
story—and you will see why the two are paired in
my mind.
“Prom my childhood I have been subject to
headache and dizziness. At the age of seventeen
I was very weak and ill. My tongue was furred,
my appetite poor. My food seemed to give me no
strength ; I was always tired. My hands and
feet were cold and clammy, and my skin of a
creamy hue. One day, whilst in service at Mrs.
Pirth’s, Park Farm, Thornhill, I visited my home.
On arriving there I had great pain and fluttering
at the heart; I could scarcely stand. It so
frightened my mother that she got some neigh-
bours to assist me to the doctor’s. He said, ‘ Your
heart is in a shocking state.’
“ He gave me medicines, but I was not relieved
by ihem. Getting worse, I gave up my situation,
being too ill to leave home. Soon I was seized
with a nasty cough and irritation of the throat
and chest; I could get no sleep on account of it.
I would sit up in bed until daybreak coughing and
spitting, and was, of course, worse tired than
when I went to bed. My legs trembled so that I
could not stand or walk much ; I was not able to
wash or dress myself. In this condition I re-
mained month after month, growing weaker
daily. On one occasion I was so bad that mother
thought 1 was dying, and fetched Mrs. Senior, a
neighbor, saying, ‘ Do come and help me .’
“In January, 1890, I went to the Dewsbury
Infirmary, where I was under treatment for six
weeks. The doctors gave me iron mixture and
other tonics, but they had no effect. Other young
girls were there, being doctored for ailments like
mine, to as little purpose as far as I could see.
“I next tried change of air, and went to Hali-
fax, also to Batley, without benefit. I continued
to waste away, and people said I would never re-
ln May, 1891, I first read of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, in a book that was left at our
house.
“ Mother got me a bottle from Mr. J. Day, the
chemist, Thornhill Lees, and I began taking it.
After taking only a few doses I found a,_little
relief, the heaviness of my chest and the" pain
at my heart were easier, and my food digested
and agreed with me. I now grew stronger
every day, and was soon able to go back
to iny work. But I kept on taking the
Syrup still, and, to the surprise of every
one, the color came to my cheeks, and I have since
enjoyed the best of health. • All my family were
delighted, as you may well believe. (Signed)
Miss Hannah Milnes, 18 Walker’s Buildings,
Brewery Lane, Thornhill Lees, Dewsbury, Oc-
tober 12th, 1892.
“P.S. — If we could have afforded it, we should
have published all the particulars of my case in the
newspapers, that others might know where to look
for a remedy. —H.M.”
There! that is it. She wanted to tell the
others. And by printing her story we help her to
tell them where to find a cure for indigestion and
dyspepsia and its dangerous consequences when
all hope seems to have faded away.
1
n
3d
m
“A TIGHT PLACE.”
. GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid. off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
]<ive per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2. ,30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, h ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health,
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
They
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls and 2s 9d each.
“Jupiter” Kerosene {as Stoves.
NO NOISE IN BURNING.
Latest Improvements:
Burns Kerosene without a wick, convert-
ing into gas Without Noise or Fumes.
PRICE 12/6 ; post 1/5 extra. This Burner, fitted to our Ovens, will
Roast, Bake, and Boil for a family of 8 at a cost of 1/3 per week.
NOISELESS Burners fitted to any Stoves.
Primus Stoves, 9/6 each; Price of Ovens, from 12/6 each .
BRANDT BROS.
LAMP and STOVE WAREHOUSE,
236 Fitt-st. (opposite School of Arts). SYDNEY
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
.
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
I AGON ALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
;5
Agents : Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN ; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
Bonmgtons
m f oQg' I*"— 1 ■ ■
Cures While Sleeping.
ISISI MSS
TBSTIMONIAL.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Being a sutierer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully, ’
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


sfl
LARGE
OFP .- - Makers
Swassra
ESTABLISHED
1847.
flag
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting RfIAPUIUEC Seeding
Hay-making Sslhli HIFB SLO Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address I
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue Tree, “a application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George 'and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
I Board or Apartments atOption.
What is Health?
Xfhetimati Brn, Sciatica,
I.tniiliar/o, <&c.,
Completely cured by Jflr. C. F.
PAJtKKIt-, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.'
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<5 HE JJbBOT
IIRUI
VS®*
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortbii)gtoi) PCirppiog Ei>gii)€ Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) - SlmpSOll Bl'Otlierß. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON.
•mom?
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, JST.S.W.
Agencies s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-streeb, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
Hew Zealand : E, PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND :
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
' Kept izx Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- DB3XjXS-RXDD'C3-E &c CO.,
DYERS &' CLEANERS,
40 YORK STHNIM’, SYDNBV
(Ojip. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post tram all the colonies promptly
attended to.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
SUPPER-
rHE
OF 81
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.E.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
\VIAI3ZO3
Self Applied.
Jars (concentd.), 4/S, poet 4/10
depot*;
“OLEI
Btdnkt—M. H. Horwite, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide—Habbis & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne—Fbkd. J E. Phillips, 817 Collins St,
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
■J
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery Sa stern of Butter-making
(which has done more); Befrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OP SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
® ‘“CADE- for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AG IS NTS KVEItYWHKRB.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO
S'Z'DIDTErX’-
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining 1 Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
. . . Sole Agents for . . .
The ‘New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be tlie Lightest and IVlost Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
—Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoil-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every, machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Satho’s
■
Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gunnaakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK :—l4 D.B. Breech-loading' Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
+■« reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guua, ouap «uvm, wa..iur "“■■'-■yi
choke bore steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17si 6d each,
pomnlete • ’ 17 D B Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
hXfd full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with ail the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breeeh-
lnadinir Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies.' A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
‘ avflhle to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
B.S.A.
-1-HE’LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH, STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross). Nipple’s, 2'9 gross. Steel
• ' ' " * T ’ • Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10.-doz
per cent, cheaper , than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
Hate L 7 ''B €9, 810, £l2,'guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
. P. Gregory &
H ?
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS, j.s
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J. A. Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
FAY'S HAND-FEED PLANER.
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines j
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines j
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes |
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines j
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
&c., &e.
