

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
m FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GUA.RA.KTTEED FURE COCOA A.RTD EXTRACT OIF* MALT.
rTg, WATELIItfS &TCO ,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BIILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
TEACHER'S
n
M
'
1
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGE ST SYDN
Over 2200 Hydro-Extract >rs Sold and at work
VAndtck
CIGARS
©if &
rot Is
Nrolssuk IteffStMJUJTnW sydneyl
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m pm street, SYDNEY.
BROADBENT’S
SOLE
ARE
AGENTS FOR
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundrud Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilmjnster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
V"
■- a ;
Uc *'ZS‘i,
FT
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK’B GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HCOBAnX.
-
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
y
oo
PIONEER
I LEATHER
V
BELTING 1
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and .Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 Yorh: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania'; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Purity Warranted. Recommended by Highest Medical Kxperts
for use in leading English and Colonial Hospitals.
A Sufficient Guarantee of its Wholesom ness.
Two Gold Medals, Brussels Exhibition 1897-
THE WORLD-RENOWN ED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
ns edison a im
United Electric Light
Co.. T ta.
Australasian Branch
16 Carrington-strect,
WYNYARD SQUARE.
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 20.—H0. 992 !
[Saturday, February 18, 1899.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE BOOKFELLOW/^>
A Monthly Magazinelet
For Book-buyers and Book-readers.
Tub Fkiircart Nvmhkr contains
SAYS AND lIE ARSAYS, by “ Thk Bookfkllow." With
Illustrations ami Extracts.
LAWSON AND LITERATURE.
“ JESS," an unpublished poem by the late Barcroft Boake.
NOTICES OK NEW BOOKS,
etc., etc.
Sixpence in stamps of any Australasian province pays si'
months’ sutweription post-free.
Send Id. stamp for specimen copy.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. LTD.
214 George-atreet, Sydney.
TTT-F! A. 1 ??: & DKT A.T7T.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
Tile Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
“The Bulletin” say 3
who are in touch wit h the intense life of t hose great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its snor
the “Argon ut" is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may beifatnere<
from this, our standing injunction to our contnootois.
•* Whatever you are, never he commonplace. The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality a>f their own. The Arooxapf endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors an t journalists, will keep the reader "e
up with the literary gossip of the day.
/>',„• sale at Tiik Bum.rtin Office after the arrival of w
Ant erica n wait; ju'iV , sd. ; jioslctl, fed. ; mailed regularly
to any Australasian address.
THE RED PAGE.
BA. D. Bayldon writes on the art of
?
er if vanity be always a weakness. Mine
otten makes me ashamed ; but I’m not sure that
in many eases it has not aided me very materially.
I should never dream of giving swimming exhibi-
tions did not my vanity derive satisfaction from
them. Often when I’ve stepped forward to enter
the water under the direct gaze of spectators my
Etiveness would have made me quail but for
nnuediate interposition of my vanity aroused
pplause. Once in the water, however, and
vanity is forgotten. Ob ! the joy of the
quick stroke—of the curl and cut through the
clear cool water like a fish ; to be rendered well-
nigh helpless with straps and assert your m aster-
dom; to feel your thoughts become movements;
to see the gre«-n sunlit water whirling above you
as you dart along feet first by a mere palm-push.
Or to bask on the surface with half-lidded eyes
feeding on sky-purple ; to be alone with two im-
mensities. sky and sea ; to forget in a pagan
reverie the dingy world from which vou have
8li{ : >ped like a winged tiling from its sheath. The
gods might envy one such happiness. Byron’s
lines do him Justice-
How many a time have 1
Cloven with arm still lustier, breast more daring,
The wave all roughened ; with a swimmer's stroke
Flinging the billows back from my drenched hair,
And laughing from uiy lip the audacious brine.
Which kissel it like a wine-cup, rising o'er
The waves as they arose, and prouder still
The loftier they uplifted me; and oft,
In wamonness of spirit, plunging down
Into their green and glassy gulfs, and making
My way to shells and sea-weed; all unseen
By those above, till they waxed fearful; then
Returning with my grasp full of such tokens
_ An showed that I had searched the deep ; exulting
With a far-dashing stroke, and drawing deep
The long-suspended breath, again I spurned
The foam which broke around me, and pursued
My track like a sea-bird.
Those are the lines of a strong swimmer delight-
ing in his strength. Who will give us something
about the subtle swimmer indolently gliding,
sometimes over the surface, sometimes under it,
with lardiy an effort? Not the strong, sweeping
stroke with its rank of bubbles, not the deep
areath and superb breasting against saucy billows;
jut the insidious curve of a leisurely-lifted limb,
;he sinuous movement of a lithe, supple figure
with ut bubble or foam-fleck—who will sing of it ?
And who will paint us some huge billow, not as
we see it from the shore rolling heavily towards
us, a horizontal trunk of water; or from a steamer
deck, a hillock foam-spotted tumbling away ; but
as the swimmer sees it when it looms above him
with toppling foam-boulders, with widening
chasms and ever-changing ledges (which from a
steamer-deck ap|>e»r out gaps and wrinkles) ere
be is lifted for a momentary glimpse of the
rhythmic rocking wilderness fit) sink leisurely back
into the deep trough swaying him to and fro
Poets look upon the sea as something to be de-
lighted with, to battle with, to weave images
about; no wonder she has an imperious disdain
for such triflers. You must become her child to
understand her. She is not treacherous, but sin-
cere. She has no time for the earth-born they
must take their chance. Her children do not chide,
but intuitively accommodate themselves to her
moods. And her many moods are their many
sources of ever-changing joy. When you think
her angry she is affording them exquisite amuse
ment, They love to glide round the roots of the
great billows or Blip through their breaking
columns, or hang motionless under them in de-
licious ease. Hark ! how she booms in yonder
cavern !
* 9 • «
I Flying must be something like swimming, I
imagine. The same leisure, the same sense of
freedom, the same scenery, the same commotions
to thrill you, the same eahus to drowse you. With
all their adverse circumstances, the inhabitants of
the sky and sea seem to possess what we jaxir
jaded creatures often sigh for ; the consciousness of
rest. Look at that fish serenely suspended in
deep water; nothing troubling him. How lazily
he moves his gills! I must believe he has the
capacity to feel the color of those anemones below
. him. And there- lie'll hang for hours, blissfully
unoonscious of everything but rest —how delight-
fully envious he makes one ! It may be a
delusion to us who can see his enemy prowling
near. He is happily unaware of him. Ah ! like
Sa flash he is gone. But how soon he will for-
get his danger and again begin brooding. He
cannot lie cursed with a memory. Surely he has
no aspirations for ever spurring him. And
what pleasures are his ! If it is too hot he merely
sinks a few fathoms, or vice versd. And what de-
lirious fun it must be to slip and slide and turn
somersaults like a porpoise at the bows of a
steamer. And then, when you are bored with it,
to give a contemptuous wriggle of the tail and
plunge down into the great restful depths of grate-
ful gloom and soothing silence. And then, when
you are again bored, to throw into every muscle
a space-killing speed, Down 1 down to the ocean
bed like a silver si>ear shot from the hand of a god,
With monstrosities streaming past you like thunder-
clouds, amid showers of momentary lights, till
the gloom falls back and you slacken speed in a
faint - luminous, motionless element. And then
you will see groat eyes rolling red in sockets of
fire, stars biokering green and purple, palpitating
forma like floating moons, mountains swelling into
gorgeous bloom and sullenly retreating. How
the imagination revels in the idea of looking on the
forms engendered by the mother in her first throes
—shadowy phantasms too impalpable for color, too
immaterial for gross sustenance, too solemn for
movement—and of contemplating the vast ocean
bed stretching out silent and strangely sad, with
the white splendour of lifelessneas paced by some
solitary figure!
• • • *
Though I won some trifling prizes for quick
swimming in boyhood, my heart was never in it.
I cannot admire mere machine force and endur-
ance. I must have grace and beauty. That
double-overhand stroke so popular in Australia I
detest. J. B, Johnson’s single over-hand stroke
had a fine curve about it; but then he was really
built for a fancy swimmer. And that is one of the
great secrets of fancy swimming. A trick in itself
may be simple, but if the swimmer has a beauti-
fully-curved figure and knows how to use it he
will get applause. The roundness and lily-like
whiteness of limb and trunk tell more in a fancy-
swimming oontest than stubborn thews and hairy
br wn. And what splash and bustle and uncouth
noises those big, muscular swimmers make ! They
fet speed, to be sure, but at what a sacrifice 1
9^here is the music of movement, the poetry
of shape? Ocean’s children know all this, and
even in their roughest moods, unless they lose
their heads like a hooked shark, they are artists.
I can sit for hours watching fish in the aquarium.
They have a coquettish dalliance in their curves
and side-shoots. There is no effort, no back-
water, no disturbance ; all is rhythmically beauti-
ful. Even the octopus, hideous as he is, is no dis-
cord in the general harmony of movement. And
what a harmony it is! Let a big, strong swimmer
look on it and blush. There is the perfection of
swimming—swift dart and serene suspension, with
the rapid interplay of twist and undulation linked
harmoniously together like notes of a Moonlight
Sonata. Their very breathing apparatus seems
set to a subtle undertone of melody. And what
colours and shapes they have I—they are vain ol
them too, like a peacock. As they dart with
racing sunbeams on them, think you they don’t
know what a fine sparkle they make? It’s the old
story —vanity, ail is vanity, and at the root of it
sex-instinct. And surelv that dangerous leaping
into atmosphere arises from it. What care thej
about the sun-god sitting in his blue tent and
shaking his golden tresses over them, or the silver
sliding moon-sickle reaping down the stars? It’s
all vanity and sex-instinct, and, though infinitely
inferior to them in the art of swimming, I’ve more
than„enough of those weaknesses. Selah !
C. H. Read writes from Tasmania:—
James Hebblethwaite’s “ A Spring Ride” (26/11,’98) is
picture of Tasmanian scenery from a haughty Britisher’s
point of view. It is a pity so interesting a writer moves
in so small a circle of bush-iife. He is of the stuff to make
a bush-writer, but he requires nine years’ shaping with
bush axe. The verdant lanes and white hedgerows o
Kiulindcolour his canvas, and the tweat-tweat-glug-glug-
tootle-toos of hei* songsters mar his music.- I am an Ans
tralian, pure and simple -1 trust. And it grieves anr
Irritates me to read that the clear, liquid, throaty notes
of the Tasmanian magpie are “harsh." Amy Sherwit
should be “the Tasmanian Magpie," only “ Nightingale’
sounds more poetical. Amy has the pie’s throat, full an<
deep; not the narrow, piping, slugging thorax of the
English bird. It is worth gold to be an audience of one in
the glorious concert-hall of a moonlit forest, and to listen
to the first pie as he lifts his head and warbles a solo to
the stars. And then from far away, and gradually nearer
twenty more of his fellows take up the wondrous song
Then silence. Then once again begins the leader, to be
caught and passed by the singers haif-a-mile away. Then
silence. It is like listening, I should think, to a choru
of angels singing up in the dome of a vast cathedral.
And what does J.H. say of these warblers of the dawn
these choristers of night? Listen : “They are the free
lances of the air, merry light-hearted rogues, amTiTiiidit
to be dressed in flaming red.” Good ged ! 1 cannot do
justice to my feelings, but good ged! Then he pro-
ceeds: “Parrots . . . robins . . . fire-tails,dusky and
plum-colored like the—th Hussars (good ged !) . . . shy
diamond-birds . . . flash and dart in the sunshine. But
song is denied them. Their voices are, as a rule, harsh.
One passed the day in shrieking * Take off your hat!*
and another the night demanding * Morepork ! * while the
shag has the hoarse, hooting laugh of a wicked old man.”
I will floor James H. with one of his good old English
cross-buttocks. I will assert no more than he has, and
burst him with his own trick. I will say that the English
birds are songless (and now he squirms in my grip). And
I will give three examples (three he gave)—the rook, the
owl and the eagle (now I have him on my hip). One caws
all the day ; another hoots all night ; and the last yells in
your ear like a Victorian bookmaker (and now he is on
the broad of his British back).
Yet 1 will be more generous than J.H. The sweetest
singer I ever heard was an English linnet. Fourteen
thousand miles he travelled in my company, and for ten
years he sang to us, and knew us every one. And at his
death, the result of a deplorable accident, the whole house
mourned.
It would much please me to conduct J.H. to a certain
range not far from Mt. Bischoff, where he could look
down on a thousand acres of scarlet waratah. A sight
not to be seen In his England, the land of little meadows
sprinkled with buttercups and daisies. And I could show
him breadth of creamy white, and yellow, and gold, and
dead and delicate pink, that would move even his
British coldness. The monotony of the hush, so often
mentioned by writers who were never there, exists only
where the hand of man has touched. The fall of the axe
is beauty’s doom. There are still spots in Tasmania where
the white foot has never trodden, and where a hushman
may sit and think without the aid of print to guide his
thoughts. A lover of nature needs no book ; and no land
on this earth is without its memories— I Tasmania, of the
new world, least of all. J.H. loves his England why
not—and 1 love my Australia as 1 should—and our ideas
are as far apart as his peaceful lanes and verdant meadows
are from the lights and shades of my mountain scenery
and the greys and greens of my forests.
Discussing Parnell, the Saturday Review prints
some details which will not appear in Morley’g
|jfe of Gladstone —
By the end of 1885 Mr. Parnell, after starting as an un-
known country squire, had, while still under foi ty, with
only six years of real leadership, and without a sin id
colleague whom he could trust., brought every English
party to terms.. It was an achievement absolutely with-
out parallel in Parliamentary history, but the facts are
not in dispute. Lord Randolph Churchill was actively
negotiating ; Lord Carnarvon, the Vioeffly, was discussing
details with Mr. Parnell himself in the fa nous “ empty
house”; Lord Salisbury was expatiating on the advan-
tages of central autonomy over county councils ; Sir
Charles Dilke and Mr. Chamberlain were putting their
National Council scheme into workable shapo; Mr.. Gla-
dstone was burrowing underground as was his wont. r.
Parnell weighed everything and committed himself to
nothing. The Dilke-Cliamberlain scheme, which had the
advantage of being honest and Imperialistic, was re-
jected first, because it was too definite : its authors
were not “ squeezable." Then the Churehill-Car-
narvon - Salisbury offer was balanced against the
Gladstone intrigue, and the Tory combination kicked
the beam, for Mr. Parnell was confident that he
Grand Old Spider" and the “ Grand Old Windbag,” as he
used to call him in his hours of ease.
The last moves in the game were as exciting as a hard-
fought game of chess. There was the mysterious visit
of Mr. Parnell to Chester, of which Mr. Harry O’Brien
does not appear to have heard—and Chester is not far
from Hawarden. Not long after this a trusted emissary
arrived in Fleet-street, and next morning two kites were
flown -one from the Standard office, of all places in the
world, and the other from the National Press Agency.
The effeot was unexpected, for, while the Tory press
openly rejoiced that the stain of the “ Parnellite juice '*
was removed from their side, the Liberal press, from the
Daily News to the Mane Mer Guardian, declared that
the announcement was another infamous Tory trick, and
that their beloved and trusted leader would never be
guilty of such abject treachery as to “ surrender to Par-
nell. Tories could do such things, but, thank God, there
was one honest and high-souled party in Kngland, and so
long as Mr. Gladstone and Sir William Harcourt spoke
for that party there would be no compromise with treason
and outrage."
In face of this unanimous outburst, Mr. Gladstone
cautiously drew back a little and asserted that the so-
called agreement was all moonshine. He declared for-
mally that it was “ not an accurate representation of my
views, but,.l presume, a speculation upon them.” Mr.
Parnell had no documentary evidence, so he had to
submit in patienoe to this impudent disavowal. But he
knew his man. Parliament met in January, 1886.
Mr. Gladstone—in the interests, of course, of the
higher morality—had determined to turn out Lord Salis-
bury, but he could not do it without the Irish vote, and
the Irish vote, unfortunately, had to he bought. Mr.
Gladstone, who had hitherto taken care not to commit
himself to writing, had to make an advance. So a certain
professorial Radical was chosen as the emissary. He w as
a foolish creature, and one who could easily be repudiated
if necessarv. Mr. Gladstone wrote out the heads of his
proposed Home Rule Bill, and the document was entrusted
to the emissary, with solemn injunctions that it. was not,
under any circumstances, to be allowed out of his hands.
The unhappy man undertook the commission with a
light heart. He was irresistible at “mothers’ meetings,”
and he thought he could manage a mere Irishman.
The emissary approached the Chief, and began to formu-
late the clauses. “ Where are your credentials?” coldly
inquired Mr. Parnell. The professor tremblingly fingered
the all-important document. Mr. Parnell reached forth,
took the holograph, and deposited it in his inside pocket,
ostentatiously buttoning up his coat. “Oh,” cried the
emissary', in alarm, “ you cannot do that! I must not
let the document out of my hands.” Neglecting the ob-
vious retort, Mr. Parnell replied, “ Do you suppose that I
can give you an answer now, on so serious a matter? I
must take this paper away and read it carefully.” And
so the “Grand Old Spider” was trapped, and Mr. Par-
nell, having for the first time Mr. Gladstone’s surrender
to Home Rule in his pocket in Mr. Gladstone’s own hand-
writing, was master of the situation.
+
The preface to Henry Arthur Jones’s play,
“ The Tempter,” which Messrs. Macmillan have
published, resolves itself mainly (says the Academy)
into an examination bv Mr. Jones of the critical
capacity of Mr. Archer. Mr. Jones does not
admire Mr. Archer —positively. Negatively he
does. He writes : “I know of no critic who can
be safely trusted to arrive at a wrong effect with
so much precision and honest, painstaking effort
as Mr. William Archer.” This is hard; but there
is worse. Thus:
Anyone who lias followed the career of Mr. Archer’s
especial prattgi* must have noticed that they all come to
certain failure and misfortune, as surely as Sartgrado’s
patients ail died of fever. And a dramatist who wishes
for a modest- amount of success with his public may well
be alarmed lest in some unlucky moment. Mr. Archer may
lav hands on him and discover his plays to be master-
pieces. Arid if this be thought to be impossible in my
own case, I can only again refer to the astonishing list o
plays which he has discovered to he masterpieces. I
declare that not one of us is safe from him. And any
playwright who is placed in this precarious position may
well consider bow he may discourage Mr. Archer, and so
escape the disaster of his praise. But indeed I have no
such Belfish motive, and my only thought is to take Mr.
Archer out of the mean little by-ways where he lias groped
so tong, and to set him with his face forward on the main
highway of the drama’s advancement.
So much for Mr. Archer, who knows well
enough how to defend himself. Mr. Jones then
turns to the poets—
And here (he says] will he a fitting place to acknowledge
* tlje ii nmense debt which onr icnasceut English drama
owes to modern English men of letters and poets.
There is scarcely an English poet or man of letters
of the present, anti passing generation who lias not
generously gixen much valuable leisure to teach
EngliSh playwrights how not to write a play.
I have never seen any public acknowledgment
of this debt, on t lie part of the drama, and 1
mil glad that it falls to me to assure all these
eminent literary gi-nUeman and poets that.their labours
have not been in vain at hast, so far ns one playwright
is concerned. If 1 do not go into details and part icular
instances, it is because a sympathetic insijit at once per-
ceives that, in spite of a vast diversity of style and theme
and treatment, the so-called literary plays of the lasi
forty years are really animated by one sovereign aim anc
impulse—to show English playwrights what to avoid
And I claim on behalf of the Victorian literary drama
that it has splendidly accomplished this purpose.
Finally, says Mr. Jones in his very diverting de
fence: “For many years I have been in grea’
peace about the future of my soul. I am in equa
p.-acc about the quite minor question of my future
place in the English drama. ”
“P. Lnftig” writes regarding Tennyson anc
“the glorification of the commonplace ”
The ism tic temperament is essentially androgyn
ous. The woman’s sensitiveness, intuition, lier
vous refinement, join with the reserve power anc
creative vigor of the man to form the artist. As
those or these predominate, we have the major
strain or the minor appeal for human sympathy
and the proffer of it. To my mind the feminine
e train is the principal element in the Temiysonian
composition ; the masculine chord is merely sub
sidiary, Tennyson appeals to the softer emotion
[he is a great favorite with the women-folk); he
moves us continually to a gentle love or a gentle
pity, but his battle-cry and his war-blast always
struck me (making allowance for one or twoexcep
tions) as lining somewhat feeble.
Years and years ago Goethe wrote :—“ Per
sonality is everything in Art and Poetry, ” Jouber
emphasises Goethe's remark in this wise : IF
must have the man. ... It is human warmth am
almost human sulwtance which gives to all tiling
the quality that charms us.”- Yes, “ we must have
the man.” But in reading Tennyson I air
eternally impressed with the fact that in the
late Laureate we possessed not so much “ tin
man” as the (Hilished ninet - \ h century gentle
man, redolent of culture, pur,i,c and fine linen,
and dainty suggestions of lavender. The hold of
Burns on the Scottish heart is largely due to
the fact that you can hear a rugged bosom
beating time to the tune he sings ; that kid gloves
and “A man's a man for a’ that” have nothing in
common : that the scent of the hay, and the smell
of the earth netv-tmiied by the plough, are con-
tinually rising to reiniu bus of the rugged peasant
who rolls us out his rugged song. ... I am not
asserting that Tennysjn cannot touch Mother
Earth at times—“ The Grandmother ” is saffi i<*nt
disproof of that: but through much of his w<
(The Princess, Maud, Idylls of the King) yon are
ever painfully conscious of the presence of The
Eternal Gentleman. At times von find him arm
in arm with bis feminine analogue The Eternal
Lady—and then the ejvectwjle becomes almost
overpowering.
Tennyson has been charged by certain critics
with “glorifying the common)>!aee.” In a
recent criticism, that beautiful lyric, “Break,
break, break,” was cited as an example of such
glorification. But there is nothing commonplace
about the sea breaking on the crags of a rock-
bound ooost, though it does bo every hour for
countless eenturioß ; there la nothing commonplace
about the “ eternal snows of Himaleh ”; there is
nothing commonplace about the stars of heaven,
though they shine in the vault every night to the
end of time. “The Commonplace” (with which
the idea of vulgarity is inseparably intertwined) is
entirely a thing of human creation. lam seri-
ously inclined to doubt if the “Glorification of the
Commonplace ” be a feat within the compass oi
human powers ; the most serious accusation that
can be hurled against Tennyson is that, in the
days of his decline, he did deliberately attempt to
“glorify the commonplacewith results truly
memorable. Do we not recollect a certain J übilee
poem running thusly :
You the Mighty, the Fortunate,
You, the Lord-Territorial, .
You, the Lord-Manufacturer.
All your hearts be in harmony,
All your voices in unison—etc.
This was gilding the idol ; this was painting the
Joss ; tins was glorifying the Commonplace—with
a vengeance !
With regard to Tennyson’s right to stand in the
first rank ofpoete it must be remembered that the
great poets have nearly always dealt with great
themes. To Homer, Goethe, Dante, Schiller,
Shakespere, Shelley, it was essential that they
should deal in mighty matters. Great passions,
gigantic ambitions, guilty loves, glowing, magnifi-
cent virtues, fierce crimes, were usually the day
of which they wrought their poetical children.
They did not always “avoid the unseemly,”
neither did they wallow in it; they did not
pursue the “lovely and the pleasant” for ever,
neither did they give it exclusive pride of place in
their House of Song. They did not strike their
lays that dainty decency might dance a inincing
measure to the tune. The bardic heart was big;
the pulse was strong; the voice was deep and stir-
ring-—and the song was in accordance.-' Nowa-
days the little cages with their green and gold are
all a-twittor with pretty warblings, while old
Parnassus slumbers steadily all unaware of the
puny band and its ]>etulaut piping. ... An
eminent French critic once remarked: “Tenny-
son—yes. He strikes the chord of passion —with
his gloves on /” . . . . Thews is a modicum of
truth in the accusation. Call him a dainty lyrist
if you will'; grant him all the praise due to superb
poetical technique ; admire his graceful simplicity
as much as you choose j there is yet something
lacking (shall I say of pristine vigour) in the Ten-
nysoman fibre that was ever present and dominant
in the song of those old
bards who died content on pleasant sward,
Leaving great v< rse unto a little clan.
And yet his breast was all vibrant with the breath
of melody. No one knew' better than Tennyson
how
Nature beats in perfect tune
And rounds with rhyme her every rune;
Whether she work on land or sea,
Or hide underground her alchemy,
Thou canst not weave thy siaff in air,
Or dip thy paddle in the lake,
But it curves the bow Of beauty there
And the ripples in rhymes the oar forsake.
But ’tie a far cry from rugged ante Norman times
(the late Laureate traced his descent way back to
King Alfred) to the 10th century, and if British
blood lias become slightly Attenuated in the long
transition, it is but natural that British song
should also now and again lose somewhat of its
former robustness. . . . Come hither, Budyard!
Thou at least art never a lotos-eater !
A WOMAN’S THOUGHT.
I am a woman—therefore I may not
Call to him, cry to him,
Ply to him,
Bid him delay not 1
And when he come* to me I must ait quiet:
Still as a stone—
All silent and oold.
If my heart riot—
Crush and defy it 1
Should I grow bold—
Say one dear thing to him,
All my life fling to him,
Cling to him—
What to atone
Is enough for my sinning I
This were the cost to me,
This were my winning—
That he were lost to me.
Not as a lover
At iast if he part from me,
Tearing my heart from me—
Hurt beyond cure,—
Calm and demure
Then must I hold me
In myself fold me—
Lest he discover ;
Showing no sign to him
By look of mine to him
What he has been to me-
llow my, heart turns to him,
Follows him, yearns to him, \
Prays him to love me.
Pity me, lean to me,
Thou God above me.
E. W. Gilder .
THE HARBOR OF DREAMS.
Only a whispering gale
Flutters the wings of the boat;
Only a bird in the vale
Lends to the silence a note,
Mellow, subdued, and remote :
This Is the t wilight Of peace,
This is the hour of release,
Free of all worry and fret,
Clean of all care and regret,
When like a bkd in its nest
Fancy lies folded to rest.
This is the margin of sleep;
Here let the anchor be cast;
llete in forgetfulness deep,
Now that the journey is past,
Lower t he sails from the mast.
Here i he hay of content,
Heaven and earth interbleat:
Here is the haven that lies
Close to the gates of surprise;
Here all like Paradise seems -
Here is the harbor of dreams.
Frank Sherman.


222 GRAPHOPHONE.
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
60s. up.
THE “ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE"
Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talkipg Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&0., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives for Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Graphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG," 2s. 6d. Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
50/i
02
HE
A
Bishops
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
czJmitatumjA
USE
Spooler's
!l
DRESSIKC
FOR
1 BBOWN LEATHER
; BOOTS & SHOES
, ; GF UL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
"IFuM I IimiUUUM I IUUUiI!
ROYAL NAVY
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
HOWto PRESERVE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
R. GENNEKT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdine-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, Bs.
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
la.
•Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
__ ; Hotels.
(W~ Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
North. Queensland.
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
o 0 f his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUII HOUSE. The
atest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
" (Seaßon 1808-8).
WOOL.
Salea held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under*
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
m Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agenoy 00., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Qoldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and 00.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. 0. Young and Co.
The London & American Supply Stores
JJ
mm
0
m
LONDON&AMERICAH
U p PLY(«gWaiORES
rrr 3 B^BWhidMailWlMftriW‘*=Hy
. FOB .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors'
Ilf**'
■'{WAV
as
1 1 m
SB -
, .y. &
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : ‘ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns?"
Second Bear : “ No 1 Kodaks ! ”
Australian Depots
—FOB—
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER SROUSE
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 BUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
811 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness
Brush’s Pair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Made with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Pads,
complete—No. 1, £5 10s.: No. 2,
£6 10s. ; No. 3, £7 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s. ; No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.— A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2.—A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, £4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3. —A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nioely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.— The “ Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55 un
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies. Remittances can be sent by cheque or
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange Extra 217 dis
allowed if you send this advt. with order. i 1/0
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Co.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 G-eorge-street, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
Complete
Electric
KENSINGTON I
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains oven 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken- '
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
uEsns
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
«“* BUYthe BEST. CHEAPEST, and moat
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
m FLINDERS BT., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9,6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
D.S.MAIR
&P
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
2 6; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
_A_ Solid. Silver* Watch.
Absolutely GIVEN AWAY. Can You Bead This?
| W*A * S | T* E | T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter Watches (Ladies' or
Gentlemen’s) to every reader who sends us the correct
reading of the above rebus. Conditions—that your
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely with
the object of introducing our catalogue and advertising
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stamped-addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Address:
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch & Jewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
Cramps,'
i Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup. \
. Coughs,y
i Tooth- '
\ ache,
Cuts , 1
Burns, ’
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
TtainrKtUev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
What is Health?
Tfheumatiam, Sciatica,
Lumbayo, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA JiKKlt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
fthese Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
H
3?" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOYVAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nuw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 lOb.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line ; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
/1 111 11 Kljlj'S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and ir
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.


TATTERS ALL’S
• • • Monster Prize List*
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Ilobart.
SI EGIAL on Newmarket Handicap.
4th March.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Drawn on Morning of the Race.
3
Address
March 4.
NEWMARKET H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERBALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address.
AUSTRALIAN C. March 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address :
NEWCASTLE C. March 18.
50,000 Stibsorilbera a>t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
BALLARAT C
March 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
DONCASTER H
April 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot mo_ shares in the above.
Name
Address
SYDNEY C. April 3.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the above.
N ame
Address
*
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Glass
of FaSbioi?
ANTHONY • IIORDERJNTS
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
is now nr-"Y
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and Ceneral Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood Logs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
David graham |o go.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
fancy vestings
LADIE PRICES
AT REFORM
PRICES !
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cewnlar 1 Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
■the!
leaf
LIEABI
tW" “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
■omfortable, invisible, no (dan-
| rerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Airent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
DOW RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
vr— <3
„ GrO TO HELL-
-15 IGOI.ANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hager),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamp* bought, prioe-
lists gratis.
TWiStraliai) f^OtOal
Established 1849.
Pr<wid?ot Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
I>i rectors :—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.0., M.L.A., Chairman; TIIOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Denutv-
Chairmun ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHOJIT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT
Esq. ; K. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.B.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. .. Fourteen and a-Hali Millions Sterling.
i'heCASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445 235 yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000. ’ ’*
Head. Office : 07 Pitt-atreet Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buck boards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Bet.
KdV Send for Price List. “SI
.1. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue. -
SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
V AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
MEUIN’S
FOOD
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OP SAUCES.
mii s l o i l°d s aSnua I S es beware of substitutions,
Sola in Bottles, 6a., i/-, ana 2/- each.
Proprietors I GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &, CO, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TILI.OCK & CO., KENT ana UVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE
‘ Plum ’
THK
* Plum*
ei ENTLEME1N who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
j trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, fid. cake.
Price
j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6fl. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Reyistcred and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheq
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
HNX.S.’W'- Carriage & Saddlery ManF Company,
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rcdfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE. —Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 16 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Statiorf}.
Our Special
No. 2.
u :
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We Missed Each Other.
Somehow we missed each other,
Passed each other by unknowing ;
I who sought you, you who sought mo
With hearts that throbbed to hopes and fears,
Passed each other in the early going,
Missed each other in the early years.
Somehow we missed each other,
We poor bankrupt souls —thus sowing
A harvest that we rocked not of.
Now, others’ sorrows claim our tears,
Others call us in our later going,
Others hold us in our later years.
M.J.C.
Earth. End.
Last night I dreamed I saw the swollen sun
Burst into fragments in the shivering air ;
Huge gouts of fire flecked Earth, once green and
fair,
And of a million cities never one
Escaped fierce flames that seemed to leap and run
Like Furies, all-devouring everywhere ;
While the loud roaring of the seas did bear
Witness their own destruction was begun.
Then from all lands there rose a wordless wail:
Men and wild beasts together screamed and died;
Thousands leaped in the sea on which no sail
Was to be seen, nor would again abide ;
Until it seemed a fading planet drew
Out of the void, struck me, and I died too.
R. CRAWFORD.
Dream Death.
There is a hreath at midnight that comes in
Sad as a sigh, for then the Day is dead,
And the young Morrow doth his course begin
Sowing new dreams in many a dreamer’s head.
And there are two have waked in one dark bed
Just as the last stroke fades in lonely air,
And having whispered half-awake have sped
With silent feet into Sleep’s poppied lair.
She with the morning wakes, but he is gone :
Her tears and kisses are of no avail—
Perchance it was his good-bye murmured on
The midnight in Death’s visionary dale.
Ah, sorrow ! For she thought ’twas in Sleep’s
fairyland,
When in the dark he pressed her warm, soft hand.
R. CRAWFORD.
Coquette.
They call thee false. The fools, they know no
better.
Poor whining weaklings, how they vent their
wrath !
A smile, a tender word they thought could fetter
For ever to one flame my restless moth.
But happiness is fleet and will not wait ;
He who would keep must force the hand of fate :
For constancy is peace, and peace is—sloth !
Ah, sweetheart mine, what does it matter whether
The rust of time or chance shall snap the chain.
A driftless something brought us two together,
A sullen mood may sever us again.
Yet doubly sweet the joy of love’s caress,
That ever conscious of thy fickleness
Feels through its raptures ever-boding pain !
What do I care ? Afar my spirit ranges ;
Let faithful patience worship at a shrine.
I sally forth, myself a child of changes,
To take iny chance, and fiuht for what is mine ;
That love alone doth taste of perfect bliss,
That I must rend or ravish, kiss for kiss,
From those reluctant, lying lips of thine !
VON KOTZE.
Whom Shall We Trust?
Girls whose laugh hath a liquid sweetness,
Falling soft as a lute-song old,
Girls whose step has a fairy fleetness,
Girls whose heart hath a deep untold,
Girls whose hair hath a glint of gold,
Girls whose eyes are a starlit dew,
Ye whose love is a life’s completeness,
Whom shall we trust if ye be not true ?
Say—what hope if the love-light tender
Deep in the gentle eyes should fail ?
Say—what hope if the gleaming splendour
Born of your own white truth should fail ?
Say—what hope if the suppliant’s tale
Rise in vain to your orbs so blue ?
If ye tire of the dear surrender
Whom shall we trust if ye prove untrue?
Naught we need of a day-star clearer,
If ye smile at the dear home door ;
Naught we need of a sky brought nearer,
If ye love as ye loved of yore ;
Naught we care for a greener shore,
Naught we need of a. joy-land new—
Hearts, O Hearts, than the whole world dearer,
Whom shall we trust if ye be not true ?
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
Saint Hubert.
M.L.
Comrades, to the woodlands come !
Thrice afar the tasselled horn
Pours a soul's elysiinn
Thro’ the white wake of the morn.
Thrice the buck has hearkened still,
Buried in the umber shades ;
Thrice the glebv-wandering rill
Answers ere the bugle fades.
Over yonder granite peak,
Circled with a fleecy film,
Leaps the glad sun’s flaming streak,
Kissing all his verdured realm.
Unpremeditated hymns
Pour from feather-throated choirs,
Every note with joy o’erbrims,
Every heart to soar aspires !
Thrice afar the tasselled horn
Pours a soul’s elysiutn
Thro’ the white wake of the morn—
Comrades, to the woodlands come !
HUBERT CHURCH.


WASHINGTON H SOUL & C?
160 * 268
%|eading Chemists
*
WITH EVERY NOVELT'
Brushes.
p
fUARAHTtt ***
~, — >RS BAKING —^
l^« TE3
'pERFdfIERV
CARLTON ALE.
Palnieaa Uontiatry.
THE .. ..
[ondon j)ental
Institute,
Dr. R. LEVEIt, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. H. D. ARIIISK, Dentists,
pr- Modern Dentistry In nil its Branches
Ley Minutely VracHsed.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; aiso to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINF2 TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ICAR E T T
Tkadb
Mark
C*X-
i _ fR»PH lETARC jiiifi]
jjkDistillers Company!?
EDINBURGH.
*. . .
itA
1» .W tAd fir IMS")
mny A'/tj ,* nnu Mfriii
%
moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake ”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with'
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.
5
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7los;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
THE TalkiOS MacbiOS Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematocraphes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
The Australian Widows’ fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.) GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A.rcliltects Specify
P*B
DAMP COURSE
BECAUSE
The University of Sydney, May 2, '9B.
Messrs. E. RICH & 00.
Gentlemen. —I have tested two kinds of your Ruberoid, which I will refer to as A and B.
Ais the P& B Pile Covering; Bis the P& B Damp-proof Course.
Sample A expanded under a pressure of 10 tons per square foot from 6" x 6" to 6.02" x
6.02", and with 12 tons per square foot to 6.026" x 6.025". The latter pressure would be just
about reached in a stone building 150 ft. high
Sample B Dampcourse showed no alteration whatever under a pressure of 12 tons per
square foot.
In regard to porosity, both samples were subjected toa head of 10ft. of water for 20 hours,
and were perfectly watertight. Both were subjected also to pressure before testing.—Yours
faithfully,
(Signed) W. H. WARREN, Wh. Sc. M. Inst. 0.E., M. Am. Soc. 0.E.,
Professor of Engineering.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinsok & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W, San word & 00., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Robs & Jack, Asren te, Custom-house Quay, Welli njfton, N. Z.
Frank Loqan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twioo, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Piierbon, Ltd., Townsville, North Queenslan d
Agents ; E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
lIELI DON SPA VYATEP
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
ffICHW SB HB CIS
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF s
10s. per Day.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OE MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Tobacco Manufacture in N.S. W.
Excise Returns show that during 1898,
Over 60 Tons More
>f DIXSON & SONS’ Tobacco were sold than
that of any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf. —DIXSON & SONS used in
manufacture
Over 149 Tons More
than all the other Tobacco Factories.
• ✓♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
DIXSON & SONS’ Brands are:
YANKEE DOODLE, Dark and Bright Aromatic.
CHAMPION, Bright.
CONQUEROR, Dark.
BONANZA CIOAIiS, — Machine-made; contain the choicest
Tobacco, and are placed at the lowest price .


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.— N0. 992.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1899.
Prick 6d.
SYDNEY D.T. PREPARES TO WALLOP ITS JOSS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
**Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Thk Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendiixg MS. to distiixctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Slack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or icash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., CornhUl.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tub Transvaal F. U.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— lK. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Moor Hand,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland wili be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight —now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special I'hynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1899.
A Very Small Lion.
Two weeks have elapsed since the Premiers
fixed up their Federal compromise, and so
far hardly any of the old provincial clan have
been heard from. The irreconcilable finance
editor of the Telegraph, and one or two
foolish drapers, and the equally foolish
Slattery are about all of the old blatant
crowd that have lifted their voices up to
date. All the 99 horrors that they said were
going to bring utter, irredeemable ruin on
New South Wales are still in the Bill, save
two ; but, now that the capital is secured for
New South Wales and there is a prospect of
that province getting whatever cash advan-
tages there are in it, the other 97 horrors
don’t matter. They never really existed, and
the Want and Heydon push knew perfectly
well that they never existed ; but they served
well enough to fool the people with for the
time being—and politics are mostly premedi-
tated inaccuracy in any case. If the evi-
dence of the past week or two amounts to
anything, of all the lions that were in the path
last year there is only one remaining, and
it is a weak, stumpy lion whose roar sounds
very small and lonesome along the political
strand. The Sydney Telegraph’s financial
apparition is this solitary survivor. That
paper, up to time of writing, hadn’t com-
mitted itself either way in its editorial
columns ; it has carefully dodged the great
subject of the hour, and has devoted its
space to scathing comments on the North
Pole and things like that. But away in the
cool obscurity of the back part of the organ
its financial editor has served up again his
old mass of unreliable figures, showing that
Federation means ruin, and that the poor
old Braddon Blot has been at it again.
♦ * * •
The Telegraph’s small lion in the path is
an animal that has been absolutely refuted a
dozen times already. It has been shown
that the figures are wrong, and the lamenta-
tion is ridiculous, and the inference would
disgrace the arithmetic of the smallest Jew-
hoy in a city pawn-shop. But the Tele-
graph’s strength lies in the fact that it never
takes any notice of the disproof, but merely
tells its old snake-yarn over and over again
in practically the same words. Its bogey is
that, under the Federal scheme, it will be
necessary for the six States to raise
£8,000,000 or £12,000,000 or some other
impossible sum by customs and excise
revenue, and last week it set out to say it all
over again thus :
EXPENDITURE of THE COMMONWEALTH (SIX
n . STATES).
Customs department ... ... £250 000
Posts and telegraphs 2,100,000
Defence 700,000
Minor services 150 000
Maintenance of properties 150 000
Interest on works taken over at 3
per cent. ... ... _ _ 370 000
Interest on new debt (£4,000,000) . . 120 000
Cost of Federal Government,
courts, etc 300,000
Post REVENUE of THE COMMONWEALTH 4 ’ 140 ’ 000
Posts and telegraphs £2,070,000
Minor revenues 150 ; 000
£2,220,000
Deficiency 92 0 000
Here, then, with six States included, the Commonwealth
is shown to have a deficiency of £1,920,000, which it is to
raise from Customs and excise. But, under the Braddon
blot, ttmitsf raise four tunes that sum, or £7,680,000, so
as to return £5,760,000 to the States.
That this £7,680,000 would be required to cover the
absolute needs of the Commonwealth and the States can
at once be seen. The States at present need their Cus-
they now vieldT t 0 balance their accoun ts. What do
w , Customs and Excise.
New South Wales £1,530,000
Victoria 2,110,000
Queensland 1,325,000
South Australia 610,000
West Australia 1,015,000
Tasmania 370,000
•Add—Needsof the Federal Government ’ 720,000
~ £7,680,000 covers only the absouftTiieeds of
the States and the Commonwealth. The bookkeeping
arrangement involves the necessity of raising a revenue
far above £7,680,000. Taking the probable “ propor-
tions adopted by the late Finance Committee in Sydney
and modifying them equally so as to permit of the in-
elusion of Queensland, we have the following as the pro-
able contributions of the Commonwealth toward a
revenue from Customs and excise of £7,680,01X1 :
Proportion.
New South Wales ... 37 per cent. ... £2,840,000
Victoria 27 per cent. ... 2,075,000
Queensland _. 16 per cent. ... 1,230,000
South Australia ... 8 per cent. ... 615,000
West Australia ... 8 per cent. ... 615,000
Tasmania 4 per cent. ... 305,000
VT ... , 100 per cent. .. £7,680,000
Now, it is only necessary to take the case of New South
Wales to show that a much larger revenue than £7,680,000
would be needed under the book-keeping system. Our
present Customs and excise yield £1,530,000. * Then they
would yield £2,840,000, or £1,310,000 more. Reckoning
that our share of the Federal expenditure would be
£260,000, there would be, roughly, E 1,050,003 surplus to
return to New South Wales. This simply means that the
other five States would between them have deficiencies to
a similar amount. To claim those deficiencies from the
Commonwealth would raise the total requirements from
£7,680,000 to £8,730,000. If, however, that extra sum
were to be raised from Customs and excise, New South
Wales would be entitled to her share of the excess, and
thus we go on in an ascending scale far into the regions
of impossible tariffs. In its political aspect, the Bill has
been much improved. Financially, it is as hopeless as
ever.
* * * *
It all looks well enough, yet it isn't even a
decently plausible fish-yarn after all.
• • * .
The key-note of the whole affair is the
assertion that the Commonwealth has to raise
its whole £1,920,000 or more by customs and
excise taxation, and that, as three-fourths of
the customs and excise revenue lias to he
returned to the States, to get that sum it
must raise nearly £8,000,000 by means of a
Federal tariff. And as that assertion is
utterly untrue, and pure invention, and there
isn’t a single word in the Federal Constitu-
tion which lends the slightest color to it, the
whole garbled tale falls through, and the
bogey is a lost apparition. The Federal
Government needn’t raise a penny of its
revenue by customs and excise unless it
wants to, only that stupid lie had to be in-
vented to give the other lies something to
stand on. It can begin by levying a uniform
income-tax throughout Australia, in which
case New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania
and South Australia would have to abandon
their local income-taxes. At present Queens-
land and Westralia have no income-taxes,
and when they were made to contribute under
this heading they would need so much the
less customs revenue, and two of the largest
difficulties would be removed. Then the
Commonwealth could go on to levy a
uniform land-tax, whereby New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia, and Tasmania would
be compelled to abolish their local land-
taxes. At present neither Queensland nor
Westralia has any land-tax, and when they
contributed under this heading another part
wof the discrepancy would vanish. (Also Tas-
mania taxes land only in the £, and Vic-
toria only taxes estates worth over £2500
and provided they exceed 640 acres in area—
therefore all the valuable city lands escape
taxation, being below the 640-acre limit.)
Queensland and Westralia have by far a
larger customs and excise revenue than any
of the other States, and (unless they impose
land and income taxes) they need it all.
Therefore, if the Federal Government decides
(which it is 1000 to 1 it won’t he so foolish as
to do) that it will pay all its expenses out of
the fourth of the customs and excise revenue
it is allowed to retain, and will still hand
back to eacli province its proper share of the
balance, and will make that share large
enough to enable Westralia and Queensland
to keep afloat without land and income taxa-
tion, and to enable Tasmania and Victoria
to get through without increasing their land-
taxes, which are at present ridiculously low
—in other words, if the Commonwealth
Government is an absolute lunatic, as the
Telegraph always assumes il must he, then
the situation is just about hopeless.
* • » *
But if the land and income taxes are made
uniform throughout Australia on a reason-
ably high scale, the situation would bo this :
There would be no serious discrepancy in the
tariff needs of the six States. Westralia and
Queensland would pay much more in direct
taxation, and Tasmania and Victoria a good
deal more, and they would need less customs
and excise revenue than they do now, and a
uniform customs-tariff of £7,000,000 or less a
year would probably keep them all afloat.
The only provinces which are not likely to
produce more revenue under a uniform
Federal land and income tax than they do
now are New South Wales and South Aus-
tralia, and they are also, the provinces which
depend least on their tariff-revenue. If by
any chance the Federal Government decided
to impose a uniform land and income tax,
say on the S.A. principle, and let the pro-
vinces which now charge these taxes
for purposes of local revenue abolish
them, then the Federal Government could
live on this source of revenue alone, and
even have something over. And if. the
Federal Government is not the absolute
lunatic that the Telegraph, for the sake of
its argument, assumes it to be, it will do so,
for Australia wants uniform direct taxation
quite as badly as a uniform tariff. Then it
can return all the customs and excise
revenue to the provinces —there is nothing
in the Constitution Bill to prevent it doing so,
though the Telegraph always assumes that
there is in order to keep its theory afloat—
and a £7,000,000 tariff would leave none of
them in any serious difficulties. And two
that are likely to be in the worst situation—
Tasmania and Westralia—have always the
alternative of levelling up their probate
duties to the Victorian level. The fact that
some provinces need so much more Customs
revenue than others is almost wholly owing
to the fact that they raise so much less direct
taxation. The Federal Parliament has only
got to level up the direct taxation, or let the
States do it themselves, and the unanswer-
able problem is answered.
* • » *
Of course the financial situation under
the Federal Bill is quite impossible if a
sufficient number of things are assumed.
The Telegraph starts by assuming eleven of
them: (1) That the Commonwealth will
decide to pay all its expenses out of Customs
and excise ; (2) that it can’t possibly think
of imposing a uniform Federal land-and-
ineome-tax; (3) that it won’t dream of im-
posing uniform prohate-duties; (4) that it
won’t attempt any new forms of taxation
whatever; (5) that the two provinces which
have no land-and-income taxes can’t possibly
impose them themselves (Heaven only knows
why), but must getenough Customs revenue to
keep themafloat or hurst; (6) that the provinces
with small land-and-income taxes can’t raise
them ; (7) that the provinces with low probate
duties can’t possibly think of increasing
them, because they won’t know how to come
in out of the wet; (8) that because some
provinces produce more customs revenue per
head than others under different tariffs,
they must needs go on doing it when they
have all the same tariff; (9) that Tasmania,
because it needs £370,000 customs revenue
now, when it. is paying about £60,000 a year
off the old deficit, will need it just the same
after the deficit is paid off; (10) that, be-
cause New South Wales can do with
£1,530,000 customs and excise now, when it
has to charge about £BOO,OOO a year of its
ordinary expenditure to loans to avoid openly
going broke, will never need more than
that ; (11) that the Federal Parliament will
be the last possibility in the way of a fool,
and will always remain so. Assuming all
these things and possibly a few others, the
Telegraph’s despairing view of the situation
is perfectly accurate. But it takes a terrible
amount of assumption.
The Commercial Bank’s Complaint.
The boss magnate of the Commercial Bank of
Australia, at the recent half-yearly meeting of
that massive institution in Melbourne, took ex-
ception to some criticisms offered by this paper
on an important question. The said mag-
nate wasn’t particularly happy in his mode of
refuting The Bulletin’s remarks, his case (as
reported by the Melbourne Age) being as
follows (Bulletin’s italics): —
Some criticism had taken place with regard to the
absence from the balance-sheet of the hank of the
accounts of the Assets Company, and in order to remove
any misapprehension which might exist, he desired to
remind them that, although it was true that there was a
connection between the bank and the Assets Company,
as provided in the scheme of reconstruction, it was not
correct to say that the Assets Company and the bank
were one. The scheme of reconstruction adopted in
1896, which was accepted by the creditors and share-
holders of the bank, and sanctioned by the courts, pro-
vided for the entire separation of the assets of the old
bank from those of the new by transferring the former to
the Assets Company ; also, that certain liabilities were to
be transferred from the bank to the Assets Company,
which liabilities were to he provided for by the proceeds
of the assets upon realisation, the bank being responsible
in the year 1916 —that was 17i years hence—to make
good the deficiency (if any ) which might result from the
realisation. The assets thus transferred stood in the
books of the Assets Company at the present time at the
sum of £6,731,359, from which lias to lie deducted
£1,200,000, amount of the capital written off, and against
which assets were outstanding deposit receipts, for the
ultimate payment of which the bank was responsible,
amounting to £3,470,079. The differenoe between these
two sums—£2,26l,2Bo—represented the margin for depre-
ciation of these assets, which must take place before any
claim could be made upon the new bank under its guaran-
tee. This amount, of course, included the hank’s direct
interest in the Assets Company. Whether this large
amount of upwards of £2,250,000 would be sufficient to
cover losses, the exact amount of which was not yet ascer-
tained, was a question upon which the directors could not
at presen t express an opinion ; but in view of the improv-
ing condition of affairs in the colony, and considering the
long currency of the Assets Company’s deposit receipts,
the amount would appear to be ample, and should it be
so, there would be no liability attaching whatever to the
new lap.k under its guarantee to the Assets Companv.
When the new directors took the affairs of the bank in
hand, at the time of the reconstruction, they refused to
take any responsibility for the losses which occurred prior
to their acceptance of office, and they had consistently
declined throughout to place any valuation upon the
assets. In proposing the scheme of reconstruction, their
object was to remove the old assets from the bank, and
place aga nst them their appropriate liability, so as to be
able to show clearly the position of the bank itself, and
they confidently reaffirmed their opinion that this was
the only practicable course in the circumstances, and one
which would effect the best results for the interests of
all concerned. To invite the hoard, therefore, to amalga-
mate the affairs of the Assets Company with those of the
bank, and practically to compel them to value the old
assets, was to invite them to act against the whole spirit
and intention of the scheme of and that
without any advantage, so far as they were able to jud*?e.
But the most important reason for maintaining? the
separation between the Assets Company and the bank
arose from the fact that the contingent liability to
make up any deficiency in the amount of the deposit
receipts by realisation was not a claim which
was to rank pari passu with the liabilities of
the bank itself, and in the interests of the bank
it was desirable that he should emphasise this
point most clearly. By the scheme of reconstruction,
all the creditors of the new bank were entitled to the pay-
ment of the full amount of their claims against the entire
assets of the institution. . . . Their duty was to see, as
the directors of the Assets Company, that the utmost was
obtained for the old assets, and that the loss to the share-
holders of the bank, who ultimately must bear the whole
of the loss, whatever it might be, should be minimised.
In the opinion of the bank there could be no question
whatever as to the ultimate security and safety of the
creditors of the old bank who held the Assets Company’s
deposit receipts. He trusted that he had made the
position clear, that the bank and the Assets Company
were two separate and distinct institutions, that the
Assets Company had the security of the bank for any
shortage which might occur in the realisation of the
assets, and that that claim, if any, was only a second
charge upon the assets of the new bank.
* * • *
The Bulletin drew special attention to the
curious proceedings of the Commercial Bank of
Australia because it appears to have struck on
an idea whereby a big bank can publish its
balance-sheet without casting any light at
all on its affairs as far as they concern the
shareholders. If its idea came to be gene-
rally adopted, then the publication of accounts
might as well be dropped altogether, so
far as their object is to show how
the shareholders stand. And the dis-
claimer of Mr. Robert Harper leaves
things just as they were. When the Commer-
cial Bank reconstructed for the second time in
1896, it transferred nearly £6,000,000 worth of
its assets (admittedly its worst assets—the
legacy of the bad boom days) to an Assets
Trust. It also put into the Trust nearly
£4,000,000 of liabilities in the shape of deposits.
The Assets Trust has to earn enough, if it can,
to pay interest on these deposits, and its assets
have to sell for enough, if possible, to pay these
deposits at maturity. If there is a deficit, the
shareholders of the Commercial Bank have to
stand the loss just as much as if the Trust had
never separated from the Bank, and just as much
as if it was the Bank’s loss, and the fact that the
bill for the loss, if there is one, doesn’t actually
fall due till 1916, makes no difference. If there
is a profit, the shareholders of the Bank annex
it just as if it was the Bank’s own profit—which
it really is. Therefore the Assets Trust, for all
practical purposes, is as much a part of the
Bank as it ever was, despiie the alleged separa-
tion.
* * * *
Last half-year the half of the institution
which is called the Commercial Bank issued a
balance-sheet showing a profit of £53,000. The
other half—the concern which has millions
of liabilities and all the old doubtful assets—
issued not the slightest information as to its
solvency or the other thing. If it made £40,000
profit, then the Commercial Bank is doing ex-
cellently. If it just cleared itself, then the
Commercial is doing well. If it made £50,000
loss, then the institution is doing badly, and if
it made £BO,OOO loss, then this paper wouldn’t
like to fully describe the situation. That is all
there is about it ; and which hypothesis is
nearer the mark the accounts don’t show.
Last half-year the A.J.S. Bank made a profit
of only £266. That might easily mean that its
good new business made £40,000 profit, and
that it lost £39,734 in pursuing the realisation
of the bad assets handed down from the old
A.J.S. Bank. If it, like the Commercial of
Australia, put all these old assets and
a corresponding amount of deposits in-
to an Assets Trust, and published no
accounts of that allegedly separate institu-
tion, which would be really the same institution
all the time, then under these presumptive
circumstances it would show £40,000 profit in-
stead of £266—which would be a very great
difference and yet no difference at all.
* * * *
The Bulletin didn’t ask the Commercial
Bank management to “ amalgamate ” the hank
and the Assets Trust, therefore Mr. Harper’s
assurances that that can’t be done are a
wild flying-off the handle and have no bear-
ing on the case. It didn’t ask the Board,
either, to furnish an estimate of the present
value of the Trust’s assets, and there Mr.
Harper merely attempts to show that the
thing which this paper never asked him to do
can’t he done. The Trust gets a certain in-
come from its assets and it has to pay a certain
amount out of it as interest on deposits. And
this paper simply asked that it should publish
an account showing the revenue and expenditure
of the Trust (as the B.N.Z. Estates Co. does),
so that the shareholders could know that the
invisible losses of the Trust ’ (if there
are any), through insufficient revenue or
through realisation of securities which don’t
fetch so much as was expected, are
not swallowing up, or partly swallowing
up, or more than swallowing up, the visible
profits of the bank. It wasn’t much to ask,
for unless that account is published the issuing,
of the hunk’s balance-sheet casts no light at all
on the situation so far as the shareholders are
concerned. The Trust represents a contingent
liability to the Commercial Bank shareholders
of over £3,409,000, so it is quite as important
to them as the bank itself. The fact that the
present directors are not responsible for the
good or had situation of the Assets Trust
makes the responsibility of the shareholders-
not one whit the less. And the fact that the
present directors are not responsible for the
position of their Assets Trust makes it all the
easier for them to tell the whole truth about its
position. Also the circumstance that the short-
age (if any) doesn’t need to be actually paid till
1916. when the Trust’s deposits fall due. is no


reason at all why the shareholders shouldn’t
know what the shortage (if any) amounts to
now. If it is proposed to keep the whole
tiling dark for 18 years, and then tell the Com-
mercial Bank shareholders all at once that they
have come out square, or have made a profit of
.£500,000 or two millions, or that they have
lost all their capital and are practically ruined,
or something like that, it will be necessary to
fetch a row of ambulances to that meeting in
1916 to carry away that part of the proprietary
which falls down insensible under the shock.
It isn’t a question of valuing the unrealised
assets, but of explaining how the revenue and
the realised assets have got on up to now.
• * • •
What The Bulletin knows about the famous
Trust is no more than this, and it isn’t much.
For three half-years its accounts were pub-
lished, though in a very abridged form and in a
way which conveyed little information. There
was no statement of the revenue or the profit,
if any, or the loss, if any, or the amount which
the assets realised fetched above or below their
paper value. For three half-years there ap-
peared a bald statement which showed that the
assets, with the aid of <£83,000 transferred from
the bank’s profits, just balanced the liabilities
to an exact copper—not a copper more or less.
Then the supply of information stopped dead,
like Jonah’s gourd, and didn’t start again.
And why a statement of the Trust’s revenue
and expenditure, and of the losses or profits
made on the properties sold up to date,
shouldn’t be issued Mr. Harper doesn’t ex-
plain. Neither does anybody else. Supposing
these accounts are of a cheerful and reassuring
character, and calculated to boom up the shares
and make everybody feel good all over, their
non-appearance is still harder to account for.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Police, Press and Crown.
The approaching trial of Detective Dungey and
Mrs. Dora Bromley, at Melb. Criminal Court,
■on the charge of conspiring to invite a felony,
promises to result in a further conspiracy to
■quash the prosecution and hoodwink the public.
1 lie story of the case thus far is a contemptible
scandal. At the trial of the alleged abortion-
ists, who are now in gaol, Dungey and his
female “phizgig” laid themselves open to a
■criminal charge, and one Wicks, a relative of
■one of the prisoners, having vainly appealed to
tlie Crown Law Dept., succeeded in obtaining
from the Full Court an order for a Grand Jury.
The Full Court was practically compelled to
grant the order, and the Grand Jury
to the probable disgust of the Crown
Law Dept.— found a True Bill against
Dungey and Bromley aforesaid. The woman
Bromley had gone to Sydney (at whose ex-
pense ?) by the time she was required to
answer a first summons for her appearance at
S. Melb. Court, and the cost of bringing her
back devolved upon the private prosecutor,
Wicks. Evidently the Crown would do nothing
to assist the righteous course of the Law in this
case. Here is a committal for criminal trial
arising out of a Crown prosecution, but private
citizen \\ icks has to pay for bringing one of
the committed parties within the jurisdiction
of the court. Good—or, rather, Bad ! Dungey
and his alleged accomplice having been “ sent
up” by a grand jury, what happens next ? In the
first place, an Age paragraphist commented on
the deafness and feebleness of these jurymen in
a way which would give the public to suppose
that physical infirmities unfitted them for find-
ing a really True Bill, anyway. Comment on
the peculiar fact that none of the 23 empanelled
jurymen were under 45 years of age would have
been much more to the point. The empanel-
ling of juries is a police matter, and the result
in this instance was a collection of objects for
newspaper ridicule. Then came the Boot Trunk
Tragedy, providing the police authorities with
a welcome opportunity to put Dungey before
the public in the character of an active and
intelligent officer. The bogus hero of the
B.T. T was Dungey, the man whom Wicks
had true-billed. Any information that looked
valuable was put into the hands of Dungey,
and nothing came of it. Finally, when the
principals in the tragedy had been pointed out
to the police, Dungey was sent to arrest them.
Meanwhile, the trucklesome newspaper repor-
ters took up the parable, and talked of Dungey,
Dungey, Dungey every day. And they are
stili talking Dungey in connection with the
Boot-Trunk l ragedy and the big reward offered
for the discovery of the principals. Also,
Chief Commissioner Chomlky, or somebody,
has dragged in the suggestion that Dungey’s
trap for catching the alleged abortionists, has
practically put an end—forsooth ! to the abor-
tion business in Melbourne. The newspapers
are for ever publishing pars, to the glory of
Dungey whilst refusing to insert letters from
prosecutor Wicks. Wicks writes to The
Bulletin —“ Neither the Age, Herald, or
Argus will print one word from me. . . .
For the forthcoming case I desired an-
other barrister to assist, but two leading
men have refused point blank to take any fee
from me, as they say they cannot afford to
offend the police. Therefore we have against
us the Government, the best legal talent, and
the whole of the Vic. press. Oh, for an honest
jury to use their own brains and do what is
right!” By the way, the public must always
hear in mind that jurymen are summoned by
the police in ordinary cases. This is not an
ordinary case. In proceeding against Dungey
and the Bromley woman, prosecutor Wicks
has put the Police Dept, on its trial, and the
Department, as practical defendant, should not
be allowed to select the jury which is to try it.
Our G-reat Tree Country.
Last week at Bourke (N.S.W.), an allegedly
civilised town situate in a dry part of this free
and enlightened country, the humane Cornstalk
law sent two Afghans to gaol for refusing to
work when ordered by their slave-driver, the
local Carrying Co. These two Afghans and
some 40 others had signed an agreement
written in a foreign language. It set
forth that they all agreed to work for the
Carrying Co. for six years at JJ24 a year and
their food. They were to get £6 a year cash,
and the other £JB a year —£108 in all—was to
be paid them at the end of their term, pro-
vided they finished it. If they didn’t finish it
—if the agreement was broken when there was
even one day of the six years to run—the
money was apparently forfeited to the boss
company, every penny of it. The men couldn’t
leave their employment till the six years were
finished without being gaoled for breach of
contract, and making themselves liable to
lose the balance of their wages, but
the boss co. could sack them any time
at a month’s notice. Then the three-fourths of
their wages which were retained by the boss
would seemingly be forfeited to the boss be-
cause the men, through being sacked by the
boss, didn’t finish their term. They were to be
fed on such food as the boss considered suffi-
cient—just as much or little of it, and as good or
bad as the boss thought fit; and if they left
work in consequence it constituted a breakage
of the agreement and involved liability to
the same old forfeiture of wages. And they
were to work seven days a week and have no
holidays whatever. The boss of the co., an
interested party, swore that this atrocious
agreement was faithfully interpreted to the
men by the Government interpreter. The
Government interpreter, who ought to know,
and who isn’t an interested party, and who is
presumably a reliable man else he wouldn’t
hold such a billet, alleged that he didn’t faith-
fully translate the agreement to the miserable
Afghans before they signed it. He said
that lie attempted to do it, but owing to
the various interruptions of the boss, he
wasn’t able to. One of the interrup-
tions was at the place where the co. was to
hold back three-quarters of the miserable wage
for six years, with practically unlimited powers
to forfeit it altogether, so probably that astound-
ing condition wasn’t properly understood by
the two aliens. Also, there were several other
interruptions. In short, this Government func-
tionary declared that the agreement wasn’t
properly explained, while the interested pro-
secutor said it was. Then an utterly incredible
magistrate elected to believe the prosecutor,
and passed sentence —10s. or 14 days. The
penniless niggers took the 14 days, after one of
them had tried to knock out his brains against
an adjacent fence. It was their second or third
term of imprisonment for the same kind of
offence ; for after being in gaol they still re-
fused to go back to their nigger-driver, so they
were prosecuted again, and apparently the
white man’s law may go on sending them to
gaol by instalments for the next three or four
years. The magistrate’s explanation was that
“ the men had signed the agreement and must
abide by it.’" This logic would apply equally
well if the bond had specified that the Afghans,
in their ignorance, were to work all their lives
for nothing; to all intents and purposes the
Bourke magistrate’s decision, if it is good law
(which it certainly isn’t), establishes nigger-
slavery in N.S. W.; therefore, The Bulletin is
of opinion that the decision is a disgrace to an
allegedly free country, and the giver of it
can’t be fittingly described by any language
now available. And it wants to know if all
that the people of N.S.W. have striven for—
their ballot, and manhood suffrage, and Re-
sponsible Government, and their Labor-party,
and their free speech, and their cry about the
most liberal Constitution in the world—all end
in N.S. W. being nigger-driver to the miserable
Asiatic who gets J£6 a year cash and any
victuals his boss thinks fit for 365 days’ work
per annum for six years—hours apparently un-
limited ? The men, by the way, allege that they
were starved and beaten, and that even their
miserable £6 a year wasn’t paid. An original
agreement under which they were engaged in
India wasn’tproduced (the co. refused to produce
it and the court said it should be handed in, but
didn’t press for it), so the merits of the case
were not really inquired into at all. Ap-
parently there were two agreements, and the
co. was allowed to produce the one that suited
it best. And the magistrate, in a burst of
cheerful irony, said that the penniless niggers
—who know as much of the forms of Aus-
tralian law as a hen does of Sanscrit—could
carry their case to a higher court, and he
threatened a heavier sentence next time. What
is the N.S. W. Government going to do with
that kind of magistrate? Also, will any
M.L.A. introduce a bill to nullify the whole
batch of agreements—if the Supreme Court
can’t be successfully invoked in the matter —
and thus end the miserable business ?
One Boiler—and One Boy.
A FEW days ago a boiler burst at an Albury
(N.S.W.) flour-mill, and killed a boy, and in-
jured other people, and did great damage to
the town. Some evidence about that boiler
transpired at the inquest. Samples herewith
(Sydney Daily Telegraph report):—
Frederick Hayes, one of the firm of Hayes Bros., flour-
millers, gave evidence that the boiler was built in Bal-
larat in 1879. It was used at a flour-mill at Jindera for
three years, when it came into possession of the firm of
.1. and J. Hayes. The boiler was a good one. There had
been a patch over the fire-box, which witness’ father had
cut out, and a fresh one rivetted on two years ago. There
was a leak in front of thg fire-box, and a new angle iron
was placed in front. This was the last of the repairs that
had been done to the boiler. The boiler had been worked
at 601 b. pressure, and he thought it would have been safe
to work it at 801 b.
John Laughton, the engine-driver, deposed that he did
not hold a certificate. Two years ago he thoroughly
examined the boiler by chipping and scraping, and
reported to the last witness that the boiler was in a
satisfactory condition. It had not been examined since.
An hour before the explosion the engine was started with
551 b. steam, and 15 minutes afterwards one of the belts
slipped off. Some delay took place, and witness looked
at the gauge, which showed 601 b. of steam. Witness
raised the damper, and balf-an-hour afterwards, just as
the belt was fixed, the explosion took place. The pres-
sure then would, perhaps, be over 601 b. In witness’
absence, the engine was looked after by mill hands. No
one was in charge of the boiler while witness was away
repairing the belt.
T. Walter, practical engineer, gave evidence that 11
years ago, when the boiler was being set, he examined it
and formed the opinion that it was weak, insufficiently
stayed, and made of inferior material. He thought it
was not safe to work the boiler at a pressure of over 361 b.
He did not examine the boiler again until after the
explosion. He might have told Frederick Hayes that he
did not consider it was safe to work the boiler as high as
he was working it, which was from 601 b. to 701 b. Only a
few weeks ago witness said, “ When are you going to get
a new boiler?” Hayes did not then make any reply. As
a practical engineer, witness gave it as his opinion that
the boiler had been unsafely worked for the past 11 years.
Witness had had 40 yeuiV experience as an engineer.
Joseph Matthews, builder arid contractor, reported that
he saw the boiler 20 yearn ufjo at Jiuderu when beitiKuned
in a flour-mill. At that time the fire-box blew out, and the
platen buckled. The boiler was repaired. Witness was
fully convinced that since then the boiler was unsafe.
John Smith, late employe of Hayes Bros., gave evidence
that Richard Hayes, one of the firm, cautioned him not
to let the steam rise over 6ulb., and that if he did he
was to draw out the wood and put down the damper.
Richard Haykh said if the steam got over 60lb. the boiler
would burst. This was in 1897. Witness was cautioned
several times in the same way. The boiler was not cleaned
out during the 18 months witness was in the employ of
the firm. At Frederick Hayes’ instructions he examined
the hues 18 months ago, and, as a result, witness informed
him the flues were getting thin. Mr. Hayes then said,
“In that case, we’ll have to get a new boiler.” In wit-
ness's opinion, there was too great a weight on the
safety valve, and witness told Laughton that he did not
think it safe. Laughton said that the boiler was weak in
places, and that some day it would blow up. The boiler
was sometimes worked up to 901 b.
John Laughton, recalled, contradicted the last witness
as to the statement that he (Laughton) had said that the
boiler would blow up some day.
Robert Carroll, an employe, said that Richard Hayes
told them that some day the boiler would burst, and blow
them off the face of the earth. He did not know whether
Hayes spoke jocularly or not, but one of them said he
was afraid to go to bed until late that night.
W. D. Cruickshank, engineer and surveyor to the
Marine Board, deposed that he had inspected the scene of
the explosion. The boiler was of poor material and
design, and badly constructed. From an examination
he made of the furnace that morning, the boiler was not
fit to work at all. The reason was that the shape of the
furnace was two or three inches out of the circle, and its
strength was regulated by’ the shape of the furnace. It
was not safe. Speaking generally it was absolutely
perished. What was left was very much cry’stalised, and
little or no fibre was to be seen in any broken sections.
There were a large number of cracks and laminations
about the furnace. He had no hesitation in stating that
the material was the worst he had ever seen. He was
quite satisfied that if any experienced inspector had ex-
amined the boiler he would have had no hesitation in
condemning it. He could not tell the primary’ cause of
the explosion, but thought it was due to the weakness
of the furnace and sheer weakness of the material, which
was as brittle as oast iron.
He could not attribute any blame to Hayes Bros., or
Laughton, simply because, in his opinion, they did not
know anything about it. (Laughter.) Hayes Bros,
having worked the boiler for 11 years, might be justified
in believing that it was safe, but if any competent person
had inspected it, it would have been condemned.
Then the jury brought in a verdict, not of man-
slaughter, but “accidental death.” Of course,
every flour-mill owner knows that every boiler
will burst some day if he keeps it in use long
enough, and that the fact that he has worked
it 11 years doesn’t justify him in believing it is
safe—it only justifies him in being dead-sure
that it isn’t nearly so safe as it was 11 years
previously. Also, if he has worked it 22 or 33
or 44 or even 100 years, that wouldn’t justify
him in being confident of its safety either.
Anyhow, the verdict was accidental death.
And here ends the tale of the 20-year-old,
second-hand boiler that burst twice, and was
bossed by an uncertificated engineer, and hadn’t
been cleaned out for 18 months or examined for
two years, and whose condition, so it is
solemnly averred, was so well-known to one at
least of the owners that he talked about its
probable bursting on more than one occasion.
Not manslaughter, but accidental death ! When
is that long-lalked-of Land Boilers Act going
to eventuate ?
+.
Circumstantial Evidence Again.
Burgess, arrested for the Gatton outrage,
escaped hanging, amid-general malediction, by
a hair’s breadth. Had his statement not been
borne out by people who handed him a drink
of water (at a place 26 miles from the scene of
the tragedy) within an hour of the appearance
of “ the man at the slip-rails,” then nobody but
Burgess and the actual assassins would have
believed him innocent, and, on the eve of his
execution, most people would have remarked
that hanging was too good for him. Let us
look at the grip the gallows had on Burgess.
He was an ex-sailor, tramp, stranger, his body
scarred with knife and bullet wounds, and he
had, as he confessed, been “ in trouble all his
life.” He was positively identified by several
as “ the man at the slip-rails.” There were
blood-stains on his clothes. He filled the police
requirements of “a suspicious character.”
There was ample “contributory identifica-
tion ” as the man in the neighborhood
on and about the date of the tragedy.
He resisted arrest; he “performed” in his
cell ; and his language was terse and
“ terrifying” at times. He perpetrated many
jokes, and a few of his remal ks were flippant.
He changed his position frequently during the
identification farce, and actually had the in-
solence to snatch the hat off one of the dozen
who stood with him to be scrutinised by the
witnesses. All this tightened the hemp round
Burgess’ neck, but the noose was cast off when
the alibi got to work. Now, when it is recol-
lected that Burgess was wandering through
the bush in search of work by himself; that
for days and nights he was camped alone, un-
noticed by any passer-by, because it was his
habit to “cut across country that it was
quite possible, and even probable, that he
might have camped on Boxing-night, not near
a house, but in the seclusion of the bush, and
remained in the bush unobserved all Boxing-
day, it is pertinent to ask'what kind of a show
had he, barring one fortunate accident. By
the accident of his calling for that drink at
Greenmount on an easily-identifiable date, a
holiday, and at an unusual hour, after 8 p.m., he
established proof of his innocence. What now
is the value of circumstantial evidence in any
future prosecution over the Gatton business?
The testimony that was tendered to fit Burgess
into the tragedy will then be applied to some
one or others. Witnesses who positively iden-
tified Burgess as “ the man at the slip-rails ”
will be asked to identify another man in his
stead, and to be just as positive about him as
they were over the other suspect. And they
probably will do it. Once more : the average
identifier —the person who is prepared to cheer-
fully swear to anybody as the man he saw just
once, for a second, in deep shadow—deserves
ten years. And some day, under a better legal
system, he will get it.
♦
The 58 Nominees.
The Reid Government has decided to call a
special session of N.S. W. Parliament on Feb.
21, to consider the Federation Bill—which is
undoubtedly the right thing to do. And it has
decided not to make any new appointments to
the Council before then—which is a proceeding
of doubtful wisdom. When Barton and R. E.
O’Connor left the Upper House, very little
Federal enthusiasm remained in it. The fossils
who stay behind are cold on the subject of
Australian union; they are aggravated because
a partial referendum is left in the Bill, and
they are also inclined to kick because their
scheme for fixing the capital in Sydney right
against their own doors, where it would help
to enhance the value of their own bricks and
mortar, didn’t come off. And they loathe
the idea of referring the Bill to the people.
The Bill must be passed as it is, with no alter-
ation whatever, and referred to a popular vote
with no minimum clause to hamper or nullify
the people’s verdict, if it is to have a fair show',
and the present crowd in the House of Unpaid
Nominees may be the crowd to do this—but it*
doesn’t look like it. There are only 58 fossils
now, against 76 in ’93, so there is room to send
up a dozen reliable Federationists to make
the position reasonably safe. Entrusting the
Federal Constitution to the present Council
W'ould be a very interesting gamble, if there
was nothing more than a copper or a drink at
stake.
If the Thing had been that Wasn’t.
A weird person, one Henry Joseph, writes to
the Sydney papers to point out an allegedly
shocking circumstance in the Federal Constitu-
tion. To alter that Constitution—though there
isn’t much in it that is likely to cal! for altera-
tion—it is necessary to take a popular vote and
get (1) a majority of the whole number of votes
recorded, and (2) a majority in most of the
States. And Joseph wants to know what
would happen if the vote panned out like this :
For Alteration. Against Alteration.
N.S. Wales ... 300,000 ... Nobody
Victoria ... 300,000 ... „
Queensland ... 100,000 ... „
S.A. ... ... Nobody ... 1
Tasmania ... ~ ... 1
Westralia ... ~ . ... 1
700,000 ... 3
In this case there would be 3 votes against the
alteration of the Constitution and 700,000 ; for
it, yet the 3 would win because there w’asn’t a
majority of States on the other side. Which
looks very terrible indeed. And yet, just con-
sider this equally awful and equally impossible
possibility which has been hanging over
N.S. W. all its life without anyone even notic-
ing the fact. There are 125 constituencies in
N.S. W. returning one member each, and sup-
pose that the voting at a general election was
as follows :
Votes for Votes for
Protection. Freetrade
124 constituencies. Only
one man votes in each. All
vote for Protection. 124
Protectionists returned. ... 124
One constituency. 2700
votes recorded, all for Free-
trade. One Freetrader re-
turned 2700
124 2700
N.S.W. is actually living under a system which
makes it possible for 124 voters to return 124
members while 2700 voters return only one.
And Henry Joseph, in his anguish about the
much smaller Federal discrepancy, has never
even noticed this.
♦
According to Sydney Telegraph “it is only
among supporters of the old Convention Bill ”
in N.S.W. that the new Federal scheme is re-
ceived with favor. Well, the supporters of the
old Convention Bill in N.S.W. were 5367 more
than its opponents, and so it seems that it is
“only” the majority that is in favor of the
new scheme. But the Telegraph’s contempt
for the majority, when it isn’t its majority, is
something interesting. The only thing equally
sublime in the way of dignity that The Bulle-
tin remembers was an episode it once saw in a
monkey cage at the Zoo. There were a dozen
rushing, eager little spider monkeys in a big
enclosure ; also, there was an anubis baboon
hunched up on top of a tree-stump in the
centre —silent, clumsy, half-asleep and pro-
foundly grumpy. Keeper put a big dish of
rice into enclosure, and the spider monkeys
rushed it with an enthusiastic clatter and
waded in. After a while the grumpy baboon
slowly reached himself down from his stump
and approached with contempt on his visage to
see what kind of viand the majority was making
all the row about. Twelve spider monkeys fled
in all directions and left him in possession. He
looked at the rice; evidently remarked, “So
this is it,” picked up a sample in his hand and
disapproved of it on close inspection. Then
that minority of one baboon solemnly dabbed
the handful of rice on and about the root of his
tail, and straddled up his tree again. It was
all he said, but it was obviously meant to convey
that he didn’t think much of the majority.
And the Telegraph, \yith the old Convention
Bill on the root of its tail, is there or there-
abouts.
Miss Catherine H. Spence writes to The
Bulletin from Norwood, S.A. :
Dear Bulletin.—ln my recently-published pamphlet,
“ Effective Voting : Australia’s Opportunity,” &c., occurs :
—“The ideal Upper House in a truly democratic country
would be one elected by adult suffrage, by proportional
representation, by all the people in it.” I read something
similar in The Bulletin, with the important omission of
“by proportional representation.” If such a house is
elected by the multiple vote (that is by the scrutin-de listc
imposed on us for the Federal election) all the members at
the top of the poll would be of one party. This w-as not
seen in its absolute logical form in the Federal election,
because people did not stick to the ticket closely except
in Victoria. But in a real Upper House election the
Labor Democratic Party would bring forward a full bill
and the Conservative Capitalistic Party would do the
same. All outside parties would be negligible factors,
quite hopeless. This is clearly seen in the U.S. elections
of presidential electors, when the 36 men from New York
and the 17 for Ohio are all either Democrats or Republi-
cans. Again, the multiple vote in the Swiss cantons has
caused so much dissatisfaction that nearly half of them
have adopted proportional representation by the Freiheit
system, an inferior method to that of Hark, but which
gives a fairer proportion of members to all the leading
parties; and the division of shades of Conservatism and
varieties of Liberalism improves discussion without pre-
venting the real rule of the majority. If Mr. Reid desires
to create an Upper House representing the colony as a
whole, as a counterpoise to the “roads and bridges”
M.L.A., this proportional method is the line he should
take. For the Federal Senate, which must be elected
from each colony as a whole, the multiple vote would be
disastrous in the extreme. Since Switzerland w r as con-
stitutionally federated she has devised many methods for
the preservation of cantonal rights and individual liberty,
whereas the U.S. has allowed these rights to be en-
croached on in all directions. Government by Injunction
is a strange phase of democratic government. I was
sorry to hear so little about the Swiss republio in the
Federal debates.


The heading Insurance Company of the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
ASSETS, DEC. 31, 1898, NEARLY £57,000,000 STERLING.
About Four Millions greater than those of the next largest Company.
Results for the Year ending December 31, 1898
(Just Received by Cable):
ASSETS exceed .£56,985,000 Increase ...
CONTINGENT GUARANTEE FUND (com-
monly termed “Surplus”) exceeds ... ... 8,673,000 Increase ...
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE ... 199,530,000 Increase ...
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT :
Z C- RENNIE, General Manager, Company’s Building, Martin-place,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES:
... .£4,873,000
... 1,382,000
... 7,203,000
NEW SOUTH WALES...
VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Tasmania
... Company’s Building, Martin-place, SYDNEY.
289 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
... ... 210 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
... 73 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
••• ...St. George’s Terrace, PERTH.
93 Macquarie Street, HOBART.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Bkr Majesty's “ The Geisha."
Lyceum “ The Octoroon."
Koval “ The English Rose."
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Town Hall Newbury's Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “The Adventure of Lady Ursula.”
Theater Rotal “ The White Heather.”
B uo ° Rickards Variety Co.
Ihe long-expected “Geisha” turned up
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) in the middle of last
week and boomed so decisively that there are no
decent seats available in the d.c. for fully a week
ahead. And the present scribe, being soured with
much writing of the “ Wild Cat Column,” gropes
dniily in the mists of poetry for the exact reason
of this furore. There is very little plot to hang
trie song and frill and flounces of the “Geisha”
upon. Somewhere in the dreamy haze of old
Chrysanthemum Land there is a tea-house run by
a funny Chow ; and sundry Jap singing-girls, and
a British _ officer who is mashed on the prettiest
singing-girl when he ought not to be, because he
is already engaged to pretty Dorothy Vane, and a
huge Japanese peer who revokes the license and
orders the girls to be sold by auction so that he
can buy the Briton’s jjerky little songstress. And
illogical Dorothjr, being all broken up by her
lover s misconduct, disguises herself as a geisha, and
auctions herself to the big Jap, and is very sorry
for it afterwards. She didn’t tnink that anything
was real in the land of the brown crockery towers,
where the small brown man is vaguely supposed
to be a dream alleviated by tea. and she finds that
her sale 1- very real indeed. The “Geisha” is a
small bust ;ug trifle with very little to stand upon
except the hilarious proceedings of Chinaman
Wun-Hi. baun has apparently built up the
comedy of \\ un-Hi on his own, for that frantic
heathen is verv unlike the rest of the book. The
dialogue, apart from Chinaman Wun, is reasonably
bright in places, and some of the songs are pretty
enough, though there isn’t one which seizes the
public by the liair, so to sjieak, and won’t let it
sleep because the refrain keeps moaning in its ear
all night. Also, some of the songs are only
commonplace. And there is much sweet music,
and some pleasant, sleepy music, and music
that sounds a little like “ Banjo’s ” river sing-
ing on its bars, and there is a little music
which is quite plain and of small account; but there
isn t one music that stands out conspicuously above
the rest.
* • • •
Still, by virtue of what music there is, and
the fine staging, and the girls and costumes and
the Chinaman and other things, the “ Geisha ” is
evidently going to be a big success. There isn’t a
J a P- Kiri in the whole crowd that the average sin-
ful man wouldn’t adopt so that he could teach her
the blessing? of civilisation. And Japan is a whole
mass of picturesque coloring, and when the
skimpy little tale drags, which it does frequently,
the clothes help it out to a wonderful extent.
The company, too, is more than worthy of the
clothes and the scenery'. Miss Dorothy Vane’s
bright smile—-the one that she certainly isn’t
going to deposit in a convent —and her acting, and
her voice, and her electric energy, more than com-
pensate for the fact that her dancing is a rather
promiscuous kind of hop. Rose Musgrove can
stand on her own merits now as a promising
actress, quite apart from the fact that she is the
Firm’s daughter; and Florence Perry fills the
clothes of the bunchy little Geisha admirably,
though her singing voice is a rather small voice at
best. Lauri is a roaring success all through ; and
Howard Vernon does about the best that is pos-
sible with a solemn, ill-fitting character. Pauli,
as the nominal hero, lifts his pleasant vocal organ
in a part that isn’t noticeably larger than a lot of
other parts; and the pretty and clever Lily
Titheradge is fitted into a boy’s suit and a charac-
ter that is far smaller than her deserts. P.
Bathurst, the gentleman who has hopes of becom-
ing the Federal capital, has little to do except
roam about in a broken heart and a spiked hat.
Various other jieople are unavoidably postponed,
but even the worst of the crowd calls for no
special obloquy. Among them the spidery little
item keeps up wonderfully, considering how
spidery it is.
•* * *
The “ English Rose ” started business at
Sydney Royal on Saturday—“ When London
Sleeps” having come to an end, owing to the
sudden breaking-down of the bed, or from other
causes. The present drama isn’t quite new, and
it isn’t likely to boom like its predecessor.
It is an Irish story, with the somewhat weary old
motive—the one which Marion Crawford dishes
up, with a slight variation, in his “ Corleone ”
about the holy father who has the story of the
murder told to him under the seal of confession,
and then secs his brother arrested and condemned
on wrongful suspicion, and feels that he must
burst with the anguish of his secret, yet daren’t
burst, because, if he did, the dreadful fact would
drop out, and, if it dropped out, his sacred calling
would be for ever disgraced. In “ Corleone,
Marion Crawford improved on this idea by making
the murderer confess his crime to the priest and
then give the priest himself in custody on the
charge. In the “ Soggarth,” the good old wheeze
is dished up again—the writer forgets who was
arrested there, but anyhow his reverence knows,
under seal of confession, that the wrong man
is going to lie hanged, and, as he goes
about with this load on his soul, the real
criminal scoffs at him from behind the shebeen, or
the dhudeen, or something. The idea is intensely
dramatics—only it is growing just a trifle worn.
And the difficulty lies in clearing up the matter
afterwards. In the “English Hose ” the real mur-
derer dies suddenly while walking home, and
confesses as he passes away. In “Corleone” he
also dies, and Saracinesca extracts the facts out
of him in his last moments. The old “Soggarth ”
has the best ending. There the assassin, in his
desire to rub it into his reverence, is beguiled at
last into repeating his statement when the seal of
confession is not on and the praste isn’t securely
closed uj) by the cork of his holy calling, so to
speak. Whereupon his reverence falls on him like
a wild cat in his private capacity, and has him
run in.
• * * *
Still, the “ English Rose ” is a pleasant,
healthy drama, with a breeze from the Irish
mountains running through it, and it has no
bright blue past in it anywhere. There is no
sex-problem, or fallen female, or unauthorised
infant, or haggard mother coming home after a
life of sin to ask the old man to let her look
through the window just once at a moderate ren-
tal, and see her child again before she goes away
and arranges to be fatally run over by a cart.
There isn’t even an eviction or an informer. The
ruined Irish jintleman is in good health and spirits,
and the new English landlord is only shot as a
matter of absolute necessity because he is going to
overhaul the agent’s accounts. Any agent might
be driven to shoot the landlord under like condi-
tions. The pictorial effects are splendid, and
the company is medium. The new English
landlord will be severely dealt with if he
again comes before the court on a simi-
lar charge. J. P. O’Neill, a gentleman of
immense circumference and one of the brightest
Irish comedians in Australia, calls for enthusiastic
graise, and after him Hans Phillips, William
ourley and C. R. Stanford deserve a kindly
word. Misses Eugenie Duggan, Ida Gresham and
Alice Deorwyn all look nice and play their parts
passably. Miss Amy Gourlay, who made such a
large-sized effect in the last production, has no part
worth speaking of; and Inman is very good in
spots. But nobody, barring O’Neill aforesaid,
makes a very conspicuous success, and- his
Reverence is a painful subject that is better
dropped.
* * * *
The Tivoli show is in fair health and con-
dition, and Lieutenant Travis has become as much
of a boom as a very clever professor of his some-
what hackneyed art well can be. Biondi’s benefit
hadn’t yet eventuated when this was written, and
will be over before this issue is in the hands of the
public, but the writer believes it came off with
peat success to-morrow, and that it is going to be
(or to was) one of the notable events of
the season. Looking partly back at it and
partly forward to it, it was a brilliant affair
(provided nothing happens to prevent it coming
off), and he can say conscientiously that he
thoroughly enjoyed himself, always supposing that
he isn’t detained at the office to-morrow. Any-
how, he was there if he is able to get away, and
Erovided the theatre didn’t get burned down
efore the event happened; and he is going to
have come away from Biondi’s entertainment with
the conviction that that artist, providing he
turned up, is a really great man in his line. Also
his show, unless things went wrong and there
wasn’t any, left all other one-man entertainments
so. hopelessly in the rear that rival entertainers
might as well give up for good.
* * * *
In view of the fact that the MacMahon
Brothers shortly retire from Sydney Lyceum, a
very influential committee is getting up a testi-
monial performance at that theatre to-morrow
(Friday, 17th February), and the Ministry, along
with other notables of great weight, are expected
to be present. The Bulletin hopes the Ministry
will be present; a look at a gaudy worldly show
should do the holy Cook and Brunker a great deal
of good. The theatrical record of the small
brothers covers a good many years, and extends
over a good part of Britain, the United States,
India, and Eastern Asia. The Mighty Atom
managed for Mrs. Scott Siddons during some years,
including two London seasons ; ran Curly Bellow
in his early days ; and looked after Henry Irving
when he did a “ Romeo and Juliet.” Also he had
a promising Dublin season blighted by the Phcenix
Park murders. His brother Atom ran Sheri-
dan, the Fighting Kangaroo, and other celebri-
ties. Also, the MaoMahons ran Melbourne
Opera House for a long season in its palmy days;
introduced “Evangeline,’ also a oertain memor-
able drinky American pug whom they look back
upon as one of the saddest spots on their career,
and did many other things, including the manage-
ment of a purely Australian co. for 19 months at
Sydney Lyceum. The Bulletin trusts that their
testimonial performance will be a profitable affair,
but it still regrets to hear no mention of any hand-
some cash effort on behalf of the purely Austra-
lian company already mentioned. It reckons that
there are a good many reasons why the purely
Australian co. should have something done for it
—one reason being that it has had mighty little
done for it in the past.
* * * *
“ Flying Scud ” is doing its second week
at the Lyceum, and the writer unreservedly with-
draws the aspersions he cast on the horse in last
issue. Good authorities who know a great deal
more about the noble animal with the india-rubber
nose than he does have informed him that they were
quite uncalled for. The rival horse at the Royal
may also consider himself approvingly smacked on
any part of his anatomy where you can smack a
horse and get away alive. Speaking personally,
this individual only knows a horse as a beast that
stands on you after you have fallen off, and whose
shoe is a good thing to hang above the door lest
otherwise 13 rocks should fall on you on a Friday.
The “Octoroon ” is due on Saturday.
4» <M * *
The gushful cards of invitation to “ Your-
self and friend ” that went out last week for a
certain pianiste’s concert, have roused a lot of ire
in musical, and otherwise, circles. When the in-
vited went round to book their seats for the con-
cert they found that this couldn’t be done without
payment of a shilling. And —well, as they explain
themselves, it wasn’t so much the shilling, as the
fact that the trick didn’t seem Nice. A somewhat
similar trap was opened up in ’Frisco lately. Free
admission was advertised in all the papers, and
crowds of honest citizens lined up, to find that
they had to pay half-a-dollar for a programme
before they could get into the hall. People who
never travel with more than their fares say this
sort of blow-from-behind falls harder on them than
on anyone. But I have heard people of unlimited
oof and pedigree speak very loudly anent the nasty
jar of parting up on an Invitation Card. Also,
Sydney absolutely loves concerts that are really
free, gratis, for nothing.
The bare-legged impostor who perpetrated
the above notice will have somethin}? more rational
to say next week concerning “The White Heather”
at Melb. Royal. There were a few hitches in the
working of the scenery on Saturday, but the draw-
ing power of the show made itself quite evident,
and Bland. Holt will have bad luck if he doesn’t
reap a profit from this plucky speculation.
** * *
“ The Adventure of Lady Ursula ” has not
caused the death of anybody through a crush up
a staircase at Melb. Princess’s, but it drew some
fairly large audiences last week, and is likely to
have a cheerful last night on Friday (17th). A
great success for Anthony Hope’s graceful little
stage-play was out of the question. It asks the
multitude to believe that an actress in blue-satin
breeches and coat to match could be accepted as a
young man by a number of scrutinising bachelors,
and it makes no attempt to distract attention
from this one point. There is no reason why the
men on the stage shouldn’t draw comparisons
between Mrs. Brough and themselves, and
conclude, like the people “in front,” that
Mrs. Brough’s disguise is too thin—the whole
performance is too thin. The furniture, costumes,
living pictures, and some portions of the dialogue
are very pleasing, but the characters in the story
are obviously puppets all the time. And several
of them, by the way, pitch their voices too high,
as though shouting carried conviction with it. A
revival of “The Liars ” is promised for Saturday,
and three nights of this will be followed by an-
other three nights of the attractive “Madame
Sans-Gene.” Then a new comedy, in which Miss
Grace Noble is again to show her pretty face to a
Melb. audience. Miss Noble will strengthen the
resources of the present Brough co. very con-
siderably.
*# # *
Things are looking rather cold and gloomy
at the Bijou since the first night of the Rickards
co., and the question as to whether the same pro-
gramme might have been a stronger draw at the
shabby old opera House is now discussed with
great fury. Probably the Bijou is as suitable a
place as any other for variety business, or even
more so ; but, just at present, the show seems to
require a strong leading item, with a rough edge
to it. Bay Peggy Pryde, f’ri instance. Miss Cora
Casein s dainty style is caviare to the average
Goth, and the Lorenzi-Phillips pantomime has the
fizz of champagne rather than the froth of the
long beer which the Goth’s soul loveth. And
people begin to think that the turns of dancer
\\ heatley and the one-legged “comedian ” would
be all the better for a little compression The
bringing forward of Whitburn into first place in
the second part, instead of leaving him to the last
is a wise arrangement, anyhow. Whitburn’s
oldest humor tastes fresher than a lot of the so-
called new stuff.
** * *
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus and Menagerie
after a roaring time of nine weeks in Melbourne’
has struck the psychological moment for catching
1 asmania on the hop, and will accordingly pack
up the tents next Sunday. An orang-outang
which is the latest addition to this growing con-
cern, serves as a hairy link between the two
animal kingdoms of the Fitzgeralds, and the
tigress purrs again contentedly as of yore. Mel-
bourne has always been fond of this particular
circus and zoo. Its great heart is bleeding (in
moderation) at the news that all the men, women
and things depicted on the posters are about to go
rolling on. Two performances on Saturday (18th)
will break up the pitch, in a cricket way of speak-
ing.
He * * *
Touching the statement that George Rig-
nold has designs upon “Othello,” there is no
reasonable doubt that G.R. might have worked
the Immortal Bard at a profit many a time when
he was running melodrama at a loss. “ Othello,”
“Richard the Third,” “ Merchant of Venice, ” and
“King Lear” are all of them likely to do good
business with Rignold in the name-part, a pretty
leading lady, and a respectable eo. And why not
“Anthony and Cleopatra ’ ? George Miln, years
ago, would have made much money out of his big
Ktacular revival but for the fatuous vanity of
ise Jordan, who persisted in putting her
scraggy personality and her broad ’Murkan twang
into tne character of the Egyptian Queen. 'Rig-
nold, as Australia ought to know, is a fine, versa-
tile actor when he chooses to be, but he chose to
go on walking through young-men parts in dull
melodrama until old play-goers almost forgot his
real capabilities, of which the rising generation
knows nothing.
Last Saturday nicht, in the warmest o’ weather,
We went in a kilt to inspect “The White
Heather, ”
And we heard Wally Baker, who bigamy plotted,
Disowning his wife when hisbairnie was “potted”
On the braw Scottish moor—’twas the season for
shootin’,
But we wadna’ express our abhorrence by hootin’:
We merely remarked, “ Weel, this go is a rum ’un!
The idea of Baker deceiving a wumman ! ”
Having known him for years as a limelighted hero
It was hard to believe him as wicked as Nero.
And pretty Miss Ross in her leggings so charming
To find her improper was truly alarming.
When the curtain cam’ doon on Act L we were
husky
And roamed to the bar for a wee drap o’ whusky.
Come gather together and toast “The White
Heather, ”
And ring the Blue Bells of Auld Scotland.
The stock-broking feyther-in-law o’ his lordship
Was told how the marriage had happened aboard -
ship,
And how the false husband was cutting queer
capers,
So he swore, by the gods, to recover some papers
From under the sea. Then this story erratic
Presented Bland Holt, as an author dramatic,
Rehearing sweet angels in music and “guyver”
For a giddy production of Lady Godiva ;
And Miss Fitzmaurice Gill looked seductively
strapping
With a wig down her back and a light gauzy
wrapping,
Intended, no doubt, to keep impudent flies off—
It would need to be thicker for keeping our eyes off.
Next a Stock Exchange tableau, depicting the
dangers
That threaten the presence of venturesome stran-
gers ;
Bland Holt had to flee from the lawless assaulters,
And Brown was a caution for Smellbourne de-
faulters.
Being pressed for a debt by the merciless Baker,
He fell dead, and settled accounts with his Maker,
And the Angel of Death cast a shadow so dusky
That we kept up our spirit wi’ more o’ the whusky.
Come gather together, and toast “ The
White Heather, ”
And ring the Blue Bells of Auld Scotland.
Now, the true marriage-lines of the stockbroker’s
daughter
Lay fifty yards deep in a “ log ” under water,
And Baker went down to the bed of the ocean ;
But Norman (a boozer, full-charged with devotion
For luckless Miss Watson, whose lord had denied
her)
Was soon on his track, like a corpulent spider,
In their ludicrous garments they loomed along
slowly,
And went for that log in a manner unholy :
They lurched and they fought, though unable to
fight fair—
Their actions suggesting a pork-supper night-
mare—
Till Norman at last got away with the treasure,
As the public perceived with the greatest of plea-
sure,
And Baker fulfilled our predictions and wishes
By falling a prey to the winkles and fishes.
So act No. 4 found the wronged woman righted
At a fancy-dress ball where she wasn’t invited,
The supers, strove hard to seem somewhat excited,
And all of the principal guests looked delighted,
Except poor Miss Ross, whose warm feelings were
mangled
In a wonderful costume, expensively spangled.
T hen the curtain came down, and by noo we were
frusky,
And ganged to the bar for some more o’ the
whusky.
Come gather together and toast “The White
Heather, ”
And ring the Blue Bells of Auld Scotland.
At Poverty Point.
“ As prognosticated in a paragraph in my early Nov.
mail,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“the Irving-Terry split has now come off, and no one
seems to mind that it has. Ellen is to tour the provinces
with her own co. ; and afterwards—is Australia’s chance.
A young and new country seldom appreciates any of its
own growths. It yearns for the old—the tottering, dod-
dering, moth-eaten, rheum-e.ved, quavering, treble-
voiced old—when it is a * Home’’ exotic. An antipodean
national free cemetery for ‘ Yuropeen ’ artists, vocalists,
actors, and other mortifying ‘has-beens’ is all that is
wanted to make ‘ down under ’ the ‘ ’appy land, far, far
away,’ and Ellen Blas£e Terry is now scanning the West
Indies in search of the ‘ Sunny South.’ ”
Nellie Stewart is finding full consolation for some
previous disappointments in a successful appearance as
principal pantomime boy at Drury Lane. She looks and
plays charmingly, the London critics say, and her sing-
ing is, of course, recognised as much better work than
the warble of the ordinary panto, “boy.” Nellie has
knocked ’em. Facts and figures re her provincial success
in “ The Belle of New York ” are going the rounds of the
metropolitan weeklies ; also, by way of warning off the
dukes and marquises who might otherwise lay their
coronets at her feet, a faithful chronicler announces that
“ Miss Stewart is the wife of Mr. George Musgrove.”
Jehoshaphat! By the way, Nellie has a jingo ballad that
seems bound to stir the patriotic shop-boys to wild
enthusiastic :
Chorus.
They’re all made of metal, the brightest and best;
They (It every lock in the world,
Any question they settle, the East or the West,
Wherever our flag is unfurled.
They're all in a bunch, on a safety ring—
Colonies, Kingdoms, and Seas.
It’s a wonderful lot, that John Bull has got
On Britannia's big bunch of keys.
“Geo. Titheradge has altered his plans,” writes Tub
Bulletin's London correspondent, “and will appear at
the Court Theatre under Dion Boucicault’s management
in a new piece. Marie Elster is singing at the Alhambra
successfully and well. On the same programme is a
capital turn of living piotures bj’ a retriever and a woman.
The latter, dressed as a sportsman with gun, aided by the
dog in a series of half-a-dozen tableaux, goes through the
usual postures of a shooting outing. ‘Pointing,’ ‘re-
trieving,’ ‘retrieved,’ ‘lunching,’ ‘ wounded-dog,’ &c.,
are portrayed as if fixed in white marble. The dog never
shivers a hair, and until at the conclusion he bounds out
and does some clever tricks he leads many to believe he is
stuffed with cold cement.”
Celiuski: “Pourquoi.vou no keep better time? More
marcato. Where is ze first beat of your bar? Your mani-
pulation is great—you have worked ver’ ver’ hard—take
a rest—count your bars with care and plenty of marcato
—take advice—no take ze huff—vcn you have bar with a
few silent beats at ze end, no curtail it, count it out right
to z« end and you will be better zan ever—pourquoi vous
get in a scot ? Regardez 1 you and I and eferybody have
lot to learn."
Those who cherish the memory of the genial and gifted
Horace Poussard—those especially who championed the
interests of the heir and of his faithful nurse—will be glad
to hear that his bright boy, Louis, is now at college, and
that Miss Boutcher, his nurse, in satisfaction of her
claim, has received from Mr. Lachaume, executor of the
deceased artiste’s estate, the sum of £231.
(Continued on page 18.)
John Bull has got a pocket,
That is pretty full and deep,
Upon the things that stock it
His eye he has to keep.
Amongst his wealth and riches
That some would like to seize,
In the pocket of his breeches,
Is Britannia’s bunch of keys.


Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
Sydney Agency s
135 PITT
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent.
STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prioes
and particulars apply
ZOLLNER,
80-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Oollins-st., Melbourne.*
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & GO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Ftstt any Gem Field.
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately ealled for
competitive design* and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17" and 38" by 60" stroke, and wall indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
MephanFerguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted bv the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mrlbournk ;
llPUtst., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; £7 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVT
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maoriland s 3 per cent, loan of .£1,000,000
realised about £96 10s., but allowing for accrued interest
and expenses the province is likely to net only about £94
or £94 10s., so the interest will be about 3i including
loss on redemption.
* * » •
Victoria has also plunged with a loan of
£1,600,000 at 3 per cent., but it is purely a conversion
loan to repay £1,500,000 at 4 per cent, which is falling
due. The odd £lOO,OOO is expected to go in discount and
expenses. Of course there will be a large saving of
interest; £1,600,000 at 3 per cent, costs £48,000 a year,
whereas £1,500,000 at 4 per cent, costs 160,000, making a
gain of £12,000 per annum. And if (sav) £5OOO a year of
the saving was set aside till the extra £lOO,OOO debt was
wiped off, the transaction would be a perfectly legitimate
one. Also, if the whole £12,000 a year saved were
put into a sinking fund to pay off the entire loan
at maturity it would be still more legitimate. But they
don’t do things that way in Australia. Of course, Vic-
toria, if it floated the loan at 3} per cent., could sell it at
par, or very near it; in which case it would only need
to borrow £1,500,000; there would be perhaps £lOOO a
year more interest that way and £lOO,OOO less debt. So
the extra £lOO,OOO debt is incurred merely to save present
expenditure ; and it is just aa immoral a proceeding as if
the £lOO,OOO was borrowed and put into ordinary revenue
—only that kind of swindle is always done in Australia.
The original 4 per cent, loan was sold at about £9O, and
if the renewal one goes at £95 Victoria will owe £lOO for
every £B5 actually received. The best feature is that the
new loan is repayable any time between 1929 and 1949, so
the country will have lots of breathing-time. Posterity be
damned 1
* * * *
The next big Westralian loan should be about
due now. So far as is known, the available cash was just
about finished at the end of last month, and it is under-
stood that £700,000 will be required to meet the public
works loan expenditure to the end of the financial year
(30th June, ’99). And, in addition, VVestralia is com-
mitted to public works which will cost another £3,000,000,
so it looks as if a desperate struggle to raise money was
imminent. In addition to its other troubles, too, the
Sandgroper Government has raised £1,550,000 on short-
dated Treasury bills, and money’ will have to be found in
a very few years to repay them with. Altogether, it looks
as if there were wild days ahead in W.A.
» * * »
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank’s
balance-sheet for the half-year ended 31st December, 1898,
is the seventh in succession wherein the old land bank
has shown a steady improvement. The half-year’s pro-
fits are £l4OO, equal to 6s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds, and the profits or otherwise for the
last 10 half-y’ears compare as follows :
June, 1894 (profit) £5097 Dec., 1896 (profit) £978
Dec., 1894 (loss) 5632. June, 1897 „ 911
June, 1895 „ 7566 Dec., 1897 „ 1051
Dec., 1895 „ 2616 June, 1898 „ 1207
June, 1896 (profit) 69 Dec., 1898 „ 1400
When the A. D. and M. Bank re-arranged its tangled
affairs in 1895 it was agreed that 70 per cent, of its
deposits should be renewed till 1910 at 3£ per cent, and
the other 30 per cent, bearing no interest, should be re-
payable by three instalments in January, 1896, 1899, and
1901. Therefore, to January, 1896, its old deposits
cost £2 9s. per cent, all round. During 1897
and 1898 they cost about £2 14s. 6d. per cent,
all round. Now that the second instalment has
been repaid they will cost about £3 Is. 3d. per cent,
interest, and after 1901, when the non-interest-bearing
deposits are all paid off, they will cost the full £3 10s.
This sort of thing doesn’t help to increase the profits ; the
repayment of deposits which the bank obtains gratis
leaves the total interest burden just the same, while there
is less money to earn interest with ; still the A.D. and M.
Bank keeps slowly improving. Total old deposit liabili-
ties, after repayment of instalment last month, are
£485,699, as compared with £555,528 six months ago, and
as there are £1,462,672 of assets (on paper), there seems
no doubt at all that the depositors will be paid in full.
As for the shareholders, it looks, on present earnings, as
if their nominal paid-up capital of £884,060 should be
written down to about £lOO,OOO to reduce the assets to
their present selling-value—this is on the assumption
that a bank which gets its deposit money cheaply, and
with its assets put in at their real value, should
be able to earn 3 per cent, on its actually existent
capital. But so long as the Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank can pay its depositors and doesn’t
profess to distribute dividends, the real value of its assets
is the shareholders’ own funeral. With time and patience,
and the gradual increase of profits, and the slow revival
in property'-values, the institution may come right again
at a much smaller sacrifice than this. ’ln fact, there is no
reason why it shouldn’t come right without any sacrifice
at all, if the shareholders like to wait 20 years or so.
Everything comes to him who waits long enough—or to
his posterity'.
» • * *
The unfortunate Land Mortgage Bank of Vic-
toria, for the half-year ended 31st December, 1898, made a
loss of £6963 on its ordinary business and on the realisa-
tion of property below book values. Which compares
with some previous losses—it is all losses with the Land
Mortgage Bank nowadays—thus
December, ’94—Loss £6038 June, ’97 .. Loss £14,425
June, ’95 ~ 6617 December, ’97 „ 8508
December, ’95 ~ 8847 June, ’9B ~ 10,915
June, ’96 ~ 9696 December, ’9B ~ 6963
December, ’96 „ 10,494
In the last three half-years the Land Mortgage Bank
realised £36,214 by repurchasing its debentures at
a discount, which has to be set against these
losses. But with all savings the accumulated deficit is
now £39,034 and though last half-year’s shortage was the
smallest since June, 1895, prospects are very bleak. The
co. owes £730,538 to English debenture-holders, at 3| per
cent.—half-year’s interest £12,784. Its gross earnings are
only £11,140 and expenses of management are to be
provided out of them. At the end of 1901 the debenture-
interest reverts to the old 4J per cent., and, unless some-
thing very glorious happens to the assets before then,
that may be the last straw. The gross earnings are equal
to £2 Is. per cent, per annum on the alleged assets (almost
wholly mortgages), and, as even the cheapest kind of live
mortgage yields 4 per cent., the inference is that, at the
outside, the assets are not worth over £540,000 at present,
against £743,000 owing to debenture-holders. There is
still £124,255 due on the last call, but, even if it can all be
collected, which is hopeless, and applied in the payment
of debentures, it will only save about £4350 per annum
interest, which won’t balance the accounts by a long way.
If the Land Mortgage Bank could get its de-
benture-interest reduced to 2 per cent, it might just
manage to pay its way, and then it could lie low till its
assets improved in value again. Or, if it could screw
£500,000 of uncalled capital out of its shareholders, and
pay off the bulk of its debentures, the result would be
the same. The assets would be certain to look up again
some day, if it could only wait, and it might again become
something remotely resembling the gorgeous 10 per cent,
dividend-paying affair it was in ’92. Hut it has to keep
selling its assets at a big loss in a depressed market to
keep its very small pot boiling, and, by the time the
revival really comes, there will probably be very little
Land Mortgage Bank left.
* * • •
The decision of the banks doing business in
N.S. W. to charge every depositor 5s. per half-year for
labor and stationery will produce at least one good result.
The average man, when he shifts his account, has a
strange tendency to leave from 3d. up to £2 behind him.
The years roll on, and banks burst, and managers bolt
with the funds and somebody eise’s wife, and auditors go
wrong, and junior clerks are found staking the petty cash
on the suburban dog-fight, and get sacked, but that
balance has to be brought forward, lest the depositor, 20
years’ later, signs a cheque for 5s. 3d., and it is dishonored
by mistake, and there is an action for £2000 damages.
But now the charge of 10s. a year will swallow up the un-
claimed balances, and enable hundreds of dead accounts
to be closed. It is the wily bankers’ answer to the agita-
tion for the seizure by Government of all balances that
have been unclaimed for seven years. In seven years the
bank will annex t'3 10s. of the money anyhow, and few
unclaimed balances are larger than that nowadays.
* * * *
The report of the City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney) for 1898 shows, in most respects, a fur-
ther improvement. Some of the principal figures for 1898
and the five previous years are as under :—
Premiums In ' Total Expen- Added
rremmms. terest. Revenue. ses. to funds
1893 ..£26,001 £6,575 £32,576 £8,939 £10,021
1894 .. 27,775 6,243 34,018 11,843 13,140
1895 .. 29,179 7,670 36,849 10,697 11,078
1896 .. 31,859 7,431 39,290 9,776 13,319
1897 .. 32,845 8,384 41,229 9,305 19,200
1898 .. 36,889 8,935 45,824 10,291 12,727
The funds have grown from £97,442, at the beginniugof
’92, to £176,926 at the end of ’98.
The figures show a steady increase in premiums
and also in receipts from investments. Expenses were
27£ per cent, of total revenue in 1893 ; 34| per cent, in
1894 ; 29 per cent, in 1895 ; rather less than 25 per cent,
in 1896 ; over 22J per cent, in 1897, and rather less than
22J per cent, in 1898. The rate is still very high, but it is
being steadily reduced, despite the great increase in the
amount of new business, and new business is a most
expensive item in every assurance office’s outgoings.
During 1898, £2128 was written off the assets for depre-
ciation, making £7981 provided under this heading in the
last four years. This is a large amount to write off
£179,000 worth of assets, and looks like a genuine attempt
to keep the properties down to their real value. It has
been decided to make no further additions to that always
rather doubtful asset, “deferred instalments of annual
premiums ” ; if the old policy had been still followed in
1898 there would have been about £2500 more assets on
paper, and the revenue would have been larger and the
proportion of expenses smaller, also on paper. But
instead of increasing this item it has been written down
by £375, and it is proposed to continue the writing-down
till it is wholly extinguished. The figures may look less
beautiful under this system, but it means more solidity,
and the course is undoubtedly the right one to follow.
The amount of interest in arrear and the asset
“ Property acquired by foreclosure ” are both low, and
have been reduced during the year, which speaks well for
the soundness of the investments. The investments yield
the remarkable interest of £5 5s. per cent., which is much
above the average. How the City Mutual does it isn't
very clear, but it seems to manage it successfully enough.
Barring the increase in surrenders and the very heavy
death claims during the late unhealthy year, there are no
visible bad features in the balance-sheet, though all
balance-sheets are subject to the painful doubt implied
by the absence of any independent State audit and
valuation of assets. And outside it the only un-
pleasant thing that is known is that a late official has
been suing the manager for heavy slander damages;
that he has got a verdict which is now, so far as the
writer knows, still awaiting appeal, and that whatever the
result there will be a heavy bill to pay. According to the
daily paper report, the board “ is prepared to accept any
responsibility that can be placed upon it” in the matter.
If that means that the board takes a moral responsi-
bility it doesn’t matter much, and if it takes a cash re-
sponsibility, so long as it does it in its private capacity, it
is the board’s own hearse and funeral, and the policy-
holders needn’t mind. But if the board takes a cash re-
sponsibility in its official capacity then there is likely to
be a large hole in the 1899 profits, whichever way the case
goes. That vague “ responsibility ” should be cleared up.
The City Mutual had a law experience in 1894 which cost
it £1801 and some heartrending coppers, and too much of
that kind of thing is unhealthy.
* * • *
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Building
and Investment Association of Sydney (great Scott 1) pub-
lishes a rather unfortunate report and balance-sheet for
1898. There has been a loss regularly for several years, the
latest one being £2387. This is about £1000 less than the
deficit for 1897, yet it is a rather serious item all the same.
Up to 1894 the Metropolitan Mutual paid 6 per cent, on
its debentures. In 1895 it obtained a reduction to 6 per
cent., and in October, 1897, it obtained another reduction
to 3 per cent. Its chief trouble lies in the fact that most
of its properties are mortgaged, and while the land and
buildings are largely unsaleable just now, and in many
cases yield little return, the interest on the mortgage
goes on all the time. Last year the whole income from
£279,000 worth of assets was £6525 —equal to about
£2 per cent., which isn’t so very bad, all things
considered. But the interest on £138,718 of mort-
gages and debentures absorbed £6569—an average of
over £4 14s. per cent., which is the cause of the
whole trouble. In four years, the institution has
only been able to reduce its liabilities by £27,450. Its
reserve-fund is exhausted, and there is a loss of £2373
against capital. Also, there is only £7907 more capital to
call up. If the shareholders would put up, say, £150,000
of preference capital to pay off the liabilities, the co.
could afford to pay 2 per cent, dividends on it, and it
would prevent the original capital being sacrificed by the
compulsory sale of properties in a broken-down market to
pay liabilities, but probably they are not equal to the
shock. Still, it ought to be well worth their while to
do so.
• • • •
For over 20 years the Thames (M.L.) people
have talked of working the rich gold deposits confidently
believed to be hidden in the deep-levels of the fields, but,
until quite recently, nothing was done. Between
£5,000,000 and £6,000,000 of gold was won in three years
from mines working on the reefs within a radius of half-
a-mile from the Big Pump shaft, the most notable being
the Caledonian, Cure, Golden Crown, Manakau, Moana-
taiari, Waiotahi, and the Shotover. The Caledonian paid
£672,000 divs. in one year, and the wholesale stealing of
specimens from the mine, which came to light in the
early seventies, gave color to the local rumor that as
much was stolen from the mine as found its way into the
shareholders’ pockets. The Shotover paid its four
shareholders—Hunt (the prospector of the Thames),
White, Cobley, and Clarkson—£40,000 a man for a few
months’ work, but they all “dropped their bundles"
almost before they had got over the novelty of feeling
what it was to be rich. About 1875, the late H. A.
Severn, one of the first metallurgists of his day, predicted
that rich shoots would make again at about 1000ft. below
sea-level.
• * * *
There is a split on the board of directors of
Girilambone copper-mine. Mr. James Morgan has re-
signed, and ruotions are expected at next meeting.
* * * *
The Wild Ass lately advised its clients to buy
certain shares, and said “ the mine is a splendid one, and
free of debt.” At that time the co.’s leases were mort-
gaged, and they could not pay the miners’ wages, which
still remain unpaid.
* • * *
Broken Hill shares have bounded up, despite
the prospect of reduced B.H. Prop, dividends. The only
explanation forthcoming is that large buying orders have
come from England. It Is a mere guess that the inqulr
there is due to some development in zinc-extraction
Nevertheless, the guess may be right ; for the Carmichael
Kohler leaching process, which has hitherto failed only
through lack of appliances, has for some months been in
the hands of the leading t’otherside chemical engineer.
• • • •
Cobar notes.—The field still waiting for rain and
for the railway authorities to reduce freight. The
Young Australian hopes to keep alive by cyanidingOhes-
ney tailings. Said tailings of high gold-value but very
coppery, hence returns must be comparatively small.
The Chesney has worked out an excellent scheme for re-
duction of its ore, which it is about to put into practice.
Manager Roberts is using all his ingenuity to economise.
He needs to, since the number of contributing-shares in
the co. is none too big. The Great Cobar Copper Syn-
dicate has completed its fifth water-jacket, ana a sixth
one is in course of erection. How they are rooting it out!
m m m *
H. Newman. M.P. for the district and boss pro-
moters of Victory Forest Reefs mine, publishes a letter in
an Orange paper intimating that N.S.W. Govt, has
granted aid to sink the shaft and drive 150 ft., the money
to be refunded when the co. is able to do it. This is the
mine on which a stamp-mill was erected to crush pug,
and having otherwise ignominiously failed, Govt, comes
to its assistance. Well, there are other mines in the dis-
trict on which thousands are being spent by private indi-
viduals without any Govt, aid, and even small concessions
in the way of railway-rates have been refused. But there
are no Ms.P. among the proprietors. The spoils to the
Victor(y).
* * * »
“Malle”: Some months ago Thk Bulletin
published a comment on the loose nature of the N.S.W.
No-Liability Act, and suggested certain amendments.
What can be done, possibly with impunity, under the
existing Act, is evidenced by the Shellback G.M. Co.,
Gulgong, N.S.W. This co. consists of 100,000 shares of
ss. each, of which 32,500 were paid up, and 67,500 con-
tributing ; these latter were offered to the public at Is.
on application and Is. on allotment. It took over two
months to sell less than 6000 shares, and 10 per cent, of
contributing capital is supposed to be paid up in cash
before registration. However, the promoter, by taking
up contributing shares in lieu of cash brokerage, and in-
cluding these, brought up the amount to the enacted
minimum. Without holding a general meeting, or con-
sulting the provisional directors or the vendors, the Memo,
of Association was signed, rules framed, and the co. regis-
tered. The promoter was elected, by the signers of
Memo., as chairman, and with less than £6OO cash, of
which more than half was absorbed in printing and other
?reliminary expenses, the co. started on its wild career.
wo months after registration it was unable to pay
its miners, and its leases were mortgaged to the promoter-
chairman. Four months after incorporation, the first
general meeting was held ; no printed balance-sheet was
submitted, but this was accounted for on the ground that
the audit was not finished in time, and a statement, pur-
porting to be a balance-sheet, in which no mention of afore-
said mortgage was made, was read by the chairman, and a
glowing report of the future prospects of the co. was dis-
cussed. As some of the vendors, apparently ignorant of the
full facts, had entrusted the chairman with their proxies,
the election of a board was within the promoter’s control,
and he was re-elected chairman. One of the newly-elected
board, however, resigned inside a week, and carefully
advertised in S.M. Herald that he had no connection with
the co., and ere he could be replaced another member
died. Then the chairman proceeded to appoint a director,
who acted with him in appointing a third. At a general
meeting in Dec., called to consider an offer for the co.’s
property, one of the original vendors asked a lot of un-
pleasant questions, and when the information was not
forthcoming threatened to move at the annual meeting
“ that the co. be declared illegal, and the Crown Law
authorities be asked to take action.” When the annual
meeting came round last month, although this obnoxious
person holds, and is proxy for, some 23,000 shares, some-
how or other neither he nor the shareholders he represents
received any notice of meeting, so this little unpleasant-
ness was avoided. Now the promoter-chairman-mortgagee
has seized the leases, and they were auctioned last week
for £450.
* • * *
Diamond mining is the latest threatened S.A.
industry. Experts forecast that some day a big field will
be found around Echunga, 25 miles from Adelaide.
Strange that the first mineralogist who examined Ade-
laide ranges found diamonds which were shown at London
Exhibition in 1851. None have been found since.
■* » • •
“Button Grass ” : What is the proper investing
price of North Lyells ? I say 255. a share. The co.’s capi-
tal is £1,500,000. In order to be as big as the big mine
crowd (who won’t have anything to do with the N. Lyell
flukers), an unnecessary railway is to be built at a cost of
£250,000, and an unnecessary ship is being constructed
for £BO,OOO. Say another £lOO,OOO for smelters, &c., and
this company stands committed to an expenditure of
£430,000 —£330,000 of which is to be spent in absolutely
unnecessary works, as connection could be had with the
Emu Bay Railway Co.’s lines at a cost comparatively
small.
• * * •
“ Pyrrhatite ” : Last year’s return from Char-
ters Towers was again very big. But cyanide was
responsible for about a-third of the total (approximately
£1,250,000) —a larger proportion than ever before. There-
fore, the mines themselves are not so productive as
formerly. The solvent operated chiefly on the tailings
and sludge accumulations of bygone years, and, as these
can’t last for ever, those in the local know quite admit
that, unless some radical change sets in, the near future
will show a heavy decline. The low levels have, of
course, been the great hope of the district, but although
gold has been struck in the Brilliant and Brilliant Ex-
tended at the lowest points, it is not an accepted payable
proposition. The lodes live down all right, and the stone
is of low-grade quality—about lOdwt. average. This,
under-present conditions, is not good enough, and it
will be surprising if some attempt is not made—as a
means to making ends meet—to cut miners' wages. Sal-
vation, however, will not follow upon such a move. The
fact is that crushing charges (15s. per ton) are absurdly
high. Companies’ directors are responsible for this.
These enterprising people, in addition to drawing their
“ small fees,” have erected private mills, at which the
mine shareholders are “ put on toast.” The mills reduce
the ore won from the mines over which the directors are
supposed to hover with angelic watchfulness, and the 15s.
per ton leaves a big profit on the transaction, which is a
millstone for the industry to struggle with. Then no
attention has been paid to economy in transport or crush-
ing of ore. When it reaches the surface it has, in many
cases, to be carted far to the mill, which might just as
easily have been erected near the mine. No labor-saving
appliances seem to have been introduced, and crushing
appliances are away behind the times. This is the matter
which will require prime consideration when the question
of treating low-grade ores orops up, as it soon must. The
field itself is all right, but economy in working alone will
admit of future success. New blood is sadly wanted in
the place ; the old has become sluggish through long
prosperity and isolation from the rest of the world.
V. W. Boyle, writing from Thornborough,
N.Q., controverts statements here made by a correspond-
ent signing- himself “Hodgkinson.” In the first place,
Mr. Boyle remarks, all the well-known local mines—in-
cluding those singled out for criticism by “ Hodi> kinson ”
are being held and worked—not a bad sign. Mr. B. goes
on to point out that Govt.-Geologist Jack says that, “ The
Hodgkinson crushings have averaged as well as those of
any other field in Queensland. ... Of real prospecting
for further shoots of payable stone by the sinking of deep
shafts or the driving of exploring levels, there was scarcely
any. The field was taken up at first by miners who con-
tributed nothing but muscle . . . but muscle is not capi-
tal. It is only with the surplus of earnings over living
and working expenses that he can do ‘ dead work.’ In
other words, the development of the mine has to be carried
on out of revenue instead of out of capital. That scores
of Hodgkinson mines did so for years in spite of every
drawback is an achievement to be proud of. As a matter
of fact, the first check —the first sign of diminution
in the yield, such as is common in all mines—was
the signal for the desertion of nearly every
‘show’ on the Hodgkinson. The profits already
made had been otherwise disposed of, and there
were no funds available for prospecting work. Many
mines even seem to have been thrown up while in
the full tide of prosperity, or what should have been pro-
sperity under favorable circumstances. Disheartened by
these drawbacks, the miners, as one after another they
exchanged the ‘ flush times ’of 4oz. stone for the poverty
of l{oz., became stricken with the conviction that ‘ the
Hodgkinson reefs don’t go down,’ and began to think of
clearing out. It was a most unwarrantable conclusion,
as no attempt was made to prove the imagined negative.
Many mines were abandoned in spite of the fact that poor
crushings had been succeeded more than once by rich.
The deepest shaft (Tyrconnel) is only 414 ft. . . . The
yields speak for themselves, and if they were not authen-
tic official records they would strike one as incredible.
The agents of capitalists are running all over the world
looking for mines such as have been abandoned on the
Hodgkinson by the score. Had the field been discovered
at the present time there would have been no half-
hearted working of the mines, and the Hodgkinson would
probably take rank well in front as a gold-producing
district.”
From Croydon : During 12 years Croydon has
produced 687,317i0z. gold from 433,441 J tons of stone
crushed. Since ’94, when cyanide operations began,
89,754£0z. bullion has been got from 109,998 tons tailings.
——Croydon ’9B yield : Quartz, 80,227£ tons for 41,352|0z.;
by cyanide, 13,9230 z. from 19,609 tons. Continued
drought during last half of year hung up nearly all bat-
teries and seriously reduced yield. Up to Jan. 20 over
llin. rain fell during current year on Croydon. Dams
everywhere full, and mills all at work on stone accumu-
lated during drought. Croydon Mining News tells that
Elmslie, Ltd., have during four years procured the expen-
diture of £172,676 on Croydon field in the purchase of
properties, many of which give promise of handsome
returns._ At Waratah Co.’s properties at Tabletop a
mountain of low-grade ore is being operated on at the
rate of 50 tons a day. Economical and efficient work-
ing promises to make this a valuable investment.
First clean-up will be anxiously awaited. The most
extensive and costly mining pumping plant ever intro-
duced to N.Q. is now being erected at Croydon Consols
by Elmslie Ltd. aforesaid. When on the point of a rich
discovery, the mine became flooded. Present plant should
drain a big area of Golden Gate auriferous ground.
Prospects of Croydon for current year exceedingly bright.
Last year’s development work promises payable returns,
and several leading mines look forward to a much-
increased output. Jubilee Consols (English co.) started
work again recently. Splendid battery plant at mouth of
shaft. Ore low' in average, but it is expected that when a
junction of the Jubilee and Lady Lottie reefs is reached
good-dividend gold will be got.
The threatened Vic. gold-dredging boom will
revive in all its activities the long-dormant sludge ques-
tion, with consequent litigation and new legislation.
* • * *
North Magdala-Moonlight, Vic., forfeited shares
lately advertised on account of non-payment of 134th call.
Many other similar cases in Vic., while N.S.W. has not
one single instance of call-paying endurance.
Westralia’s biggest div.-disburser last year was
the Boulder. Its product was worth about £337,500. Of
this, £200,000 was paid to shareholders.
• • * •
Bayley’ Great Oversight, W. A. Shares adver-
tised for sale for non-payment of calls. How pleasant it
must be to manage a mine with such a name—or to be
working mullock in the Croesus.
• • • *
Hamilton, manager of the Great Boulder, gave
the Big Blow, Coolgardie, its death-blow, reporting that
it was too poor to pay ; advised the sale of the plant and
the winding-up of the co. When floated there was “ one
block alone of 860,000 tons.” It had more stone in sight
than any other mine on the field, and was to be one of the
world’s greatest gold-producers. Purchase price—£2s,o3l
in cash, and 9969 paid shares. Capt. Bell M‘Taggart, the
chairman, had always a great yarn to tell at meetings,
sometimes a scarcity of water, never of gold. Writer
often laughed at it, having personally satisfied himself of
the barrenness of the “big blow” over four years ago ; but
anything was good enough to float in the boom. Recent
meeting in London got very angry with the chairman,
who resigned, and all the other directors followed. An
investigation committee was appointed to overhaul
accounts, whereupon the directors sent out a circular that
they intended to keep their seats.
* * * *
Associated Mines, Kalgoorlie, manager’s esti-
mate of ore reserves made last Sept.: Above the 300 ft.
level from Tetley’s- shaft, £1,157,644 ; ore blocked out at
the Australia East above the 110 ft. level, £794,000.
* • * •
Lady Shenton keeps up the Menzies end of the
Westraiian log. The Feb. div. of Is. (£8000) brings the
total to £72,000 —45 per cent, of the nominal capital of
the co. Last crushing, 25000 z. from 1300 tons : Bdwt. left
in tailings. Total to date, 46,9550 z. from 15,209 tons.
Bull-owned mostly, of course.
* * * *
The immense slag-dump at the old Burra, in
S.A., was pecked at seven or eight years ago, but, though
machinery was erected, the low price of copper compelled
abandonment. With the rise bigger men have taken up
the work ; the Martins, of Gawler, will put up a 10-head
battery, and for the rest a wet process will be used.
There is an idea also that some of the residue may be of
value as a fertiliser.


c.
ORIENT
••••••••••••
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First. Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
send for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY.
/ Opposite \
V 0.P.0. )
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J4-Plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
04 Quern St., Brisbane.
MELBOURNE AGENTS:
Craven & Co., 179 Collins St.
’Tis an Old Story
Th t tj Bo Good Work
You Must Hive G-ood Tools.
Applied to our Business, this would read
TO MAKE GOOD PHOTOGRAPHS, YOU RE-
QUIRE GOOD APPARATUS AND
MATERIALS.
Everything we supply has been thoroughly tested
and proved. The Acme in Hand Cameras are the
Scicuto, Dnjdc.r, and Victor.
All the new Chemicals and Appliances stocked at once,
as well.as the old Standard Favourites.
Outfits to suit all requirements Professional, Amateur,
Process Workers and Lanternists.
Send for Our Cotalnyur, I'ree by Return Mail.
Harrington and Co. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPII IC M ERCHANTS,
66 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
Earl Beauchamp is to be the successor of Lord
Hampden in the Governorship of N.S.W. The Hampden
dynasty has been popular. , . . The Honorable
Miss Dorothy Brand is an excellent horsewoman,
and very few professional lady riders of the show-
rings can give points to this Government House young
Wjdy m the matter of pluck and skill in the side-saddle,
ihe Honorable Dorothy Brand has earned quite a reputa-
tion in the post-and-rail country over which hounds run
in N.S.W.”— Exchange.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CUSTOM.
VISITING PARSON: “Surely on this, the day ice
opened the new church, the town ought to have
kept sober.”
RESIDERNT P.: “I'm afraid that is the event they
are celebrating.”
Gov. Hampden, ere he leaves N.S.W.,
should inspect Burragorang Valley, the land of
six-foot inen and women, where the newly-found
silver-lodes are. The place has not been" visited
by any Governor since the days of Hercules
Robinson. Lady Robinson was delighted with
Burragorang—the only place in her experience,
she said, where they provided a whole duck and a
whole sucking-pig for each guest at dinner.
One very important and popular N.S.W.
personage much resents the appointment as Gover-
nor of “ a mere inexperienced schoolboy,” which
he considers derogatory to the status of so im-
portant a province.
* * • •
Lord Tennyson’s selection as Governor of
S.A. has produced mixed feelings in Adelaide.
His Ex. is believed to be pious, although
not such a hard case as Gov. Buxton ; there
is nothing to encourage the idea that he is
wealthy ; and no one knows whether he has sport-
ing or theatrical tastes. Altogether, he is some-
what of a mystery, but, in any case, it is impos-
sible to have another such utter frost as Gov.
Buxton, whose virtues were as numerous as they
were monotonous.
• * * *
The pious ex-Governor Buxton has in-
formed the London correspondent of S.A. Adver-
tiser that while in Adelaide he spent just double
his official income of “£4OOO a year, no perks
added,” which shows that it is possible to go to
great expense without giving much satisfaction.
* * • *
Charles McArthur King (ex-P.M.), the
new chief magistrate of Norfolk Island, is a man
of experience and ability ; but verging on 70 is a
bad time of life to enter on what will be practi-
cally a new career. The fact that Mr. King’s
grandfather was Lieut.-Gov. of the island, and that
his father was born there, may incline the natives
to receive him as a friend, but it will afford no
guarantee that he will succeed in curing the com-
plicated disorders of the primitive people. In
fact, even a younger and more energetic man
would probably fail in guiding the inhabitants
into paths of reason, owing to supreme authority
being divided as it is between Britain and
N.S.W.
Mr. McArthur King’s appointment is probably
the reason why poor E. J. H. Knapp, who was a
disappointed and necessitous candidate for the
position, attempted his own life the other day.
As the islanders, taken all round, are a miserable
lot of shufflers, in whom hypocrisy, self-righteous-
ness and several other things are absolutely in-
grained, their island is an excellent place to live
away from. All important public meetings there
are opened with prayer. Then everybody pro-
ceeds to call the other fellow a liar. But those
who remain to the end close the meeting with
prayer.
* ♦ • *
When Gov. Beauchamp arrives, looks over
Govt. House, straightens himself up, and goes
back to the ship to make his official landing, will
Premier Reid dare to repeat his sensible remark
when Albury invited him to open an already
opened bridge ? Gov. Hampden took his trip
ashore in ’95, bad an hour’s sleep, practised his
speech before a mirror, and went back to the ship
in time to make his official arrival at 2 p.m. And
most of his predecessors behaved similarly.
The latest queer feature of that exciting
crime, the Melb. boot-box tragedy, is the secret
bailing of Dr. Gaze, committed on a charge of
being an accessory before and after the fact.
Gaze was to have been bailed out on the day after
arrest, but one of the prospective bondsmen
d(*elined to act unless his name were kept secret.
The police and magistrate refused to accede to this;
and the following day the bondsman interviewed
the Crown Law office, which met his views. The
nominal bondsman, a mining man, is guaranteed
by a very big mining man who is also a M.P.
* • • »
Where does the sphere of influence of the
Melb. boot-box tragedy fade away? The other
day there arrived at the office of a Melb. daily a
young man with spats and a collar as high as a
sheep-hurdle, who brought the editor a letter of
introduction from an English friend. Being
warmly welcomed, lie explained that he had just
landed from the Orizoya, and thought the kaw-
hnies really splendid, dontcherknow. They con-
versed for some time, but the visitor seemed to
have something on his mind, and finally the jour-
nalist said, “ Now, is there any way in which I
can be of service to you ? ” The florid face of the
new-chum beamed. “ Yes ! ” he yelled ; “ can
you get me into the morgue to-morrow?”
* * • .
Mrs. Sara S. Nolan, President of the
W.C.T.U., says that “ there are thousands who
would not drink intoxicants but for fchp caso with
which they can obtain them.” Will Mrs Sara
produce evidence? If beer and whisky were as
cheap as water the great bulk of the drinking
population would, after they had recovered from
their first tremendous free jamboree, probably
take to cold tea as a regular beverage. It may
be the fatal ease with which alcohol is not obtained
that makes the majority of men hanker so much
CYCLE RACING UP TO DATE.
after it. Any respectable toper will tell Mrs.
Nolan that one clandestine Sabbath drink is worth
half-a-dozen straightforward liquors consumed on
any other day.
• » * *
Whisky-agent Deegan, president of Vic.
Licensed Victuallers Association, repeats the oft-
told tale that “ the most notorious criminals are
not drunkards.” He might have added that some
of the most contemptible blackguards—the fel-
lows at whom burglars point the thumb of scorn—
are staunch teetotallers. Viz., the clear-skinned,
curly-headed beauty-men, commonly known as
“ ponces,” who live upon the earnings of fashion-
able harlotry. Every big city has its infamous
tribe of such animals—strong, healthy, and sin-
fully sober.
* * • *
Ed. Bulletin.— Re your commentless in-
sertion of the Lismore Hospital advt. (“ Wanted
a nurse—<£2o a year”) in 4th Feb. issue let me say
a word. Lismore is one of the most prosperous
provincial towns in N.S.W., yet its hospital
management is proverbially mean. When I was
a physical wreck in exile in the Big Scrub, I
frequently heard of injured cane-cutters, timber-
getters, bullock-drivers, etc., who would not go
to Lismore Hospital on any account. They in-
variably went to Ball ilia Hospital, where nothing
was cheap and nasty. Some country committees
are odious skinflints, and it’s wonderful how cor-
rectly the common, no-class people gauge such
bowelless persons.—J.P.
* * * *
The rector’s daughter who recently slew
an English Sunday-school teacher for alleged mis-
conduct with his pupils appears to have been the
dupe of her own prurient imagination. Of course
the murderess is “ pious.” Religion of the ranker
sort is only an “ allotropio ” form of filthy-minded-
ness.
A correspondent on press para-
sites :
The newspaper “ Bludger” is an institu-
tion worthy the attention of the united
metropolitan press, and an organised at-
tempt to suppress him would put a nutn-
ber of loafers and cadgers to the necessity
of “ travelling" on some other racket
than that of “ connected with the press.”
Foundation-stone layings, receptions, at
homes, inaugurations, etc., down even to
the changing hands of an hotel, all serve
to obtain for these “whisperers” cheap
liquor and gorge, and, in many cases,
even cash tips, on the supposition that
they are more or less influential press-
men. The only person safe against them is
the professional front-of-the-house man at
the theatres. I have had pointed out to
me at a fifth-rate Sunday-school picnic no
less than five supposed “ leading press-
men” who had bustled in on the nod.
Something in the way of a press badge
ought to be producible as a guarantee ;
sav, a ticket like the Cricket Association
season ticket, which could be issued to
the order of the editors of the co-operat-
ing papers. The ill-odour in which press-
men are held by some people is entirely
due to these bogus journalists, who so fre-
quently disgust the givers of the enter-
tainments into which they have managed
to crawl on false pretences. Couldn’t the
press section of the going-to-be organised
Sydney Bohemian Club do something to
cope with this army of locusts?
• * * *
On Kangaroo Island (S. A.) is a
little township, now GO years old,
wtiich possesses two Jay Pees, be-
tween whom there is such bitter per-
sonal feud that they never sit in
court without disagreeing. Each is
constantly petitioning Govt, to make
another J.P. of his own faction, so
that he can over-rule the other fel-
low. Fortunately, there is little liti-
gation, and as the place is without a
pub. there are few drunks to fine.
• * » *
A new industry in Melbourne.
Dog run over by tram. Laid on the
footpath. Weeping man or woman.
“ My pet, my pet, my little dog.”
Collection, money to bury him, to
buy another or for beer. One dog
lasts three days. Rammed in bag to
another stand, every hour.
Recently a railway employe died in S.A.,
leaving a widow and child. His comrades sub-
scribed to pay his burial expenses, for the family
was t utterly destitute ; and they were shocked at
the demand made by an Anglican parson for
reading the funeral service. However, they didn’t
provide the fee, butg<>t Dick Wood, M.P., an old
railway servant, to officiate in his stead. They do
not fear the result on the soul of their old fellow-
workman.
« • * *
The Quite Respectable of Kanowna, the
Westralian goldfield pug-town, have had an awful
A RASE INSINUATION.
KIND LADY : “If I give you money you'll buy beer,
and beer is not good for anyone. ”
HE : “ O, I dunno, mum; it makes yer fat.”
twelve months. First of all, there was the public
—civic—welcoming of a couple of played-out
pugilists ; then there was the Sacred Mrs. Harris
nugget ; and, finally, there was the speetacle of
the Mayor being charged with indirectly helping
to kill a half-drunk man, by sooling him on
lr } a street fight with the half-drunk chain-
pion of a rival pub.-keeper. But the Quite Re-
spectable don t despair. They eall their canvas
humpies “camps,’' and wear straw-hats with
pretty ribbons, and, finally, as a most convincing
proof that the Eternal Fitness of Things is
mighty and will prevail, have formed a debating-
anc*’ at w, ”' e busy discussing
T Was Hamlet mad? and “What is Truth?”
refi PSOt of the latter all reference to past pros-
pectusea was strictly tabooed.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC SPORTSMAN ENTHUSES.
So now the Brands
Seek other lands;
Alack ! long ere they reach
’em
A fickle crowd
Will cheer as loud
For godly Governor Beau-
champ.
’Twill be Hampden’s lot
To be soon forgot,
Now an Earl is his succes-
sor ;
But the new-chum Earl
Will bring no girl
Like Dorothy Brand—God
bless her 1
Then let it be known
That all of us own
Since her dad to Australia
brought her.
That there has not been,
Nor will there be seen
Another such Governor's
daughter.
Yes ! we all concur
(In respect to her
Ideas are not dividing)
There’s no “ seat,” nor
“ hands”
Like Dorothy Brand's
When she goes out a-rid-
ing!
And each Australian,
And every alien
Who rides as straight as he
“ oughter,”
Has been fain to yield
In the hunting-field
To the prowessof Hampden’s
daughter.
So, doff your “cady”
To this young lady !
Hooray—with your hat in
your hand ;
Australia’s pride
Was the girl who could ride
Like the Honorable Dorothy
Brand !
FOR FUTURE USE.
The poet wrote a little note,
And phrased it well in dainty rhyme,
To tell the girl with hair a-eurl
And eyes that made his senses swirl
That he loved her wildly all the time.
He rhymed to love with “ glove ” and “ dove,”
And swore his flame would ever burn.
He wished to wed, the missive said :
“ Herewith a penny stamp,” she read ;
“ If not accepted, please return.”
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My little girl,
How kind your every thought I
The light of Truth irradiates your face ;
So free from guile you are, and quite untaught.
Your figure takes a pose of perfect grace,
My little girl;
Your pretty lips are curled,
Yon laugh at care, yet weep to see distress ;
No short-frocked maiden tripping through the world
Surpasses you in mental loveliness,
My little girl.
Your years amount to ten,
The “ boys ” are boys of whom you gaily speak ;
One day you will apply the term to men,
And make a hero of a mortal weak,
. My little girl.
May God remain your friend,
Giving love's blessing to the mother’s pain,
And happy thoughts of life that has no end,
When in your daughters you are born again,
My litile girl !


\V
! I
iii.i.i
"Hilii
vmw..
IV3X J.OD'Bpj
SYDNEY EAGER BIEII
Took First Prize and Gold
Medal at N.S.W. Royal
Agricultural Society’s Show
against
ALL COMPETITORS.
Brewed and Bottled by
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
Moore Park, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Preliminary Advertisement.
Woollahra Point.
THE Grounds surrounding the well-known
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE will be offered
at PUBLIC AUCTION in SUITABLE BUILD-
ING BLOCKS at an early date, with a
FREEHOLD TITLE.
An opportunity will thus be afforded intending
Purchasers to acquire the FINEST WATER
FRONTAGE LOTS ever offered to the Public.
Agents for the Estate—
RAINE & HORNE,
2 Hunter-street, Sydney.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 eaoh.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
E. MOUNTGASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufactiftej's
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Rand wick Asylum, one of Sydney’s
refuges for destitute boys and girls, and at present
sheltering 158 waifs, enjoys the splendid privilege
of being able to say that there has been no death
in the institution since 1887 —almost 12 years !
* • * •
The struggle for a crust. Latest Sydney
development of dental surgery is prowling around
to beguile unsuspecting canines and pull out their
incisor teeth (saleable at about 3d. a-piece to the
fakers of dog-tooth necklaces “from the Islands”)
The family poodle had, therefore, better be
secluded for the present lest he fall a prey to the
dog-doggers.
* * * *
Elections of country hospital committees
are mostly occasions when the local bank-manager
says nice things about the local parson ; and the
local parson returns the compliment and includes
the local grocer ; and the local grocer, who is a
J.P., thinks that the services of the local baker
have been invaluable—and so on. But it’s a dusty
day when they can’t raise a row at Broken Hill.
This year the auditors in their report accused the
chairman of supplying the institution with goods,
and the chairman forgot to bring up the report;
then the chief fly-in-the-ointment demanded it and
was called a blanky old scoundrel, to which he
replied that the chairman was a blanky old liar.
The chief fly next responded gaily to an invitation
to fight; but, to the intense disgust of the audi-
ence, the chairman fell back on the ancient excuse
that he “ wouldn't soil his hands,” and later on
one of the auditors took a hand in the game.
However, medical comforts were freely intro-
duced ; and at 2 a.m., when the meeting con-
cluded (it began at 8 the previous evening), every-
body drove his chief enemy round town at a
furious pace, while constables on duty discreetly
looked up the darkest back-streets for the burglar
that wasn’t likely to be there.
• * * *
The Chinese of Sydney are just now in the
qhroes of a “ good work ’’—they have collected
£300 or £400 towards the erec-
tion of a joss house at t
Macao, China, and
piously hope to in-
crease the
amount to
£1000.
Pre-
THAT PIOUS PICNIC.
SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHER (after race-day religious
picnic): “Oh, yes, we had a glorious day,
only snakes were rather prevalent; but, after
all, that wasn’t an unmixed evil. ”
ENQUIRING FRIEND : “ How was that? ”
S.S.T.: “ Oh, it kept the girls from going down the
creek.”
sent writer asked one of the
most enlightened Chinese in Syd-
ney if lie had contributed. “ Yes,”
was the reply, “I send him ten
pong. Never say no to fellow
who wantee build joss house.
Makee bad luck. Whoffor you
laugh?” Some years ago one
of the large Chinese secret
societies in Sydney decided
to disband, and having nearly
<£800 in the bank, a meeting
was held to decide on the
disposition of the funds. Pro
rata division amongst the con-
tributories was out of the ques-
tion—it would have been “un-
lucky.” The momentous matter was
discussed in high falsetto for some
hours. Some wanted to make a present
of ic to the Chinese newspaper as a recom-
pense to its proprietors for “ tellee all about
war.” Others thought the best thing to do was to
“ blew " the whole amount on a religious festival
largely composed of devotional fire-crackers and
rockets of soul-satisfying holiness. The two
parties were so evenly divided that there seemed
no prospect of agreement. Eventually someone
suggested that the only proper way to spend the
money was to produce a Chinese drama of a moral
tendency, and that the representation should con-
tinue until all the money was exhausted. This
programme was actually carried out, and for
months afterwards the boards of a hall in Castle-
reagh-street were occupied with pig-tailed kings
and bumble-footed queens, while slant-eyed market
gardeners drank in the beauties of the national
drama and didn’t go out to see a man between the
acts.
* » * *
An orator at a recent Queensland railway
banquet “ regretted that the ladies were not pre-
sent to see how the gentlemen enjoyed themselves
when they were alone."
Passengers by train to Sydney from an
Illawarra suburb the other day were haunted
persistently by an intolerably sickening odor.
One man who at last resolved upon changing cars
was astonished to find a stretcher on the platform
of the next carriage, and a constable in charge of
a swollen corpse which had been in the water for
several days. If it is necessary to drag a very
decomposed cadaver to its bereaved domicile,
surely a special truck should be hitched on at the
rear-end of the train. Also (this is an after-
thought, based on an experience the writer had
when last in Victoria), if there are only two pas-
senger-cars on a mixed train, it isn’t advisable to
put a large truck of bonedust between them.
* * * «
There is said to be a move among Sydney
pressmen to form an Australian branch of the
English Institute of Journalists, which several
“ daily ” scribes have recently joined. The char-
tered Institute is a large power in British news-
paperdom, but frequent efforts to start Australian
combinations of the same kind have failed
ignominiously through want of the cohesive
quality, or something, in the local pressman’s
nature. Maoriland, where reporters and others
are usually domesticated and stickative, is the
only province which has a successful journalists’
union of its own.
* * * *
The billet of Council Clerk at Drummoyne
(Sydney) was recently on offer at £2 8s. per week.
There were no fewer than 70 applications for a
responsible post which would probably be regarded
with a scornful sniff by the Drummoyne Councd’s
own scavengers—unless they are themselves very
badly paid.
* * * *
“ Penny a liars ” —The Gatton “ special ”
correspondents.
* * * *
“ C.F.” to The Bulletin on certain social
aspects of the Jackwant country : —
In reply to J.S.T. (B. 12/ll/’98) and O.S. (7/l/’99). Have
in Japan bathed naked with naked men and wo-
men of all ages—and have thought nothing of it.
But put the same show on the far side of a cur-
tain and immediately it gets an indecent flavor.
A girl in brown bloomers on a bicycle is an ordi-
nary sight which at worst would be called un-
becoming ; but substitute white
for brown, with a lace frill for
a plain band, and something
is at once suggested. It
is, in fact, in suggestion
that the whole matter
of indecency lies. A
low ball - dress
showing an area
of bare skin
at midnight
is not inde-
cent because
it is an accus-
tomed sight,
but no self - re-
specting girl at
a midday picnic
would unbutton the top fastening of her blouse,
even though an underbodiee covered her skin. Indeed,
this is probably even because of that underbodice. There’s
a good deal of confusion between decency and the reverse
and modesty and immodesty. A girl who once nearly
fainted when I brought out an unpremeditated “damn !’’
has been discussing with me the “ Yarra” and “Gatton”
horrors (in all their phases) without t urning a hair.
One of the Sydney Irish papers recently
gravely commiserated a certain night-
watchman upon enforced absence
from his duties through in-
somnia.
STILL SOME PRIDE IN HIM.
“ Well, Hi gives in as Hi am a gent in reduced
circumstances, but, s'help me, Hi aint came so
low as to work for filthy ‘ looker ’ a-paintin’ the
fences what encircles my own family histates. ”
At Adelaide Police Court, the other day,
the first case under the Affiliation Act of ’9B was
heard, and one Sharman was ordered to pay
£6 10s. expenses incurred at the confinement of
the lady of his love. This is the sort of thin? that
will bid ’em pause, and make ’em bear the ills they
have, rather than fly to others that are liable to
put a hole into the Savings Bank account.
* . * * m
There are always compensations (good and
bad) in Nature. Queensland brags much about
its ever-declining phthisis death-rate. On the
other hand the cancer ever increasing.
The resident doctor at Toowoomba Hospital notes
the rise in the mortality from this disease, and
remarks it comes only second to heart-disease as a
cause of death in his district. Well, they won’t
inspect the meat, and they won’t look after the
abattoirs, so they must pay the penalty.
♦ * * *
A man was arrested in Brisbane Jan. 19
and charged with trying to steal money from a
boy. Brought before the police-court on 20th, re-
manded, and committed for trial on Feb. 6. On
Feb. 7 no true bill was filed, and the hapless man
was set free after 19 days undeserved imprison-
ment. Sole evidence against him was the word of
a small boy, who said he woke up on the steamer
and found defendant’s hand in his pocket.
* * • •
From undertaker’s advt. : “ Mrs. Plantem
personally supervises the embalming of female
subjects.” Hint for the New Woman: Why be
a poor governess? Why not go into “the em-
balming ? ”
“Jack ” : In Hyde Park, Sydney,
recently, observed man burning off the
grass, and, on inquiring why, was in
formed that it was to keep down—well,
one of the plagues of Egypt, which
the presence of so many loafers and
dossers fosters.
“ A.O.” : Please don’t talk of shifting city
coffin-shops out of sight
in the interest of woman-
kind. Lots of women love
coffins and are fascinated
by coffin-gear. Recently
overheard from two ladies
in a tram 1st: “ I don’t
like the coffin at all. I
think it beastly.” 2nd :
“So do I. It’s a horrid
make - up. ” Subsequently
transpired that they were
discussing the box in which
the brother of one of them
was to be “ planted ” next
day.
The Melbourne Scotch-
men do not exhibit any par-
ticular desire to go bare-
legged, and recruits for the
Scottish regiment come slowly,
but the band of pipers has
been formed and the pipes are
in full blast. As an addition
to the province’s defences this
is all that was expected of the
regiment. In the vicinity of
the orderly-room rents are rattling
down since the band began to play.
Right—the landlord pays the piper !
• * •
Curious to note that Sydney
D.T., which has refrained from
publishing results of Tatt.’s sweeps
since they were officially banned in
N.S. Wales, again prints the lists.
Another stroke in the rivalry with the evening
papers ?
* * * *
“S.S.”: The young mind, 1899. Six-
year-old niece comes home from Sunday-school,
with eyes full of excitement, and tells the story of
Jonah and the whale, just heard for the first
time, concluding derisively with : “ What
tales they do tell you ! ”
• • * •
A brother of the Mystic Tie : Nosey
Bob.
• * » *
The administration of the First Offenders’
Act in Queensland is a fearsome and wondrous
spectacle. Well-known criminals have been given
the benefit of its provisions and restored to the
bosom of their families. To crown all, a brothel-
keeper in a Southern town was also lately allowed
to take advantage of the aforesaid merciful law—
to the edification of the whole community.
* • * *
Catherine Ahearnand Robert Hogan, con-
victed at last Bathurst (N.S.W.) Circuit Court of
cattle-stealing, and since proved innocent, have
nevertheless been refused by Government any
compensation for having served a portion of their
sentences. Why should the community be more
immune than the individual from action for
“■wrongful imprisonment”? In this case there
was the usual absurdity of a “ free pardon ” —for
an offence never committed !
* • • •
The Claremont (W.A.) murder looks as if
it might be the tail-end of a life’s drama. Accord-
ing to the report of the black-trackers, Mrs. Fox
left her house with an axe, presumably to get
wood. About 400 yards from the house a man
met her behind a tree and they stood there some
time, apparently in conversation. Then the
woman ran and the man followed—at least the
assumption that the man ran and the woman
followed seems too improbable—for sixty yards,
and at the end of that space there was a struggle.
The woman ran twenty yards further and fell
dead. In the melodrama the man who meets a
woman unexpectedly behind a tree is mostly her
first husband just returned after being 20 years in
gaol, or supposedly dead, or wrecked on an
island ; or else he is the person who knows about
her past; or he is the individual who wants the
information about somebody else’s past which in-
formation she alone can supply, and she refuses to
supply it and defends herself with the axe. But
quite as probably he was only a person who started
with the intention to commit highway robbery of
2s. 6d., and the unfortunate woman hadn’t 2s. 6d.
about her.
* * * *
The interesting chronicles of the Full
family have been lately relieving the monotony of
existence in Melbourne. Full p'erc has on various
occasions been “ dealt with ” for grievously pound-
ing his wife, or failing to properly maintain
her and his children. Also, at various times the
Full children have been “ shot in ” for running
about the world in a neglected condition. Most
of the elder children are now State wards, a small
boy having been committed two weeks ago. Then
the mother sought to make old-man Full support
the remaining two youngsters. The case was
before the S. Melb. Court four times. The first
time it came on Full was in gaol. The second
time he was also in gaol. The third time the
gentleman turned up at court and casually ob-
served that he had a home for his wife and family
—the remains of it—to which he invited them to
return. Case remanded for a week—to let matters
settle, as it were. Fourth occasion the wife was
absent, she being in the hospital, with the
youngest infant. Full, Esq., returned home,
taking the sole remaining offspring with him, but
apparently lost this small remnant by the way,
for some hours later the forlorn youngster was
found wandering about Port Melb. in a dilapi-
dated and disreputable state. He was also com-
mitted to the Industrial school. And old man
Full still flourishes.
THE PERFECT PRESENT.
So I have kissed you 1 And this hour is mine.
Its light along the level future lasts,
It crowns a drab eternity of Pasts 1
Here soul and soul have crossed the border-line
Of self, and merged. No years can e’er untwine
This hour from us ! What though to-morrow casts
The memory out, and your cold glance contrasts
With this day’s rich, red lips, need I repine ?
No. I have kissed you 1 And the brief warm flower
Born of our lips perfumes eternit3 r .
Prom the long loneliness that silently
Stretches behind, before, I am content
To cull this blossom of one perfect hour—
To snatch one star from Time’s deep firmament!
Melb.
ARHUR H. ADAMS.


%
IN THt.
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 25.; postage 2d. extra. W.
11. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.*
The Manhattan Luncheon and Tea Rooms.
The coolest, largest and best-lighted room in
Sydney. A speciality is the dinner of three
courses, Is. 6d. —from 6 to 7.30 p.m.
A lady writes in glowing terms of the
“Albatross Wick.” Two of her children are down
at the present time with typhoid fever, and, al-
though the lamps are kept burning all night, not
the faintest trace of objectionable odour can be
detected, while both labor and oil are saved.*
Melbourne papers are deluged with wild
and weary suggestions as to the name of projected
Federal capital* The champion attempt to date
is “ Anglopatria.” How relieved the author must
have felt when he got it down on paper! What’s
wrong with the national bird—Kookaburratown ;
or our old friend —Ornithorhynchusville ? A few
years ago there would have been no argument—
everyone would have voted for Carbine City.
Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
REDUCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks, ,
“ Dent’s” Austrain Lairb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent’s ” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
“ Dent’s” Ghevrette Washing Suede, in white, 1/11
„ „ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2/11
The “Merlier” Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 8/11
Superior Chevrett.e Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
“Deni’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompr, and special attention.
W. T. WATERS &. CO.
Ladies' and Children’s Outfitters,
George to King Streets, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 14,1899.
My Dear Myee—
For brilliancy, noise, vegetable-decoration,
house-dresses, stage-dresses, and all the other ad-
juncts to a dashing first-night, the “Geisha”
could scarcely be bettered. Moreover, it looked
as if the play started off on Her Majesty’s door-
step last Thursday, when the piece opened fire in
Sydney. The vestibule was a vestibule no longer,
but a delicately-toned Oriental bower of Chinese
lanterns, gold chrysanthemums, and genuine Jap.
draperies. The effect was charming, and was fur-
ther touched up by the glittering first-night gar-
ments of women crowding round to admire. Also,
the unwashed looked in from the street, and
thought it was getting the show for nothing.
“ This is a bit of orl-right,” one small coin-collec-
tor observed, spitting on his hands. “ It’s the
‘Geisha.’ There’s no room inside, so they ’ad to
put it hup hout here.” And all Pitt-street sneaked
up close when Goody wasn’t looking, and didn’t
think much of it. That’s the best of being only a
coin-collector. You’ve no occasion to imagine or
pretend that you’re getting good value for your
money.
From a top-storey standard, this light and gor-
geous opera isn’t an exceptionally—isn’t even a
moderately—cunning, clever, or startling perform-
ance. But it’s rosy with success, and radiates a
sort of borrowed light from long runs in other
places.
Only two acts, and one scene to each act, but
the composition of the tableaux is masterly. The
first picture is. a lovely champagne-supper dream,
draped exquisitely with purple wisteria. It shows
the tea-room from outside, and explains very
prettily why some people* want to go to Japan so
badly. The Geisha girls who burst upon you here
aren’t smitingly Jap. to look upon, but all their
dresses are more dreams, and they hop as lightly
as frogs. A thrilling exit is effected when a
pretty dancer is caught up by a naval officer, who
slings her round his waist, and carries her off that
way.
As Molly, Seamore, Dorothy Vane is very
fetching. Nun, indeed ! No, not one, as you
will agree when you see her dancing like a
pretty little houri, with her fair front-hair floating
m rhythm with her step. This is quite a favorite
trick of Dolly’s, and women with toupees and
women with the whole wig, and particularly
women who curl nobody’s hair but their own, are
lost in wonder at the free and fearless fluttering of
that long, fair fringe. It gives an artless, joyous
look to the dancer, that a stiff, still toupee could
never aspire to, and is a tremendous charm as
Dolly uses it. To an actress who is any sort of a
favorite a late entrance is a gain, and when she
at last appeared her welcome was long and hot,
and full of flowers. Her English dress of white
cashmere, buttoned at the back, and fashioned
apth a short white coat, was rather a styleless gar-
ment, to my mind, especially when worn as she
wears it, with a big white babyish hat at the back
of the head. A short tight skirt and a big flop
hat are not too becoming to a short and slender
actress. But as soon as she got into her
“kimona ” she looked adorable. This was a little
round cream gown heavily embroidered in scarlet.
Her prettiest frock was the white satin wedding-
robe decorated with amber and yellow birds of
paradise.
After Dolly Vane—perhaps I ought to say
before her, as O Mimosa San is the actual heroine
of the play—came Miss Florence Perry, the
Finn’s newest soprano. Seen through the glasses,
Mimosa is a pretty, bird-like brunette, with brown
eyes and a small amiable face with a limited
capacity for lighting up. Her look and lack of
abandon suggested an over-tight obie. What ?
Don’t you know what an obie is. The sooner you
learn the better if the “Geisha” is going to stay
long in Sydney, for we shall be all in obies and
kimonas soon. It’s that cunning wide sash that
f'oes round the waist and ties at the bsick in a bow
ike the brand on a hot-cross bun. Miss Perry’s
first frock was a pinkish-mauve satin worked all
over with gold butterflies and fans. Bunches of
yellow flowers were stuck in at each side of her
little dark head, her obie was fashioned in yellow
silk, and her mauve skirts ended in a thick yellow
hem.- The nervousness of first night may have
been exercising her soul, for she scarcely seemed to
get out of herself into the fascinations of the
wickedly demure Miss San. Even the beauties of
her scarlet fortune-telling dress failed to fire her,
although this was the genuine article from Japan,
made of finest silk and light as any thistledown.
By the way, the weight of some of the embroidered
kimonas, particularly Miss Vane’s wedding-
dress, must have been painful wearing for mid-
summer.
As for the men of the play—well, the Chinaman
is always Woman’s peculiar province, and any
sound-minded housewife who has ever reduced a
John from ninepenee to flipenny in the matter of
a “cabbagee” may be forgiven for going into
ecstasies over Lauri’s Wun-Hi. He is just the
sort of Chow who would give a woman a glorious
big field to beat him down in by starting his
cabbagee at one-and-six a head (I can go no
higher). All along the play Lauri scores as heavily
as the genuine article marking up on the wash-
house door. Quite a different breed of hero is the
naval Reggie as played by the fascinating Mr.
Pauli. Wtioden soldiers are not quite out of
fashion, judging only by Reggie’s acting, but let
him sing and he can execute notes and sounds with
anybody. His arms and legs still trouble him a
little when he isn’t speaking, but his throat is as
strong again as ever and the voice has lost none of
its beauty. Then, looking at the men from a
man’s point of view, Lily Titheradge’s brassy young
middy would probably be the most acceptable.
She makes ordinary nice boys quite uninteresting
beside her shapely, roguish little personality in
navy-blue coat and trousers ; and she tucks her
handkerchief up her cuff with an exact representa-
tion of the swagger of your smart young naval
shaver. By the way, there is one very deeply,
awfully cerulean bit in the “Geisha.” This is
brought in by those six tall Englishwomen in
glaring royal-blue suits, whose malady isn’t
soothed by gilt trimmings. Mrs. Bracy shades
herself down a little by a smart little sailor hat,
but blue caps seem to further lift up the rest of the
band’s higli coloring. However, this hue is
always looked for in some form or other in a
popular play, and in other forms there is a pleas-
mgly remarkable scarcity of it.
The bright and winsome Julie, of the “ Geisha,”
threatens an early retirement from the stage. It
is well known that her parents strongly opposed
her entering upon a theatrical career, and the
young lady took her own way in the matter while
Mr. Musgrove was absent in England. A mes-
sage has now reached poor Julie to the effect that
if she accepts another engagement after this one
terminates all sorts of dreadful things will happen
her. But generally in such cases success has a
way of softening the stoniest heart, as in the case
of Ethel Haydon and her guardians.
Little Celia Dampier’s concert introduced us last
week to a Maoriland musician in short frocks,
with a wonderful head of Titian-tinted hair. Her
fiddling is at present in its youth. It promises
well, but how hard it is to pass judgment on the
playing of a girl scarcely in her teens. If she isn’t
desperately nervous, her fiddling will keep as near
as possible to teacher’s instructions. If she is
desperately nervous she may play as she never
played before and never will again, which may be
a great deal worse, or a great deal better, than
ordinarily. One hearing, therefore, is often as
valueless as none. I near that Ovide Musin
thought highly of Miss Dampier’s promise, and
Sydney will have another chance of hearing her at
the farewell conversazione to Lady Hampden.
Celinski—she prefers it without any prefix—■
had the vice-regal suite at her recital last Thurs-
day. Lady Hampden, in black, and Mrs. Mat
Mayoress, in an embroidered dust-cloak, led in an
unusually large audience ' >r an unknown player.
Celinski turned out to be a fluffy, Frenehy-looking
little woman in white, with a chic style of sash-
tying and a not-yet paralysing genius. Her pro-
gramme was a trifle tawdry for a great performer,
and the trouble about the piano doubtless upset
her. The key of this instrument was mysteriously
forgotten ; and at eight o’clock it remained hope-
lessly locked. Maud Fitz-Stubbs started out in a
cab to find a key to fit it, but finally there ap-
peared on the platform a workman in shirt-sleeves
who proceeded to break it open. Everyone
applauded, he bowed, and, thinking it over after-
wards, the house decided that this was the most
exciting item on the programme.
The funeral-flower question is still pricking at
the consciences of “colonial” divines. The R.C.
Church is dead against the flower-custom, ap-
parently on the ground that it detracts from the
solemnity of death—that the prospective after-
world loses a little of its terror when the grave is
heaped with roses. But, mind you, it isn’t the
corpse that will suffer, it’s the florist, whom, by a
queer coincidence, Rome can’t claim for her own
with the great claim she puts on nearly all good
undertakers. Shall we ever see the One True
Church issuing an edict against the ghastly frip-
peries of that most revolting of all farces, the
“ first-class ” funeral ?
Another public floral question is “The English
Rose,” now blooming at the Theatre Royal.
Broken Irish is the feature of the play, in spite of
its title; and the struggles of the co. to get the “h”
into order, say “Father Michael, ” like a high-born
Fenian, and sprinkle its conversation generally
with home - made brogue, fall heavy on the
soul. Charles Holloway emerges from his
moustache with an excellent Hibernian mouth,
but an Irish priest and a Primitive Methody say
their public prayers quite differently, and the
whining doesn’t ring true.
For three acts Eugenie Duggan looks tidy in one
grey skirt and green polonaise, which somehow
seems a strange thing for a wild Irish girl to do.
Ida Gresham, as the English Rose herself, looks
appropriately fresh in a frilly white muslin over
tan shoes and a Leghorn hat with many colored
roses. Amy Gourlay’s good taste has no chance
beyond the leaf-green rosettes in her dark hair ;
brother Willie gets his shirt out in broad scarlet;
and Miss Deorwyn breaks her policeman’s heart
with the jet on her snappy rose-pink blouse.
Everybody, goes to the Tivoli now. Nice men
bring their wives ; and a stratum lower down the
family comes all together—mother, father, byeby
and the intervenings. Somehow a theatre-party
to the Tiv. brings into the feminine mental vision
just a sufficient dimly - floating purple - colored
excitement that isn’t in the least like the excite-
ment of doing other theatres. The large, fat, com-
fortable feeling of going to Church, or Her
Majesty’s, elevates itself here into a thin, sharp
delight, whose biggest component is a sort of edgy
uncertainty. And yet, there is very little that is
good enough to be what is called “Bad.” The
songs are vulgar always, but it’s a dull and lumpy
vulgarity that doesn’t shoot out sparks, and
it rolls off and away and leaves no im-
pression from its sheer stodginess. Sometimes
there are two or three exceptions to this statement,
but for weeks past Peggy Pryde has been the only
one. She still sends everything home to you with
a sort of finished smack, and it’s no disparagement
to say that her laugh does three-quarters of the
work. But when it comes to a love-lorn coon song
like “The Lily of Laguna,” Peggy isn’t standing
on her own legitimate heels. Carrie Moore, in
the pantomine, made ever so much more of it.
Peggy in knickerbockers and top-boots isn’t such a
cunning little creature as Peggy, in a skirt that
seems to catch her individuality. Her legs are
slightly bow-shaped—bow legs aren’t Cupid’s bow
—and if you love her, as everybody does in
Sydney, you want to beg her to go back to long
clothes.
Certain folk in Sydney are still sceptical over
the actual coming of a bachelor Governor. They
recall the appointment of Lord Lamington to the
Governorship of Queensland, and how the Queen
—so goes the yarn—sent him a private message to
the effect that he had better get married before he
undertook his duties. These persons see, in the
fact of Lady Mary Lygon’s proposed three-months’
visit, a hint of his Lordship’s matrimonial inten-
tions. Others again deride all such surmisings,
and say that the coming of a (practically) unaccom-
panied male simply means that haughty English
dames are no longer “ having any ” Sydney society,
and that returned travellers’ tales are, of course,
accountable for this.
T’othersiders who meet in Perth flock together
like so many sheep. The cliqueism that prevails
in Perth is said to beat anything of the kind in
Sydney, and Westralians look with scorn and
contempt upon the inhabitants of the other
provinces. Doctors have gone there and saved
scores of lives during the fever-plague, but they
are not called upon, nor their wives received by
the little gods of Perth and those who bow down
to them. It all comes, no doubt, of the isolation of
Perth until the last few years.
No less than three English papers which
I have seen say thoughtfully that Lady
Isabel Stanley—who, the other day, married
Hon. Gathorne Hardy (known to Sydney girls as
“the Slatepencil)—“has a sweet disposition.”
Which is not altogether as kind a remark as it
seems, for the one aristocrat for whom this com-
ment is most often trotted out—the Princess May
of York with the baa-lamb face—has been trai-
torously accused of wearing sloppy, heel-over
boots and shoes. One paper boldly asserts that
the Princess spends less on her foot-gear than any
other royal lady. A nice charge to bring against
Britain’s future Queen ! Lucky that “ Mrs.
Wettin ” lias been often and openly twitted with
one-button-gloves, the prize monstrosity of fashions
for the last 20 years, as she can’t very well read
her daughter-in-law a V.R. sartorial lecture, punc-
tuated with the pride of kings and the glory of
the Guelphs.
Quite the most fashionable church society now
in Sydney is the English Church Union. This is
the refuge of the High Church party, of which
Lord Beauchamp is a pillar at ’Ome. Since the
appointment of the new Governor the meetings
have been crowded, but of course the Archbishop,
who is very “ Low ” indeed, is always conspicuous
by his absence. At last meeting the discussion
turned upon his absent Lordship, and a debate
arose as to whether or not the Primate was
indifferent as to what was said about him in the
papers. Finally a mature spinster arose with the
air of one who has something to say worth
hearing. “Well, I know he doesn’t care,” she
announced, solemnly, “ because one of the papers
said he was going to be married again, and he has
never contradicted it.”
The queerest part of the fine lately in-
flicted upon Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, for
fast-driving lies in the thought that a clerical
horse could make pace under any circumstances
whatever. All the clergy’s quadrupeds ever
known were as slow as funerals, and. I have a lively
recollection of one slim but sinful mare who re-
quired a whole family of boys a.nd girls, and the
maid-servant, and the man from next door, and
any stray persons that could be gathered in, to
shove the buggy wheels round, and pull from
before, and push from behind, before the animal
deigned to pass through the parsonage-gates on
her way to chapel. But I don’t wish to do
that horse an injustice. The same scene of push-
ing, and petting, and coaxing, and hooting, went
on just as maddeningly when its destination was a
funeral or a baby to be baptised. Some people
fancy it’s the feed the clergy’s horse gets, and
others fancy it’s the—well, not the feed—that’s at
the bottom of the trouble. Anyway, the par-
sonage horse whose fast ways bring its owner
into the police-court is an animal to be remem-
bered for all time.
The other cable about Olga Nethersole’s for-
tune hasn’t arrived as I write. Of course there
is still time for the £40,000 to be snatched away
by the mysterious submarine agency that kills a
man one day and resurrects him without an
apology (for the resurrection) the next. But if
the contradictory cable isn’t coming, Olga will
luxuriate as an heiress with wonderful prettiness.
Somebody from Sydney called on her at her home
in St. John’s Wood recently. Everything in the
little house was branded with the sort of simplicity
that represents the very top storey of extrava-
gance. Her black hair was coiled on her neck
with meek artfulness, and her yellow satin gown
was a marvellously - fitting princess robe from
Paris. There was a tiny garden and a big dog,
and Olga’s dearest friends said her favorite relaxa-
tion was to fill the garden with men and sit bare-
headed under a tree in a white frock that would
never betray its price to a man, while the dog lay
at her feet and the men gazed. For the benefit of
the Australian visitor, she brought out some
rather particular photographs of herself, and
exhibited them with the admiring comment,
“These are rather compromising, are they not?”
They showed her in all kinds of peculiar attitudes.
Before she handed each one over she would hold it
in her two hands and gaze on it long and lovingly,
with something brighter in her black eyes than
the ordinary wrapt interest people always keep for
their own portraits. With this keen feeling for
extravagantly outrt things, she had also put on
flesh rather plentifully, and showed signs of grow-
ing into a large, but of course extremely beautiful,
Hebress.
Writes my Melboume correspondent
“‘Here,’said that honorable four-year-old, the
other day, to the simpering male person behind
the counter of a Bourke-street soft-goodsery;
‘show me some pink—nice pink—ribbon.’ The
maid stood meekly by, and the salesman produced
four shades in the most vivid rose-color. The ex-
alted small child threw the streamers from her.
‘ Just look what he’s showing me ! ’ she said, with
a scornful snigger at the unhappy man. Looking
round her, and espying the color she wanted in a
cravat arranged carefully among a bank of laces
on the show-stand, she proceeded to pull it forth,
in spite of a rather disrespectful protest from the
figure in the frock-coat, and the fragile lace-heap
collapsed. Baby Brassey is said to occasionally
give the florists’ girls an anxious quarter-of-an-
hour with her winning little ways, but up to now
we. haven’t heard of her paying a rampageous
visit of great damage to a china-shop. That is a
joy in store.
“Two in particular mesdames of the social
circle with which Lord Brassey is so effusively
friendly have become indispensable items to afl
his holiday jaunts of late, and, as the fidgetty
mariner loves to discuss the little ins-and-outs of
his pleasure-makings, this necessitates frequent
running down to the summer resort of his festive
friends. On these occasions a couple of good-
natured husbands make themselves into a sort of
vice-regal body-guard, so that other wives and
daughters of a less entertaining turn of mind
can’t say everything isn’t quite proper, the more
especially as Lady Brassey looks on and smiles.
By the way, who wouldn’t smile at the spectacle
of his weather-beaten Ex. playing the young
gallant 1
‘‘ So Mount Morganaire Knox D’Arcy, widower,
is engaged to a Mrs. Nutting. Therf are two
Mesdames Nutting, nt*c respectively Connie and
Nina Boueicaulfc. Which is the bride-elect ? It
apparently comes as a surprise to most Australian
acquaintances that either of the sisters is a widow,
or otherwise at liberty to marry her old fellow-
townsman, the millionaire aforesaid. Dead-and-
grone pa Arthur Leslie Bourcicault—for so he used
to spell his name brother of Dion 8., senior,
edited the old Rockhampton Northern Argus,
but is chiefly remembered thereabouts as the
father of four handsome and ambitious daughters.
IVlary Boucicault, the singer, is the youngest of
the quartette. To the day of his death the father
claimed that Pauline, the eldest, ‘ had refused
three Governors.’ At all events, that stout, rubi-
cund widower, Sir Arthur Kennedy, pronounced
her ‘ as fine a girl as ever stepped.’
“The curators of Melb. Museum evidently
want the general public to see them as they see
themselves. If anyone is feeling a bit low, and
wants a dynamite-shock pick-me-up cheap, here is
a recipe : Take your maiden aunt to the Museum,
right turn, bear to the left, and stop dead at the
New Guinea photographs. Then turn your head
away, and the fuse works immediately.
“Also regarding a bronze statuette with
nothing on but its hat. This is or was as
one enters Melbourne National Gallery. It
is a niasterpiece, but no one “noticed”
it particularly. Then several slim, hard-faced
ones of both sexes examined it through their
glasses. Next clay they came again with a whole
crowd more. Then again and more crowd. Now
it is said that the bronze in the altogether must
wear pants or be shunted. This in a.d. 1899.
“According to a recent Argus cablegram, some
‘ Captain Clark ’ or other has been visiting certain
gone-to-grass Franco-German battlefields, with a
view to increasing his strategical lore. Since the
not uncommon name of Clark flashed from conti-
nent to continent, Bulla (Vic.), where the prize
Ayrshires come from, confidently claims the
would-be strategist as a wandering militia-hero of
her own. ‘Jimmy,’ the bovine star of Bland
Holt’s recent stage cattle-show, is another be-
paragraphed product of those parts.
“ Bulla cattlemen wax quite romantic over their
Ayrshires. When big stout ‘Jamie’ aforesaid got
that Bland Holt engagement, owners of rival stock,
so say theatre-patrons, nightly haunted the scene
of his triumphs, pale as ‘ sheeted ghosts, ’ because
the gems of their own herds had not been preferred
to Mac-What’s Its Name’s fatted brute.
“ Animal-worshippers are credulous re the fine
feelings, and blind to the failings of four-footed
favorites. A suburban lady-killer, walking down-
street with the girl of his heart, noticed his pet
cur race out of a butcher’s en route, smearing
Mamzelle’s snowy skirt with a stolen sausage as
he passed. When the thief tired of running, he
lay on his back, legs in air, spoil in mouth, ab-
jectly awaiting the approach of his owner and the
aggrieved fair. The latter confidently counted on
a ‘ good hard knock ’ for the culprit on her account,
and an extra cuff or two for the sake of principle.
As the judge bent over defendant and caressingly
tickled his shirt-front, plaintiff heard the former
ask in maudlin tones, ‘Was urns fossickin’?’
“At the Princess’, Mrs. Brough makes a pet of a
boy. In Lady Ursula’s period, male plumage was
so gay, dainty and frilly that a girl only needed
a neat leg to look better in satin small-clothes than
ever she did in a skirt. Mrs. Brough, as Anthony
Hope’s ‘ Pretty Madcap, ’ is far more winsome in
skirted coat, knee-breeches, and three-cornered
hat of pale-blue satin, lace frills, silk hose, silver-
buckled, red-heeled shoes, and blonde peruke, than
in the whalebone, buckram tubby panniers, and
weighty train of feminine interludes.
“18th-century love-making, too, is twice as
effective for stage purposes as present-day hug
and kissy-kiss tactics. Lady Ursula’s manly,
quaint lover (Carne) respectfully saluting his
charmer’s finger-tips is a more artistic spectacle
than Walter Baker, say, in tight green plaid trews,
bridling and trying to seem bashful preparatory
to a declaration. Then there’s the offhand,
operatic style of embrace. Dorothy Vane is so
much shorter than adorer Pauli that, in hugged
attitudes, her head nestles on his lower vest in-
stead of his heart regions. The result calls up
ideas of dear Doctor Squills, with his ear pressed
to Baby’s front sash in an attempt to ascertain
whether Pi tty Sing really swallowed a marble, as
supposed by fond Mamma.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
m
GIGARETTES.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or at least to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa plays an important
part; acting solely as a first-class nourishing food
it strengthens the system to resist, oppose, and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, “ So-and-so has a strong constitu-
tion ” ; follow that up and you’ll find that So-and-
so follows the golden rule of being temperate in
all things, and pays attention to diet and exercise.
Does he or she keep up this strong constitution by
taking medicine or swallowing pills ? No, indeed !
They have discovered that prevention is better
than cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a means
in the hands of everyone to build up and maintain
a sound constitution, which enables its possessor
to travel his life’s journey without the aches and
pains which are in many cases preventable. Thus
we come round again to sound common-sense
based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers, and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.*
Tb.e Famous French
Chocolate.
CKOCOtIT-IDEDIEX
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M, Cameron & Co.,
240 Genvnp.-st., Sydnrif.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier Reid’s definition of “Yes-No”:
“ Mental indecision.”
“ H.” : I encounter a statement that Red
Kelly (Ned Kelly’s father) was transported to
V.D.L. for homicide.
Lewis Carroll’s “Alice in Wonderland”
must be a big favorite in Australia. Out of the
new 6d. edition of 10,000 copies, printed by Mac-
millan’s, the English publishers, 4000 have come
to Melbourne to a single bookseller. This is the
biggest importation of one book at one time for
very many years past.
COLOR AND SEX.
THE COMFORTER: “Are you quite sure it isn’t
blackmail?”
THE DISTRACTED ONE (whose husband is wintering
in the islands): “Quite sure; it says here
distinctly black female.” —(They now live
quite apart.)
Commissioner Cody, of Melb. Metropoli-
tan Board of Works (loq.) : “ Well, if this matter
comes before Parlyment in the proposed form, it
will appear that we are unanimous. Let me tell
you that / for one am not unanimous.”
J. F. Burns, the new trustee of the Parkes
family grant, is, like the late James Martin, one
of Parkes’s close old friends, but, unlike James
Martin, is an Irishman, and may therefore pull
better than his predecessor with the principal of
the Parkes household.
The world still knows nothing of its greatest
men. Here is London Sketch saying that “ There
are two Mr. Murray Smiths known to fame.” One
is the son of the boss of the firm of Smith, Elder
and Co., the London publishers, and the other is
the editor of Glasgow. Evening .News. But the
Sketch has never heard of the Victorian Murray
Smith, though he is a C.M.G., an ex-Agent-Gene-
ral, one of the directors of the Argus, and a big
man among Melbourne Tories.
Hume Cook, who got into Vic. Assembly
on the A.N.A. ticket, gives his young friends
much sage advice re speechmaking as a trade. He
calls it “ Oratory as an Art ” ; but, then, Cook
somewhat overrates himself. “Go to the front of
the platform—let the audience see you before they
hear you—begin well, end well: the body of your
Bpeech can take care of itself.” And if, as it
generally happens, there isn’t any body whatever,
it, of course, makes no difference.
Apropos the widely-advertised fascinations
of the Dubberke, take the case of Mrs. Greer,
shot (by her husband) with her inamorata Sou-
drey, director of the French Court at the ’BO
Melb. Exhibition. [Greer fatally shot himself
afterwards.] Mrs. Greer survived. She had
offers of marriage from doctors while in hospital;
also at least one cleric badly wanted her to be
his wife. She was refused a passage by the P.
and O. ; declined with thanks by the Orient line;
last of all she got away from Victoria by sailing-
vessel. Dubberke will have her pick of the male
population for a certainty.
Re that Afghan trouble in Bourke. Abdul
Wade, manager of the so-called Carrying Co., was
imported into Victoria by Thomas M‘Leod
Palmer, a well-known Warrnambool grazier, and
with about 40 of his Afridi friends was taken to
Tooram, ostensibly to milk cows. The crowd
started killing one another, and Palmer shot
Wade’s cousin, Sirdhar Khan by name. He was
tried for his life, but acquitted, amid applause in
court. On the advice of interpreter Gilbert
Smith, Palmer got rid of his Afghan servants.
Wade then worked for Thomas Elder and Co.,
S.A. Under the influence of this firm he has
prospered, and is now virtually the Camel Carry-
ing Co.
“O’B.” to The Bulletin
Dr. Mueller, of Yackandandah, whose death received
but soant notice from the bulk of the Australian press,
died, it is worth recording, while dictating an advertise-
ment for his new book on typhoid fever. A loveable
character was the doctor. A perfect type of the
highest kind of German medical man—utterly unworldly,
enthusiastic as a great big boy, a scientist to his finger-
tips.
Sirdar Kitchener is the image of what Bill
Beach was when Bill fought his Omdurman with
Hanlan and won his title. The invincible do or
die ” expression of both faces would be a splendid
example to the rising generation but for one tiling .
the rising generation can’t pick its own face. _ it
has to be content with the scrambled-egg-looknpg
mask and pickled-tripe expression with which its
parents endow it.
“Jimmy Titles”—J. 0. H. James who
died in Perth, the other day, was a thorough type
of the high-class English sportsman. If anything
was done to purify sport in that city of many
swindles, he did it. He was also a highly-cul-
tured but pleasantly unaffected gentleman, and as
raconteur and after-dinner speaker he had few
equals. As a man of sterling honesty also, he was
a rarity in Westralian society.
Pkre Le Rennetel (just returned from
France), whose anti-Dreyfus and pro-army avowals
rippled Sydney gossip last week, was himself an
army man in early life. A French student, he
passed through his conscript term, and, as a volun-
teer, took part in the Franco-German war, which
brought France to the dust. IVlost of the IVTarist
fathers at the present time in Australia and the
South Seas are old army men, and all of them
dearly love French soldiers.
H. E. Kater, M.L.C., who figures this
year as special prize-giver to the Southern (N.S. W.)
Rifle Association, is of German extraction. His
father was “gold-staff officer ” at
the coronation of Queen Victoria.
The M.L.C. spent his early life
banking, and while in that sphere
participated in several thrilling in-
cidents. Amongst them was the rob-
bery from him of several thousands
of exchange notes. Two banks, the
Oriental and A.J.S., went to law about them,
losing thereby a considerable sum in addition.
Bushranger Lowry, one of the note-thieves, was
shot dead, and Foley, his associate, was appre-
hended. Foley surrendered his share of the
plunder, but Lowry had hidden his, amount-
ing to .£5OOO or £6OOO, somewhere in the bush
near Mudgee, and died without divulging the
plant. The Oriental Bank, which issued
these notes new, never had any of them
presented for payment.
Old Jack Robertson once went to a
Sydney bank and tendered his cheque to
the teller. The official declined to honor
it, and passed it back to the knight, who
thereupon contemptuously snorted, “ If you
won’t cash cheques, what the h—l are you there
for ! ”
“ Nomad ” :
Rather late for
Tyson yarns, but
I fancy this one
(true) has nob
been printed.
When Lane, the
clever but un-
practical foun-
der of “N e w
Australia,” was
preaching his
crusade through
the western
woolsheds he
met Tyson some-
where on the
Queensland-
N.S.W. border.
They camped to-
gether ; and far
into the night
the idealist was
explaining his
scheme to Aus-
tralia’s most
sternly practical
man. “Billy”
had a most per-
suasive tongue,
spoke with such
evident sincerity
and with such a
thorough belief
in himself and
his project that
few could listen
without being—
at least tempo-
rarily-convert-
ed. Now for the
sequel. Ofcourse
Lane did not
ask the million-
aire for money,
but on arriving
at Goodooga .he
was notified by
the manager of
the local bank
that a cheque
for £5OO had
been paid into
his credit by a
customer who wished to remain anonymous. The
amount of the gift and the manner of giving it
justified Lane in believing it was from Tyson. It
was significant of Tyson’s reputation amongst
those who knew him best, that the general
comment of the crowd of back-blockers to whom
Lane told this story —present writer was one—
was, “ Just like the old man.”
BEATS HIS RECORD.
PASTOR: “Ah, friend, there is hope for such as
you —‘ even the just man falls seven times a
day'."
LARRY: “Wot! seven times a day. W’y, you
’oly coves is a ’ot lot!”
Tasmanian obit. : Mrs. Annie Archer ;
born at Launceston, Tas., 1825 ; widow of Wm.
Archer, F. L. S. of Cheshunt, architect and
botanist, and member for Westbury in the first
Tas. Parliament. She was daughter of the late
James Hortle, superintendent for the Longford
(Tas.) police-district, whose father landed at York
Town (River Tamar), about 1805, with the first
regiment to visit the north of the island.
APPLIED SCIENCE.
BURGLAR BILL (log.): “ Now, then, hout with that there gold watch and chain,
halso Jive auverings and two ’arf-casera. These ’ere Ponging rays is
all right."
New York Sun prints a spread-eagle patri-
otic screed in verse, signed “James Lindsay
Gordon.” He can hardly be a relative of the Aus-
tralian Gordon. Probably he is a Yankee youth,
whose father intended to bring him up to the
poet business, and gave him a good front name by
way of a start.
“Thos.” Andrews, the newly-appointed
secretary of Melb. hospital, is the classic-visaged
hubby of the pretty Mrs. Andrews, who occasion-
ally lectures on poetry and art. Mr. Andrews’s
clean-shaven face is that of a youth of 20, but his
hair is snow-white, and his age as great a mystery
as that of the ordinary sausage of commeroe.
Personal popularity, rather than experience, was
responsible for his selection, and he was an ex-
member of the committee which appointed him.
Father Chiniquy’s stories of his ’orrible
experiences in Australia are going into circulation
in England. Chiniquy was an adept at running
up against brutal assaults and moving incidents
by flood and field, when advertising was bad. He
had a narrow escape from a shocking death at
Ballarat, which is not likely to be found amongst
the holy man’s records. He was staying with a
pious family, and while sitting in the library one
afternoon with his host he heard a strident brogue
in the hallway, and immediately rushed from
the room. He was subsequently found in
the cellar, with a lump on his head as big
as a goose-egg, and could only be induced to come
up when it was explained to him that the owner
of the brogue was a mild little milkman who
weighed under eight stone, and was the moßb
devout of Orangemen.
Graham Berry's biography is understood
to be making progress, under the direction of hia
eon-in-law, “ Oriel ” Sandes.
John M‘Connell, who died lately at Cress-
brook at the age of 92, was the oldest Queensland
squatter, lie went to the Northern downs 66
years ago. For years he sat in Q. Parliament as
M.L.C.
Charles Williams, the war correspondent
of London Daily Chronicle, who “ gave away ”
the shooting of wounded dervishes in the
Soudan, had two sons in Australian jour-
nalism —Frank Williams, who once repre-
sented Newcastle Herald in Sydney, and
another brother who acted as secretary to
N.S. W. Protectionist party at the general
election of ’94. The latter has gone back
to Canada, where he was on the Dominion
Hansard. As to the alleged shooting of
wounded Dervishes : if old mail Williams
says that he personally knows it to be true,
then it is true.
M'Kenzie, of Cowl Cowl, Lachlan
Fiver, tells of the late David Buchanan
that when he mentioned to Parkes his
projected trip to the old country Parkes
said he could give him a letter to his
friend Thomas Carlyle which David
thankfully accepted. On his arrival in
London he hunted up Carlyle and after
much trouble was able to present his letter
in person. Carlyle took it without a word,
read it through twice, and then inquired,
“ Who is this Henry Parkes ? Is he a
bushranger?” “He he’s the Premier
of New South Wales ! ” gasped the as-
tounded David. “He called on you
when he was recently in England.”
Thomas thought a bit, then banged his
fist on tho table. “Oh, I remember!”
he said. “ That talking orang-outang ! ”
The past four years have made a re-
markably clean sweep of the Sydney stipen-
diary bench. Of the seven regular magistrates
in ’94, only one—Delohery—now presides over any
of the courts. Whittingdale Johnson was recently
removed by death —but the five other ex-P.M.’s
are still living.
Apropos that alleged portrait of Lord
Tennyson in Sydney Mail : can it be really true
that the S.A. Governorship has been conferred on
a person so like the boy-murderer in the Wax-
works ?
The boy found murdered at Oxley (Q.), in
connection with which case ex-parson Wilson is
now under arrest, was a grandson of Justice
Alfred Lutwyche, one-time N.S.W. Attorney-
General and for years sole resident Judge in
Moreton Bay.
Baron Cederstrom, Patti’s new husband,
is probably connected with the late Chief Justice
of Samoa, appointed under the treaty by the three
Powers. He passed through Melbourne and
Sydney on his way there some years ago, and
looked just an ordinary dull sort of Judge Casey.
A company at an English dinner-table was
discussing the omission of Henniker Heaton’s
name from the list of birthday honors. The
question was settled by a neat misquotation :
The rank is but the penny stamp ;
The man’s the man for a’ that.
-Ex.
It was on a hot day in S.A. Assembly
criut a member of Hansard staff whose turn was
approaching, scribbled a note to the leader and
tossed it over to him. It contained this plaintive
wail: “For God’s sake lend me sixpence. I must
go out and stiffen myself with a drink before I can
report this old .” A perverse draught of air
whiffed the paper over the edge of the gallery and
dropped it in circling eddies right down on the
desk in front of the orator. He picked it up and,
slowly opening it, read the mysterious message.
But he made no sign.
Premier Reid will reach his 54th birthday
on 25th inst. He began to work for himself at 13
years of age, as useful boy in a Sydney shop.
Here he may be said to have imbibed the freetrade
notions which later won him the Cobden medal.
He joined the Civil Service at 19, and entered Par-
liament at 35. He taught himself most of the law
he knows—at that time admission to the Bar was
easier than now. He received no collegiate or
university training, but from 13 till now never
missed a chance of listening to what people say
and wagging his own jaw.
Slices from weird patriotic whoop by Dr.
Hodgson, Sydney’s meat-diet apostle, during his
blastiferous campaign against the dietetic heresies
of Dr. Nebuchadnezzar Muskett: —
When the hills shall re-eoho the thunderous tread
Of legions of men who ere night shall be dead—
When sabres like lightning shall leap from the scabbard
And doubt of the issue turn men grey and haggard—
Like a bolt from Olympus they’ll sweep o’er the field—
Hacking, slashing—aye, dying there, rather than yield ;
And the wounded will cheer as they lie in their pain,
“ Those Bushies ! They saved us again and again 1"
The carnivorous Hodgson should at once put his
Muse on a meat-diet. Say, a bullock three times
daily. N.B.—Shake the bottle.
“Aberdeen” sends to The Bulletin a
Gordon-Baillie testimonial: —
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie’s five-years’ sentence for false pre-
tences has been shortened by her release on ticket-of-
leave. She was an adventuress, but so are many, charming
“ society ” women who never get into gaol. She was the
daughter of a washerwoman, and could not write—any-
how, she could not write well enough to ever send a note
in her own hand ; yet no one with whom the present
scribe—who had many conversations with Mrs. Gordon-
Baillie—is acquainted ever suspected that she was not a
woman of excellent education, as well as of what the
world calls good birth. She talked most interestingly,
with that refined Scottish accent which in a woman is
surely the most mellifluous of all intonations, and had
the loveliest cartload of children you ever saw. These
were understood to be the offspring of a certain tenor
once well known in Australia, and one of them, she used
to claim, was the original of Millais’ “Cherry Ripe.”
This was quite untrue ; but it looked so eminently pro-
bable that everyone believed it, for the child was one
that even Michael Angelo would have loved to paint.
Had Fortune made a duchess of Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, she
would have more than looked the part, and she would
otherwise have been equal to the occasion, for not only
was she phenomenally handsome and the possessor of
grand manners, but she was intrinsically the best-natured
and most generous of women. What a pity that she
hadn’t £lOO,OOO a year !


ThreeGoodThincs
MADE IN ENGLAND
1
Sauce
u.
negar^
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
EbKQANT and
Effkctivb.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIFE
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
‘ J.W.R. ’ : Recently passed through
Sydney en route for Melbourne a couple of eera-
todi. Long known to scientists as an interesting
fossil of the mesozoic period, the survival of this
_reinarkabk( type of fish came as a surprise to
science. To have thus outlasted, perhaps, thou-
sands of centuries, the creature's destiny kept it
in Australia, the land of the living-dead—as wit-
ness the Legislative Councils—where the extinct
flora and fauna of the Old and New Worlds are
still in existence. Yet, even here, its habitat has
narrowed down to two little livers in Queensland,
the Burnett and the Mary. There is but one
other living family of the dipnoi, or lung-fishes—
the lepidosiren, or mud-eel, of the Amazon and
the Gambia. The faculty of out-of-water breath-
ing has probably been acquired by a slow evolu-
tionary process, and the two pairs of flappers which
take the place of fius suggest the gradation to feet.
The flesh of the ceratodus is said to resemble
English salmon’s, the local name, in fact, being
Burnett River salmon. Large fish, up to 251 b.,
and over 3ft. long, may be easily caught, but
nothing is ever seen of the small growers, though
eggs are plentiful enough.
*«V » ,
“ C.R. : In an out-back district, where
medicos are rare and parsons would create a seri-
ous stampede, knew a man whose wife died. He
walked 20 miles behind the remains with a 15-foot
weeper round his hat ; blew his nose at the grave
on a red table-cloth, and drove home in the hearse.
“ WE ARE SUCH STUFF AS DREAMS ARE MADE OF”
“ I dreamed. ,” said the neurotic hoarder in a hollow voice , as he glared wildly round upon the
rest of us; “I dreamed that a porous plaster had drawn my salary !”
Then he stepped across the dray-track and calmly
annexed his brother William’s missus. One would
naturally suppose that Bill resented such un-
brotherly conduct. Not so. He smiled sweetly
to himself, and next day brought home his nearest-
neighbor Badger’s spouse to his sorrowing family.
Badger said it was a bit awkward at the time, but
he reckoned to replace the old woman before the
’taters were fit. Badger and Bill and Bill’s brother
continue on most friendly terms.
• • • *
“ Yarrum ” : At the small N.S. W. coun-
try agricultural show it is the same old thing over
again every year. Same old bull, same old lady
rider, same old big pumpkin, same white leghorn
rooster, and monkey, and snake-charmer. It all
makes a man very weak, and yet these tin-pot
affairs are subsidised to the tune of <£4ooo a year,
apportioned in proportion to the barracking
powers of respective M’s.P. Far better to have
(say) four show centres and four decent shows in
the province, each to handle .£lOOO of the grant.
“ Give us a show,” in fact.
* * * *
“Malua” : While marking run-boundaries
once in the Gulf country sent my black-boy riding
for bag of wa.ter to a lagoon a few miles off. On
returning with it he inquired—“ Where panni-
kin, boss?” “On the saddle.” “Baal that one
sit down.” “ How did you fill the bag? ” “ Be-
longa mouth.” “ Why didn’t you use your hat? ”
“Hat too much dirty fella ; 1 wash’em mouth fust
time, you know.” He had actually filled the bag
by repeatedly filling his mouth and squirting the
water into the bag. Nevertheless, having a good
“drought ” on at the time, it was the best water
writer ever drank.
* * * •
“ R.H.” : Re Federation prospects. The
jealousy among bushmen in our different pro-
vinces all the time grows apace.. In Victoria you
are told that the “ Crow-eaters ” are beggaring
the country. The Cornstalks attribute scarcity of
work and low wages to the influx of Gumsuckers ;
and Western Q., you are always hearing, would
still be Billjim’s paradise but for the invasion of
Cornstalks; while in Far North Mongrelia all
‘ Southerners ” are detested as much as the Chows
and Japs., and accused of cutting wages and
generally impoverishing Kanakaland (ye gods!
whites spoiling Mongrelia !). Westralia deals sum-
marily with all “ t’other-siders,” and blames them
collectively for the bursting of the boom. Call
the lederal State “ The Land of Later On,” and
its capital “ Waitabit ”; but let’s have it, if only
to wipe away this absurd jealousy among men of
one blood, one tongue, and one soil.
* * * *
“ Shaker : H. Stockdale’s description of
a female aboriginal duel (B. 24/12/’9B) doesn’t
apply to the Gulf country, wherein, though the
weapon is as described, the party acting on the
defensive holds her fighting-stick one end in each
hand, and receives the blow at or near the centre.
Blows also are aimed at all parts of the body, and
stopped with wonderful skill. The gins train
their female children in the defensive use of a
stick almost from the time they can walk. Wnter
has seen a child of six whom it was impossible to
touch, provided the blow was not heavy enough
to beat down her little guard.
A foreign gentleman staying up Wagga
way was going for a day’s duck-shooting “on his
own, ’ and to that end bought a collie pup as a
splendid gun dog. He returned alone, and re-
counted his experience. “I go to that Curra-
warna lagoon, ant I see a mop of docks. I say to
zat poppy, you stay behint and I call you ven I
vill have you bring out ze docks I shoots. Zen I
goes on mine estomac ant I crawls troo de grass for
half a mile, ant gets to ze roshes on ze water. Zen
I lifts up mine gon, and zat poppy he runs into ze
vater up to his vaist, ant he bark, ant zem docks
fly avay. And zen I get so mad I jump on mine
feet ant I shoots heim mit boat barrels, and he
falls down and never say kvaek.”
“ X.” : At Mungunnia, way
back, a couple of travellers halted
at the pub. (during the excessive
summer heat) to vary the mono-
tony of scorching in their sulky
from settlement to settlement by
a week’s “ drunk.” They put in
their week of joy, and then de-
parted for Native Dog. On the
stony hills about half - way be-
tween the two places they
smashed up their trap against a
tree. The horse bolted to Native
Dog. The heat was terrible, and
the men, dazed with the sun and
grog, started hunting for water
among the stony ridges the
nearest water was miles off, in
the Warrego. The men separated,
and sought in opposite direc-
tions. It was death to bewithoub
water in that heat. Already their
tongues were swollen. When the
horse arrived at Native Dog the
men were away. One of the wo-
men let the poor beast into a
paddock. Afterwards a rouse-
ahout took the horse back. The
wrecked sulky was found, but no
men, so he continued on to Mun-
funnia. The men were not there.
t was too late that night to do
anything. Next morning a search-
party went out, and, after some
hours, a hat was found, then
boots, coats, and other clothes;
and, finally, one of the travellers,
dead, blackened by the fierce
heat, which scorched the clothes
of the searchers.
* * •
The meanest man on earth
lives just beyond Capricorn. The
young son of a resident died, and,
there being no cemetery, the
parent asked a farmer’s permis-
sion to bury the lad on his plan-
tation. It was granted, on con-
dition that the corpse be buried
under a certain tree “ for manuring purposes ! ”
* * » *
Selector (who has got his sister-in-law out
from ’Ome, and notices her in meditative mood):
“Well, Bridget, what are ye thinking of?”
Bridget: “Oi was jist wondering if all thim
trees ” (pointing to the scrub) “was planted by
yez, all by yerself 1 ”
* * * *
“ Flabby Paul ” : Re 11 Takapuna’s ” par.
(24/2/ 98) about Maori women suckling a young
pig with their children. I have seen the native
women of Papua doing ditto, but, unlike “ Taka-
puna,” I have not tasted pig brought up that
way.
* 3d * *
“ F.C.” : Re animals’ “ foster ’’-freaks.
Recently our cat kittened, and the progeny was
duly drowned, whereupon I installed the bereaved
cat as foster-mother to a litter of greyhound
puppies who had just lost their dam by death.
All went well till tabby first took her newly-ac-
quired family for a promenade in the garden,
when the old tom who dominates our feline harem
summoned all the oats of the neighborhood to a
conclave; result of which was that the foster-mother
of the puppies was evidently adjudged as no
better than she ought to be. At all events, the
whole assemblage fell upon her to such purpose
that when I arrived on the scene it was only to
consign the mangled remains to the dust-box.
The foster-mother may be a very useful and desir-
able member of society, but she has a lot of ex-
plaining to do before she gets herself accepted.
• • * *
Wife of German boundary-rider to travel-
ling shearers, who had asked for dinner: “ Now,
my goot mans, der dinner is retty. Ino under-
stand mush English—bud dyou mus’ bay pevore
dyou do ead ! ”
* * * •
“Pestle”: In reply to “0.0.,” bees
don’t gather honey, as per Dr. Watts; they
gather nectar—a peculiar secretion found at the
base of the stigmas, sepals and petals of the
flower, containing cane-sugar. This is taken into
the bee s honey-sac, or stomach, and there con-
verted into honey containing grape- sugar. If the
flower of the manuka is poisonous, the poison is
probably in the seed contained in the ovary, which
the bees cannot touch. There is no poison in the
bark.
* * * .
“ Steele Rudd ” : Like the native-bear, the
centipede carts its young about on its back—not
in ones or twos but in scores. Sometimes the
body of a centipede is literally covered with
young, so small and olosely wedged as to be
scarcely perceptible.
*****
“ Deberie ” : Re that big Murrumburrah
death-adder. There is one in Sydney Musuem,
from Quirindi, which beats it by 4in., being 35tin.’
long.
* * * *
“ Raspberry ” : Knew an old hunter once
named Adam. Erom his simple ways of living
and the plainness of his speech, he was, probably,
a direct descendant of the original gardener. He
generally lived in a hollow tree, but, as the atmo-
sphere of the camp, owing to the numerous car-
cases around, became too high-toned even for
Adam, he often shifted his belongings to fresher
latitudes. His only garments were a shirt and
kangaroo-skin breeches, so daubed with grease
and blood that they were absolutely weather-
proof, and a tiger-skin waistcoat for state occa-
sions. He was so tough a specimen that I don’t
believe you could have bled him. Have often
seen him put a large packing-needle into his
mouth and draw it out through his cheek, and the
hole would close up as though it were indiarubber.
Poor, old Adam got all his hair singed off through
embracing his fire too close on a cold night. It
HIS HAREM.
Pictured herewith a white man who, in the old days on
Fraser's Island (Q.), rejoiced in a dusky harem, and was
obviously nothing loth to have the fact placed on record by the
camera.
only burnt the hair. Skin too tough. Went
home one night with the blues, and was found a
second time burnt egg-bald. Was taken to Hobart
(Tas.) hospital, and when let out took it into his
head to smash half the windows in the city. All
the pumpkin-headed police in the capital went for
old Adam, and he was finally caged up in New
Norfolk Asylum. Here he pined away—pined
for his hollow tree and rat-tail soup—and died.
Had he lived till the present time he would have
made an excellent Federal leader, for he had the
hide of a rhinoceros and the heart of a lion. But
the bush was his Paradise, and his Eve—well, he
never took her seriously.
* * * •
“ S.R.” : Reckon ’roo breeds every eight
months. When a joey’s at foot there’s generally
another in the pouch, perhaps two. (Wallaby
may have as many as four.) When “old man ”is
pursued closely by a dog he often makes for a
waterhole and jumps in—yet he can’t swim
stroke. Sometimes, though, he drowns Stumpy,
but only when he has his toe on the bottom ;
when he hasn’t he drowns.
* • * *
“Nemo ” : Re par. 21/l/’99. Well-known
that pleuro makes cattle dangerous. Give an
affected beast a wide berth, even if a quiet worker
or a domesticated old milker. Apropos : There is
nothing like-being chased by a bovine to make a
man sprint. Went once with a gout-crippled old
milkman to inspect a cow down with pleuro a
couple of hundred yards from the stockyard, and
the old chap proceeded to “ persuade ” her on to
her legs by twisting her tail. She jumped up
and came at us so suddenly that I had no time to
remember my companion’s crippled condition, and
left for the fence. Had only got about half-way
when something whizzed past like an arrow, and
when I clambered on to said fence I found the
crippled milkman sitting on other side waiting for
me. The gout left him for at least a month after-
wards.
* * * *
“ A.A.A.” : Re old working - bullocks.
Curious that once a worker is properly broken in
he'seldom uses his horns either defensively or
offensively. This is probably due to the fact that
if he feels nasty in the team he can’t use his horns
and has to bring his hind legs into play. Force
of habit does the rest. “ Sool ” a dog on to an
unyoked worker, and the bullock will always keep
his rear to the enemy, lashing-out when he thinks
he has a chance of reaching his tormentor. Have
never seen a worker attempt to horn a dog, or
anything else. If a stranger appears to be giving
one of ’em more than ordinary attention (and
most of them won’t allow thertiselves to be over-
hauled by anyone but their own driver), the bul-
lock will follow the man carefully with his eye
until the latter gets where he can be duly kicked
on the knee-cap.
* • * •
“ Dumaresq ” writes :
Re the Sacred Ibis and the blacks’ blankets. The
Sacred Ibis, no doubt, has a good billet, and he must
make some sort of a show for his money. Lately, I hear,
he has been collecting, by force if necessary, all the old
blacks to put them somewhere on an island. At Texas,
a few weeks ago, there was a race-meeting, and the
blacks, about haif-a-dozen, fled to the N.S.W.'side of river
to be out of reach of the Ibis. Only one of them, an old
man named Parramatta, went to the races, saying that if
they tried to send him away he would tomahawk some of
them, and then they could shoot him. All he wanted, he
said, was to be let live in his own country. This old
blackfellow is unique, as he never drinks and will always
work when he can get work, although he is nearer 70 than
60. There are not now over a dozen blacks on this river and
its tributaries above Goondiwindi. Old Parramatta keeps
out of Queensland most of the time, as he is afraid of
being made a J.P. You would understand this if you
lived here.
* * * *
“F.K.”: A black gin almost invariably
terms any drink of spirits “ a glass of nobblers.”
THE PUBLICAN'S HURDLE.
They sat and told each other lies
Within the Mornimr Star,
And as each lie was told they rose
And lined-up to the bar.
of•_„ . . . ,
The / ill 1" i P h US man 8J e ’
They hed about their nags,
Though most of them knew more about
The humping of their swags.
Then Jack-without-a-coat spread-out
’Bout how his horse could leap ;
He’d top whate’er you took him at,
However stiff and steep. ’
1
Then softly spoke the snake-juice man,
Who owned the Morning Star :
“ Your cheque’s about cut out now, Jack—
Just jump him o'er the bar I ”


V
AND BE
IMP9SEP
UPON BY
IMITA-pON^
Drink
only
WOLFEsScHNAPPsI
HOTEL
A VSTRALIA
Rates from 12/6 per Day
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
To select your hotel when
you come to Sydney is tp
stay at “The Australia.”
Visitors find there all that is
best in the principal hotels
of Europe and America;
whilst the reasonableness of
the charges gives everyone
perfect satisfaction.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
GRASP THE CARDINAL TRUTH!
FEDERATE ON
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
AMERICA’S BEST.
“Last
Stage But
One”: A wail
from so far
Out- Back
that I don’t
know the
date. A sur-
veyo r ’ s
chainman, in
and around
Sydney, gets
7s. a day,
but out here
where you
think you’ve
struck it cool
at 108’ in the
shade, where
the air is full
of long-dead
sheep, and
flies, and hy-
datids flour-
ish—they cut
us down a
shilling and
expect us to
do a lot more
for 6s. than
we should do
in a civilised
locality for
7s. End of
month pans
out about 2s.
6d. ; the rest
goes fortuck-
er. And such
tucker!
Breakfast—
chop - bones
and red dust;
lunch salt-
on u t t on
bones, red
dust and flies;
dinner red
dust flies,
strings of
mutton, mos-
quitoes and
more re d
dust. [You
might give
me a hearing
for the bene-
fit o f the
gilded idols
in N. S.W.
Harbors and
Rivers De-
partment. If
you don’t, I
hope I shall soon be able to tell ray poor old
grandfather in lophet what heat truly is.]
*** . *
Bungaree, near Ballarat, is essentially
Irish. The chief local Sunday amusements are
“hurling” and attending funerals. On one
occasion the mourners got thirsty on their way to
Ballarat new cemetery, and the hearse was ordered
fin ahead while the boys refreshed. The under-
taker waited long at the cemetery but no mourners
arrived. They had “ quenched ”so liberally that
they had wandered off to the old cemetery.
Miss THEKLA REGINA DUBBERKE.
Photo, Roland Bishop, Prahran, Melb.
“ A.E.G.” : Was looking at some snake-
charming t’other day when a bushman came up
with a red-bellied black snake in a box. Bushy
offered to give the long-haired charmer a fiver if
he would put his snake round his neck, but the
offer was declined. Apropos, why do snake-
charmers all wear long hair ? Is there anything
in it, or is it because they are all “ Professors ”?
ARMY AND CHURCH.
CURATE: “ What lime shall I find you at home to-morroxo?”
MISS BITOFALAD : “ About 2p.m.”
COL. P.: “ And what time for me? ”
MISS B.: “Oh! 2 A.M. for you!"
“6x8”: Re aborigines-protection. I
advise Mr. Meston to take a turn through N.Q.
sugar districts. Not satisfied with the cheap Jap.
and kanaka-labor brought to their doors by a pie-
bald Govt., many cane-cockies rope-in the blacks
and make them sink holes and plant and trash
cane. Wages, a few shin-bones and a pound or
two of “ sheep-wash. Of course the nigs, don’t
do much work, but even that little is contrary to
the Act, and saves miserable cookies the stingy
kanaka wages.
The digestive powers of the “ go-
hanna ” are even ahead of those of the emu.
The gohanna will digest anything he can
swallow, and he is not at all particular as to
what he does swallow. A settler tells of
having come upon a large, warty dragon of
the above species who had made a valiant
attempt to swallow the freshly-pickled skele-
ton of a calf, and had stuck at the knee-joint.
The reptile was making valiant efforts to
cover that joint, but failed, 'and after a
quarter of an hour he went to sleep, in the
blessed hope of something turning up. He
recognised that he could go no further, but
was too game to retire, and so the settler
left him. Passing that way a few days
later, the man noticed that the igu. had de-
parted ; so also had the shin-bone of the calf,
which had the appearance of having been
dissolved just below the knee. The go-
hanna had simply waited till the section
he had negotiated had digested.
Herewith The Bulletin prints a por-
trait of Thekla Dubberke, the heroine of the
Melbourne boot-box tragedy. Who would
think that this sweet, nun-like creature, with
those heaven-turned eyes, could be identical
with the self-possessed witness who, describ-
ing how she heard of the finding of the
body of Mabel Ambrose, testified : “ I said
to Madame that, if I had known the body
would float, I would have ripped it open ! ”
What cheats some of these demure, sancti-
fied, gentle-voiced women are ! How much
chance has a mere coarse man against them
before an ordinary jury and an impression-
able Judge?
A Charters Tower; paper tells how a
resident was writing, the other day, while
a storm gathered. Left the room just as the
storm began. Came back, found the pewter lid
of the inkstand completely .f used by lightning and
little pellets of pewter all over the bottom of the
inkstand. The rim showed no mark and the well
was still full of ink.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. has
lately been raising mules at Alpha (Q.) for use on
its Fiji plantations—horses do nob thrive in that
climate. The other day the Alpha stud donkey,
which cost the co. .£2OO, was killed by a black
snake.
The Samoan trouble is providing excellent
comic opera material. In court, when the German
Consul waited on Chief Justice Chambers, the
latter looked as dignified as he could and an-
nounced: “I am in the presence of his Imperial
German Majesty’s Consul-General : will the
Consul-General be good enough to state in whose
presence he is ? ” And Consul Rose exclaimed:
“Mein Gott! so I ain his Imperial German
Majesty’s Consul-General; then you must be the
Chief Justice. Fancy meeting you ! ” or words
to that effect.
At Golden Point (Vic.), Lee May, an
eminent Chinese physician, being suspected of
“putting away” a fan-tan swindle, had to be
rescued by the polioe from a crowd of his infuri-
ated compatriots. Lee May then went to the
joss-house, and swore before Joss that he was
innocent, but upon being challenged to go to the
cemetery, and invoke the spirits of his ancestors,
he remarked that the memory of the dead was
not to be mixed up with such low-down matters
as fan-tan. An observation which The Bulletin
coi.i inends to the notice of the superior Christian
person, who is always asking high Heaven to
specially interest itself in his trumpery little
personal concerns.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A quaint little fraud which has flourished in
Australia for 26 years or more is that worked by the man
in nautical riff who wants to sell some doth-—just enough
for a suit of clothes. He plods about the city on foot or
haunts the country in a buggy, with his blue clothes and
his cap ; and he states that he is the mate or steward or
purser of a steamer that is now in dock being painted.
Also he has some extraordinarily good serge for sale at
3(1 a yard, worth 7/- at the least—the kind the cheap city
draper sells for 7sd. He goes round secretly to the back-
door and states in a secretive whisper that he has only
enough for one suit left, like the city newsboy who rushes
the sale of his Evbnnoobb on the ground that "it is the very
last copy. Most people lose their heads when they are
offered the very last sample of anything; they have a
dazed sort of feeling in the small of the back that if they
don’t snatch this one opportunity by the forelock they
may regret it ever after and the rest of their lives be
overshadowed by disappointment. If there was only one
attack of measles left in the whole world it would be
rushed after in the same fashion. Generally the fraud
says that he has imported the serge from some far country
where the only genuine article grows on trees, or that he
got it off a wreck, or that it is an article which his aged
mother gave to him when he left his home in England,
with instructions to treasure it up till he got to Aus-
tralia, and then go up country to Goodooga and get it
made into a suit, and wear it ever afterwards.
One mariner, who has weathered many storms
in his small clothing emporium, has pursued this game
in Sydney for 15 solid years, and acquired wealth thereby.
The faith of the purchaser in the clothes he buys in semi-
seeresy from his back-door seaman is pathetic. One of
them got his suit made up—but the very night it was
finished burglars broke into the tailor’s shop and carried
away the pants part of the outfit, along with many
other things. The other things were never seen again,
but this particular pair of pants they tore up like blot-
ting-paper, and left in the next street. Purchaser was
inconsolable, and almost wept. He said that the pants
must have been wilfully destroyed by dynamite, as noth-
ing short of that would have wrecked the indestructible
material, and declared he would never, never get another
suit like it. Wanted to know why the police hadn’t heard
the explosion when the pants blew up. Refused to take
the coat and vest, saying the sight of them only embit-
tered his grief and reminded him of his—boohoo !—irre-
parable, bitter loss. Also, he threatened to destroy the
tailor with law proceedings in the Supreme Court, and
afterwards in the Privy Council, if necessary, unless an
exactly similar pair of pants was forthcoming. Tailor spent
his spare time for three months trying to match the
material, which was of an extraordinary hue and pattern,
and at last saw the required article in a corner of a
wholesale warehouse that he dealt with. Warehouseman
said he wouldn’t charge for it, but would throw it in
as discount. So the pants were made at last, and the
customer put on the clothes in the tailor’s back room,
and the whole outfit split as he was going out of the door.
Then he accused the tailor-man of having basely poured
destructive chemicals on the clothes to destroy them
because the material wasn’t bought at his shop, but this
time the clothes-gentleman’s patience gave out, and he
threw his customer half-way across the street.
• * * *
The notes of the long-defunct Melb. Provincial
and Suburban Bank arestillgivingtrouble. Recently, aman
on his way to Perth paid a f 1-note to a business-person in
the evening, and before the coach left next morning was
threatened by the recipient with arrest for having passed
on him a valueless note. The traveller protested he had
never even seen a Provincial note before ; but the other
stuck to his point, and had nearly extracted a fiver from
the victim as hush-money, when another resident hap-
pened to get the hang of the little game and smashed it.
“Drop it, old man,” he said; “that Provincial note of
yours has been played off on too many chaps already.”
* * » »
A countryman in Melbourne for a spree was
robbed of about £lOO by a temporary' fair friend, who,
when arrested, said to another woman, “ Mary, do go and
pawn the bellows and get me a beer before I go.” Mary
duly pawned the bellows, and brought the beer; and
when, eventually, accused was discharged because no
trace of the money' was obtainable, the bellows were taken
out of pop and the cash (in notes) extracted from them.
The notes had been pushed in at the air-valve.
* • • •
At the Golden Topknot battery lately they put
through a crushing for a man which did not come up to
expectations, and, the prospector not having the cash to
settle with the mill, “ Captain ” Blank took the cake to
town to send it through the bank, the digger going with
him. When entering bank digger asked to have one last
look at the cake, which the captain took from'his pocket
and handed to him. Digger (carefully putting it in his
pocket): “Very sorry, cap’n—can’t settle for crushing
this time. You’ll have to wait till we strike it a bit
richer.” The captain now say’s that if the Angel Gabriel
came along with stone to crush he wouldn’t get his gold
until he planked the cash.
* * * •
“Timi”: I am fast losing all confidence in
S.M. Herald as a financial authority. On Jan. 20 I read
the following cablegram—
THE BANK RATE.
London, Jan. 19.
The Bank of England rate of discount has been
advanced to per cent.
Happening to know that the Bank of England directors
meet once a week to consider the rate of discount, I
turned up last Friday’s commercial cables in the Herald
and found that the rate then was 4 per cent. To
“ advance ” from 4 per cent, to 3$ per cent, is surely a
unique financial experience. The Sydney D.T. man
correctly rendered to-day’s cable thus":—“The Bank of
England rate is now at 3$ per cent.”
Here is another S.M. Herald commercial
vagary. On the Ist Oct. last it made this statement :
“The Bank of England rate stands at 3 per cent., from
which it was reduced from 2$ on Sept. 22.” This balder-
dash was gravely repeated in its issues of Oct. Bth, 15th,
and 22nd.
Yet another instance of the Herald’s surpris-
ing accuracy. In issue of Dec. 3rd last, in its tabulated
share-market report, it stated that 2| per cent, consols
were at 110$, on Nov. 25th, and on Dec. 2nd they were at
101$. I recollect that this information gave a dreadful
shock to my nerves. A drop of 9in Goschens—the most
gilt-edged of British securities—must at least mean a war
with a first-class power. But the general news showed
that the white-winged bird of peace was flapping its
wings as usual. True the same table carried with it a
balm for my perturbation, as it mentioned that Goschens
were unchanged !
* * * *
A recently-published list shows 51 English
companies in existence which profess to work mines in
N.S.W. The total capital is £8,918,600 —about £175,000
nominal capital for each mine to pay dividends on. Of
this £6,485,500 (£1,292,803 cash ; the rest paid-up shares)
was grabbed by the “ vendors,” leaving £2,433,000, or as
much of it as could be extracted from the shareholders,
to pay all the miscellaneous commissions and expenses,
directors’ fees, cost of London offices, and to develop the
mines. The Sydney Daily Tbleorapti’s mining writer
estimates that £200,000 would far more than cover the
amount that really came to N.S.W. for the purchase of all
these properties, and a very moderate amount more would
cover all the shareholders’ capital actually spent in
mining on them. The “ investment of British capital in
the Australian mining industry ” is the sickest fraud on
earth. About 98 per cent, of the alleged invested capital
never gets further than London. Badly as John Bull has
been let in over Australian mines, he has probably got
quite as much out of Australia as he actually put into it,
and Australia would be richer to-day if no London-bossed
company had ever stuck a pick into this country. For that
matter a lot of them never put in any larger weapon than
a corkscrew.
• • * *
Melb. Gas Co. reports that its bad debts last
half-year were less than in any previous six months; new
houses are going up all round in the suburbs, and better
times are in store. Yes, and there’s another boom in
store if the steady-going majority of the public don’t reso-
lutely decline to be rushed into buying real estate for the
On this page appears a portrait of Charles Ban-
nerman, to whom the Sydney public is about to give a
testimonial prior to his intended trip to England The
photo, is a life-like presentment of the dashing batsman
as he appeared in his salad days. In England oricketers
of Bannerman s stamp invariably get a benefit after eight
to ten years play [ and Bannernian was an active repre-
sentative of N.h.W. from 71 to , 86, and ever since has
been prominent on the cricket-field as mentor and umpire.
His connection with Sydney cricket dates from ’6l, when
as a little fellow in pinafores he attended to the second
scoring-board in the English match on Sydney Domain
for m those primitive days the board was only altered
every ten runs. In the following year Charley was one
80m . e members of the old National
Cncket Club in the Domain, and at the end of practice
f o r : Pa r, k suggested that the youngster should take
a strike. Mr. Park was struck with the resemblance of
his style to that of Gaffyn, and on that day Bannerman
became a member of the Nationals. At the break-up of
the club a couple of years later he joined the Warwicks,
ana from that out his progress was rocket-like. First
year in the 3rd eleven he took first in batting and bowl-
ing, next year ditto in the second eleven, and the third
} ear saw hirri in the first eleven with first batting average
and second in bowling. Bannerman, who in his day was
looked upon as Australia’s most finished and brilliant)
Put up some big figures and giant hits. In
the 78 English tour he got 1300 runs for 59 innings, 800
CRICKETER “ CHARLIE ” BANNERMAN.
Photo., Creelman & Co.
more than any other man during that tour, then went to
the States and finished up with an average of 36. He was
the first Australian to make a century on English soil,
when at Leicestershire he made 133, run out; as also the
first to make a century in Australia against an
English team: he scored 165 and retired hurt, at
Melbourne in ’77, in the first match in which an
Australian team played the Britishers level, and which
the Australians won. Playing in a match at Montreal,
Canada, he made 125 not out. Outside the ground there
was a shop with a very large plate-glass window, and,
noticing it while going to the ground, Charley said
jokingly to his companions, “ I'll put a ball through that
glass to-day.” The right ball came along in due course,
and Charley went nap for the window, the ball striking
the brick wall within a foot of the glass. G. F. Grace and
W. R. Gilbert used to follow the team all round England,
playing with the eighteens, far which they used to get a
lot of chaffing from the Australians. One day, at Long-
sight ground, Bannerman jokingly told one of them he’d
knock the cover off the first ball he bowled to him ; and
sure enough, getting the wood on to a nicely-pitched ball,
he knocked it out of the ground into a train which hap-
pened to be passing. The ball was never found, and
Bannerman holds the distinction of being the only man
who ever lost a ball off the bat in a first-class match.
Playing at Inglewood (Vic.), he hit one into the grand-
stand, the ball unfortunately striking and breaking the
arm of a lady, on which an infant was reclining. Banner-
man, though past the meridian of an athlete’s life, is still
an active man in the cricket world as coach and umpire.


_ dentist. carrying
on business in Church street. Richmond
was proceeded against on summonc? at
the Richmond Police Court this morning
for having allowed his dog to attach one
George Henty
. The Bench fined defendant L 2. with ?3s
td costs
The same defendant was proceeded
against for havfng allowed his dog to bite
•John M'Kenxie. a stonebreaker on 2:trdj
January and for this offence be wad
fined'l*2 with 26a «d costa
*he"<} i r J'’T y to Mr
ft.;® “"u'l'jf l »«.
-yJerc'tbiycL '
Ajt c^ se j?^
'foby
\\
IftyierJuryeK:--*-
of
X 'fivd ft
K^ e J° up>
7 y)\j Yej> xiXadT o y
(JbY I?eir?p
l W] &
\\ .
Cea '-
%•"
p ?£ lijji
N J 7 K '
°'« a" *
La &’4-f /«•
i 9 vy sts&Sfc.
MELBOURNIANA.


Gatt<DN
I (JL/ tRAG v
> a o o ~kf wa a?
r P / V\
**v S
\ r^u\VA7 \
„\_ t rh«j< \
fj*tte7 \
KS^ii
<>SA
ST. VALENTINE UP TO DATE.


Shifts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE RIiOTHERS,
Gentlemen s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Ctwnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PAKRAMATTA
LIME JUICE^^-
AND
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents j
for Sydney: 1
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
“APENTA,”
The Best Natural Purgative Water
as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.*
Photography as a pastime has taken deep
root on Australian soil and bids fair to go on grow-
ing luxuriantly in the future. This is not to be
wondered at, as it certainly is one of the most
pleasant pastimes that anyone could adopt, and
with the improved methods which modern science
has enlisted to aid the picture-makers the opera-
tions are simplicity itself. Anyone who contem-
plates starting photography should be certain to
use only the best materials and have a good
camera. The latter can be had at any price to suit
the pocket of the buyer and materials in any
desired quantity. It is therefore with pleasure
that attention is drawn to the advertisement of
Messrs Harrington and Co., Ltd., of this city, a
firm well known in photographic circles as study-
ing in every way the wants of their customers.
The beginner cannot do better than consult them
as to his outfit, while the extensive professional
studio will find every article for the various opera-
tions of his practice to hand at a moment’s notice.*
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “ D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thorough matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity ? #
WAR DS*
I
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair firoducer * lledtorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness,
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Itestoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the "World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN. LONDON, W.C.
Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery for Wedding Presents
.A. Saunders’ Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable.
Kindly send your orders to us —we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, # Pure Silv.er plated, £2 17s 6d.
Others charsre you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders.
Pate Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 265. Chased
Silver back, £2, £2 10s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s. Similar styles,
178 6d, 21s, 255. Silver-plated, 18s 6d. Mirror, 20e.
Wmmm
■
Vv '
iM
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled eases),
£2 10s, five years' guar.
an tee, extra quality;
£4'4s, 20 years’ guar-
antee; ditto, 14c, Gold,
patent oases, £6 6s, 26
years’ guarantee, “the
same strength as a £2O
watch.” Ladies’, beau-
tifully ornamented, same price. Mind, “ the above watches are guaran-
teed with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
uphold it." Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders’
HANDSOML .ml USEFUL PRESENTS.
Pure Silver-Plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 103, £3 10s, £4 103, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. Slanders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 15s,
strong' and pretty. Silver, ss.
I
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 7s (5d ;
with cover, 8s 6d.
A Saunders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s 6d ; Fluted Bands,
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d.
°WlNWi(k|a
'<;3
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-bottle Cruet, Sss;
similar styles, 21s, 255, SOs ;
6-bottle, 355, £2, £2 10s, £B, £4.
Pure Silver-mounted Gut-
glass and Puff Boxes,
16s 6d, very cheap.
18c. Gold, pure Double
Cut Diamond, £5 6s;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 108, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
• m
'(
18c. Gold, 4 Diamonds,
Opals, Kubies or Sap-
phires, £3, £3los, £4.
Send for size card. We
cut and polish opals.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar
16s 6d t 20s, 263.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Large Diamonds, £3
15c. Gold, 20s, 265, and 30s.
18a Gold Band, Pure Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £B, £4.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Tongs, 15s, 20s, 265;
Spoons, without case. 6s, 7s 6d half-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 265; with
Tongs, 80s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Biscuit), £B,
£3 10s, £4; handsome present.
A. Saunders (Registered^
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £2
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3. Any Name oi
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8s 6d;
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of "WJatehes, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney
In the cast of a certain “ strong ” melodrama at present
running is a very strifltly-broug-ht-up maiden. Her part
in the performance is over early, when she is free to go
hbme or stay, as she likes. “ What do you think of the
piece as a whole ?" she was asked on one occasion. “ The
piece as a whole!” she repeated in horrified accents.
“ Youjdon’t imagine I would ever stay and see the acting,
do you, when you know it is a theatrical piece, and how
wicked we all think it is to go to the theatre !”
. “Holdar”: Witnessed a recent “benefit” matinee in
aid of somebody’s passage-money to elsewhere, or some-
thing. A miscellaneous bill-of-fare was stuffed with the
names of long-resting, almost-forgotten “pros.”—who
mostly appeared —and those of “ pros.” with good city
engagements-who mostly failed to answer the printed
intimation of the “ turn.” As usual the beneficiare was
down for the final item, but a scantily-stocked house
greatly thinned as the programme proceeded, and the
end was mainly vacancy, dust and a few faint, farewell
words from the more or less benefited person as the re-
maining remnant of audience filed sadly out. The “ bene-
fit ” artifice is suffering from exhaustion in this country.
“ 0.J.”: Re paragraph about Ebenezer Ward, of S.A.
Writer remembers him on the Age— not Herald. Also
recollects that Ward got soft on a very handsome actress
—now living in Melb. and still comely. She said that she
would never marry anyone but an actor. That diverted
Ward’s thoughts from newspaper work to theatrical biz.
For some time he exhibited his thin, lank figure and lean
legs in super parts, patiently waiting for the opportunity.
This scribe remembers retiring to bed one night, in
Murphy’s Castleinaine Hotel, dog-tired after a long coach
journey. Was awakened by a glare of light; and beheld
Ward arranged in some sort of mediaeval rags, posing and
spouting before the looking-glass. And he thought then, .
in his green innocence, that Ward was balmy. But he
wasn’t—only up to the chin in love. He got over that,
and chucked the stage; went over to S.A. and discovered
his line of work.
Patti, at 56, is the bride of an athletic baron of 28.
“ M‘G.”\ : How is it that the Melbourne theatres, so
perfect in*other respects, continue to serve out such eheap
and tawdry programmes? Bad paper, execrable print-
ing, and lithography which would have been deemed
second-class in the days of Johnny Fawkner?
In a highly realistic English drama, now raging in the
provinces, the villain brands the heroine on the soles of
the feet to make her confess something or other. He ties
her down after a great struggle and drags off her boots
and stockings. Then he brings on a realistic-looking
poker, and smoke goes up from her feet when he brands
them (feet soles carefully turned to the audience), and
her shrieks are ’arrowing.
A new market has been opened for the crops of the
toiling farmer. “The Firm ” purchased an acre of stand-
ing wheat for use in its Xmas panto.
Kenningham tells several good yarns of W. S. Gilbert
and his rdady, spicy wit. One morning when they were
rehearsing “ Utopia (Limited)” the librettist, appealing
to the-company in general, asked “ Has anybody seen my
wife ? ” One of the chorus girls, with deferential eager-
ness, said “She’s round behind.” “Yes, I know that,’’-
grunted Gilbert, “ but where has she got to ? ”
Two backblockers visited Sydney Criterion gallery the
other night when “Hamlet” was on. Looked on with
great interest until appearance of the Ghost made them
doubtful. “ Wot piece is this?” one of them asked the
ticket-taker. “ Hamlet,” was the reply. “ Wot! Not
‘ His Nat’ rel Life’?” “Oh, no.” “Well, I’m d dl
Dampier ought to be pole-axed.” Then they cleared out
in disgust.
“ Pro.” :Re the actress who savagely bit the actor. I
heard it was during a scene while her head lovingly
reposed on his shoulder. Intrinsically similar to an
occurrence in the finish of a Flemington horse-raoe, when
Painter seized Kite on the haunch.
“ H.” : Unusually prompt, Melb. Publio Library gives
us Rostand’s complete ‘ Cyrano de Bergerao,’ both in
French and English. The poetry is lovely, but the plot
is so absurd that it is difficult to see how this play can be
made acceptable on the English boards. The furore in
Paris is through the hero being written and wrapped so
entirely round Coquelin. It is such a fit as Rip for
Jefferson. The play will probably leave the stage with
Coquelin, but will always be treasured for its flashing
literary gems. The central idea, the pivot of the whole
thing, is utterly false. A woman’s love for a handsome
man is kept alive with language supplied to him by a
poetic ugly man, who loves her, but sacrifices himself for
the other. The outcome, in its spirit, is paltry French
sentimentalism. Yet the power of the writer carries you
through swimmingly. The house of cards comes down
on after reflection. Only genius could thus bolster up
such a paradox.
“A.0.C.”: Great grievance of a professional man
who recovered nominal damages for libel some time ago
from a N.S. W. daily is that the defendant paper
has since neglected at all times to mention his name in
“ notices.” It is asserted that his patronymic has even
been misspelt ( unintentionally , of course) in advts. But
surely a man who makes a newspaper “sit up” to the
extent of some hundreds on trivial grounds doesn’t expect
to be rewarded with nice, buttery slabs of commendation,
does he ? Newspapers are very human institutions.
“ It is improper to display a stocking on the stage,
unless there is a leg in it ."—Gilbert.
There appears in print an interesting letter from the
Rev. Walter Reynolds, of the Unitarian Church, Man-
chester, to Miss Jeanne Burgoyne, who lately appeared
as Lady Godiva in that city (presumably under the safe
cover of tights and a theatre-roof, and not a mere street
performance like the other). In said letter the rev. gent
descants at great length and with some warmth on
Jeanne's “statuesque form, graceful pose, fine, physical
proportions, and her sweet, beauteous soul upborne by
the pure, noble and divine thoughts,” &c. After which
gorgeous and fleshy revel, much repeated, he winds up
by informing her that he is going to lecture on the human
form next Sunday, and offers her a front pew where she
will be well seen. A Unitarian cleric is held to be some-
what outside the general church-pale, but that little bit
of scratch-my-back-Tve-scratched-yours is genuinely par-
sonic. And the cleric gets the best of it. The undraped
back of Godiva is much nicer scratching than the murky
coat of the preacher.
A well-known circus was in a bakblox town, and the
tent was rapidly filling. The eye of a long, slab-sided
Cornstalk was caught by the big head-line of a poster
which began, “ The Great Caravan.” Stringybark paid
his shilling, went in, and after having had a good look
round, returned to the doorkeeper—“ Look ’ere, mister,”
he said, “ I’ve seen your lions, an’ your elliphint, an’
your tiger, but where the is the beast you call the
great ca-raa-van ? ”
Rather bewildering advt. in a London paper :
GLOBE THEATRE ..Lessee and Manager, Mr. John Hare.
Mr. John L. Shine’s Season.
Mr. Lewis Waller’s
Enormously Successful Play,
The Three Musketeers,
By Henry Hamilton.
And in another advt. Lewis Waller figures as a member
of Beerbohm Tree’s co. in another “Three Musketeers”
play, by Sydney Grundy. The craze for new dramatio
versions of Dumas’ much-dramatised story seems to have
been brought about by “ Under the Red Robe.”
There is quite a boom in “Three Musketeers” in the
English thealrical world, and doubtless the backwash will
be felt here later on. There is a point interesting to Aus-
tralians in Dumas’ big novel, which the present scribe has
not seen pointed out. tn Chap. 52, Dumas represents
Miladi in captivity as “digging for herself an abyss of
dark reflections-a gloomy bell—at the gate of which she
had almost left hope behind her.” One of her reflections
is that “ it is D’Artagnan who holds her a prisoner and
who is going to transport her to some loathsome Botany
Bay, some infamous Tyburn of the Indian Ocean.” Con-
sidering that the period of the novel is the period of
Card. Richelieu, and that there was no Botany Bay then,
Miladi’s reflection is a bit anticipatory. It is as though
Scott made Ivanhoe an inmate of Pentridge.
“ Mac.” : The failure of stage Chinamen is due to the
fact that the stage Chow is invariably a comic character,
while the Mongol of real life is an earnest purveyor of
vegetables who never cracks a joke in the whole course of
his existence. A true presentment is, consequently, out
of the question, but a “ free translation ” ought to be
possible to a good artist. As for Lauri’s “ Geisha” crea-
tion, it is a woeful excrescence that could not be properly
expiated under (say) six months’ hard.
“T.D.” : References to Cesca Yollugi, the Melb. song-
stress and pupil of Signora Coy, now figuring in the
Sydney panto., indirectly recall the immense service W.
S. Lyster rendered to Australian musical art. Our best
singers have either been pupils of Lyster’s importations,
or pupils of their pupils. The band has decreased in
recent years—Madame Simonsen, Lucy Chambers, and
Armes Beaumont are dead, and Steffani is at present in
Europe. We still have Madame Venosta (in Maoriland),
Leonora Fabris (somewhere in N.S.W.), Signora Baratti
(in Sydney), Signora Coy (Melb.), and, of course, con-
ductor Zelman. Farley and one or two others must not
be forgotten, either.
He that perturbed Bendigonian who lately rushed the
local stage to the rescue of the threatened heroine.
Quenching a suspicion that this sort of thing is in any
way allied to the “perfeshnal ” stolen-jewellery racket
it recalls the way-back simpleton who used to uprear him-
self in the audience and solemnly return the recalled
mummer’s bows of acknowledgement.


SKEEVIf
A pleasantly perfumed preparation which
absolutely prevents the bites of Mosquitos,
Ticks and other venomous pests.
It also cures prickly heat.
In 1J oz. bottles suitable for pocket, at
1/- and in 3 oz. stoppered bottles at 2/-
and 6 oz. 4/-.
Manufactured by
H. C. Stephens,
Aldersgate St., London.
Sold by Chemists & Stores & of
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Sands, Printer and Stationer, 374 George-st.
W. E. Smith
Turner & Henderson
VV. C. Penfold & 00.
M'Carron, Stewart & Co.
W. Brooks & Co.
M
Newman & Snelson, Chemists,
,26 Bridge-st.
18 Hunter-st.
183 Pitt-st.
44 and 86 Pitt-st.
17 Castlereagh-st.
78 King-st.
READY.
The Historical Records of N.S, W.
Vol. VI. Demy Bvo, 876 pp.
Edited by F. M. BLADEN, F.R.H.S.,
Barrister-at-Law.
Containing the State papers relating to the ad-
ministration of Governor Bligh, his deposition,
and the trials of Mao ARTHUR and WENT-
WORTH.
Price, 4/- to 12/6, according to binding.
May be obtained from the Government'Printiqg
Office and the principal booksellers. [212
IHEATKE KOVAL,
Lessee and Manager
Amusements.
MELfi'OURN E.
Mr. Beand Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
A FURORE FROM THE JUMP.
Prices-3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box flan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. 0. SIMONSENS.
IoOM.
BOOM.
T
H E
H E
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
. .Fitzgerald’s. .
NcW Combined SI)OWS,
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGICAL
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
TWO BIG 1 The Tiger and Horse.
SENSATIONS / The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act.
JCjjXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUA 111 UM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
TTER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
AX Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Will be Repeated
£he @eisha; <A §tory of a t £ea fZouse.
Book by Owen Hall. Lyrics by Harry Greenbank.
Music by Sydney Jones.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
rpHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY. ”
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular and Powerful Dramatie Company, in the
Brilliant Play, *■
THE ENGLISH ROSE
By arrangement with Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES—3s., 25., la.
miVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
X Sole Leasee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Emphatic Success of the WORLD’S VENTRILOQUIST,
Lieut. Franli Travis
Splendid Success 1 Continued Brilliant Reception of
Miss Nellie Wilson Miss Ethel Yorke
Miss HEOGrY PRYDB
Mr. FRED. POPLAR
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE and SAYLES,
CHAS. W. COGILL, WALLACE KING; and onr Double
. Company. Matinees every Saturday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sisters Phillips and Brothers Lorenzi
FLORRIE WEST- (THE DAZZLER).
CONLEY & CAREW. Mr. SYD. DEANE.
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
Horace Wheatley- Cora Gaselli-
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company.
PRICES-—2/6, 2/-, 1/-, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee ... Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative for Mr. Brough, Mr. Hamilton.
Thursday and Friday, Feb. 16 and 17—last two night—
The A dventure of Lady Ursula.
Saturday, Feb. 18—for three nights only—
The Liars.
Wed.,Thurs., Fri., Fe.b. 22, 23and nights only—
Madame Sans-Gene.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Medical.
WHEN YOU 8.CY... ’
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST. ?
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus On. Co; Ltd., Hobart.
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mndd, Botanist to
H.H.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
ECZEMA
\
Jars (concentd.), 4 6, ‘post 1/10
depots:
“OLEAC”
Sydney— M. 5. Horwttz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide—Harris & Kemp, 6 Runrtle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J. E. Ehilldps, 317'Collins St,
DURING 1899
DRINK
SYDNEY LAGER BIER
mu
linin'* _
maii y
i miL.v.,
11l
jji * ,U j
rs
m
kzt.
Bins!
'i
nr;
im
•mo oven
■MNJWWKKSNWOTJ
Nag-Nag
IuABIE
ss
00
cf
Answers to Correspondents.
WOMAN'S WAY.
ETHRL : “ Whatever makes you so suspicious about your husband? ”
MAUDY : “My dear, I’m not suspicious; I’m only anxious to try to find out
something I don’t want to know.”
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Kurilla : You can’t write poems to your wife.
The Muse is only the Muse because nobody ever married
her Nautilus: Will “ remunerate liberally” if you
stop sending ’em W.M.F.: Received Driven to
Bay : You badly want a sense of humor. C. H. (M.L.) :
“ Lo, the skies yawn 1 ” And, Heaven knows, you give
’em reason to. J. 0.: Pretty bad. Ben Sun : “P.O’D.”
has some bad metrical slumps, but we may doctor
them R.C.B. : So you actually took seriously that
assertion that the truffle is a bird t Tim B. : Should
have given paper’s name. Jack Shay : “ Derelict” will
possibly be jury-rigged and towed into Port Bulletin
A. J.F. : Well done in its way—not quite our way C.S.:
As though the theatrical potentate hadn’t better taste
than that I Paxaro : Common-place C.B.C. :No
excuse for you Honi: It is J.E.M.: A dead poem.
Carini: Don’t want dilutions of well-known verses
Queen Anne: Possibly B.E. : Charles Warren Stoddard
is an American, b. 1843. His books hardly rank as more
than clever journalist’s work ... Het. Thule : Perhaps
one Steve : Will look up F.M.: None usable.
P.S. (Footscray) : Poem far sadder than subject Moko :
Hopelessly prosy. Imray: Declined Jacks.: Un-
usable H.F.W.: Can’t invite your darling to meet you ere
the dawning in these columns F.N.M.: Cheerless com-
mon-place. ...Hugh V.: Not quite enough interest.,..Helen
B. : Considering T. Bros. (Brisb.): Ventilate matter
locally Sloper N. : Well, they say no man ever knows
how bad his own “ copy ”is M.A.R. : Sorry unusable.
.... Australangler : Point lies in monthly price-list—
which you don’t supply Louis M. : Nice rhyme—and
point not worth it V.H.E. : Declined—firmly, un-
kindly A.J.S. :If you must preach, preach in prose.
......F.J. : “ Mac” too thin and uncertain. Try again,
with- more pith and force Tasman : Werry dreary
Byngbi: Too doggerelish .... E.W.N.A. : Sonnet forceful,
but too stiff, and the rhymes too obvious. You want
practice Milly A. : Statement dull Mackell: Hm !
......Oleander: But you don’t blossom J.L.C. : Your
“literary friend” is deludhering you ~D.B. : “Hot
Wind ” has nearly everything of Swinburne but the
poetry Menalcas: Too wordy for the wit Barkis:
“ Summer ” pretty—and weak. Zelma : None striking. ..
Imray : Always-thought you drew the cash and put it in
any bank you liked. Other item excellent F. Croson :
Suppose you begin by taking hold of one larrikin and
elevating him?.......Progression : Purely personal row with
chatelaine of hash-fortress Mandoline : Bad Boy’s
Diary rather out of date, and your bad boy isn’t nearly
bad enough Sir Guyon : Rather vague Box : “ You
can lead a woman by her feelings ; you can only lead a
man by his brains.” Bosh. There are any number of
men whom you can
lead three miles by
promising to show
them a dog-fight...
B. A. T. : If the
money was actually
advanced to you or
on security of your
homestead lease,
you are legally re-
sponsible. Shortest
way out seems to be
by filing your sche-
dule. But if you
have no assets why
not give up worry-
ing, and do no-
thing, and let the
co. find a way out.
It's the co.’s fune-
ral Dabton:
Twain story a chest-
nut. Also, we can't
let you clumsily
moralise like that
in so domestic a
paper any more
than we can allow
“ violets ” to rhyme
with “lutes.”
C. : It may do
for illustration
A.E, : Judged by
her own confession,
the girl is a type.
There are heaps of
young creatures
who calmly receive
the embraces of
many, and who re-
serve their “ affec-
tions ’’ for one.
And the “one” is
generally some fel-
low with a bullet
head, a heavy iowl,
and good at football
P.O.: Anyhow,
Australian beer has
a reputation equal,
if not superior, to
that traditionally
possessed by port
wme as a gout-pro-
ducer. .Cherub :
It is a fact that
Carbine was once
shown for the stal-
lion prize at Bac-
chus Marsh (Vic.),
but could only score
second to Mentor.
W.D.O. : Will
print G. D. :
Doesn’t bite hard
enough Bee
(Tas.): Not good
enough, though the
pathos is sincere.
C.E.A. .-You’ve
a long road to tra-
vel before reaching
publication.... Pudi-
cus : The first two
syllables irrelevant.
Zulu : Blank...
H. B. (M.L.) : Melo-
dious common-
place A. Bar. :
Gatton tragedy
tame by the side of
that poem ... Pa-
keha (M.L.): The
verse is Maori, any-
way Geolay:
Can’t see the pro-
mise .... Alone 45 :
Not snap enough.
...D.W.M.B. :Hope-
lessly prosy
Treb. : Received....
...Banool: Distant
topic and unin-
spired comment.
J. Fitz. : That
style of poetry dead and buried years ago
G. May: Worthless Ricooheche : We'll hope you
mean well R. 0.: All poor C.H.A. (Dunedin):
One good item A.S. (Adelaide): Hardly up
C.G. : No visible beginning or end, and not much middle.
J.S. (Charters Towers): You write at tremendous
length to know why Britain “ceded” the Sandwich
Islands to the U.S. ? She never did cede them, for they
were not hers to cede to anybody. As well ask why
Russia ceded Australia to Greece? Jimmie P. : Rather
like "Big Scrub Acrobat.” W.D. : Our unmarried
aunt is shocked almost to death at your “ Manly Maiden.”
W.M.F. : “Sold” ends badly; in fact, it ends no-
where SqUid : Aboriginally hardly aboriginal enough.
Boomerang: Didn’t hit M‘G. : “During the last
six months there have been about three or four unpro-
voked assaults in Carlton.” Then the press must have
invented a lot with much circumstantial detail. But
perhaps you have wide ideas of what constitutes provo-
cation. Some people get provoked at the color of
another man’s hair Trib No. 1: Will probably use
Uncle Bob : As you don’t give your name, we cannot
judge of your bona-fldes... .Guiseppe : You want us to
publish a blast of rage about the “ over-officiousness ” of
the ticket-taker in bidding the lady who had no ticket
come out of the carriage. What else was he there for ?
.... Alia : Sorry, but the official figures burst your theory
to dust ... Phiz : Too long-drawn-out for interest. Both
subjects cursed to death Tong ago A.H.T.: Declined
Spuddigger : Can’t make head or tail of your question,
and your grievance is a great mystery tied up a hard
knot Adam Tramp : Small item. Room for eight like
it on point of needle T.S. (Charters Towers): This
century ends midnight, 31st Dec., 1900. Twentieth cen-
tury begins then, Ist January, 1901. A man can’t be
a century old till he has finished, his 100th year; and
the alleged Christian era can’t be 19 centuries old till it
has finished its 1900th year Never Never :As you say,
“to the pure all things are pure.” We aren’t impure
enough to see the joke, and the obscene reporter is out.
Uloola : The Bulletin has said it all before, and
intends saying it again—but a little more forcibly, if pos-
sible Fossicker: Hard case too hard. Dynamite, not
publication, is what he wants L. Wes. : Old story
Fagin : Tolerable rhyming Sirocco : Dry as one, cer-
tainly ! No story-telling gift Hot-Shop : Lacks force
and skill Phil : Backed a “moral” and “fell-in”—
and that’s all S.L.A.B. : “ Eone ” inane; “Grundy”
trite W.M.F.: “Charlie” has just a glimmer of literary
light Tui-Tea : Doubtful if worth trimming Albin
de M. : Skilfully handled ; may use liapunda : May
possibly print Aristides : Good life-studies, but out of
Bulletin’s line Frank K. : “ Never Again ’’—would it
were indeed so with the lonely-bush-death wail; wailed
this time in dog-leg metre. “Sunlight” rather pretty,
but too reminiscent of Hood’s “Fair Inez.” Rivals:
No name on MS. Insufferably prosy, anyhow Shell-
back : Language too “ mouthy ” and conventional
T.P. : Recalls the lunatic who, when his relatives visited
him at the asylum, always acted as though manager of
the whole concern. Showed them round, and told them
that when he had taken the place in hand it was in a
shocking state; but that now he had got it into
perfect order A.P. : Thekla is the daughter of
Schiller’s Wallenstein M.E.H.: As we <»nnot accur-
ately reproduce a photo.-nature print the point would be
lost E.P.M. (It.): Unavailable E.K.J. : Can’t say
till wo see them A.E. : Bulletin deals in meat-
extract; if you want water-melon literature go to the
big weeklies, where people have space and time to
maunder Pros. Q. : Will .print “ D.F. Courtship.”
Plagiris :Thanks. Whereoan we And the original?
Wm. J. (Wyehe.): Don’t remember anything of yours
Tin Lip: Can't swallow the theory that oil, if adminis-
tered to a strychnine-poisoned dog, will cure him. Why
should it? Mary H.B. (T.): Not in Bulletin vein, but
would probably be accepted by some of the heavy
weeklies. No address on MS.. .Treb. No. 1: Accepted
Why-Not: Moderately well done. Should be able to im-
prove on it Confessional : Dull skit, and dry as salt
fish Meteor: Thanks. Will probably use R.J.M. :
One verse on spec :
......Tassy : (1) Nile is about 2000 miles long. (2) Longest
river in the world is the Mississippi-Missouri, though the
Amazon is the longest that travels all the way under one
name. (3) Capt. Cook died 1779 .... W.A.S. : Stacks of
people besides your local bobby don’t know how many
yards— i.e., policemen’s feet—go to a mile J.11.H. :
Your pome says that “ Dear old Daddy as died for ever
more.” Is that meant to imply that he intends to remain
dead? Harry S. : The pother about Peace is only a
move, not a movement Billiards : In playing snooker,
has the player who pots the last pyramid ball the option
of playing on any pool-ball according to rule 1, or must
he, according to rule 5, play on the yellow?—As the
game is usually played, the potter of the last pyramid-
ball has the option of playing on any ball next stroke,
after which he (or his successor) must play on the yellow.
Mendo: Sorry can’t write private letters discussing
contributions submitted. We get, say, 1200 letters
weekly .... .B. (M L.): If you don’t take the trouble to ask
for what is due and give details, that is purely your own
“funeral.” C.P. : You must write your name and ad-
dress on face of MS., or you’ll never get it back if rejected ..
E.J.G. : Spirited, but- rather rude, and turns upon a
violent improbability C. Gumtree : Neatly-written,
but idea too weather-beaten Aleheringa : Lacks life
and movement .... G.L.L. : Well-intended, but not skill
enough Prospect Good: “Dead Finish” may use;
“Desires" hardly force or novelty enough C.D. :
May use Teresa : Your “ Dream ’’ is a nightmare
T.Q.R. : Where’s the apropos? Roderic Mac. : Neat
verse enough, but not sufficient “ whyness.” Yarrum :
“Fogarty” variant of antique wheeze The Beggar :
“It gives me pleasure in writing them, and no worry.”
Just so—the worry's our share Basalt : Very tired
verse E. W.L. :No use for rhymed didactics Jug :
Prose cut-off in junks—and vile prose at that Ere-
mite : Graceful fancy, but too slender Arch. L. : De-
cided promise Hugh P.: Very ancient indeed
C.C. : It was ever thus when the bachelor friend of
spinster pen women gets married* Unlovely is the bride
who blights the hopes of a lady paragraphist Mac B. :
Looks like persecution, surely. A bishop’s word is as
good as a policeman’s any day. The other part of the
story needs a lot of corroboration ... M.B. : Yes, we
notice that Brassey is restless as well as jestless. Also he
is uninteresting, except when he meets with another acci-
dent E.S. : So that bounding canvasser advertised
himself by escorting a pretty actress to a matinee. How
she must have suffered ! .... E.P. : Which town and which
Tyson ? The omission of names suggests want of in-
formation .... Vita: Greased antiquity Alia : Not an
effective argument as put . L.M.D. : Neither quite up.
Barkis : “ Ghost ’’ poetical ; but its impression isn’t quite
definite or strong enough Tim : Sorry unsuitable.
TO ARTISTIC CONTRIBUTORS.
T.E. (N.Q.) : Thanks, but unavailable
Quas: No thanks J.M.D. : Will use two as sugges-
tions Stan S. (Melb.) : Ditto.
Then where shall we raise this Federal town?
This unbuilt city ot great renown ;
Will it be a city of red-brick walls,
With telephones fixed in the Senate halls?
And public servants—and say, oh, say 1
Do you think it might be dow'n Wagga way?
No-yes, yes-no, my child.


A Good Innings. The Crack Eleven.
RIGHT TO A TEA.
This is how Popular Opinion places our TEAS, &c. &c. :
BlLLY—Captain.
WHITE HEATHER—Long-
on.
GOLDENIA—Point.
BA NEE—Cover-point.
LOTA—Wickets; stops long
hi favour.
JUMPER All over the
field!
DON OOLA—Square-leg.
API OM—Best bat. Yes,
sir ! Ask for it.
OOOEE CEYLON-Scorer;
and a good ’un, too.
GRANUMA—Best bowler.
Porridge Bowl 1 See ?
ZENANA—Mid-on, and A 1
at that!
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Some Agents —WHOLESALE Only,
Balvitis Remedies, Electric Cleanser Soap, Oramima,
Commendador Port, Fodah and Homah.
THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA ! 1
Wines, Spirits, Spices, Meals, Baking Powders, &a
DBAN’S PLAGE, SYDNEY ; and at Brisbane.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Unprejudiced Doctor.
In the average medical man prejudice and pro-
fessional caste is very strong. He is educated in
this atmosphere; and his associations in after
years but strengthen his early teachings. Yet
there are minds in the profession, active, alert,
vigorous, abreast and ahead of their day and
generation, who refuse to be bound or stand still.
If they cannot cure with their list of preparations,
they are willing to try other remedies, albeit they
are of another school, or perhaps no school at all.
Scores of reputable physicians, becoming discour-
aged at the results of their prescriptions, have put
aside prejudice and prescribed Warner’s Safe Cure
with the most gratifying results. They have
freely attested these facts over their own signa-
tures. Dr. Robert Shaw, of Rockhampton, holds
the highest medical honors, and is well and favor-
ably known throughout the north of Queensland,
consequently his experience will interest Austra-
lians. He writes :
“I have much pleasure in stating that I pre-
scribed Warner’s Safe Cure very frequently whilst
acting on the Cairns Herberton Railway Contract,
and obtained more satisfactory results from it than
any formula; of mv own prescribing.”—ROßEßT
SHAW, L.D.S., M. 8., D.A.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY# CO.,
Furniture •& Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
■ plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
JjagT" Sales Held at the. Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co.. 324 Georgre-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
We already have “ Brisbane.” What is
wrong, then, with “ Reidbane ” as the name of
the Federal capital ?
Sydney Telegraph is now evidently
getting ready to wallop the perfidious Joss who
went back on it so badly at the Premiers’ Con-
ference.
Australian Workers’ Union (A.W.U.),
which absorbed the Shearers’ Union, has just got
rid of the liabilities which the run of strikes and
look-outs from ’93 onwards left behind it.
“ Cook ! ” You couldn’t possibly call the
Australian Federal capital “Cook.” It would
sound as ridiculous as calling it “ Housemaid ” or
“Butler.” Sound will have to be considered as
much as meaning.
SKETCH AT MELB. OPERA HOUSE.
“ Billy” Whitburn, the only comedian who can
go down with a Melb. audience all the year round.
The Argus, throwing off at the “ anti-
quated nominee ” Upper Houses of some of the
Australian provinces, in a late Federation leader,
has been the laugh of the week in Melb. among
Billites and anti-Billites alike.
A move is being made in- Melb. Trades
Hall to have all members of the Labor-party in
Parliament ex-officio members of the Council, but
without the right to vote. This should tend to
make the proceedings of the Council of more
direct political interest.
The Premiers’ conference which put the
coping-stone on Federation consisted of three
titled (Turner, Braddon and Forrest) and three
untitled (Reid, Kingston and Dickson) Premiers.
Dickson is the loneliest of the lot —the man whose
mouth waters at sight of a knight’s ribbon.
“ I will work for the Bill with my whole
heart and soul.” — Premier Reid.
“ I’ll work for Federation now,”
Says Georgie Houston Reid, P.C.
“ In spying that I mean I will
Let Federation work for me 1"
Clairvoyant Freetraders frighten them-
selves and their clan with the whispered revelation
that on N.S.W. Parliament meeting after the
Referendum on the Federal Bill, Reid’s first
measure will be one to establish a stiff all-round
Protectionist tariff, as a forerunner of Federal
union.
The Seddon Government intends establish-
ing penny postage throughout Maoriland—the
first penny postage system coveringa whole Austr-
alasian province. It means an immediate sacrifice
of .£70,000 annually, but the M.L. postal depart-
ment showed J 635.000 profit last year, and there
are hopes that the increased business will shortly
balance the accounts again.
S.A. Government, under its recently-
established policy of resuming large estates for
oloser settlement, has already repurchased 26,000
aores, and is steadily going ahead with reasonable
success. Westralia is doing ditto, and Victoria
Jhas passed the necessary law, though the Turner
Govt, doesn’t seem to have laid its hands on any
of the big estates as yet. In this, as in almost
every other progressive idea, Maoriland led the
way and keeps anead.
The blood of the youth killed by that
rotten old Albury boiler is on the head of N.S.W.
Leg. Gounoil, which for years has steadily refused
to legislate for the inspection of land-boilers. In
the Albury explosion about 6 cwt. of boiler was
hoisted nearly 150 yards right on the top of a
3-storey hotel.
Some of the political parties in Queens-
land : A.L.F. candidates, Labor Oppositionists,
Drakeists, Independent Ministerialists, Minis-
terialists, candidates unattached to either Labor
or Drake but opposed to Govt., endorsed and
unendorsed Govt, men, Independent Labor, Inde-
pendent Opposition, Liberals, Radicals, Socialists.
A Babel of parties.
It is likely enough that in the interests of
historical justice an able member of N.S.W.
Assembly will, on an appropriate occasion, fully
recapitulate, for the benefit of Hansard, the
whole of Premier Reid’s wrigglings in regard to
Federation, so that the oily one may hereafter be
alloted exactly the credit to which he is entitled.
“Biero”: The BuLLETiN-prophecy that
either Wentworth or Parkes will be the name of
the Commonwealth capital is very likely-looking.
But Parkes sounds commonplace, and Wentworth
(“first of first-born Australians”) doesn’t, so, in the
end, Wentworth will about win. Besides, Parkes
is too recently dead to have as many partisans as
might otherwise be the case. All the British-
suggested names—Britannia, Victoria, and so on—
are right out of it. Australia has few historical
gods, and of them Federationist Wentworth per-
haps looms biggest.
Litigious Colin M‘Kay Smith declares the
action of N.S.W. in handing over any part of the
security for her ,£(50,000,000 debt to third parties
(a Federal Parliament, to wit) is legally challenge-
able. Mr. Smith’s tilt at the alleged unconstitu-
tional payment of members in N.S.W., finally
routed by the Privy Council, was an expensive
experiment, and one that needs to be recalled
when he whistles anew on the dogs of Law. As
it happens there is no security for any province’s
debt except the people’s promise to pay. And if
the public assets were the security then they are
being handed over to third parties every time the
State sells a bit of land.
One great point in selecting the Federal
capital is to find a place which can furnish an un-
failing supply of good water for a possible popula-
tion of 100,000 or so, in order that the Federal
Government may wash itself occasionally. Wagga,
with the Murrumbidgee handy, or Bombala,
with the Bombala River alongside and the
Snowy not far off, or some few spots in Liver-
pool ranges, or almost any place on the Darling
or Murray might qualify, and Queanbeyan or
Bungendore might have a look in on the strength
of their adjacent Lake George. But there are
doubts about many of the present candidates.
The Federal Government can’t live on beer alone.
The election of Worker, Higgs for the
North Ward, Brisbane, is indicative of many
things. It shows how completely the old red
Socialistn-in-our-Time bogey has ceased to appal
well-to-do citizens. It betokens a heaving of the
municipal gorge at the gross incapacity of the
old-time city aldermen who allowed every matter
of public concern—gas, trams, &c. —to drift into
the hands of syndicates. And it should warn Q.
Government that it’s high time it played another
card than the old “Take Us or Revolution”
ticket when the editor of the chief alleged revolu-
tionary organ is accepted as a city father by loyal,
Respectat >le property-owners.
Progress, the now Q. democratic weekly,
supplies two instances of how the Q. Agricultural
Lands Purchase Act is being worked :
The Minister for fluids has purchased at Port Newry,
in Mackay electorate, an estate of 6SOO acres at £3 13s.
per acre. This land has been valued, for rating purposes,
by the local Divisional Board at l£s. 6d. per acre, arid, ac-
cording to the report of Mr: Hume, of the- Land Court,
that is somewhere about its real value. If that transac-
tion has been effected in the interests of closer settlement,
it looks as though the settlers would start with a pretty
considerable handicap. Here is another example of how
the Act works. A little block of 566 acres at Clifton has
been purchased from a Mrs. Perkins at £2 per acre. This
land, the A'lora Guardian says, is nothin;/ but'a stony
mountain, not even good grazing ground. In whose in*
. t crest has that purchase been made ?
A BRIEF RESPITE.
Young Australia actually has
his attention distracted for a
moment from his precious
cricketers by the extraordinary
turn of speed shown in the last
lap of the Federal handicap.
Sachse, youngest member of the truly
awful Vic. Leg. Council, has just returned from a
long visit to Europe, and admits that “ as a result
of my travels I have got rid of a lot of silly
little ideas.” If this is so, Sachse will hardly feel
at home any more in the crimson plush chamber,
where silly little ideas are all the ideas that
prevail. Why not export the whole Council with
the same object? The experiment, if at all suc-
cessful, would be dirt cheap.
“ Buckshot,” re “ Workers and Wasters ”
(Bulletin, 14/l/’99) :
Such shameless robbery is in great part obviated in
Maoriland by provisions of Contractors’ and Workmen’s
Lieu Act and Workmen’s Wages Act. Under them the
employer has to retain 25 per cent, of total contract
money for 31 days after completion of contract, to give
workmen a chance to attach same, if necessary, to extent
of wages due. Had the Australian Labor members been
in earnest, counterparts of these, and of the Maoriland
Truck Acts, would ere now have found a place among the
statutes of this country.
Will the N.S. W. Labor-members hold a
“ oaucus ” and once more decide, by “ a
majority of one,” to support Reid ?
Apropos London Chronicle’s ab-
surd suggestion to call the Federal capi-
tal “ Britannia,” it must not be forgotten
that Parkes wanted to rechristen N.S.W.
“ Australia ” at Centenary time.
THE GREAT HEALER.
S.A. LASSIE: “ Well, dear brother, how is your
soul to-day? ”
PATIENT (rather deaf, thinking of his complaint) :
“ Much better, thank you. I had a poultice
on it last night.”
In at least half-a-dozen Q. electorates a
judicious “ Independent Oppositionist ” is being
bulcocked into the fray. The majority of the
rank - and - file won’t touch the contingent-vote
(which would minimise this evil) and those who
do mark their papers, with few exceptions, make
a bungle; the contingent-vote being such a three-
cornered, 15-puzzle affair that 95 per cent, of the
returning officers don’t understand it.
Henniker Heaton, under date London,
6/l/’99 :
I shall be glad if you will accept a silver penny, struck
at the Mint for me in honor of Imperial penny postage
inauguration. I know The Bulletin is generous as well
as venomous. Will you help me to persuade the Aus-
tralian Governments to allow our English letters to go to
Australia for one p-nny each? It will not cost you a
farthing, and the only reason against it is that the Trea-
surers fear your people will demand inland penny post.
Sydney Telegraph, which always goes mad
when Protection is mentioned, broke out afresh
last Monday:
In Victoria, in 1897, they valued their coal output at
10s. per ton, and in Maoriland, where there is a good deal
of serviceable fuel, the price, assisted by Protection, was
placed as high as 10s. lod. per ton. . . . Victorian coal-
mines live upon Government contracts and bonuses, and
an inferior product is thus given a price 4s. 6d. per ton
above the output of this colony (N.S.W.).
And yet, strangely enough, Maoriland doesn’t
protect its coal industry and never did, and coal
isn’t “ assisted by Protection ” there in any way.
And Victoria doesn’t pay bonuses on coal except
that it carries local coal by rail at the same rate
as N.S.W. does. And N.S.W. does pay an in-
direct bonus on coal ; it is protected to the extent
that local coal is exempted from wharfage charges
at the two great coal ports, Newcastle and
Wollongong, which means indirect assistance to the
extent of from 3d. to fid. a ton. There are so
many small spots of Protection on the glorious
sun of N.S.W. Foreign-trade that it is sometimes
difficult to be sure that there isn’t more spot than
The Drakeites are known (somewhat con-
temptuously) in Q. politics as “the Remnant.”
Drake himself asserts they are the “ Remnant that
had not bowed to Baal.” If this be so, then Baal
is about the only god they didn’t bow to—for they
bowed (Drake excepted) to god MTlwraith, god
Griffith, and every other tinpot deity that has
sprung within the last 10 years into brief and
malodorous local existence.
Barrier Truth —Broken Hill Labor-paper
—almost thanks The Bulletin for recently troun-
cing it. But, then, between times, Truth has
swopped editors ; and this editor explains that he
hasn’t a grievance against The B.—rather the
contrary. So, apparently, the policy of “ official
organs ” is sometimes dictated by personal griev-
ances ! Also, Truth now comes to the conclusion
that there probably isn’t any feeling in favor of
abolishing a second House outside the Labor-
party’s own ranks.
Considering how excited Bathurst and
Goulburn are about the ownership of the Federal
capital, it may interest the inhabitants to
know that there is a doubt whether
either city can squeeze inside the dis-
tance limit of 100 miles from Sydney.
The agreement simply says that
the Federal capital must be at
least 100 miles from Sydney ; not
100 miles following the winding
of a road or a railway—if that
were allowed even Parramat-
ta could qualify, provided
the person who measured
the distance selected his
roads carefully—but sim-
ply 100 miles. Ba-
thurst, anyhow, is
about a mile the
wrong side of the
limit; though, by
The Bulletin’s
atlas, Goulburn
should get there
with just about a
mile to spare. But
even it is a tight fit.
The Advertis-
er, which leads S.A. Liberal
party, has come out in pro-
nounced antagoism to the R.C.
Archbishop’s cry
for a denomina-
tional school-capi-
tation grant. The
Archbishop's can-
didate (editor Den-
ny, of what King O’Mal-
ley calls the Southern
Joss), who was to be
brought out against Pre-
mier Kingston at W. Ade-
laide, the most Irish con-
stituency in the province, is now ill in hospital,
and it is doubtful whether he will be well enough
to fight the district. Many of the priests think
that the Archbishop was diplomatically indiscreet
in planting the green standard on so open and
exposed a spot.
Premier Dickson (now representing Queen-
sland on the Federation question) is in a peculiar
position. He has no mandate from the people;
no message to the Convention ; no objection what-
ever to Federation ; no desire to see it established;
no intention of putting the question before Queens-
landers at the coining election. His only right to
give advice to the men who are pulling the Con-
vention waggon forward is founded upon the un-
deniable fact that he has spent all hj s feeble
energies in eternally trying to pull back. Well—
he comes from Queensland, and that explains a
lot.
A yarn is printed in Sydney that the
British Liberals are likely to be in power after
next general election, and will appoint Lord
Carington Gov.-General of Federated Australia.
If Baron Mt. Rennie’s chances depend upon a
Liberal victory, they are small indeed, for the
position of that crowd appears to be just about
this: The old, respectable, academic Liberal
party has split into two sections—the non-progres-
sive, wealthy capitalists, who were against the
“ old ” landed aristocracy because they could not
be of it, and the downright Radicals and Socialists.
And it is highly improbable that the “ Great
Liberal Party ” will ever resurrect again; The
gap is bound to get wider, and the Socialist-
Radical-Labor Party will increase, while the
remnant of the old capitalistic Whigs are forced
into the Primrose League.
The voice of George Reid, Premier of
N.S.W.: —
I found the Braddon blot much better than any other
proposal which was possible. In the first place, the
clause in no way hunts the discretion of the Federal Par-
liament as to the method of raising revenue. On the con-
trary, it presents a distinct inducement to a Federal
Treasurer to prefer direct taxation to obtaining revenue
from Customs duties, because he qets every penny of the
direct taxation, and he only gets ss. in the £ on any Cus-
toms duties he imposes. If the argument' that the pro-
vinces would require a (.'7,000,000 or £8,000,000 tariff in
order to guarantee that they should be in the same posi-
tion after Federation were true, all I can say is that there
is nothing in the Constitution which compels the Com-
monwealth Parliament to impose or the Commonwealth
taxpayer to endure any such tariff, and any statement to
tlie contrary is absolutely without foundation.
The fact that the Braddon clause gives the Federal
Government a distinct inducement to resort largely
to direct taxation is just why The Bulletin has
stood by the good old Blot all along. Australia
wants uniform land, income, and probate taxation
and stamp duties, just about as much as it wants
uniform Customs duties. And the Blot is .a dis-
tinct inducement to the Commonwealth to take a
hand in these matters and make them uniform.


PALING’S
A FEW
SCHOOL VIOLIN
(with Bow and Case).
21s.
USE ONLY
SARASATE VIOLIN STRINGS.
3s. per Box.
STRINGS and
FITTINGS for
EVERY INSTRUMENT
at Lowest Prices.
Student’s Model (complete) £1 11 6
Orchestral Violin „ 2 2 0
Stradivarius Model „ 3 3 0
HIGHER GRADES
at
VARIOUS PRICES.
All
Paling’s
Musical
Instruments
are guaranteed.
Highest
Quality at
Lowest
Prices.
m
THE
‘‘Washburn”
MANDOLINS
GUITARS
BANJOS
are
Unequalled for
Tone, Quality and Cheapness^*
PIANOS
ORGANS
ALL
OTHER
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
VIOLINS
BANJOS
GUITARS
AUTO-HARPS
CONCERTINAS
CORNETS
’CELLOS
ACCORDEONS
etc., etc., etc,
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUES
FREE by b
OST • •
THE
Ulidget
flccordeon.
Post Free to
any Town in
N.S.W.
8s 6d
W. H.
PALING
&
0. LTD.
Sydney
338 GEORGE STREET,
BRISBANE BRANCH:
57 Queen-st.,
Brisbane.
“ Sherlock Holmes ” outrivalled. Any
reader wanting news of a missing relative, or a
copy of a will, certificate of birth, etc., or need-
ing a delicate enquiry to be made, had better write
to J. W. Holdsworth, the leading Melbourne
Inquiry Agent.*
Somebody’s misapprehension of the In-
tended sarcasm of a “ High ” 0. of E. organ is
presumably responsible for the assertion that
shortly-to-be N.S.W. Governor Beauchamp is a
sworn foe to Ritualism and Romewardness. The
English Church Union, over a branch of which
Earl Beauchamp presides, is, in fact, so much the
other way that Low Churchites frequently refer
to it as indeed “ the E.C. Union—with Rome 1"
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Thomas Suffield addressed a very large
audience at Newcastle last week, with the Mayor
in the chair ; and a resolution was passed enjoin-
ing the Govt, to do the honest thing and hold an
enquiry. Suffield made a strong point by alluding
to the ease with which half-a-dozen people mis-
identified Burgess, and urged how easy it was for
Ann Chambers to have made a mistake in his case
—seeing she was quite unacquainted with him.
Suffield will lecture throughout the Newcastle
district before going farther afield.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes, a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Bagman ” to The Bulletin :
Who was Tyson ? This question is now asked in a very
sub-rosa manner. That his parents were married there is
no doubt, and that J.T. was the offspring of said union is
also certain enough ; but suppose, for argument’s sake,
that the register of the marriage cannot be found or that
of his birth—where do his relatives in Australia come in ?
Who would be the next of kin ? So far, I believe, the
question has not been answered who J.T. u-os ; and some
anxious moments are now being passed by those inter-
ested. After all, the big estate may go into Chancery as
many others have gone before. The curator of intestate
estates must have absolute proofs before he can make any
division of asset s. How cruel of the dead millionaire that
he never made a will or in any way remembered those
who helped to make his fortune—overseers and others 1
He used to say, “Never mind, my man” (a very usual
form of speech of his)—“ I shall not forget you."
The Goldsmiths’and Silversmiths’Alliance,
of 90 King-street, Sydney, has made a new depar-
ture with its “Geisha” jewellery—named after
the quaint little Japanese songstress now filling a
great want in this country. It is built in pretty
and curious Japanese designs, of the bamboo and
chrysanthemum variety, and, considering the
beauty of Jappy art in metalwork of all
kinds, it is a wonder that the idea of
running Jap patterns wasn’t thought of before.
The Alliance also trades in every other kind of
jewellery, watches, trinkets, plate, and all other
gold and silver luxuries in beautiful designs and
at low prices, and its huge plate-glass window is
an ideal place for any fellow to dream away a
minute or two deciding on the present he will buy
for his best girl after he gets his salary raised.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
There was very nearly being no Age last
Saturday, owing to the shaft controlling all the
linotypes breaking down and rendering a dozen
costly machines useless. Luckily, the operators
understood hand-setting—in a few years a smash
of this sort will be irremediable, for the ordinary
newspaper-comp, will then be as extinct as the
moa—and the paper was got out as in days of old.
The Boulli Tin’s advice to its readers
don’t go to a draper’s shop to look for iron-;
mongery, and don’t go to the ironmonger’s store,
to order your clothing; but go dw«ct McLean
Bros, and Rigg Ltd., <*ncf Sydney, for
cutlery, electro-plate, tools, guns, cartridges—in
fact, every line in hardware.*
Vic. Minister Taverner arranges that de-
partmental telegrams shall be duplicated and sent
to both his office and his private house ; but recent
events have almost caused him to abandon the
practice. Wiring to the head office of a Sydney
shipping firm re some frozen-rabbit consignments,
a reply came back, “All settled ; Gill will await
you on boat”—said Gill being the co.’s Melb.
agent. But when the burly Taverner got home
that night he had an experience which led to his
turning up next day a slim and haggard man.
The wire delivered at his private house read,
“ All settled. Girl will await you on boat.”
The murder of Dan Young, the Horsham
Chinaman, seems to have occurred about five
days after Matthews was murdered by Archer at
Ulupna Creek (Vic.), and there are striking points
of similarity about the two crimes. Ford, in cus-
tody for killing Dan Young, may be guilty ; but,
if so, he is about the most incompetent murderer
Australia has yet seen. Archer was a poor-
enough specimen, weighting a body with a 21b.
oven-lid and expecting it to remain under water,
but the evidence against Ford makes him out an
absolute imbecile. The police say he clove the
Chinaman’s skull, left him lying in the house
where he would have been found in a few days
under ordinary circumstances, scattered half-a-
dozen books bearing his name about the body,
and then calmly drove off in a showy turn-out
which everybody in the district knew to be Dan
Young’s. He made no attempt to leave the
locality, but hung about with the same flashy
conveyance, and wore a watch belonging to the
dead man. The ordinary circumstances referred
to did not happen, and when the building was
searched, two months after Young’s death, the
police on duty entirely overlooked a trifle like a
human body which was lying on the floor in one
room, and it was not until three months later that
two wandering swagmen happened across the
cloven skull.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of tne head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, ohemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
1 MCE FOR FREEDOM
Federation and The New Multiflex
Dunio>pTYresl
The Multiflex Arrives First!
The all-absorbing topio throughout Australia at the
present time is —ARE WE GOING TO GET
FEDERATION ? And another of almost equal im-
portance is—When will the NEW MULTIFLEX
Duniqp Tyres
be placed on the Australian market? The first is now
ARRIVED Chmg ’ BUT THE LATTER HAVE
Both will play an important part
during the current year.
Both will bring freedom from petty
vexations. And
Both will be welcomed by the Australian
public.
Every Cyclist is invited to call at any of the Co’s depots and examine
the improved tyre —or drop a post-card for our descriptive pamphlet, which
will be posted gratis on receipt of name and address. Call or Write Early,
and become conversant with ths great improvements in the Dunlop Tyre
for ’99.
FIRST IN 1888 FOREMOST EVER SlNCE__^^^^^^^
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &e.
riIHK UNDERMENTIONED HANKS have
JL agreed to charge, Half-yearly, a fee of Five
Shillings on all current accounts without excep-
tion whether debtor or creditor.
The first charge will be made on the 30th June
next at Head office and branches, and thereafter
on the 31st December and the 30th June in each
year.
Dated at Sydney this 3rd. February 1899.
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, Limited
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK,
Limited
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Limited
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Limited
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH, AND AUS-
TRALIAN BANK, Limited
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA, Limited
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
Limited
THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND,
Limited.
mill. Mont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
*74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPairnibroJeing Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
head off/cj.
Intersection Hunter, Bligh AND
Castlereach Streets.^
• SY D HI£Y •
fifi Established -1879.
e lyiiu*Z^n*rtf
HP Office in AustrM***
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed £2oo.ooo9erlin*.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
TIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £500,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £38,000
Reserve Liability £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY. .
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. 0. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottef., Esq.
Sir Jambs Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other hanks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
hanking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
620, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
. Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Tbc Trustees, C^ccdtorS,
AND
ftggiKV Conjpaijy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ...
£150,000 0 0
£73,375 16 0
£150,000 0 0
£6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-dp Capital .. .. £3,032,511
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; lion. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors; Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Baymarket, Gosford (with aeency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate .and .without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.T.A., General Manager.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors i
JAMES BURNS, Esq. | ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACI’HERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. ICmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millak, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Pbachky, L. A. .Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyxk ; Brisbane, J. O. II ass ale ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning' grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6,6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 - 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georire-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GEIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
THIS 1C f/l/S Fluid Disiufrcttmt. clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 18,12 Noon.
Peregrine Sat., Feb. 25, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
■Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 18, 12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
■Gabo, Tuesday, March 7, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE )
MARYBOROUGH V
ROCKHAMPTON j
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 18, 2 p.
Konoowarra, Tues., Feb. 21, 5
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 25, 2 p
£ ftS
BUNDABERG 'l
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE I
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c. J
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 18, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 25, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
iowkst ciirrknt parks to aia ports.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd..
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
JjINGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:— '
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their iourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms:
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Special Trip
to .. ISF"
him * japan.
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Rates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to—
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
IVATIONAL trustees,
-L* EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man); W. Cain, Esq., .J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address— Kik.mskii,. TELEPHONE No. (>95.
Code— Mokking & Ni;Ai„eto. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and. throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
TRADE mUffll MARK
GIRL \\ BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and (Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I*l RIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANGE BAY
S.S. Bullurra, Friday, February 17.
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., February 18
ALBANY, 'v
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGAURA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
Anti all North West Ports. _
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
February 17.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
February 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rock ton, Saturday,
February 18.
Best <(; Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
C. S. YOILL and CO., I /i'D. , Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, i 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Posfal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
’ Principal Agent.
dl‘|lwraith, & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and everv Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,'ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and >S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOIIMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A* U. S. INI- Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Nonnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
" AUSTRALIA Weekly.
PtHHtenf/et* Accommodation, Attendance and
. Cuisine nn.rivalied.
Full Particulars frbm the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE JL W. MacDonald; Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE - British, India and Queensland Agenci -
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A 14-year-old girl died at Traralgon (Vio.),
the other day, of paralysis, brought on by tight-
lacing. Poor little thing ! She had only intended
to paralyse the local young men.
We are threatened with another epidemic
of tales re Queen Victoria’s infinite wisdom and
impossible leaning to Liberalism in politics. Sir
Edward Russell has been spinning a yarn about
her “ affectionate ” appeal to Lord Rosebery when
that sporting capitalist was about to resign the
Premiership. She gazed at him earnestly, with a
royal wink in her other eye, and said, “Promise
me not to turn Conservative.” It is a- cause of
much sorrow to V.R. that her influential dukes
and earls are mostly inclined to Toryism. They
ought to fight like demons for the improvement of
the masses, and the removal of class distinctions —
but they don’t. And the Queen, being a sturdy
Democrat herself, is naturally grieved at this.
Missing Friends.
(CAROLINE HICKS, St. Leonards-on-Sea,
J Sussex, England, spinster, deceased. NEXT
OF KIN please furnish proofs of identity to
Murray & Magarey, Solicitors, Eagle Chambers,
Adelaide, South Australia.
HAWES, WILLIAM STIBBS, write at
once to Alfred, 79 Leadenhall - street,
London ; call on Robert B. Parry, Esq., 177 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Important.
IF Mr. Edward O’Grady, son of the late Mrs.
Johanna O’Grady, of Wahring, in the colony
of Victoria, widow, will communicate with The
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company, Ltd.,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
AHERN, THOMAS, last heard of at
Muttaroo Station, N.S.W., or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, kindly communicate
with his mother, Mrs. J. Ahern, Menzies, W.A.
QAB COOKERS.
The “Eureka” fiae Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If ffas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
I3T” Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
ASTROLOGY.
NATIVITIES, LESSONS, ETC.
. . . FROM AN ...
EXPERIENCED EUROPEAN ASTROLOGER.
Terms on Application to
“ Aquarius/’ G.F.O., Melbourne.
“ I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (i«l.
Sole Agents :
49
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st., Sydney
|ales of the convict system.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
• MEJXxBOXJRKTB •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
ss. to 12s. per Day ... [- Inclusive Terms -{ . . 255. to £3 10s. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY—at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two Dining Rooms (2S. 6D. & Is.) and. Cafe.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. & A.ttwood, Sole Proprietors.
DRAWING an OVERDRAFT
ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &e., &e;—Use
ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLERS’ BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
IN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood, and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact.
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. — See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
m
s.
\j
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- eaotli
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam 'Parts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
ruend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New sS Wales t TILLOCK & CO. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
ESBB
imiiiT
-a*
flu
GREAT
THIRST
Quencher?
The Most Refreshing Drink i/l Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
Lime Fruit Juice
AND CORDIALS.
Montserrat Lime-Fruit Juice either
with water or Aerated Water is a delightful
thirst quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to diink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soiulnn; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
A gents :
Sydney —Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell & Co.,
E. Howlands, Jules Renard & Co.
Newcastle— l). Cohen & Co.
And of all Chemists everywhere.
KRUPP’S
Ball Mills, Batteries, Bilharz Tables,
Steel Shoes and Dies, Crashing Rolls,
Wheels and Axles.
WESTINGHOUSE
WESTIN GHOU SE
Electrical Machinery
for Lighting, Traction,
Winding and Pumping.
Engines.
CALLENDER
Cables for Transmission of
Power.
CYANIDE
98/100 per cent. ]SB Brand.
NOYES BEOS.
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
&
A Richmond Lady
delates her Remarkable Recovery.
The Case of
Mrs. Sarah Dover.
( From the Windsor “ Australian .”)
BY OUIR SPECIAL REPORTER.
A representative of this paper in the
course of his duty took a wnlk in the
direction of Francis Street, Richmond,
N.S. W., and knocked at the door of Mrs.
Dover. It was opened by a very pleasant-
faced lady.
“Do I speak to Mrs. Dover?” queried
the newspaper man.
“ You do,” she answered, with a smile.
“Then will you permit me to make a
report of your case ? ”
“ With pleasure,” and after asking our
reporter to come in and take a seat she
immediately dived into a relation of the
facts of her illness.
“I can assign no reason for it,” she com-
menced, “ but I gradually
Began to Fall Away.
Day by day I grew thinner and paler. I
was told I was suffering from anaemia, or a
want of red bio. d corpuscles in my veins.
A doctor attended me, and prescribed ior
me. I took his medicine for a long time.
His physic, however, was not able to relieve
me, and I had to give it up. As I got
worse the most frightful headaches b gan
to affect me. The pain was like an iron
band tightening round my head. Indiges-
tion came on. The fact was, I was too
weak to digest my food. The digestive
fluids in my stomach were too deficient to
break it up and dissolve it, and all I ate lay
like a heavy substance within me. Instead
of digesting it would ferment, causing wind,
swelling, and acute pain. When my meals
were placed before me I could only eat a
few mouthfuls, and then felt quite sick.
That bitter taste was always in my mouth,
my eyes became deep and sunken, dark
rings encircled them, and I began to wear
the haggard appearance of
Extreme Suffering.
My lips were a palish blue, my cheeks
pallid and sunken, and I looked years older
than I do now.”
“Did you suffer from anything else?”
asked the reporter.
“ I did, I am-sorry to say. You haven’t
heard the half of my troubles yet ? Sleep
I could not. All night I lay wide awake,
tortured with
Frightful Nervous Headaches
and yet not able to get a moment’s rest.
Night after night I was abandoned by
sleep. In the day-time I w’as listless and
indifferent to all that was going on around
me. This feeling of lassitude was so heavy
upon me that it took me some minutes
to make up my mind to even rise from a
seat. I was too tired to read, and that I
consider
A Very Bad Sign.”
“You couldn’t go on like this for long,”
said the newspaper man ; “you couldn’t
live without sleep, you know.”
“ No. I had to get sleep at any price.
I was forced to have
Recourse to Morphia
to obtain an hour or two’s respite from my
intense headaches. Of course I needed an
increased dose every time that I wished to
go to sleep. But my general health' con-
tinued to get worse, and 1 was now troubled
with the reaction of the sleeping draughts
which I had been taking. This added to
my weakness. At last it was only with the
greatest difficulty that I could walk, or
rather hobble, across the room. My nerves
began to give way. I was very timorous
and fearful. The least thing would startle
me. I was always turning my head round
expecting to see something terrible behind
me, and often enough I should be seized
with a fancy quite realistic, and which X
could not drive away, that a hand was just
about to be placed on my shoulder; and
often I would fall into
A Fit of Trembling
over nothing at aIL I had gloomy fore-
bodings as to the future. The blessing of good
health seemed so far away from me that I
never expected to attain it again. I got
weaker and weaker. I thought my vital
spark was going out. I was laid in bed, not
being strong enough to sit up. The doctors
could do nothing for me, except to continue
to'dose me with morphia.”
“I wonder you were able to support life
so long under these circumstances,” sug-
gested the reporter.
“I have a good constitution,” replied
Mrs. Dover, “otherwise I should have gone
out
Like An Exhausted Lamp,
“but I was nearly dead. It’s almost*
miracle I ever got off my bed again.”
“And how did you manage it?”
“ In this way : I was listlessly letting my
eyes wander over a newspaper, and I came
across an account of a case where a lady had
dwindled into a mere skeleton through
Impoverishment of the Blood,
but who had ultimately been restored to
perfect health through the use of Clements
Tonic. Here’s a possible chance for me, I
said to myself. God knows but that remedy
might contain that . something which is
lacking in my blood. I consulted a friend,;
and the result was that I commenced *
regular course of Clements Tonic.”
“ Did you get an immediate effect?”
“ Could I expect that in a case like mine ?
But in a few days I found I could sleep
without the morphia, and I could tell by
that, and by the fact that I never trembled
now, that my nerves were being streng-
thened. Then, as my colour improved, I
knew Clements Tonic was beginning to put;
Vitality Into My Blood,
for colour began to show in my skin. I did!
away with morphia altogether now—it was
no longer necessary. Although still very
weak i could soon digest light food, and
began to take quite an interest in what I
was to have for dinner. I took no alcoholic
stimulant whatever. I found it quite un-
necessary. The stimulating properties of
Clements Tonic were quite sufficient. My
headache-) altogether disappeared, and at
last there was nothing more for Clements
Tonic to do than to put more
Flesh On My Bones.
My nerves were —: true as steel.”
“Then I am to presume that Clements
Tonic completed your restoration to health?”
“ Most decidedly; I soon became as
robust as you see me now, and in perfect
health in every way. This is the result of
Clements Tonic, and, believe me, I am not
ungrateful.”
“ Then I can put this in the Windsor
Australian”
“ I shall have positive pleasure in seeing
it there, for humanity’s sake.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Sarah Dovkr, of Francis-street, Richmond, in
the colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
annexed document, consisting of ten folios, and con-
secutively numbered from 1 to 10, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and
cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish .the same in any way: and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of .an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the reign
of her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the
more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof,• and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.


The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 George-st., Sydney. *
Progress is the name of a new Brisbane
weekly, issued by J. G. Drake in the interests of
honest polities. The Australian Nation, a new
Sydney paper, is a curiosity ; for in eight good-
sized pages it does not print a single advertise-
ment.
The candor of Dubberke is evidently catch-
ing. In a recent Melb. divorce-case petitioner
stated that —
Her husband never provided a home, and they had
only cohabited in the public parks. During the whole of
her married life she had only received 245. from her
husband.
Premier Bigjohn Forrest, of Westralia,
says that he isn’t sure his province will join the
Commonwealth after all. But it will join right
enough. The proviso that the Commonwealth
may lend financial assistance to embarrassed
States will fetch it if nothing else does. Westralia
is going to be an embarrassed State very shortly.
Ugly rumors current as to the manner in
which a successor to Mr. Waldron, in the City-
Solicitorship of Sydney, was elected, go to show
that the present mode of choosing officers stands
much in need of improvement. Aid. Norton, at
one stage of the proceedings, demanded that voting
should be open ; this suggestion was laughed at.
All sorts of influence were brought to bear in
favor of various candidates ; sectarian prejudices
were industriously traded upon, and, in some
cases, even ad misericordiam appeals were made
by influential outsiders on behalf of candidates for
the important office. This sort of thing is en-
couraged by the fact that no ratepayer can find
out how his representative has voted. Once place
the aldermen in such position that they must
defend their actions before their constituents, and
the gross methods of canvassing indulged in by
candidates for municipal offices will cease. At
present, there is too great a tendency on the part
of aldermen to imagine that the high offices of
the city are simply gifts, which they may bestow
on their friends at pleasure, and with a total dis-
regard for the interests of the ratepayers. The
position was finally given to Mr. Dawson, partner
of the deceased holder of the office.
Arthurßussell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.»
The cabled death of Alfredinburgh's only
son recalls the esclandre over the gambling ex-
cesses which procured him a German military
set-back, and possibly indirectly killed him.
N.S.W. Bowling Association’s souvenir of
the Victorian tour of 1898, written by President
John Young and others, makes a sociable pamph-
let of 48 pp. ; and between the flowing bowl and
the rolling ditto it is evident that Vic. hospitality
gave the N.S. Welshmen a jolly good time. The
visitors were treated like princes wherever they
went; and if the whole Australian population
doesn’t turn bowler it isn’t the fault of this
festive pamphlet.
Westi’alia is even in a worse way for news
than she is for money, to judge by the following
specimen, clipped from the West Australian.
The proprietor and editor of the sheet in which
this appears is Hackett, M.A., LL.B. :
Ceremony of “ Beris.”— ln accordance with the custom
in the Jewish Church, the infant son of Mr. E. S. Lazarus,
of “ Romola,” Havelock-street, West Perth, underwent
the operation known as “ beris,” or circumcision, yester-
day afternoon, at the residence of his parents. The cere-
mony was performed by Mr. B. Lenzer, in the presence of
a large number of the friends of the parents of the child.
Everything passed of! successfully, and Mr. Lenzer was
warmly congratulated upon the skilful manner in which
he had carried out his work. At the close of the cere-
mony the guests assembled for the purpose of partaking
of light refreshments provided by Mrs. Lazarus, and the
Rev. D. I. Freedman, 8.A., presided. A number of
toasts were drunk, and speeches of a congratulatory
character were delivered. The chairman proposed health
and prosperity to the infant, and the sentiment was re-
ceived with heartiness and responded to by Mr. E. S.
Lazarus. “The Land we Live In ” was proposed by Mr.
J. Lazarus, who spoke in warm and hopeful terms of the
future of the colony.
There are few things that really relieve
the uncomfortable sensation generally described
as “tickling” in the throat. “Sen Sen,” how-
ever, is claimed to be one of the exceptions. It is
an American remedy, made up in cachou form,
and gives relief to throat-irritation. The cachous
are rich in flavor, and exquisite and lasting in per-
fume, and the manufacturers declare that not
only is nothing injurious used in their composition,
but that, on the contrary, they are beneficial to
health. Singers and speakers should never be
without this simple but invaluable remedy, useful
to everybody. The cachous appear to be very
much stronger than most pastilles, and certainly a
threepenny packet contains an unusually great
number at the price. They can be obtained at all
chemists.*
W'" \£-
u-
i
*
*
*
a
-fi, -j{ -3K -3K ~
Vr*
1899
Red Bird Special,” “ Red Bird No. land
“ Black Bird ” Cycles
are the daintiest line of Cycles that ever happened. Sold by the Direct Factory
Branch, they have many advantages for rider and agent.
The Goold Bicycle Co. Limited,
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st., Sydney (Head Office); 245 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic. ; Edward-st.,
Brisbane, Q.; Viotoria-st., Wellington, N.Z. ; and at Rundle-st., Adelaide, S.A.
Agents in To urn and Country.
SunllgHt
In Your Homes.
TTSIEj the
New Sunlight
Incandescent Burner.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power 0/ Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s. Oil.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOT OS CO., 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sad to say, it is now definitely known that
Harry Trott can never recover
• • • •
Major Wardill, manager of the Australian
Eleven to visit England, appears to labor under a mis-
apprehension in the matter of the management of the
match which it was proposed to play on Sydney Associa-
tion Cricket Ground. The contention of N.S.VV. Cricket-
ing Association, that the match must be played under the
Association’s direction and management, is merely in
keeping with the terms of the deed of grant; the Asso-
ciation disclaims any desire to vexatiously meddle with
the working of the team. The action of the Association,
it is averred, is the only legal course pursuable. The
Vic. and S.A. members of the Eleven evidently do not
understand the position taken up by the Association, or
they perhaps would not have been in such haste to
endorse their manager’s action. The N.S.VV. contingent
does not agree with the Major’s decision ; and writer is of
opinion that the match will be played as arranged, despite
all the fuss that has been made over it. If it should not
come off, the Australian Eleven will be minus a big
lump of “stuff” to start it on its way rejoicing, for
Sydney can ever knock spots off the other Australian
centres in the way of cricket “ gate.”
• • • •
Rumors already of dissensions in the Australian
XI. camp. Said certain members demand a fixed sum
instead of share and share alike—and won’t be happy till
they get it.
* • • •
How would this do for the first match, Austra-
lian XI. v. Rest of Australia? XI. : Worrall, M’Leod,
Trumble, Gregory, Noble, Kelly, Iredale, M'Kibben, Hill,
Darling and Jones. Rest: M’Kenzie, Pye, Howell, Don-
nan, Trumper, Giller, Graham, Johns, Laver, Lyons,
Giffen.
• * • •
The mail-boat which takes the Australian team
to England at the end of March is already overbooked
with passengers. In all the cities one reads that Mr.
Soandso and Mr. Somebodyelse intend to accompany the
team. It generally happens that Mr. Soandso is a jolly
good fellow with ample funds and a Bohemian thirst, and
we may therefore conclude that gold-top will be plentiful
this trip. For which reason The Bulletin hereby unani-
mously plumps for Bill Howell as first and second bowler,
manager, captain and committee of the team. William’s
only beverage is water, and no matter what great deeds
he has done he never caps the performance by setting his
inside on fire or waking up in the morning with his legs
wrapped round his head. William should also do all the
public speaking. He is no orator ; but one of the advan-
tages of cold water is that a man’s words don’t get
caught in his teeth as they are coming out.
• • • •
Ed. Bulletin.— Your par. re the great proba-
bility of. the Australian team consisting of only 13 playing
members again emphasises the spinelessness of the Aus.
Cricketing Council. Bull bas taken the gruel adminis-
tered to Stoddart’s team ungraciously, and will make
strong efforts to down the Kangaroo on English wickets.
Australia should land, irrespective of number, the best
team on British soil; but may be prevented through the
nine “ certs.,” who place divs. above national credit. As
to captaincy, Darling proved his unfitness when he
allowed Giffen and Jones to bowl themselves starchless
in the late interprovincial, while Gregory’s strong
“ Howellistic” aversions put him out of the running. It
seems narrowed down either to Kelly or the idol of Melb.
Ao*—Worrall.—E. M. D.
* • * •
V. Trumper’s fine innings of 260, nob out,
against Waverley, last Saturday, must again bring the
young player’s name under notice as an “ extra" for the
English tour. Trumper's figures for the ’97-’9S season in
Sydney were 8 innings of 12,123, 125, 85, 120 not out, 191
not out, 133 and 162 not out. Trumper established
records in senior club cricket for greatest number of
centuries in a season, greatest aggregate, greatest aver-
age, and most oonsecutive centuries. That he should
have failed this season in the interprovincial matches
came as a great disappointment to followers of cricket in
Sydney. Bad luck and nervousness combined with a
laudable-desire to “go for” the bowling have made a
failure of Trumper in big cricket; but he is only 21, and
when he does get started he will make a mess of bowlers’
averages. The only fear is that his bad fortune will make
him over-careful and put an end to his beautiful free
oricket.
■ • • •
Clem. Hill will be the junior, in point of age,
of his second Australian team. He is four years younger
than Noble, who is 26. Remarkable that there are hardly
any veterans in Australian cricket now, unless Worrall,
verging on 36, comes within the category.
• • • •
Cricketers are proverbially accomplished people,
but 0. M’Leod owns to at least two deficiencies. He has
never danced nor played a game of cards in all his life.
• • • •
Joe Darling made 158 for E. Torrens against
Sturt, in Adelaide, on Feb. 4. Two other juniors, who
have been long fancied for bigger matches, got going
same day. Claxton, a colt under 20 years, made 185 (not
out), and E. Leak made 203. S.A. still looks anxiously
for the first-class bowler she needs so much.
• • • •
Darling, when interviewed recently, denied that
any influence will be brought to bear against Geo. Giffen’s
inclusion in the Australian team, but the ex-champion’s
friends wag their heads, and hint about Wardill and
M. 0.0. prejudices. Giffen doesn’t intend to play in the
preliminary matches, except as a member of the Aus-
tralian Eleven.
• • • •
On Saturday the autumn racing campaign
begins at Caulfield. On first day N.S W. horses will not
be well represented, yet they may account for a race or
two. Condiment should surely b_* able to beat all
opponents in Alma Stakes, whilst i.i Kooyong Welter old
Whakawatea or Violet and Gold should be to the fore.
If a two-year-old is to win Woodcliffe Handicap, then it
will probably be the well-bred Viscount 11.
• • • •
Two steeplechases at V.R.C. autumn meeting,
with 300 and 400 sovs. added to their respective stakes,
have only 11 and 10 entries. Of the 14 different horses
nominated 8 are in both events. Victoria has before
never been so badly off for ’chasers.
* * • *
Bobadil, stayer or no-stayer, ought to take the
V.R.C. Leger. Barring Lee Metford, who hasn’t run
sturdily thus far, the dandy little Derby failure has
nothing to beat. True, there’s George Frederick, but
G.F. is stated by the daily newspaper-puffers to be en-
gaged in developing himself into a “ splendid 4-year-old,”
and next season hasn’t arrived as yet.
• • • *
<9 But for W. R. Wilson, the entries for V.R.C.
Autumn Meeting would look very sick. W.R.’s entries
total 55, but the total falls 42 short of last year. In one
race—the Place Handicap—only nine horses are entered
for a £4OO stake.
* * * *
Symmetry has been duly struok out of the Aus-
tralian Cup, and left to win Newmarket Handicap. On
her Spring form the daughter of Trenton must have a big
chance for the six-furlongs flutter, and if W. R. Wilson’s
stable can produce a faster one at the weights it will
probably start first favorite.
A nag that will take a big race ere long is the
big black Sunrise horse, Eastern King. His dashing finish
up the straight in Warwick Farm Handicap, which he
won with 9st. up, on Saturday, was reminiscent of old
Wallace, and fairly worked-up the spectators. An Indian
buyer lately offered a big price for Eastern King, but was
told that he wasn’t for sale at any price.
* • • •
Hon. “ Bill ” Long’s horses haven’t yet lost
the bad habit of putting up several very contradictory
performances within a few days. At Warwick Farm, on
Saturday, Gentle Hermit, who started first favorite in a
6-furlong race at Rosehill the previous Saturday, and
finished among the last three, ran away with a sinii-
lar race ; whilst Hopscotch, who beat a particularly good
field at Rosehill, couldn’t get a place amongst a second-
rate lot at Warwick Farm.
•* • • •
In Sydney, there is always money awaiting the
man who brings along a good hurdle or steeplechase
horse. The aged Gozo gelding, Sadur, is anything but a
champion hurdler, but he can give away a couple of cwt.
to the old “ Robbos ” that comprise the rank-and-file of
Sydney hurdle horses. The trainer who brought him
from Queensland has won two races within a few weeks.
Sydney chasers are, if possible, worse than the hurdlers,
and, time after time, level-headed owners have come
along with a moderate horse and landed a handsome
stake.
• * • *
Saturday horse-racing about Sydney is now at
its lowest ebb, and the only chance for a recovery would
seem to be the totalisator. A good proof as to how
matters stand is the fact that the better class Of “ books”
prefer to look on, trying to pick up a bit punting or acting
as “commissioners," except at the biggest meetings ; and
the bulk of the betting is now done by layers who
flourished at Lillie Bridge in the days when £2O in-
vested on a horse at Randwick would not bring him down
to a short price. The action of the A.J.C. in vetoing
pony-racing and all its connections will not tend to im-
prove the game as played around Sydney on a Saturday
afternoon, as layers begin to find there is no money in
one day’s racing a week on a course where books are thick
as plums in a pudding, and “dollar” bets predominate.
At least two of the bigger books last week threw in their
lot with the ponies and three meetings a week.
* • * •
Not long ago, S.M. Herald killed John Cleland,
owner of Shenandoah and Wollomai, and erst host
of the old Albion, Melbourne. Those who may have read
the “melancholy news” may drink to the health and
long life of deceased, whom writer saw jolly and fat,
walking with two other ancients in Bourke-st., this day.
* * * *
Hard Times won Cootamundra Cup in record
time for local course—2.24. A horse with such a name,
and drawn by four Chinamen in “ Tatt.’s ’’ sweep, could
hardly lose on such a drought-stricken course. Notwith-
standing the starved state of the district, over 2000 rolled
up for Cup-day, which only goes to show what the local
Byron Moore, secretary Sandiman, has done for racing at
Coota. The Hurdles, on second day, was worth going
acrossN.S.W. to see. The two 6-to-4 favorites fought it
out over the last two flights under the whip, and Austin
won by a bare half-length, thanks to the horsemanship of
his.owner, Mr. Jack Cox. Out of eight rides, including
two hurdle-races, Mr. Cox has now scored seven wins on
Austin. He comes of riding blood, and, as he is only 21,
weighs 8.7, and has pluck, head and hands, he bids fair to
become the Jack Brewer of N.S.VV.
• * • *
The Bulletin hopes and presumes that there is
another side to the very startling story told in the Aus-
tralian Field with respect to Mr. E. Keys’ alleged dealings
with a certain ticket-holder in a TattersaU’s sweep. Mr.
Keys should lose not a moment in letting the public
know his version of the matter.
m * • •
“Victor”: Be “Jack Shay’s” note (8.,
20/11 ’9B), though doubtless he may be right with regard
to brittle hoof, yet, in a long racing experience, I have
always heard that four white stockings show “ softness.”
Curiously enough, chestnuts generally exhibit that fault.
Knew a horse at ’Ome called Beddington with four white
stockings ; he always “ turned it up ” when racing com-
menced, and jockey C. Wood told writer that “drivehim
or wait with him it was always the same. He shut up
like a telescope." Brittle hoofs don’t come in here.
• * • *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent sends a
list of Australasian entries for the English spring handi-
caps :
March 21.—Lincolnshire Handicap, 1000 sovs., straight
mile, 67 subs.—Resolute 11., Uniform, Maluma.
March 23. —Liverpool Cup, 800 sovs., lm. 3f., 31 subs.—
Newhaven 11., Chubb, Airs and Graces.
March 24.—G.N. Steeple, 2500 sovs., 4m. 856yds., 75 subs.
—Little Norton (late Norton).
April 18.—Great Metropolitan Stakes, 1000 sovs., 2Jm. —
Merman.
April 19. —City and Suburban, 2000 sovs., l}m., 56 subs.—
Survivor, Resolute 11., Newhaven 11., Auruin 11.,
Uniform, Merman, Maluma.
May 3. —Chester Cup, 2550 sovs. and a Cheshire cheese,
2Jm. —Essex, Chubb, Merman.
May 6.—Great Jubilee Stakes, 1500 sovs., lm. 64 subs.—
Maid Marian C., Eager, Survivor, Recolute 11.,
Aurum 11., Uniform, Maluma.
June is.—Ascot Gold Cup, value 1000 sovs., with 3000
sovs. in coin, 2sm., 31 subs. —Aurum 11., and S.
Gollan’s sealed nomination—to be declared after the
running for the Oaks, syrs. old, 9st. 41b.
“ There is very little fear,” adds our correspondent, “ of
the handicappers forgetting the visitors when handing
out the precious stones, for the whole sporting press is
1 ragging’’em to protect the local hoof-throwers. April
19th is to be Survivor's day, and June 15th the culmina-
tion of Aurum’s long-nursed ambition.
• • • •
Another attempt to work up interest in cycling
in Sydney will be made on Saturday night, 25th Feb.,
when the electric-light carnival will begin. The only
way to draw a really paying crowd would be to allow the
bookmaker to ply his vocation openly on the ground. In
Melb., where IkeyMo bawls unceasingly at cycling meets,
with his hand over his nose to soften down his features,
30,000 people come to back their fancy, and to watch
Walne, Jackson, and the rest. In Sydney, the racing can
be brilliant, but the public won’t come. The fact is that
watching cycling in Sydney is a horribly boresome under-
taking, consisting mostly of sitting on a hard seat and
seeing the same old stagers win or lose, according to
“ present form." If the bookmaker were openly allowed,
an element of excitement, however rotten, would be in-
troduced into the slow, beastly business. Possibly it
would be more expedient to let the business die—or per-
haps it would be better simply to let it be buried, for
it smells so loudly that there can be little life left in it.
» • * *
“W. 8.” : Was at A.N.A. bike sports, the other
Saturday. Backed Lou Barker at 2 to 1 (opening of the
betting) ; four starters. Won by about 50 yards. Went
to colleot my money. Bookies yelling, “ Return all
money.” Reason : One man race. They don’t pay over
“dead birds" at bike meetings, seemingly.
• • • •
At Adelaide on Saturday last W. 0. Jackson
won the interprovincial scratch five-mile bicycle race in
llmin. 27 2-ssec., a record for S.A. The thermometer re-
gistered llldeg. in the shade.
* * • *
Strong man Samson is whooping things up a
bit in Victoria. At Allandale he encountered the wrath
of residents by charging very high prices for admission to
his show and the good people of that ordinarily-peaceable
town kicked in the most effective manner possible, viz,
by assembling in front of the house and seeing that no-
body paid—until some enterprising speculator happened
along, purchased the possibilities and reduced the tariff,
when the hall soon filled. There was more trouble after-
wards—everybody wanted his or her money back (the
performance fell short of local expectations); but the
mighty man of muscle buttoned up and folding his huge
arms across his chest moved further afield. Later, a
printer in a neighboring centre had the chain-breaker
before the local beaks for assault; and, latest of all, word
comes from Bendigo that Samson indulged in the little
diversion of “ a fracas ” with the police, concerning
which cross-summonses were pending.
• • • *
The mystery of strongman Samson’s chain-
breaking business has allegedly been solved, and all the
theories hitherto advanced are exploded. “It is the
simplest thing vou ever saw,” said Lucifer to present
writer, the other day, “and but for help from a well-
posted source I would never have discovered it.” If
Samson stays in Australia much longer, he will see the
boys on the street snapping chains as if they were threads.
Lucifer intends showing it through M.L. shortly, and is
not averse to satisfying the curiosity of a friend or two
by giving a private exhibition occasionally. But how is
the coin-breaking done ?
A private match was sailed in Sydney Harbor
on Saturday between the champion 22-footer Effie and
the 2J rater Bronzewing. In a fresh south-easter the
Effie flew away from the Bronzewing, and won as she
liked.
* • * *
Mr. Sam Horden has evidently given up hope,
for the present, of owning the champion 22-footer ; he
has parted with the one he imported from England, and
also with the latest Joe Donnelly, the Plover. Donnelly
seems to have overdone the “ big ” business in building
the Plover, which, save on a very light day, can have no
hope of beating her rivals Effie and Keriki.
• * • •
Swimmer Lane not only easily got away with
the quarter-mile championship at Eastern Suburbs Club’s
gala last Saturday, but put up new record figures (sm.
64 l-58ec.) for Australasia ; the previous best (6m. OJsee.)
was Percy Cavill’s. Lane’s record is within 7sec. of
Tyers’ world’s record. Save that at 100yds., which be-
longs to “ Mud ” Bishop, all the season’s premiership
titles are now in Lane’s possession. He will probably
have a cut at the 100 yards “best” shortly, and, later,
may go for the world’s 440yds., to which, if well-paced,
he will give a great shaking.
* * * *
Dan Creedon, Australia’s one-time brilliant
middle-weight champion pug., must now be written a
back number. From 'Frisco comes word that on Dec. 30
Green (“ Young Corbett”) easily out-pointed our stoutly-
built bruiser in a 20-round match. Dan purposed coming
home to see the old folks if he won that battle, and it
was reckoned a good thing for him, but he will have to
bide a wee now. Green was a 10-to-8-on favorite until
the afternoon of the fight when the Australians in Cali-
fornia and the turfites of that State came along and un-
loaded their sacks to such purpose that offers of 6 to 4 on
Creedon found no takers. Dan tried hard to mix matters,
but Green did not want it that way—he simply' contented
himself with keeping his short-armed adversary off and
peppering as opportunity occurred, which was pretty
often—for Creedon is a very open fighter.
* * * *
Obit., Tom Waldron, Melb. senior-constable,
sworn by the Vic. police-force to be the most powerful
“ copper ” on earth. Waldron was red-haired, small for
a Melb. bobby, and so broad that he looked still shorter.
But he was an utter take-down. His build did not seem
different from that of the man of mediocre strength, and
his manner was so “ soft ” that many a larrikin push took
him on from that very cause, and carry the marks of
their grievous error to this day. Waldron once carried
half a ton a distance of 20ft. -The Bulletin, by-the-way,
has seen a storeman carry a bale of 100 101 b. Dundee
woolpacks, with hoop-iron binding, 70ft. —and in the
presence of a score of people, and he did things with the
heavy stone that Donald Dinnie had to let go. Waldron’s
greatest exploit was at Diamond Creek, where he was
sent 10 years ago to subdue the hilarity of the navvies.
Walking into a bar where a wild orgie was starting, he
commanded order, and when the assembled Cousin
Jacks recovered from their first shock at the audacity
of a solitary policeman talking to them so,, a
six - foot spokesman told Waldron, with many
blankies, that they'd see him dead first. The
bold cop. just laid aside his helmet and jumper, and
the spokesman spun along the dust like a ball till he
brought up with a bang against the three-rail fence, on
the other side of the three-chain road. For the following
minute or two the scene resembled children playing
“ Charley over the water,” for the door of the pub. con-
tinued to vomit big navvies, until at last Waldron was
seen leisurely assuming his official togs. Some of the stories
of the man’s strength are just a trifle toostrong, but even
veritable Herculeses of the force—no mean talkers of
their own achievements—are heard admitting that he
“ could pull two of us to pieces like a loaf of bread.”
The Afghan Cases—An Appeal.
Deab Bulletin, —The telegraphed reports in the
metropolitan papers of the proceedings instituted
by the Bourke Carrying Co. against certain of its
wretched Asiatio employes have made the public
painfully familiar with the outrageous character
of the agreement by virtue of which the com-
pany is successfully invoking the coercive inter-
vention of the law. That the agreement is
barbarous and inhuman in its provisions, that
it is at once a disgrace to those who con-
ceived it and a reproach to the country wherein
its enforcement is possible —is but too true.
But this does not help matters very much.
Like Shylock, the co. points to its bond and
demands its many pounds of flesh. To bring the
law into, at least, approximate conformity with
natural justice and public sentiment is the work of
the Legislature. But, before Parliament can be
asked to intervene it is necessary to exhaust
the rights which, theoretically at least, the
law secures to all. With this end in view
the people of Bourke have started a fighting-
fund to enable the inarticulate and penniless
slaves of a soulless company to test the validity of
the agreement by an appeal to the higher courts.
Unfortunately Bourke is suffering from the im-
poverishing effects of many disastrous seasons, and
is likely to find the burden too heavy if required
to carry it alone. Many of those, too, in that dis-
trict who have the means are much too sympa-
thetically inclined towards the company to per-
mit of any hope that they will figure on
the list of contributors. To properly prepare
and present an appeal, at least .£l5O will be re-
quired, as interpreters have to be found and other
expenses incurred, absent in the majority of cases.
Will you throw your influence behind the efforts
being made to raise that sum ? In £l5O there are
3000 shillings. There are, I am sure, 3000 people
who will readily contribute a shilling apiece for
such a purpose if only an appeal is made to them.
The stake at issue is not merely the vindication of
all that is humane and just in the case of the par-
ticular men now in the clutches of the company ;
it carries with it the equally important conse-
quence that if this agreement is maintained it can
be imitated, while its abolition will stand as a
warning that not by such means shall the lust for
gain seek its gratification. I ask you to launch
this necessary appeal.—Yours, &c.,
E. D. MILLEN.
14 O’Connell-st., Sydney.
[The facts of the case upon which Mr. Millen grounds
this appeal are set forth upon page 7 of this issue of The
Bulletin, under the title “ Our Great Free Country.”
Slavery having theoretically been abolished under the
British flag, the law knows no difference between black
men and white ; therefore (putting the thing on its very
lowest grounds, as a mere matter of self-protection), if
dark men can still be legally sold into slavery, as these
unhappy Afghans seem to have been sold, ignorant white
men from abroad, or necessitous white men on the spot,
can also be sold into slavery in similar fashion. The
Bulletin starts with £lO the fund to test the legal powers
of the Camel C rrying Co., and asks the Australian public
to subscribe the balance of, say, 2800 shillings.]


Life—Twenty years’ Faith, twenty of
Hope, twenty of Uncharitableness.
About the last feeble kick of the Gatton
tragedy yarn in the daily papers :
The circumstances for a time seemed to favor the guilty
parties ; but the police now have linked together a chain
of evidence which is considered of great value. It ap-
pears that certain traces were left behind at the scene of
the t ragedy which possibly may prove a strong corrobora-
tion of what the police have already in hand. The autho-
rities prefer to keep from publicity all particulars of these
traces ; but they consider they will likely make conclusive
testimony of what otherwise might be doubtful either
through prejudice or error. Besides those traces actually
on the scene of the tragedy, a discovery has also been
made in the paddock where the murder occurred, which
it is considered, will prove of great value. The nature of
the discovery has not transpired. This has considerably
modi tied the necessity for further local search by them.
Again, outside the paddock, under the culvert, another
article has been found, to which the police attach con-
siderable importance, tracing its ownership proving a
hard piece of work, yet the police do not despair. Ulti-
mate success is also possible in the investigations of the
Government Analyst, who will materially assist the
police.
That was practically the last that was heard on
the subject, so presumably the traces that were
loft in the paddock, and the discovery that was
made there, when added to the circumstance that
was found in the culvert, didn’t corroborate what
the police had in hand after all, and what might
otherwise have been doubtful through prejudice or
error is still doubtful.
THE BEAUTY OF THE
MASSEY- HARRIS
BICYCLE
Has always been famous. This year
we have surpassed all previous
efforts and produced a bicycle as
near perfection as our skill
and the practically unlimited re-
sources of our great factories can
make it. The design is elegant
and graceful, and every detail
of workmanship and finish has been
brought to tempting ideality.
ONE GRADE ONLY
THAT THE HIGHEST.
We confine our efforts and the efforts
of every one of the 500 skilled
mechanics in our factories to the
perfecting of one model, one
only; and no maker who scatters his
energies over half a dozen models
can hope to compete with us. For
years we have tested, improved and
perfected this one model of
Massey-Harris Bicycle
until, we believe, it is superior in
every way to any other bicycle that
has yet been built.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Headquarters : William Street, Melbourne.
Branches : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—M ortham.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere
Missing Friends.
ENJAMIN MAYES, who left England 12
years ago, and last heard of in Georgetown,
N. Queensland, about 8 years since, write to W.
G. Payne, Kalgoorlie, Westralia.
He smartness of Queensland’s police force.
Lately a constable had arrested a lad for horse-
stealing, and was taking him to Toowoomba.
When near the police station, lad suddenly
pointed out a horse hanging up in front of a
shop as the animal he had stolen, and asked
the constable to see what the brands were.
Policeman innocently went round to the opposite
side of the nag to examine it. When he drifted
round to this side of the horse again he was quite
surprised to find that his prisoner was gone.
Prisoner is still absent, and all the efforts of the
force to diminish his goneness have been unavailing.
If there is a man or woman left in N.B.W.
with .£6OO, willing to take a very small risk for a
large return, apply “ Isis,” Bulletin Office.*
Government Notices.
Department of Public Service Tender Board,
Sydney, 6th February, 1899.
TENDERS FOR PROVISIONS.
rpENDERS for the supply and delivery of Provisions for
the Government Asylums, Hospitals for Insane, and
Her Majesty's Gaols, &c., throughout the colony, for a
period of fifteen months from Ist April, 1899, will be
received at the office of the Public Service Tender Board
until 2.15 p.m. on Friday, 3rd March, 1899.
Tender forms and further particulars may be obtained
at the Government Stores, Young-street, and the various
institutions concerned.
TENDERS FOR FORAGE.
TENDERS for the supply and delivery of Forage for
the Police throughout the colony, and for the Public
Departments, Metropolitan and Parramatta districts, for
a period of twelve months from the Ist April, 1899, will
be received at the office of the Public Service Tender
Board, until 2.15 p.m. on Friday, 3rd March, 1899.
Tender Forms and further particulars may be obtained
at the Government Stores, Young-street, and the various
Police Stations concerned. For conditions see Govern-
ment Gazette.
9b24]
ROBERT HICKSON, Chairman.
Understood that nigger Dickson is prepar-
ing to dish his opponents on the eve of the coming
Q. elections. All the tricky and serviceable cards
having been played by his clever predecessors, he
must either declare for solid reform or “go
under.” And the hungry and unscrupulous Coali-
tion cannot afford to go under ; rather than that
they will undertake to cross the continent in an
open boat, or hang their hats on the North Pole.
They will promise everything and anything, for
office means more than sweets to them—it means
Bread.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue.*
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. . A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
4 Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Prank Grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU WANT!
Telephone 2216.
jfil'Bl WILL
ill ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS
B
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant-Bradlaugh, Is ; post
free, Is 2d.
Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Moll Flanders, Balzac’s
Droll Stories, Zola’s Nov-
els, all cheap ed.
How to Excel in Business.
Post free, Is 6d.
Crisp Tales from the
French, by Daudet, fully
illustrated, Is; post Is 3d.
Australian Crime and Criminals, 300 pages, 5s post.
Robbery Under Arms, new complete edition, Is; post
Is 3d.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc.,
Is ; post Is 3d. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, for miners, clerks, wage earners, etc.,
Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or. How to Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d. Friquette, French, 1/3.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
Tommy Atkin’s Mary, by Paul de Kock ; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize.’ Post free, Is 6d.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
postfree, Is 2d. Phallic.or Sex Worship. Post free,ls 2d.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated ; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
OUR LIST OF SPECIAL BOOKS
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
WILL
ANDRADE,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
opposite Waxworks.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CltKM'KYl',” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
** Ellis’ Klu --si reel TolTec l*nliiee»” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
NaYe YoG Read
“The Breech-Loader
and How to Use It ? ”
A concise Treatise on the Gun,
with valuable Hints on Shoot-
ing ; by W. W. Greener.
If not, send 35., when a book
will be forwarded Post Free.
ALL SPORTSMEN should
have a
Greener’s Patent GUN-SLING.
They are Indispensable. Post Free, 7/6.
Write C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Curral Road,
Elsternwick, Melbourne ; or Box 326, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. _F. McDermott,
General Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden Cits’
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “ DISTANCE INDICATOR.
Frank Grimley
J Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
THE
a
The opening of the New Season has brought with it some important changes in last year's models, and especially so in the
u Austral Swift f a light machine which may be called a Road Racer, or Light Roadster, according to fancy. The history of
the 11 Austral Swift” is shortly this: —
Since the commencement of what we may call the “Swift Boom,” the Australian public have consistently shown some unwillingness to accept the
recognised English models without some modification, and the modifications called for have almost invariably tended in one direction. A careful study of
the question led us to the conclusion that it would be more satisfactory to insti-uct the makers in Coventry what alterations were necessary to meet Australian
views, and to ship direct the perfected machine which we called the “ Austral Swift.”
Before going into detail, it may be as well to say that the chief feature aimed at in the “ Austral Swift ”is STYLE. This we insisted upon, as we have
found it waste of time to lay any model before the Australian public that did not at first glance claim to be STYLISH. The fact that the “ Austral Swift ”
is the most stylish machine ever seen in Australia proves to us that the Swift Coventry Company have carried out the instructions we gave them both in
letter and spirit, and the first consignment we are now unpacking satisfies us that the whole of the order is to be up to sample. Among the leading
features of the new machine we may mention the following :
A SHORT HEAD, assuring rigidity and strength.
LARGE HUBS for smoother running.
PERFECT SIMPLICITY in pedal attachments, the pedal pins being screwed into the cranks with left and right threads.
BIG GEAR WHEELS for easier propulsion.
BROOK’S SADDLES as per general desire.
PERFECT FINISH in every part of the machine.
Another feature—and an important one, too—is the price, and here again we have endeavored to meet the wishes of our Patrons,
the “ AUSTRAL SWIFT ”is £2O. Terms : £2l for six months’, and £22 for twelve months’, extension.
The Cash Price of
SOLE AGENTS for “SWIFT” CYCLES fitted with DUNLOP TYRES:
The Austral Cycle Agency Limited,
391 Georg*e Street, Sydney ;


DID YOU EVER
SEE A SNOWSTORM
IN SUMMER?
We never did : but we have
seen the clothing at this time
of the year so covered with
dandruff that it looked as if
it had been out in a regular
snowstorm.
No need of this snowstorm.
As the summer sun would melt the
falling snow, so will
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
melt these flakes of dandruff in the scalp.
It goes further than this : it prevents their
formation.
It has still other properties : it will restore
color to gray hair in just ten out of every
ten cases.
And it does even more: it feeds and nour-
ishes the roots of the hair. Thin hair be-
comes thick hair; and short hair becomes
long hair.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine!
This inducement is Offered You to know the
TIME to STITCH !
- - - WATCH THIS
The British Watch Co.,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
ev/ry household its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
ri/.gs, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle :
W* T * H T* E T* M *
CONDITION: Send your answer with a stamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of our Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch. if*
Address-THE MANAGER, PRICE 4,(1%),
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydney.
-7
m
o
Z
OLD
KNs
SUN Bu
FINg
I*l
PE
CP
HA
y
vT
y
n
v
in
m
<nn
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
("HLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chi.orodyn'e. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
“ Yarrum ” : Used to think Chinese didn’t
beg, but in this (Illawarra) district, the only beg-
gars I have seen are two Chows. One of ’em is
absolutely the champion dirty man of Australasia,
and were he a white, would be run in as a vag.
But he is too filthy to handle, and the police are
not taking any leprosy. Is a “ Clistian,” too.
Why doesn’t the female Chinese missionary take
him in hand !
Royal Agricultural Society of H.S.UI.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
mETMPDUTID EXIIBITIOII
29th March to 4th April, 1899.
£3OOO PRIZES £3OOO
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
DOGS, WINES, .
EARM and DAIRY PRODUCE,
MACHINERY, etc.
Great Wood-Chopping Contest
PRIZE, £5O.
Fire Brigade Demonstration^
(Under direction Superintendent Webb)
Entries Close ■WEH33XTESDA.Y, Ist nXaroli.
PRIZE SCHEDULES on application to P. WEBSTER, secreta^
Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 eaoli.
PLAITS oiul TAILS,
2tlln. lone, r/0. all real hair
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, '2/l.i nor oz.
are tlie elienpestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H- Wigzgll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country Orders,
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form'. Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates soquietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WM HA VE NO AG ENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
stfUeii) Wkeotiery
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO Rash, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir,—For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne ” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene,”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “ Cum Grano Salis,” and was in-
clined not to use it ; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured ;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligomolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O'REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21 st, 189 S.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THUS. LE GAY lIOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRYMALYON,
Mann fa etui ■ inf/ Ch em is t,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. Etncl 7s. 6d. Eacli.
®3g?"’Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, Sydney.
BY ROYAL WA.B.B.A.KTT OF A.FFOUXrTAEEarT TO “THE qtttct!1V.’>
Ask for
Wbisky ai?d
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, &c-
3d£taM<p$,
pOe ApOejg
JOJ >JS«
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Laic© Illawarra),
near SYDMEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
e» RODTJCER9
OF
FINE SILVER.
use
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWAKRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wkinbkuq, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
Strange Action of a Respectable
Community.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Daltons came to Woodside, about 10
years ago, the whole country-side came along in
its pony-carriage and leather-lined waggonette to
do homage to Mrs. Dalton —by far the prettiest
woman in the district. And right up till last
year it continued to worship; then something
happened.
One day tire new traveller for the Maoriland
Stock and Station Agency Co. rode up to the front
door, and was shown into the drawing-room,
where Mrs. Dalton rose to receive him and — i
stepped back with a blush and a frown. The
visitor seemed surprised too, and Dalton looked
on in blank astonishment.
Mrs. Dalton left the room.
Mr. Dalton got up, and, taking his pipe from
his pocket, looked at the amber mouth-piece for a
moment, and then remarked quietly : “I am very
sorry, but I shall have to ask you to go on to the
hotel for dinner. I don’t know why, but it is
painfully apparent that my wife declines to re-
ceive you, and, under such circumstances, of
course I won’t press you to stay.”
Mr. Dalton smiled pleasantly as he said it, and
looked at the man opposite with an expression
that said plainly: “You’d doit yourself, wouldn’t
you ? ”
The stranger drew himself up, and put his hands
into his pockets, “It’s a polite kick-out,” he said,
“ but you are quite right—if you think the lady
worth it!”
“What?” said Dalton, hotly.
“Oh, you do, eh ! Glad of it. Hope you won’t
be disillusioned as I was. She was my wife, you
know, long before she was yours. Inffacert —er —
I’m afraid you are either offenders against the
law or else you are living in a state of sin.”
* * .* »
Legally the blackmailer was powerless, but
socially he was omnipotent, and, to save the feel-
ings of the woman he loved, Dalton allowed him-
self to be bled white.
One day Mrs. Dalton found it out. She con
sidered awhile; then she went to Dalton, and-
putting her arms round his neok, told him quietly
that if he paid another penny she would leave
hiii!—go right away ! She couldn’t live with him
if she was to he the cause of his ruin.
“ But it’s only financial ruin,” urged Dalton.
“In this age and at our time of life that is
everythin </, dear,” she replied.
“But, if I refuse ho will blare the whole busi-
ness abroad, and close every door against us.”
“ Will that make you very unhappy, dear ?”
“Me? Good heavens, no! I’m thinking of
you. I don’t care if I never speak to one of them
again !”
She laughed; a silvery ripple of glee that cleared
a cloud from his spirit.
“Let them all go! We have a lovely home,
and we shall find happiness in our companion-
ships the pursuit of knowledge—study of beauty
in books, flowers, music,-and landscape. Let them
go, dear. ”
, Dalton shut down on the payments, and the
stoppage was promptly followed by the commence-
ment of a suit for divorce.
; The divorce was granted; it was not even
opposed, and as the “injured” husband left the
court he chuckled to a companion that it would
just about smash up the lady’s social sovereignty.
As soon as the decree was made absolute Dalton
married the lady on earth, as he had long pre-
viously married her in Heaven.
And then the community of Woodside did a
strange thing. After having paid social homage
to Mrs. Dalton during all those years she had
lived in “sin ” it ostracised her, now that she was
a “ respectable married woman.”
HERMES.


H <rr RaSSnjOSSeo’S Alfaliije Herbal Remedies.
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
-A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfalitie Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention th&t several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to manj r friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
[copy] Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, vours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Gootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for w'hich accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but w-as getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C, J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
rare.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney. —“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—-“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A.—“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.— “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To llerr Rassmusben.
Hear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your File Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately oured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express mv thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HIiRR RASMUSSEN’S
djission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING
Patrons of Herr Bass-
Herbs anywhere.
J
Herr Bassmutsen, Up-to-Date Heroaiui.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alf aline Remedies.
£,SOIREWAR D
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSfiUSSEH,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered.).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, llecommended by
the Faculty, and received wore Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
Send tor HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOII ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSeiI.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“ 11. R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
IMPORTANT.
ADVK€ FREE.
LIST
OF THU
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long slanding.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to-Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
forall kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is Gd.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Boiatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is •
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted. .
Electric Belts -Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking 1 Herr Rassmussen’s AT J 'F I AK T.TTXTTr: vtt a PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening- the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmassen's own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr ftassmussen’s Head Office: - 54*7 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Lambton Q\iay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLG-ARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hanuau-st. (next Linden's, Jeweller)
KANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
Henry-street (near High-street)
FREMANTLE


Random Notes at the Circus.
ELBOURNE people
who remember the
Demon and Crocodile
contortion act of the
Eclair Fr6res at the
Exhibition Building,
some four years ago,
will recognise an old
friend in Mens.
A.jax, the latest ad-
dition to Fitzgerald
Bros.’ Circus. Ajax,
late Eclair, is practi-
cally the famous
Demon and Crocodile
rolled into one. He
does all that he used to do himself, plus every-
thing his former partner did, and the total
effect of him, as he sits scratching his
spinal cord with his funny-bone, is truly
wonderful. German by birth, Ajax is a
citizen of the world. The Fitzes imported him
F. M. Jones' leap over 25 guns.
from Italy in the first instance. He left them to
go to Russia, or somewhere, and was last year re-
imported by Rickards—from London. Now he
has come back to the Fitzgeralds for 12 months,
and his young Australian wife will travel with
him. And she being the only visible rib apper-
taining to his boneless body, Ajax can almost con-
sider himself a native.
• • * •
Tom and Dan Fitzgerald blush somewhat when
chaffed about the inclu-
sion of foreign artists in
their onetime Young Aus-
tralian Circus, but they
explain that, thanks to
prosperity, the show out-
grew it s Australian
strength and compelled
them to summon aid
from abroad. The Circus
paid its first visit to
Melbourne in Glenloth’s
year (the Fitzes name
eaoh year after its Cup-
winner), and then the
co. consisted entirely
of native-born material.
What a first visit!
Starting at a pitch in
Swanston-street, next to the gaol, and subse-
quently travelling round the suburbs, the tent
stayed within the Melbourne district for seven
months. All the natives who principally assisted
in that success are still with the Fitzgeralds. The
Circus remains Australian at heart, and, indeed,
some of the most foreign-named artists on the pro-
gramme to-day are daughters of the soil.
La Belle Rose on the roll-
ing globe is Mrs. Tom
Fitzgerald—of this coun-
try. Ca va sans dire.
The scribe lapses into
French merely out of re-
spect for the lady’s nom
de Cirque. Mrs. Tom Fitz.
brings her native wit to
bear on the matter of
Joe Morris.
F. M. Jones.
spectacular fixings,
and is accountable
for much sweetness
and light and trim-
ness in the general
turnout of the co.
Mile. Sarina, the
trapeze artist, who
concludes her turn
with a pretty imita-
tion of Madame An-
tonio’s “one woman
ene rope” performance, is an Australian in
spite of her alias. Her husband, Captain
Jack Sutton, the “ Wild Wester,” is
attached to the Circus, and would
loom large on the bill if there were
any Red Indians about. Godayou, the
Japanese juggler, a most amiable
little gentleman, joined the Fitzes’
organisation in Newhaven’s year,
accompanied by a small son.
Godayou is said to have Pooh*
Bahian blood in his veins, two
charming daughters being quoted as cor-
roborative eviaenoe. One of them is the wife
of the Japanese Consul in Sydney, and her un-
married sister lives with her. Now, the alleged
nobility of Lycurgus, the plump
little Japaneseboy, is more open
to doubt, although he wears his
smart clothes with any amount
of swaggah. Lycurgus got left
behind in Australia together
Japanese Boy.
Lycurgus.
Cora Trevor.
The smallest per-
former.
Mr. Dan Fitzgerald.
with two monkeys, when Abel and Clair’s circus
sailed for India. The infant derelict slept with
the monkeys. Mrs. Tom Fitz took pity on the
toddler, wherefore her husband bought him from
the monkeys’ caretaker for .£2O cash. Circus life
is full of interesting items. You buy an elephant
one day and a Javanese princeling the next.
• • • •
Talking of elephants, Fitzgeralds’
Menagerie, which started with the
purchase of a lioness and cubs from
Sydney (or was it Adelaide?) Zoo,
promises to grow into a great specu-
lation. Herr Zaph, who came from
Hamburg a year or two ago to run the
lion and elephant and the tiger and
horse, is likely to stay with the show
as animal trainer-in-chief, and what
Zaph doesn’t know about caged beasts
of prey is not worth knowing. The
Menagerie ought to develope into a
school for performing animals. There
is no reason why the furry Bunyip of
Fitzgeraldian fiction shouldn’t
be trained by Zaph to put its
head into the lion’s yawn-
ing mouth, for the Bunyip
is a simple and conGding
novelty anyhow.
Herr Zaph and Hemic.
Which reminds i the scribe that
everybody seems ’to suspect the
fenuineness of the Yawning
lorse performance. Sevtm or
eight bronchos (true-blue Austra-
lian breed) are worked in the
ring by Dan Fitzgerald. One of
them wears a muzzle. Dan re-
moves the muzzle and tells the
horse to yawn, and he yawns like
a Lord Carrington till further
orders. Audience naturally as-
sumes that the removal of the
muzzle is the secret of the trick,
whereas the educated animal will
stretch his mouth whenever he is
told, in the stable as in the circus.
The muzzle is put on because this
particular steed is a stallion, and
the other bronchos are mares
mostly, therefor hee would affec-
tionately nip ’em with his huge
yellow teeth if allowed to take the liberty.
Educated horses are very human. Also, there
is a popular delusion re Commodore and Oscar,
the Russian pony that acts with elephant Lizzie.
Casual observers take it for granted that Oscar is
Commodore, but, as a matter of fact, he is much
bigger than the Fitzs.’ famous mascotte pony. It
is doubtful whether Commodore, in his 17th year,
could be persuaded to act with the elephant.
Much petting has made him so wilful that he
sometimes refuses, on principle, to work at a
day-show. Another point—all the Australian
horses and ponies in the tent are afraid of the
elephant, and one in particular—the horse that
Charlie Burshall somer-
saults upon—needs to be
carefully blindfolded when
he is taken round to the
ring, lest he should catch
sight of the ungainly mon-
ster and sink trembling to
the ground. The two-
hand English (or Flemish)
horses which George
Harmston brought out
with him are nob afraid
of the elephant, for they
have all been shipmates
together. As for Maho-
met, the Talking Horse,
he simply loathes and despises Lizzie since she
came along and put his “turn” into the shade,
and every time he sees her he expresses an earnest
desire to kick her out in one round.
• * • •
Dan Fitzgerald was a circus proprietor ere
brother Tom came into the business, and some of
the older hands were associated with him before
the present firm started. The oldest ring hands
are the Joneses—Billy and Frank M., but Bar-
Ponies Oscar and Commodore.
tello, Duckworth, and others, have been a long
time in the co. Joe Morris, the dummy clown,
joined the show at the outset, 11 years ago, bub
meantime he and his two “brothers” pub in
18 months with Rickards under the name of
the L’Estines. Joe, a capital tumbler and
“ dummy,” figures in the Steeplechase as
the man with a hunch on his chest, who
• leads his pony over the jumps. Frank M.
Jones gives a bright little sketch of an Irish-
man in the introduction to the steeplechase, and
is a conspicuously useful all-round man. He will
appear first as thehigh-vaulter—a singularly grace-
ful vaulter, with a trick of seeming to hang a-while
in mid-air; then he turns up as the fat clown,
next as a ring-master, and anon he is the clown
again. The dangerous feat of vaulting over 25
fixed bayonets whilst the gunners fire a volley is
performed by Frank M. Jones, and may the Lord
never forget to look after him when he makes his
spring ! In Paris, awhile ago, a vaulter jumped
short, and was fatally impaled upon the bayonets.
Clever Dan Feeley, of Fillis’s circus, bungled the
Bame act, and got badly wounded in one leg.
Mortification set in, and the leg had to be ampu-
tated. F.M.J. tells of his momentary terror the
first time he went over the bayonets. It hap-
pened at Mackay (Q.), and the discharge of the
guns put out all the lights in the tent. The
vaulter, feeling the effect of the firing in his eyes,
and finding himself in sudden darkness, reckoned
that he was a blind man, sure.
• • * *
Billy Jones, beloved by the Fitz. Brothers and
all of their 100 or so employes, is the Grand Old
Man of Australian circus life. As an apprentice
member of Noble and Jones’s Circus (remarkable
how many different Joneses have been eminent in
the business !), Billy came from Sydney to Mel-
bourne on the last trip of the old Shamrock
paddle-boat (Capt. Bell), in ’52 or thereabouts.
The oirous was pitohed at the place where the
Mr. W. Jones, the “ G.O.M.” of the ring.
Imperial Hotel now stands, opposite to the Old
White Hart, and boy Billy has a lively recollec-
tion of playing marbles on the site of Parliament
House. The horses were turned out to graze
among the stumps and bushes where the Exhibi-
tion is located these degenerate times.
* * * *
Billy must have been a “ star ” boy-rider, for
he mentions that, previous to the Eureka Stock-
ade, when he was performing on the road to
Buninyong, the diggers presented him a gold-
mounted whip, worth £5O. His youthful name,
“ The Nugget,” which stuck to him for years, was
hard earned, seemingly. He remembers that it
was not exactly pleasant to receive tuition from
indefatigable bosses—such as G. B. W. Lewis—
at seven o’clock on a cold morning, the
boss administering gentle encouragement with
a whip the while. Billy Jones talks in-
terestingly of all the old Circus Showmen—
Ashton, Foley, Burton —he stayed with poor
Burton till there was nothing left of his long-time
prosperous show—and Wilson, who brought Jem
Mace to Australia. And the older his reminis-
cences the more interesting they are. The early
circus “tents,” roofless and poleless—the rings
formed by driving pegs into the ground and inter-
twisting saplings to make a boundary—the seat-
ing accommodation of rough logs, and the lights,
contrived by pouring
fat into tins upon a
mud foundation, and
the trials and wor-
ries incidental to
travelling around
with those primitive
shows. One could
talk for hours with
Billy Jones on the
subject of his trea-
sured past and his
moving accidents by
flood and field.
Bringing him back
to the present for a
moment, it appears
that the old pro-
fessor thinks very
Head-dress of "Bobby."
highly of some of his pupils. Young Charlie
Burshall, just out of his apprenticeship, is not yet
a George Harmston, of course, but be promises
to be one of the best before he is muoh older.
Harry Caxdello, the ‘ ‘ mascotte ” boy of Fitz-
geralds’ Circus, and Ernie Shand, who was taken
on as an apprentice when they were appearing at
Melb. Alexandra, are riders after Billy Jones’s
own heart. And Jittle Lycurgus—well, Mr. Dan
asked Billy if he could teach the Java boy to ride
the two ponies in a week, and Billy said “Yes,”
Mr. Tom Fitzgerald and his Bunyip.
and when Mr. Dan saw how well the contract had
been carried out, he presented Billy with a “ fiver.”
• * • •
But space is limited, and Fitzgeralds’ Circus is
always with us. More aboub it som’other time,
when the writer is feeling better and the artist
is rested. And by that time it is just possible
that the inverted elephant with the brief comedy
tail will have learned some new trickß. as he is
always improving his education, and the bunyip
mystery may be cleared up.


The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,
99
says
“ Most
decid2dl) .
use KOKO,'
it
will
stop
your
hafr
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
n'ce clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
OKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifi, Prevents
Hair Falling', Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its- unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 2/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS C 0„ LTD..
16, Bey is Marks, London, England.
Publications, etc.
Mrs. MAC cl URC AN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. S cl.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
“TOKOLOGY”
A BOOK FOR EVERY WOMAN.
. . BY . .
ALICE B. STOCKHAM, M.D.
Dedicated
To all women who, following the lessons taught in
this book, will be saved the sufferings peculiar to
their sex.
“ To be well born is the right of every child.”
Sent post-paid on receipt of price, 12s. 6d., to
any address in Australia.
Chicago Publishing Co.,
232 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
V
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TKATIONS,dep:ctingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
garmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS
Books
.■R o olts
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Chambers’ Encvclopocdia, last edition,
10 vols., 1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 o
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols 16 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator, 6 vols 4 0 0 1 0 0
The Home Physician ..2 6 0 017 6
Large Family Bibles, colored plates... 4 0 0 1 6 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 265.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
The Soiled Hove: Miss Skittle 3, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art of Love; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free Is 6d ; The Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard, Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
Rx jrr cnZTATIVT DTD New and Second-hand Book
. W. biillN IN jjlb, Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Telephone, 3043. Sydney.
THERE ARE TWO WORLDS.
A pro y one an>l a world of Music. Which do you inhabit?
i the latter, your world is not complete without our Diamond
Collection of Songs. As the name implies, it is a musical
jewel. Songs of all nations and kinds,humor, pathos,sen-
timent an 1 patriotism, 000 gems that appeal to all tastes f
words and music, bound in heaut.ir ill covers, with sewed
binding that allows it. to open flat on piano or organ. A list
of them if j r ou send stamp for it. All y.»urs by mail, post
free throughout Australasia for on ly 2 6, stamps. 2d. extra
Agents wanted — -Anglo-Amkiucan I’ubli hinq Co., Com-
mercial < hambers, Sydney, N.B.W. Mention this pnp n r when
writing.
Science & Medical Book
DEPOT.
BOOK OF NATURE, or Illustrated Marriage
Guide, 3s 6d ; posted anywhere, 4s.
FRUITS OF PHILOSOPHY, known as
Knowlton Pamphlet, Is ; posted, Is 2d.
LAW OF POPULATION, by Mrs. Annie
Besant, Is ; posted, Is 2d.
PHALLIC, or Sex Worship, by Joseph Symes,
Is ; posted, Is 2d.
SOCIAL SCIENCE, 3s fid and ss.
PLAIN HOME TALK (Dr. Foote), 8s fid. New
1898 edition.
MARRIAGE, by Mrs. Besant, Is ; posted, Is 2d.
A- T- Wilson, 19 Bourke-street. Melb.
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
0. H. Smith S Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 66 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
iir-rtA
vvrvrt/\»
FOREIGN STAMPS.
PfETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s : 12
;3 Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Bounmma,
6<l ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s Od ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheum at ism,, Lam Ixif/o,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Praises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of s<>!onion
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers. 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or I.ear-
MOUTH & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cavk & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. Gd. and (triple size) 6s.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
TO ALL
.DOMtSTIC
'DESTROYS''
ALL
NOXICU&
INSECTS
TOXO
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOME.STIC
'DESTROYS'
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
'DESTROYS'
AIL
HOXICUS
INSECTS
OXI
TERMS
A. H. MOO HE & CO.
416, 418, 420
George-Bt., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet ... ... 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20 - „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25 - „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz. 7/6
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Thosewho have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. 6. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
lIIDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, As: Inna, Nervous
CoUfrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold bv all Chemists.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAYAIB
FER BRAYAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlic constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and intercsli>ig
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.- 11 /* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
sm.r> BY CHEMISTS AM. THE WOBID OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
I)kak 0.i., . .y.wt- .11101 ill your readeis .a - '■til
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
The grand hotel, zuehan.
This fine new brick building is NOW OPEN for
BUSINESS. Splendidly furnished, and up-to-date in
everything, it offers visitors all the comforts of a first-
class metropolitan hotel, at reasonable rates. Address
letters and wires to Manager, Grand Hotel. Zeehan.
Coj oh’m A (•<•»rthiona
AND
Campbell’g Gold
Medal Melodeong.
With organ and celestial
tone and charming bell
accompaniment. No
home should he without
one. The solemn psalm,
the soul-stirring hymn,
I he cheerful song and the
merry dance can all be
played on these wonder-
ful instruments. No
knowledge of music re-
quired. Special offer to
readers of this paper.
Campbell’s Gem Melodeon (with instruction and son g
book), 15,6; ditto Miniature (ditto), 25/-; ditto Paragon
(ditto), 30 6; ditto Favorite (ditto), 37 6; Coxon’s Lord
Fauntlero.v Accordeons (ditto), 15,6 ; ditto, indestructable
bellows (ditto), 21/-; ditto, special size (ditto), 22/6; ditto
ditto, 28/- Twenty other different kinds, from 6/6, to
select from. Carriage paid to any part of Australia, care-
fully packed. Send P. 0.0. for the full amount. Write
and send 2d. for catalogue. We are sole agents for Aus-
tralasia. W. F. QOXON & CO. LTD., 745 George-street
(opp. Christ Church), Haymarket, Sydney.
m
CM
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 3n days before payment,
which 's file ' vlaoi d in our “ELECTRIC ERA."
Our Electric Belts will
•ure all Nervous and
other Diseases in fall
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, soothi-
ng current that can be felt
• y the wearer through
ill weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
ric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
leturn the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE. \
DRROBERTS’
./wf
S/Orf MEASEf
and Wounds
OF dvbry
DESCRIPT!On
D?ROBERTS
PILLS
for skin diseases.
And ALL DISORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & LIVER •
of all chem/st s /Hi X 2/yEACH
BE/\CH & BARN ICO TT L°- BR IDPORT
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on tiie plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! hy will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss — Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAT !
As' for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
I ss.
ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
In Goods You Can Select Yourself.
A SENSATIONAL OFFER.
In order to introduce the “MARVEL” Solid Silver
Watches (for which we are Sole Agents), and cause the
quality and value of our {roods in {reneral to be recognised,
we make this MARVELLOUS offer. The “MARVEL”
Watch is solid Silver, engine-turned, 3-plate movement,
patent regulator, fully jewelled, crystal glass, seconds
hand, enamelled dial, perfect timekeeper and GUARAN-
TEED, sold retail for !'2 2s. ; but we will send either
Gent’s Keyless or Ladies’ Regd., post-paid any colony, for
One Guinea. And with same our latest Illustrated Cata-
logue, from which you may select goods to the value of
55., and on receipt of your order we will send goods
selected without any extra payment. Don’t waste your
Time and Money in guessing-competitions, but send
P.-note or money order for tt Is., which pays for the
Watch, postage, and the ss. worth of Goods to be selected
by yourself. NO RISK, because, if you are not fully
satisfied, we hereby guarantee to return money in full.
11. I’OTIER & CO., Importers,
24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
0101
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and 11 1 am N oiseS, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ear c as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins §t., Melbourne.
rjIALES
OF THE SYSTEM,
j . . per Post Is. 3d
PRICE Is.
The licensing of what are called private
boarding-houses in Sydney is spoken of by local
police authorities as an urgently reform.
The amount of the license-fee might be nominal,
they they want is to be able to urge
the refusal of licenses, or of the renewals of licenses,
for causes shown.
A Melbourne man to The Bulletin on a
subiect now somewhat neglected
With a view to finding an entirely satisfactory religion,
I SStZZ&n&S. the way. and be,1,1. ol certain
i«r.<ii ut.iri lll l ist s The most beautiful point oi me
spir tist cwed is that any individual member of the per
suasion can saV or believe anything he or she may think
fit-as a revelation ;in fact, you can create a little god of
vour own and run him to suit yourself, and no man can
sav vou nay. From some of the revelations of the spirits
per media (or mediums) I gather that spiritualists con-
Rirler the devil dead, also, that there is no such thing as
evil-all deviltry being merely undeveloped good- There
are no surnames in spirit-land. The magnetic attractor,
in handwriting is but slight, there is much more in a lock
of hair (which is a circumstance I have frequently noticed
mvself). The society holds mediums meetings—which
are decidedly interesting. To become a medium-live
temperately, eating vegetables only, no drinks or heating
food ; remain quiet, shut out all thought of material
things, camp in a darkened room, and take pencd in
hand. Whatever spirit, if any, possesses you will then
discover itself. The last medium’s meeting I attended
consisted of about 60 persons, mostly females, presided
over by a chairman. After the singing of a hymn accom-
panied by an organ, and a continuance of semi-sacred
music, the mediums present "’ere requested to give
wav ” as soon as possible, which they did. Under the
excitement of the music or the subsequent chorus-singing
in the darkened room, or something, three or four
women, of different ages, contracted severe attacks of
spasms, tapping the floor continuously and shivering 1
violently. They were encouraged to shiver, and, above
all, to let the spirit have its way. Finally, one young
woman, after much shuddering and sobbing, broke loose
and rushed on the platform, where the chairman placed
her on a chair and seized her wrist, possibly to prevent
her breaking away altogether and soaring into the infinite
hereafter. She jerked out a few moral precepts and re-
marks on thepovverandgoodnessand incomprehensibility
of spirits, then sat down. Suddenly she was seized
with another violent spasm, then again addressed
the meeting in an entirely different voice, with
different diction and mannerisms. This peculiarity was
subsequently repeated by other mediums, but writer was
greatly exercised as to why two different spirits, speaking
through the same medium, should commit similar
o-rammatical errors; also, why the spirit of a deceased
French lady should speak in broken English when the me-
dium herself spoke good English. Both men and women
rubbed the forehead emphatically, some wept, while all
perspired profusely. Writer was just beginning to get
interested in the case of a young lady near by, who had
been rocking to and fro and tapping the floor vigorously
for some ten minutes, threatening shortly to break out in
a fine and large way, when the usher or verger, who had
presumably seen him making a note on the back of the
programme, courteously requested him to retire, as his
presence disturbed the harmony and was antagonistic to
the development of the spirits. Then he went across the
road and saw a wicked little heathen barmaid who had no
soul and who kept her spirits in a bottle. But it is a
beautiful and soul-satisfying religion—when you under-
stand it.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Value Unapproachable.
No. 9.—S.D. & Co.’s f-plate Hunting English-Lever Watch,
full jewelled movement, chronometer expansion balance, sunk
seconds, enamel dial, strong Hall-marked silver cases, best value
procurable, £4 10s.
No. 6. —S.D. & Co’s “ Derby ” Double Chrono-
graph, gives an instantaneous record of any event
in minutes and seconds; the movement is f-plate
lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer expansion
balance, Brequet spring. In solid silver cases, open-
face £6 10s., hunting £7 10s.; in 18ct. gold cases,
open-face £2O, hunting £22.
Beware of Imitations.
No. 12.—S.D. & Co’s “Excelsior” Keyless English Lever is
unsurpassed by any watch ; it is compact, convenient, and reliable,
dust and damp proof, has very best f-plate movement, full jewelled
in rubies, real chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked hunting
silver cases, each guaranteed for five years, £6 10s.
No. 4.—S.D. & Co’s Lady’s Hunting
"Defiance” Watch, with J - plate
jewelled movement, engraved solid
silver cases and tinted and enamelled
dial. These beautiful watches surprise
every mirchaser, £1 10s.
No. 11.—S.D. & Co’s Special Value in Wal-
tham Watches, has best finished movement, enamel
dial, gold hands, heavy hunting Hall-marked silver
cases, and is recommended as a reliable timekeeper,
£2 7s. 6d.; keyless, £3.
No. 7. —S.D. & Co’s Gent’s Keyless Hunting
English Lever, has finely finished movement, ex-
pansion balance, enamel dial, strong keyless wind-
ing, Hall-marked silver cases, £3 10s.
S.D. & Co’s Ladies’ Presentation English
f-plate Gold Lever, in massive 18-carat Hall-
marked cases, movement jewelled in finest
rubies; chronometer balance; Brequet spring;
unsurpassed as a timekeeper, £2O; also in plain
case for monogram. Warranted 10 years.
No 13.—S.D. & Co’s Lady’s Gold Keyless
Watch, has finely finished and full jewelled move-
ment, strong 18ct. gold hunting cases, richly en-
graved and decorated, a reliable timekeeper, com-
bining the maximum of excellence at the minimum
of cost, £5 10s.; also made a size smaller, £4 10s.
Silver cases, £2 10s.
No. 10.—S.D. & Co’s English Hunting Lever Watches, contain special patented im-
provements ensuring durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The
movements are full capped, dust proof, jewelled in rubies, the cases are strong sterling
silver, Hall-marked, £3 10s., warranted for three years. Special quality, with chronometer
expansion balance, 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s. Unequalled value. Beware of worthless
imitations.
No. 14. S.D. & Co’s Lady’s
Waltham Lever Watch, with best
movement, patent safety barrel exp
jewelled, strong solid gold engraver
perfect keyless action, sunk seconds
dial, £(5 10s., exceptional value.
£3 ss.
Gold Keyless
finished f-plate
ansion balance,
1 hunting cases,
, and enamelled
Silver cases,
No. S.—S.D. and Co’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless
Hunting Lever Watch, has fine quality f-plate
lever movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer
expansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18ct. gold cases, £l5 10s. ; in open-face, £l4 10s.
No. 2. —S.D. and Co’s Lady’s
Finest Quality Hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, f-jdate full jewelled
movement, expansion balance, richly
engraved silver cases, £3 10s.
a
f/r ,>JLO
u,y
»»-■ .'nh
No. 3. —S.D. and Co’s Lady’s
Magnificent Gold Keyless Watch,
has exquisitely finished fine f-plate
jewelled movement, sti’ong 18ct.
gold case, elaborately engraved, per-
fect keyless action, open face, £6los.
In hunting cases, £7 10s.
No. B.—S.D. and Co’s Magnificent Keyless £-
plate English Gold Lever of the very best make,
with finest finished movement, jewelled in rubies,
real chronometer expansion balance, perfect key-
less action, massive 18ct. gold hunting cases. £22 :
open-face, £lB 10s.
On receipt of Remittance, any of the above Watches will be sent (with guarantee), Securely Packed and Carriage Paid, at our risk, to any part of Australasia.
Stewart Dawson & Co., 412 George-st., Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth, London.


MICE SIMMONS.
New Departure. Cash Trade Only .
♦
All Sportiog Materials at Lowest CGt PricSS-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
CRICKETING GOODS! N JUST S LANDED. T
BATS. —Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,5/6
~ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4 6
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle """
~ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International)
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH B AlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod ...
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
~ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ..
„ Men’s
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)
•CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
~ With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
11s 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s Od
14s 6d
9s Cd
12s 6d
18s Od
5s 6d
7s, 7s 6d
... 9s 6d, 12s 6d
l2s 6d
4s 6d
ss, 6s 6d
6s, 7 s 9d, 9s Od
los 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
BATS.— Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
„ Feltliam’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
~ Lily white’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
~ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto 6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) . 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s Od
~ Dark and Sons’All-cane Handle ... ... 8s 6d
GAUNTLE I'S.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
„ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair 9s Cd
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s (id
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s Od
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
~ Wisden’s Match ... ... ... ... 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson's, 3s 6d ; Eclipse .. 2s Od
, ~ Match, 5*40z.,15; Boys’, 3d, 4d, arid 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Slumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
STUDY THIS WELL
Do vour Eyes feel weak from Overwork, Study, etc. ?
Are"they affected from Blight, Sun Glare, Granulations, Stings of Insects?
Do they feel painful after exposure to strong winds, dust ?
Are the Eyelids Inflamed or Scaly ?
IE SO, THERE IS ONLY ONE REMEDY—
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
It STRENGTHENS and PRESERVES the SIGHT, and may be used on
BIRDS, POULTRY, CATTLE, &c., with the same wonderful
result.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PROPRIETOR :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
GEISHA SOUVENIR JEWELLERY.
“ KOTOBUKI—GOOD' LUCK.”
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
“Just Received, ex R.M.S. Oriental.”
ALL ARTICLES ARE SOLID GOLD AND FINEST ENGLISH ENAMEL.
“Geisha” Chrysan-
themum Charm, 10s.
With Pin and Chain,
13s 0(1.
< m
Geisha Lantern
Charm, 4s.
Solid Gold and 5
Lovely Opals, 255.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope and
Charity Pendant,
5s each.
With Pin and Chain,
8s 6d.
Geisha Bamboo
and Lantern
Brooch, Solid
Gold, 10s.
Geisha Bangles,
Guff Links, Belt
Clasps, etc., in
Great Variety.
I*
r=r
Geisha Bamboo,
Fan, and
Chrysanthemum
Brooch,
Solid Gold,
20s.
All Goods Post
Free.
Send for Our
Illustrated
Slips of
Latest
Novelties.
SOLID GOLD.
Set with One Finest Quality Amethyst, Topaz, or Garnet,
and 10 White Pearls, 40s each.
sine v
; HV
SOLID GOLD.
Set with 9 Beautiful Opals, and 16 Lovely
White Pearls, 50s.
Geisha Lantern,
Pin and Chain,
Solid Gold,
7s 6d.
Solid Gold and
Lovely Opal, 15s.
Lucky Shamrock and
Scotch Heather
Charms,
Gold-mounted,
5/6 each.
Gold Bell Brooches.
1 Bell, 10s 6d ; 3 Bell, 12s 6d each.
Gold 2-bar Brooch,
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant, 13s 6d each.
NOTH—Our ONLY Australian Address -- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Poet-Governor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Queen has approved of the appointment of Lord
Tennyson as Governor of South Australia. The second
Lord Tennyson has interested himself deeply in matters
of literary and artistic culture. He has contributed
articles and poems to various magazines, and has pub-
lished a version of ‘ Jack and the Beanstalk.’ ” — Daily
Paper.
We’re tuning our harps, we Austral bards, by one
and two and three,
To sing his praise, in lordly lays, the Peer from
over the Sea.
A score or more have laid in stock of pens and ink
galore,
And paper white whereon to write of the Poet-
Governor.
Right soon each den of editor-men shall cumbered
be with loads
Of Loyal Lyrics, and Welcome Songs, and Salu-
tation Odes;
Por it seems as how that Governors now no more
shall chosen be
Por their ancient blood, or love of the stud, or
wholesale piety.
Their race is run, their reign is done, their places
filled shall be
By gentlemen, who wield the pen, and wade in
poetry.
And, though ’tis hard no native bard may draw a
Guv’nor’s screw,
We drain our beers with loyal cheers, and “ Hal-
lam, here’s to you ! ”
The Adelaide folk have borne the yoke of Guv’-
nors sour too long,
But soon they’ll have fun with a Poet’s son, who’ll
fill their days with song.
And he with the grace of his lordly race will
album-verses write,
And at charity-shows will (through his nose) the
“ Queen of the May ’’ recite.
And we will dedicate Books to him, all bravely
bound in calf,
And he’ll answer free, with a line or three, and his
lordly autograph.
And we in the press these notes will print, and
head them, ev’ry one,
“ Smith’s Poems (or Jones’s) take the cake, says
Hallam, Lord Tennyson.”
And the present bard, whose lines are hard —too
hard indeed to quote—
Will stow away, if he cannot pay, on a South Aus-
tralian boat,
And go to Adelaide Gov’ment House and knock
at the door sans fear,
And say to the menial—“ Tell your lord that a
brother bard is here ! ”
And straightway Hallam, Lord Tennyson, on his
own poetic feet,
Will rush, will fly, with sparkling eye, his brother
bard to greet,
And on his neck will fall and sob—“ I’ve longed
for this for years !
I’ve longed—ah me—your face to see, and now—
excuse these tears ! ”
With swift right-wheel on haughty heel he then
will turn and shout — . ,
“ Bring wine ! bring beer ! bring whisky here ;
bring rum, and gin and stout !
Yea, spread the board ! if I’m * Lord Im a poet,
too, you’ll see, , , , ,
And, though times are hard, my brother bard
shall shake-down here with me.’
0, Adelaide, be not afraid, brave doings you will
see . ,
When the Bard and Lord with liquor stored sit
swapping poetry! , .
This singer here will Hallam cheer by reading him
elegies,
And sometimes list to Hallam’s rot to put him at
his ease.
And bards who are friends of the present scribe
shall goodly guerdon win,
They shall have the run of their teeth and throats
the Gov’ment House within.
And so-called bards who are not his friends, and
his lofty lines deride, .
They shall snort like whales, and gnaw their nails,
and curse in the cold outside.
And when statesmen come to worry the Lord with
dreary affairs of State,
Hallam will rise with fiery eyes and sweep them
from his plate.
He will read them his verse till they weep and
curse, and fly from his high abode -
And the present scribe will shatter the tribe with
a dithyrambic ode.
And when Parliament opes the Governor’s speech
will all be written in rhyme,
And Hallam, he, will sing it so free, and ’twill
fetch ’em every time. . . .
So here’s to Hallam, Lord Tennyson, may his
reign be lucky-starred !
And here’s to the Muse in her new court-shoes,
and here’s to the present Bard !
CREEVE ROE.
George Bell, proprietor of Dunedin Star,
and the “ grand old man ” of the Maoriland press,
is dead, aged 90.
“ 0.P.” philosophises on a vast subject :
Have often wondered whether it is reckless desperation
or shocking ignorance that makes the old maid chivvy
the young man matrimonially. Had an awkward attack
myself recently. Went out for a friendly walk with a
party of three, and unaccountably pulled up in a scrub
with one companion. The dear old girl plumped down
gaily and opened up right away on the venerable subject,
expressed her opinion in plaintive voice as to what con-
stituted a “ good man,” what she considered a reasonable
spell of engagement, and wound up by plunging matters
into a highly advanced stage of courtship. I felt shocked
and alarmed, but weakly yielded, trusting, on Micawber
lines, for something to turn up. It turned up, and
now I want to make a few public remarks to old maids
and those about to marry. It can’t be repeated too often.
Never chase a man with view to above : it’s fatal —it’s
madness. Nothing horrifies a man so much as being
pursued by a female with honorable intentions. A hippo-
potamus isn’t a circumstance to her. Attract his atten-
tion and then skedaddle—that’s the way. Also, throw
wheelbarrows and things in his path. But don’t skedad-
dle too fast. The aboriginals tumbled to this centuries
ago. Life is an obstacle-race, and a man gets to like it
that wav, and becomes an expert jumper from necessity.
Therefore make him jump as often as you can. It flatters
him. Also, most things are prized according to the time
and trouble and number of jumps that it takes to procure
them. And woman is one of them.
In Push Society.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a trifle embarrassed. Proi>osal is not the
vogue in pure push society. There matrimony is
usually the outcome of magisterial contact with a
situation made up, broadly, of a weeping woman,
an inopportune baby, and a reluctant youth, who
escapes supporting the girl by according her the
virtuous privilege of supporting him. So that he,
the exception, not the rule, had a lack of
precedent; wherefore his embarrassment. Ab-
stractedly he sought a venomous black plug and
—perhaps in deference to the emotions of the
moment—bit off a painfully small “taste.” In
the next room an asthmatic aecordeon began to
gasp and reach vainly after an air. Above its
shrieks for mercy and the shuffling of many feet
rose the voice of the M.C. in staccato command.
Soon the din had drifted into rhythmic move-
ment. He —the original he—looked relieved.
Contemporaneously he tightened the arm around
her waist and distorted his battered features into
what he hoped to be interpreted as an excess of
tender affection. Also he sighed—a sigh pregnant
with sentiment. He was of romantic disposition.
“Kate,” he said, “Kate, will yeh marry me?”
He looked at the request and, struck by its bold-
ness, added : “Beh me own little wife, will yeh?
Say no en I’ll go away en scragg meself straight.
I love yeh wif all me ’eart, I do,” he went on,
tearfully, “en I got nothin’ to offer yeh but a
true ’eart. Will yeh assept it ? Yeh all the worl’
to me. Yeh —yeh’re—the star of me life.” He
smacked his lips with satisfaction. “ Be me little
dicky-bird, en come en share me ’umble ’ome.
Make yeh ole man keep ’imself. Fire ’im out, en
come en make me the ’appiest ” .
He stopped to hug her closer and imprint a
hoggy kiss upon her neck. He had taken enough
inspiriting beer to be divinely self-satisfied. She
nestled closer, and, letting her head sink on his
breast, sank herself deep in the voluptuous bliss of
the embrace.
“Rats!” she sighed dreamily, “stow that.
D’yer think I don’t know what ye are ? How yeh
killed Red Sue less’n twelve months arter yer was
spliced ? Her that used ter starve for yeh ye’d
bash every day, and ye’d do the same for me—yeh
crool-’earted beast —yeh would !”
He gasped in grieved surprise. His romantic
nature was hurt—trodden on. She resettled her
head, and sighed on while his sense of out-
raged virtue deepened into just indignation, and
on his battered features grew an expression of
wrathful protest. “God knows the- rat-faced
little skirt didn’t deserve no better !”
“Your ’umble ’ome,” she continued with a sigh
of renunciation, ‘ ‘ God knows I’d have to keep
yer in it. Yer livin’ on yer old woman now, mak-
ing her wish she was dead. Ez long ez yeh can
get yer beer yer don’t ”
His outraged feelings triumphed. “ Well, if
this aint pure,” he burst in, his eyes ablaze,
and his whole romantic nature in arms at her
grossness, her sordid estimate of his affection.
“What in the ’ell are yer talking about! Is it
any of your bloomin’ business how I treated
Ginger Sue —eh ? or who I’m livin’ on ? Blast yeh!
I’ll knock the point off yer face off, I will. I’ve
got no stinkin’ pride, see, not me ! I arst yer a
civil questiun, an’ I expects a civil arnswer.
What’s my little ways got ter do with you ? I arst
yer, ‘Will Yer Marry Me?’ Now, I arst yer
again, straight out, ‘Wu.j. yer?”’ He caught
her by the breast of her blouse and swung her
against the wall.
“ Yes !” she said.
With a despairing shriek the aecordeon was
silent, and the rhythmic shuffling of the feet in the
next room broke again into discord.
W.D.O.
A Postponed Suicide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I was terribly struck on a girl once,” said Bill.
“ Her old man hud stacks of stuff, and, of course,
wouldn’t stand me at any price ; so Jennie and I
had to keep things very dark. I was workin’ odd
shifts at the Gonebung Extended at the time, and
the shifts were gettin’ odder every pay, so I de-
cided to try my luck prospectin’down Gippsland
way. I thought Jennie would die the night be-
fore I left, she cried so much ; and she made me
promise to write every week to the local post-
office, so that the old man wouldn’t know. Any
of you fellows ever been to Bulumwaal—down
past Bairnsdale? Terrible place for prospectin’.
No outcrops. I got broke in about three months,
and then I joined in with a new-ehum miner—a
man named Cullen —who had a few pounds, and
we started back Dargo way.
“Well, anyhow, we did no good—every hole a
duffer, and every reef a maiden —and about six
months after meeting Cullen I got desp’rate and
utterly low-spirited. I think Culleh’s damper had
a lot to do with it, but anyhow I reasoned it out
that ’twasn’t a fair thing for me to string Jennie
on any longer. I knew she wouldn’t give me up,
because she told me so in every letter, and she
wrote regularly every week. What made me more
miserable was that she was always telling me that
her people were worrying her to marry a man
named Hales, who had a farm close handy. I
thought she’d be better off with Hales, and, as I
had no relations to worry over me, I decided to
blow my head off that night with Cullen’s g in,
and leave Jennie free. After tea, I casuallj m n-
tioned to Cullen that, if ever anything happened
to me, he might drop a line to my girl, and told
him her name and the post-office.
“He said, ‘ That’s funny. I come from near
that part, but never knew you did. Is your girl
any relation to Jack Hales’ wife ? She used to be
a Miss Trotter, too ! ’
“ I laughed. * Why, Jack’s not married ! ’
“Cullen said, ‘Well, anyhow, I started a ter-
rible spree at his wedding, about a week before I
came up here. He married old Mick Trotter’s
daughter, Jennie. Same initial as your girl, too ! ’
“ I tell you I felt fair beat. This poor, inno-
cent country-girl must have got married about
two months after I left, and had been fooling me
all the time since. I decided not to suicide that
night—went ’possuming instead. Couple of days
after I got a letter from Jennie saying that her
people had forced her to marry Hales, that her
heart was broken, and that perhaps I had better
not come back as the sight of me would kill her.
“ Jennie is still alive. An’ me, too.”
W.H.D.


Immense value in mercery can be obtained at
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street, who can boast of a connec-
tion extending over the whole of the Australasian
colonies, and their exact methods of supplying great
value at small cost results in their having the confidence
of customers, some of them residing in the remotest
corners of the colonies. Pop your orders in the post, and
register them when they contain remittances. Hordern
Brothers, Cash Buyers and Sellers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street, Sydney. N.B.—-Small orders attended to
with as much care as large ones.*
Tired-out Men and |||omen gain Energy and Health by Using
Dr. 'Williams’ Pink Fills.
They
Stimulate the Brain, Tone-up the Nerves, Give Refreshing Sleep, Banish Headaches
and Sickness—They Make You Strong.
An Anaemic Lady Made Plump
and Happy.
“SHE NEVER FELT BETTER IN HER
LIFE.”
Mrs. Johns, of 00 Yurong-street, Sydney, is now
a pretty and vivacious lady of about 25, and, in
answer to the questions put to her, she said :—“ I
have been very ill, but at present I am enjoying
excellent health and spirits. Indeed, I don’t know
that I ever felt better in my life. I can safely say
that I owe my satisfactory recovery entirely to Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. The first cause of my ill-
ness was, I think, the worry and extra work caused
by moving from place to place, for I have been a
great traveller during the last year or two. Any-
how, after my last journey, I began to feel very
low and depressed in spirits ; I could eat scarcely
anything, and began to get very thin. I was as
yellow as if I had had a severe fit of the jaun-
dice. I got from bad to worse ; the least exertion
wearied me, and my ordinary housework became
too much for me. My gums grew quite white, and
my lips looked a bluish-grey color. My sleep was
restless and disturbed, and I was so tired in the
mornings that I could hardly get out of bed, and
when I did I used to lay on the sofa, feeling I
hardly cared what happened to me. I saw a
doctor, who said I needed a strong tonic, and I
had several bottles of physic from him, besides
other bottles of tonics which I obtained from
chemists ; but I grew no better. I was in this
miserable and hopeless condition when I heard
from someone who had been cured by them about
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I at once got some.
After taking a few I was agreeably surprised to
find a real and distinct change for the better. 1
got rid of that miserable depression of spirits,
which in itself was enough to keep me ill ; and in
a few days I was able to sleep the night through
without interruption. The Pills, too, gave me a
good appetite, and I began slowly to get cheerful
and fat again. My color came back, and after
taking six boxes I was completely cured and
found myself as strong as ever. I shall always
remember my cure with gratitude, and shall, you
may be sure, recommend this wonderful medicine
to any of my friends who mav have the bad for-
tune to suffer as I did.”
Relentless Indigestion.
A BAD CASE CURED.
“ I must tell you,” said Mr. Handley, who
resides at the rear of 94 Harris-street, Pyrmont,
Sydney, “ that I am a greengrocer, and am out in
all weathers, and used to have very little time for
my meals. The complaint came on gradually,
and at first I didn’t let it worry me; but I was
soon awakened. I got worse and worse, in spite
of various remedies. After eating I would feel a
most terrible pain in the lower part of my chest,
as if some hundredweight of lead were there, and,
though often hungry, 1 would refrain from eating,
because I knew the result. I became very thin,
and felt as though life were hardly worth living.
Meat 1 had almost to refrain from eating. Any
excitement brought on the pain, and I was unable
to climb a hill, so great was my exhaustion and
want of breath. Even bread would disagree with
me. I consulted three doctors, who told me I
was suffering from indigestion and dyspepsia.
I tried _ the hospital, and was six weeks in
one, being laid up on that occasion for three
months. This bad attack occurred about two
years ago, but I’ve had several since. I had the
most unpleasant taste in my mouth on rising, just
as if I had been sucking some copper article. My
skin and my chest-bone became so tender that I
could hardly bear the touch of my clothes. Well,
my wife, who has been ill for years, is taking a
course of Dr. Williams’Pink Pills, and she had
even then derived the greatest benefit from them.”
Here Mrs. Handley nodded a smiling assent.
“My wife thought Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
might do me good, so I gave them a trial. The
first few doses drove away the pains in my head,
and I found, to my surprise and pleasure, that my
indigestion was slowly disappearing. That was
about six months ago, and I have never gone back
since. As time went on my taste for food re-
turned, and now I can eat with comfort. I can
honestly say iny indigestion is entirely a thing of
the past, and its disappearance is entirely owing
to Dr. Williams’Pink Pills. That terrible weight
on my chest and the unpleasant taste left me, and
also the retching that accompanied my complaint.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are undoubtedly the
remedy of the age for dyspepsia, indigestion and
like comnlaints.”
Heat Apoplexy.
A WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
Half-a-century since, when Melbourne had
scarcely qualified itself for aught but the name of
a prosperous bush township, Mr. M. P. Ryan, of
the Melbourne Chilled Butter Co., Flinders-lane
West, had already attained some fame amongst
his juvenile compeers as a cricketer, to be realised
later on when he was classed in the front rank of
the “Emerald Hillites.” From that time to the
present, in all climates and colonies, he has, when
opportunity served, paid willing homage to the
national game. He and “ Mid-on ”of the Leader
had been foregathering a short time prior to our
representative meeting him, and Mr. Ryan was
dwelling with some gusto on a three days’ match
played early in the ’Bo’s at Wileannia, with the
thermometer at 116 in the shade all through.
“It was hot,’’ remarked Mr. Ryan, “and I
have cause to remember it.”
“ In which respect ? ”
“ More than one ; principally the impression it
made upon my brain. You must know this was
no unusual occurrence with us in those days.
Some would say it was carrying cricketing
enthusiasm too far. Be that as it may, the con-
tinual exercise in the heat resulted eventually in
an attack of heat-apoplexy or sun-stroke. The
attack was a severe one ; so severe I was totally
incapacitated from following my clerical duties.
All the usual remedies were used, and, after a
time, appeared to have some effect. But from
that date annually I was subject to the most
agonising pains in the head. Such an effect did they
have that, during warm weather, mental work was
out of the question. I was subject to sharp shoot-
ing pains in my head and a feeling as if a bolt had
been driven into my brain, dulling its action. The
least effort of the brain induced stupor, until a few
years since.”
“ Two years since ; why the change?”
“ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Three years this Christmas I was at Brighton,
and a gentleman friend, remarking my complete
mental exhaustion, recommended them. I had
visited doctors out of number, tried all sorts of
treatment, electric baths, massage, also hydro-
pathy, but as soon as the warm weather com-
menced so did my head. I consumed seven boxes
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in all; but neither the
great heat of last summer or the one preceding it
affected me in the least. Yes, you can use this.
I am well-known in Victoria and N.S.W.”
(Sgd.) Matthew P. Ryan.
Nervous Sufferers.
HOW TO GAIN NEW STRENGTH.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered to the pub-
lic with a full confidence because there is no disease
arising from a watery or impoverished condition
of the blood, shattered nervous forces, which they
have not cured when the directions have been
faithfully followed, and the treatment persisted in.
Upon the healthy activity of the blood and nerves
and the vital organs depending upon them, de-
pends the mental and physical well-being of every
person come to adult years. It is that which gives
the rosy blush to the cheek, and the soft light to
the eye of the maiden. The elastic step, the ring-
ing laugh, and the strong right arm of youth own
this same main-spring. How soon does anaemia
rob the face of color, the eye of brightness ?
The blood becomes impoverished, the victim pale.
The pallor of the skin is often the only outward
mark of the trouble within. “ Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People ” enrich the impoverished
blood, and then vigor returns, and the bloom of
youth again mantles the faded cheek.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills permanently cure
anaemia (bloodlessness),
all headaches, indiges-
tion, sleeplessness,
biliousness, liver and
kidney troubles, general
debility, all ladies’ ail-
ments, nervous prostra-
tion, chronic diarrhoea,
lung trouble, effects of
measles and influenza,
gravel, Bright’s disease,
rickets, paralysis, loco-
motor ataxia, &e., &o.
Obtainable from all
chemists and dealers,
or from the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Syd-
ney, who will forward
six boxes for 15s. 3d.,
or one box for 2s. 9d.
post free.
WW/LLIAMS 9*
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE,
$
The River and the Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The merrymaking’s over,
The riverside is still,
The Sun, a radiant rover,
Gone down behind the hill.
The red Road goes a-winding
Along the riverside ;
The River, no man minding,
Winds on to meet the tide.
O Naiad of green places !
I pray you pause and say
How many pretty faces
Looked down on you to-day ?
The River runs in silence
(A fern frond is her load)
Just here and just a mile hence
She curves to kiss the road.
And now the kiss is over,
And now the tryst is done,
By flats of fern and clover
'-'The River ripples on.
Again the Road turns to her,
Red-winding through the green,
The Road would pause and woo her
But gray rocks stand between.
And here he rounds a boulder
And hurries to her side ;
The River turns her shoulder;
She will not be bis bride.
O fickle River, straying
Tli rough green lands on and on,
A fern-tree heard you saying
“ The Road will come anon.”
3Sot so, but you will waken
To lonely days and sore ;
The Road a vow has taken
To play Love’s fool no more.
On high the sunset lingers
With one still star above,
And there the merry singers
Sing silverly of Love.
And now in distance dewy
They halt awhile, and so
Wave hands with “ Coo-ee, Coo-ft ! ”
Ho, laggard down below ! ”
If she should cease to worry
And say, “ I love but you ”
“ O hurry, hurry, hurry ! ”
And “ Adieu, Adieu, Adieu ! ’’
This one last chance I give her
To lighten my heart’s load,
And if she play the River
Then I shall prove the Road.
I caught her, heard her sighing,
Saw her face and felt its charm . . .
’T is sweet when Day is dying
To walk so, arm in arm.
RODERIC QUINN.
“Last Night.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you know what it is to be stranded in town
without a copper ? To belong also to that portion
of society that wears immaculate linen, and eats
its evening meal in swallowtails. To be by birth
a toff, and by position a vagrant; to still retain a
decent suit, boots and hat that are only rather
shabby, and a self-respect and pride which insists
on your refusing such invitations as you believe
may be prompted by pity rather than courtesy.
Though shivering with cold, you profess a rooted
dislike to greatcoats, and vote the man who carries
an umbrella a mollycoddle.
I had just refused to dine with a man who lived
out at Hawthorn, not so much because I feared
appearing a cadger, as because I had not the
necessary threepence for a tram-fare. I pleaded a
previous engagement, bade him “Good night” as
he swung on to the dummy, and departed with
affected briskness down Collins-street to —nowhere.
The white electric lights flared overhead, red and
green lights flashed past, the streets were rapidly
emptying, and I paused at the corner, near the
Equitable Buildings, wondering what was to be
done next. I might walk out to St. Kilda to see
an old schoolfellow. Possibly he would offer me a
bed, possibly he would not. A light rain began
to fall and I sought shelter under the verandah
opposite. I was hungry, cold, depressed; angry
with fate and myself. Through my brain surged
the ideas such conditions always suggest. I could
have burst into tears, yelled with laughter, or
punched the heads of the passers by.
I felt a hand on my arm, “You, Jack ! Who’s
the girl ?”
“ Lily, you ! Who’s what girl ?”
“The girl you are waiting for. She is very
late.”
“You are the only girl I ever waited for, the
only girl I ”
“ Don’t be silly. Where are you going to dine ?
I haven’t seen you for six months.”
“ Six centuries. I haven’t a bean, and I was
contemplating suicide—not dinner.”
“ Much too miserable a night for suicide. We’ll
commit it together, some glorious moonlight even-
ing, at the clean end of the Yarra. Come and
have tea with me.”
“My dear girl, I haven’t a red cent.”
“My dear boy, I have only a red herring.
Come and share it; we’ll make up a fire to sit
over, and try to remember a dinner we had one
evening at the White Hart. ”
Women are tactful. I had been flush at that
time, and we had had the best of dinners, and
afterwards gone to admire and laugh at Julius
Knight pretending to be Napoleon.
“We can make buttered toast to put the herring
on,” she said. “Do come; I want your advice,
and I’m very lonely.”
So away we went up the wet street, under the
glistening trees, the tram lines flashing in the
light, great splashes of red and green reflected in
pools as lamps swept past. The big Town Hall
loomed vaguely against a gray sky. We knew
Melbourne well. We knew the queer lanes and
alleys at the back of its broad streets. We knew
whore you can get the cheapest meals and lodgings,
as we also knew how comfortably one can be fed
at the Maison Doree. We knew it on foot, and
we’ve rolled through it in hansoms ; we have sat
in pit and dress circle. We could find our way
almost blindfold, and are intimate with many of
its identities.
We dived down a lane, turned up a right-of-
way, mounted some crazy stairs, unlocked a door
and were in Lily’s room.
“Times are bad.” She signified the lack of
furniture. Yet a great bunch of roses stood on
the mantel-shelf amongst numerous photographs ;
a handsome opera cloak hung over her bed, and a
silver-backed mirror lay on the deal table.
“You light the fire,” she said; “I’ll get the
other things ready.”
“ Are you hard up ?”
“Very. Had an engagement at the ‘Royal’
for a few months, got ill, and had to spend three
weeks in hospital. Have been in a fiowershop.
Hope good old Bland ’ll take me on again next
week. If not, am going to try Harry. ”
We made great piles of toast, and when the
butter gave out used dripping. We divided the
herring carefully, and talked without stopping.
When the meal was over we threw a rug on the
floor, and sat looking into the fire.
“Jack, I nearly love you sometimes.”
“ Only sometimes ! I quite love you, always
‘‘ Do you ?—but yours is such a battered old
withered heart, —all seams, dents, and patches,
though you are only twenty-four.” Her hand,
lying warm in mine, gave an affectionate little
squeeze. “ Why I love you is because you are
such a good mate, and because you are not
ashamed to lift your hat to me when you are with
your sisters.”
“I’m not a cad. You are a friend of mine ; so
why ”
“I know; that’s why I love you. Your coat
wants a stitch ; take it off and let me mend it for
you.”
I sat beside her in my shirt-sleeves, and watched
her quick fingers.
“You want a cigarette, of course; there are
several in a case behind that photograph of Baker.
They are beastly dry, I expect, but they’re
Egyptians ; old Casey gave them to me.”
“ I’m not jealous of him. When are you going
to marry me, Lily ?”
“ To-morrow, sweetheart. On nothing a week,
and quarrel till I run away with someone else.”
“Should we quarrel?”
“Of course. I’m a snarling hell-cat when I’m
in a temper, and you’re a most particular beast
sometimes.”
“ Then you won’t marry me ?”
“Yes, when you are a successful novelist, and
I’m a successful actress. ”
“When ”
“ Don’t be gloomy. There is a someday. Have
you ever thought what a jolly time someday will
be ? How many hopes fulfilled someday ? How
many ambitions realised someday? How many
lovers united someday? We’ll all be rich and
happy someday. Don’t sit so close to me or I
can’t sew.”
“Never mind the sewing. You haven’t kissed
me, Lily; that need not wait till someday.”
“I’ll kiss you when I say goodnight, not before.”
“And when are you going to say goodnight,
sweetheart? We’ve made it a lengthy business
sometimes. ”
“I’m going to say it very soon. Where are
you going to sleep ?”
I shrugged my shoulders.
“ If you like you can sleep in a.n empty room on
the next landing: it has had no tenant for a week.
We can force the door open somehow, and I’ll lend
you this rug.”
“Lily, I wish it were someday.”
“So do I, if we are going to be rich. If not,
it’s as well to be young.”
“ What is the good of being young if one can’t
have what one wants ?”
‘ ‘ Just as well, perhaps. Life is made up of the
things one can’t got and the things one doesn’t
want.”
“Stop moralising! How blue your eyes are,
dear ! I want to begin to say goodnight.”
“I’ll lend you this cloak as well.”
“I don’t want the cloak—l ”
“I thought you were a mate of mine! Say
goodnight !”
And I said goodnight.
MARS.
Drink item from Paris :
Petrolism is the new vice that threatens the brains, the
strength and purses of Parisians and Frenchmen, or,
rather, it is the old vice of alcoholism, in a new and
startling form. The taste of this disagreeable beverage
grows upon the consumer, it is said, until it develops
into an irresistible passion. The doctors have not yet
had opportunities to study its effects, and their views,
lacking a firm basis, are divergent. The consensus of
opinion, however, maintains that the intoxication pro-
duced by petroleum is of a melancholy nature which
tinges things in grey. The petroleum drinker is sad,
discontented, despairing. Unlike whisky, the mineral
oil never bestows “ Dutch courage ” upon the
quaffer, who is rarely quarrelsome or pugnacious.
Generally speaking, the “ petroliques ” sleep calmly
enough, and even their general health is not as rapidly
undermined as by the alcoholic beverages in common
demand. Here, however, opinions differ. Some doctors
hold that the gravest organic changes are caused by the
use, which is also an abuse, of petroleum, and that the
germs of mortal diseases are called into being. The
manner in which the latest batch of “ petroliques ” was
discovered is curious. A firm in the city furnished petro-
leum to certain retail shops. The head of one of the
latter complained of short measure. The wholesale mer-
chant denied the charge, and proved that he was right.
At last it was discovered that the retailer’s workmen
drank it. Another confraternity of tipplers was convicted
of the offence in a different way. A usually sober
and hard:vvorking man, who was happy though married,
began suddenly to stagger home in a state of half-seas-
over. His spouse, horrified at the prospect before her,
searched his pockets, and, to her surprise, found that his
funds were not lower than before. Neither was he ever
late, strange to say. Unable to solve the riddle, she con-
fided to one of her married friends. The latter had a
husband of her own, who was in the same boat. They
put their heads together, and, after some days of shadow-
ing and inquiring, the two sorrowing matrons learned
that their lords and masters were slaves to petroleum.
What shall it profit a teetotaller though he sup-
presses the wine when it is red and the beer
when it is long ? For if the human race only
starts a grey, cheerless, sunless drunk on
paraffin oil instead of the old, happy drunk
that it used to have, things are no further for-
ward, after all.


The Best Nerve Tonic
It cures nervousness, neuralgia, nervous
prostration, restlessness, sleeplessness, ner-
vous headache, nervous dyspepsia, and that
terrible feeling of utter prostration.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
A
1
■X
«
X
r
“During the past summer I became weak, nervous, and all run down. I
had little or no appetite and did not sleep at all well. I tried several so-called
tonics without obtaining any relief. At length I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and
I have found it a sure restorer of energy, appetite, and strength to the body.
“I have surely proved that it aids digestion and helps the system to with-
stand the terrible heat of this climate.”
This strong testimony, with the above portrait, is from Mr. C. E. Berglm,
of 29 Elizabeth Street, Waterloo, New South Wales.
Of course there are other sarsaparillas; yet there is but one great Sarsapa-
rilla. It is “ Ayer’s,” the original sarsaparilla, the long-tried sarsaparilla, the
sarsaparilla that acts directly on the blood.
Its high standard of manufacture, and its multitude of astonishing cures
has given it the name of
"The World’s Greatest Family Medicine."
It makes the nerves steady and the memory strong. It takes out the
poisons in the blood that cause your hard headache. It drives away nervous
prostration and gives you nerve power.
AYER'S &Tj£anfa
It Takes out AH Impurities from the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills Act Especially on the Liver.
yOU are SCirc to get the Best Piai>o
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
nONISCN FanjoOS Piapos oply to be bad
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
DCCNSTCIN SOperb PiapoS oi)ly
** At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
MI6NON Piapos, World Repowpcd, oply
■ At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
IJANON PiapoS WoQdcrftilly Cheap oi)ly
M At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
IJO Other NoCiSeS arc ip with
M NICHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
-pOR Bili°uB and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
I Giddiness, lulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills Flush’
of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosriveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations &c THE FTRST tSoqt?
%MLI. GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. Thta £ ..oWa Ev™ 1
Armra 0116 0X of tiiese PiUs. and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
uUINJbA A SOX/
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health Thev
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
.Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Laraest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. I ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is and 2s 9d each.
NECESSITY THE MOTHER OF INVENTION
r
I.—“ Where is that worthless hoy? How on earth am I to milk the cowand mind the
baby at the same time, I’d like to know ? ”
r
2.—“ An idea l i’ll put 1 al*y up here as an experiment
'M?
Kr
flr
f)
ML-
-3 1 it works splendidly.'
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
o ,as
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, 1
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ; [
and Export Oilmen generally. i
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. |
SAUCE.
Agents : Messrs. VIRGO 15, SON, & CHAPMAN : an«l DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
Bonningtou’s
Cures While Sleeping.
misTioss
TBSTIMOIsi lAX..
Adamstown, September lltb, 1896.
BONNINGTON ft CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being a sutteier for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Ikish Moss. As a soother of irritating
oough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, conies more readily away, and
the oough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung ComplainS
tending to CONSUMPTION. *
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Fills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. fro GRIPING PAINS.


Th Harq:
tn
CO
ccr
£
as
-/
Sf
Establishes
1«47.
IQH
arvestin
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS Cd LIMITED
Head Offlte and Faetoriei - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 168-169 William-st. Mel\
New South Wales Address I
SS Broadway, George St. West, Bydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated. Catalogue free, on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
S 8 Qneen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
58
TEARS DYEING
for the ladies.
W-. o. &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Ordert by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK-
@>!§@©
40L
&HE jJBBOT
Empire Chambers, 93 York
Also at
SYDNEY.
st
•>
“ THE block,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortbiOgtoi) P6ri)pii)g Eogio* Corgpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SllXipSOn BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, KS.W.
Agencies
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE. x , ADELAiDR
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARPE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION
“Jupiter” (erosene gas Stoves.
JVO N OISE 72V BURNING.
Latest Improvements:
Bums Kerosene without a wick, oonvert-
PRICE X2/6; crimed to'Zo'.e^ri
saaa&iiS&f-irsS s&r * -* ° f 1/3 «
Primus Stoves , 9/6 each ; Price of Ovens, from li/6 each.
BRANDT BROS.
LAMP and STOVE WAREHOUSE,
236 Pitt-at. (opposite School of Arts). SYDNEY
An Exhibition In Cooking takes place next Wednesday at 12 o’clock at our
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery Svstem of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visjjt the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING- STREET and 23 ROYXI
ARCADE-for AFTERNOON TEA (NW-Amng OT
these Depots for AFTERNOON I'EAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD Ol\
THEY WILL RECEIVE PRO
25 HARBOUR STREET,
A'l TENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY
LTD
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Eng'ines and Boilers,
... Sole Agents for . . .
The New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
mm
m
Inger soil-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho’s
Baking Powder .
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & C 0...
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth'
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 16 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels!
choke bore, steel with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price t’lo 10s, reduoed £3 17s 6d each!
complete; 17 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £6 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners cotnplete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders," or Bank drafts‘must be
marie payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
V
R
B.S.A.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
pci WIIV. V« ■ vv* | - v- »•.». ••• IkUOVIVW
date. IT, ;8, t!>,.4l(i,.jei2, fcjiarauteed 12 months. .
TRADE SUPPLIED GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA. . .
H. P. Gregory &
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J, A. Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
FAY'S HAND-FEED PLANER.
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines f£>
Lath Cutting Machines
ftO>i &c.
