

GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
McEWAN’S ALE.
MALTED COCOA
K. G. WATKinrS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining 1 Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
™ n VV T>K ’Z GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, Us. per Hay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m m st™., SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Huston, Proctor & Co. t.^
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
AND
TEERASHIKTG- MACHIUES, SA.W jBEKTCHES, & c ., & c .
THORNE’S
M WHISKY.
Kilminster's Clarendon Hotel,
The favorite seaside resort, Overlooking 1 the Pacific Ocean at
kept by Mrs. Kihninster for the last „ _
Twenty (20) Years nMANIY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
m2
i
SI
s
wu
Sr
HOBART.
JtsjWs
Radley s Orient fiotel.
N E
ND-HAND
AND
W FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of belt
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- IBIiIDIEfcIIDG-IE! & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STKEEI', SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
cu&> <ut. ti/cu/CiAJb W'i
'trw
oo
860,112
Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGT& SOM, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, .S. Australia.
66
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
erang Brandy
ONE OP OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
Vandyck
CIGARS
TVS
©lf 8
Is
tLD'uPt/IGRANr
SMOR£
WI©I^IkiR«S:M.RUITrUC?SYJ)NtY
The Bulletin
Vol. 20.— N0. 1017. J
[Saturday, August 12, 1899.
Per stored at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is 6d each.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
n\OV
sfeg?
CYSS
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Or from the PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland,
for Postage Stamps of any Province.
SYDNEY AGENT: S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
KST They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
UNDER THE
GUMTREE
The Haikai.
r|RHE lists were filled with
' I competitors for the haikai
prize—knigh ts and dam es;
but none showed remark-
able prowess. The form plainly
needs study. It was given that
a haikai is a Japanese poem in
three lines of five, seven, and five
syllables ; models were shown ;
and examples with an Australian
reference were asked for. Some
attempts too closely imitated
the models ; others were poetical,
but unmelodious ; a third class
were melodious and unpoetical.
It does not seem clear that the
form is well suited to English—
the 5-7-5 formula is perhaps too
abrupt for melody; but be-
tween amphibrachs, dactyls, and
anapaests some fair results are obtainable. One
would think the effect of the wave rising, pausing
and toppling, the best to be obtained in three
lilies, like—
At last! . . . ’t is a lake !
What joy to drink, bathe in it! . . .
Oh, Gorl ! a mirage !
Possibly a triplet of G-8-5 or 6-9-5 syllables pro-
mises better; in such a measure the idea of Goethe’s
“Geber alien Gipfeln ” might go—
There i 3 peace on the hills :
The birds in the tree-tops are silent . . .
You too will rest soon.
But they say the haikai is r’esiduum of a long
series of experiments ; and genius could no doubt
do won lers with it. Looal talent has only pro-
duced tiny portents, of which (having regard to
conditions) this is found best—
10s. 6d. has been posted to the writer : R. Craw-
ford, North Sydney.' (His third line could be in-
tensified.) .
This, by “Harper Bale,” would have divided
the prize had the Australian reference been
clearer :
_ The popular M.P. is the man who can recite, or
sing a comic song. If he can do “a bit av a
shtep ”as well, he may defy opposition. When
the champion log-roller of East-Western N.S.
Wales was touring his constituency awhile ago,
he had no trouble at all in securing unanimous
votes-of-confidence—his logs were so large and his
recitations so long. At one hamlet he had orated
for an hour on the sins of the Govt, when
an enemy suddenly chipped in : “ We’re
sick of hearin’ about the Guvment. Tell
us wot yer perlitiekel principles is!” ‘ ‘My
principles!” said the orator, turning to his
front-row supporters with tears in his voice;
“he asks what my principles are ! Didn’t I get
you the bridge at Dead-Dog Gully? Didn’t I get
you the new road over One-tree Hill ? Didn’t I
get you the biggest post-office in the East-Western
district— with a clock, too ? ” Sobs and cheers
drowned his speech; and the interrupter was
thrown out in disgrace. Then the politician
thanked his friends for their noble acknowledg-
ment of his zeal in their service, and announced :
“I will now recite you one of two pieces—the
Atnerican poet Longfellow’s celebrated compo-
sition ‘The Raven,’ or ‘The Bells of Sbandon.’
Which will.you have?” A blaekfellow in the
back of the hall shouted, “Gib it shandygaff !"
and the evening closed triumphantly with
The be ls of Shandon,
That sound so grand on
The pleasant waters of the river Lee.
G.O.M. writes—
What simile could be better than O'Connell's on the
bloodless Pitt : “He has a smile like the silver
plate on a coffin. “ I spread them out like gravel,” I
heard a drunk and vainglorious shearer boasting on his
return late at night from the pub where there had been
a bit of a row. And this simile hit me personally, and
struck me with force enough, heaven knows. I have been
through a section of hell the last three months of this
drought, lost over a third of my sheep, almost £3OOO
worth in the three months. A youhg boundary-rider
pulled his horse up at the fence close to the verandah and
said, “ Them sheep have been hanging in the corner of
the back paddock, boss.” “ Any dead ? ” was my scared
question. “ Yes,” he said, dangling an unconcerned leg
over his horse’s wither, “ they are lying about like bloody
hailstones.” I thought I had experienced trouble enough
to toughen me, but that infernal comparison sent me in
off the verandah with a dull ache at the heart—realising
for the first time that “ heart-ache” is not a mere figure
of speech.
Beth : That the meadows of his youth gave
Shakespeare charming images is obvious ; that
they were Stratford meadows is assumed, not on
the evidence of his plays, but on the.collateral
evidence of birth and life.
“ T. Trove ” writes —
You dub Fred. G. Bowles “Cockney.” He is, I believe,
a North countryman and hails from West Hartlepool.
It was the poet, not the man, who earned the
epithet.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
HAIKAI.
Ffannel-flo'w'rs dancing
To the dawn on the hill-tops . .
The Vision of Spring !
E. CRAWFORD.
Gold-brown shine the cliffs ;
The valleys beneath are blue:
Geld orowns her blue eyes.
Harper Bale.
Some other examples—
A blossom I pluck,
Daintiest, sweetest , rarest
Name it? The Haikai.
Harper Bale.
Soft blossoms of gold !
The wattle pressed to her lips . . .
That I were # wattle!
C.L.
A fresh voice warbling ;
Concert platform, crowded hall . . ,
Paris! Marchesi !!
B.F.
SCENE: A BEDROOM AT MOSMAN'S.
TIME: MIDNIGHT'
(She): Hist, dear ! t hose ’possums
Rustling there by our gateway !
(He): Tush ! ’t is two sweethearts.
F.S.D.
Ah ! cornered at last,
My g-ay kangaroo ! . . But no-
lle ’s over the fenoe !
A.G.
Slow-moving river :
Sad rustling of mournful <rums. . .
Ploy ! A trout, I think ?
“ Cn w-aw ! ” said the Crow.
“ These bones in the sand are dry !
I have come too late.”
These show the haikai in series—
G.N
VERLOR NE LIBE.
The curlew flying
Sworded the night with sad cry
Across the bare hills.
Below in the darkness,
Beneath pale trees that whispered.
My love and I stood.
Wan o’er the ranges
Slow rose the moon, and saw us
Kiss as we parted.
White on the dim pearls
That drooped from my love’s eyelids,
She shone in pity.
Long has that night pass’d,
Lost in the shadows of things.
Veiled in Life’s darkness.
Yet. when the wild cry
Of the bird piereeth the night,
See 1 my love there,
As then I saw her
’Neath the wan bush moon,
Standing beside me.
Life smote us vainly :
He hath not pow’r to rob us
Of this sad meeting.
Dum-dum.
IN WAVERLEY GEMETERY.
In their seaside graves
Here on the wind-swept cliff, lit
Sadie and Sappho.
White stones ’gainst blue sky
Shine ; the Pacific murmurs
Mysteriously.
Cleo.
These have been slightly altered for publica-
tion :
Luckless Australia !
Angel-browed, mother-eyed child—
Wed to the Devil I
Flaxbush.
Up high in her nest,
Shedding Hope from her bright eyes—•
See 1 the Southern Cross.
A stir in the sea ;
A white flash on the wave-crest)
And the dread shark pass’d.
A.G.
Ah, kindest critic !
Sit down, dear ! here is my poem 1 . . .
Bother ! the baby 1
Djlr'.ada.
GOODBYE, AUSTRALIA!
Good-bye to it all !
God still holds the land, haply;
Still holds me—its toy.
First, our one child died ;
And the heart-broken mother
The summer sun slew.
Last flood drowned the stock ;
Then the fires took home, fencing . . «
Her garden is gone.
So I will leave it.
The blue waters roll the ship
In the dull, sad hay.
Forget you, loved hearts 1 . . .
This dead wattle holds your dear
Memory ever.
Good-bye to the grave
On the hill ; for the far isles
Are calling. Good-bye!
B.B.
Bookfellow’s Competitions.
VI.—WANTED—A TEXT.
A Sydney paper says that—
At St. James’s Church yesterday morning the Rev. M. ■
Mullineux, captain of the English football team, preached
to a very large congregation.
Now, what—all the circumstances philosophically
considered —-was the most appropriate text for his
Reverence ? 10s. 6d. will be paid for it.
Search the Scriptures—the Authorised Version
—and send before August 30.
Newer French Poetry.
V.—ARTHUR RIMBAUD (1854-1891).
SCAMP, vagabond, escapee of civilisation, ex-
plorer, adventurer—such, in the practical
sphere, was Arthur Rimbaud : Vanarchiste
selon Vesprit, as Mallarme summed him
up—the enfant terrible of literature. Literature,
indeed, was for him only one way of giving vent
to the lawless, brutal power that was in him ;
and when lie found more direct outlets for his
energy, he renounced it for ever—at least, till his
death.
He was a precocious youngster, learned deeply
in letters at an age when most schoolboys are only
schoolboys—writing strange, individual verse and
magnificent lyrical prose from his sixteenth year,
and turning his back on literature before his
majority. He was precocious in revolt, repeatedly,
from his home in the Ardennes, ruled by a severe
mother, making for Paris, to reach it either by
smuggled railway journey or on foot. His last
visit brought him together with Verlaine, the only
living poet whose work did not disgust him ; with
Victor Hugo, who exclaimed ‘ ‘ Shakespeare enfant /”
whereupon Rimbaud laughed ; with Theodore de
Banville, helpful and admiring, but Rimbaud
laughed again. What came of the meeting with
Verlaine, for both, has already been told : when
Verlaine had passed into the silence of the prison,
Rimbaud wrote his last work —that “ prodigious
mental autobiography,” the only work he ever
printed, A Season in Hell.
This little book marks a crisis in Rimbaud’s life.
It is a brutal indictment of himself and his race,
of Europe and civilisation. A Season in Hell
that is, the confession of a spirit in torment.
For Rimbaud suffered for an orient Eden of
harmonious, unfettered life, of radiant strength.
And he saw all round him, lie saw in himself,
only the “ damaged negro,” the savage despoiled
of his innocence, floundering in “ the marshes of
the west.” So much labour, and yet man has not
transcended him ..-If ! Philosophers and scientists,
endlessly ruminating proofs, instead of living the
life that is its own evidence : weak brains, caught
in their own systems of law and morals : how
much more preferable the criminal, the beggar,
those who reject or are rejected by civilisation !
Rimbaud’s resolution is fixed : “ Let the cities
light up in the evening : my day is over : I quit
Europe. The sea-winds shall burn my lungs : for-
gotten climates shall tan me. . . . And I shall
possess the Truth in a soul and in a body.”
Beside this prophecy we must set Rimbaud’s
masterpiece in verse, The Drunken Ship. I have
remarked in Verlaine that presentiment of destiny
found in many exceptional men. When Rimbaud
conceived this poem of a ship that sails out with-
out steersman to explore vast seas of wonder
beneath unknown dawns and nights that stream
with delirious stars, this ship that roams and
tosses till it longs for some stagnant pool of
Europe, it is impossible to say whether he foresaw
his own destiny or whether the vision that rose
before him possessed him to the end, forcing him
to realise it: either way we seem to be in presence
of something miraculous.
For Rimbaud now turned to the East, perhaps
yet “ the Eden amid the purity of antique races,”
where on “ the endless shores covered with white
exultant nations” he may find “the splendid
Force, the future Vigour.” But that he may
maintain his existence among unknown, possibly
fierce races, until he shall have grown into his
imagined superhuman self, he will come among
them as a master of civilisation (as befits one who
has gone through it), to whom all its knowledge,
theory and practice, is a tool in the hand. With
this project, pursued with unsurpassed tenacity,
he traversed Europe in its entirety, assimilating
languages and sciences, supporting himself by any
kind of work —only not literary. While at Stutt-
gart, he saw once more Verlaine, now free, who,
thinking to win his old comrade back to the
roving life, came dressed in bandit-wise. Rim-
baud consented to see him ; received his manu-
scripts, and gave him one of the few surviving
copies of A Season in Hell; then one day, wearied
with his importunities to return to poetry and
vagabondage (Rimbaud had a wider vagabondage
in view), and remembering, perhaps, the pistol-
shot at Brussels, turned on him and thrashed him.
Verlaine, whom one may well imagine scarcely
defending himself, was left half dead, in the
lonely Black Forest, and never saw his friend
again.
ABTEUR RIMBAUD
From a sketch by Paul Verlaine.
Who, more than once, broke away to the East;
crossing the S. Gothard, twice, on foot; reaching
Sumatra once, having enlisted in the Dutch ser-
vice, but to desert. Useless attempts : like two
visits to Cyprus, where he superinten led the
building of the Governor’s palace. Then, in Aden,
he found place with a trader ; later, freedom and
action for himself, in Abyssinia, where the poet’s
hands trafficked with precious things, gold, fran-
kincense, spices, and ivory. Enough has come to
our knowledge concerning his activity as trader,
explorer, and civilising influence the tribes
called him the “Just Balance” and still revere
his name—but all that his imagination gathered
from the direct revelation of the desert sun was
only uttered on his death-bed, where he spoke
once more in the visionary strain of his early prose.
The thirty-seventh year of life has been fatal to
more than one remarkable man*: it brought
Rimbaud, already dreaming of rest, of. wife and
children—the Bateau ivre. had finished its course—
back to Europe, seeking health, to die, after acute
suffering, on a hospital-bed. It is told that he
died as a saint, lost in mystic visions. Consis-
tently: he had always been a visionary ; with this
difference, that to the pursuit of his visions he
brought the tenacity of application, the practical
genius, with which we credit business-men. We
cannot always credit them with the riches he did
not fail to amass—a mere side-diversion.
Thus the man Rimbaud : what of the name ?
When, in the fulness of time, Paul Verlaine came
to Paris, to find a small band of young men ready
to follow him in his attack on the usurpers of
undeserved renown, after hanging out the flag
emblazoned Decadence— the merest battlecrv this,
as Verlaine always insisted—he published that
series of articles known as The Outcast Poets,
wherein, beside verses by Corbiere and Mallarme,
some of Rimbaud’s poems appeared for the first
time. They “took”: at least, one did. Tt i«
notoriously hard to appreciate a new-comer’s
merits, whereas his eccentricity—what Mr.
Watson would call his “restless idiosyncrasy ” —
immediately strikes your eye. Thus Arthur
Rimbaud became, and remains, for most people,
the author of a single piece, the somewhat ohar-
latanic sonnet wherein, reducing to an absurd-
ity the truth of Baudelaire’s “ correspondence ”-
sonnet, he colours the five vowels. It was
hardly to be foreseen that even this could,
and should, be further reduced to absurdity ; that
M. Rene (liiil would come from Belgium, and,
gravely correcting Kilobaud for having made U
green instead of yellow, edify a system of verse-
music on the correspondence of the alphabet, the
colours, and—the instruments of the orchestra!
the whole in order to chant, indcsinenter, Dar-
winian evolution with a difference. Of Rimbaud’s
sonnet one can at least say that all the verses are
fine:
VOYELLES
A noir, E blanc, I rouge, U vert, 0 bleu, voyeUes,
Je dirai quelque jour von naissanCes latentes.
A, noir corset vein des mouches eclatantes
Qui bombillent autour des pucmteurs cruelles,
Golfe d'ombre: E, candeur des vapeurs et des tentes,
Lance des glaciers Jiers, rois blancs, frissons
d ’ombelles ;
I, pour pres, sang craehe, rire des Ibvres belles
Dans la colbre ou les ivresses penitentes ;
U, cycles, vibrements divins des mers virides,
Paix des pdtis sends d ’animaux, paix des rides
Que I’alchimie imprime aux grands fronts studieux;
0, supreme Clairon plein de strideurs etr a/ages,
Silences traverses des Mondes et des Anges :
—0 I’Omega, rayon violet de Ses Ycuxt
Well, Rimbaud’s name became the symbol of
all that was eccentric : reports ran about that he
was king of some inaccessible Eastern tribe ; and
young men, desirous of having their little joke
and “knocking the Philistine silly,” published the
most delightful parodies over his name. When
La Vogue was founded in 1886, Rimbaud’s prose-
poems (the Illuminations) were dragged from
Verlaine’s desk, and, having run through several
numbers, were printed in volume-form with the
Saison en Enter. Rimbaud heard of all this
before his death, and was angry. The poems
appeared only in 1895, a few months before
Verlaine’s death, who had preserved them all the
years, though many, he tells us, had been stolen
and are irreparably lost. An attempt had been
made in 1891 to issue a pirated edition with a
scandalous preface. These poems—inferior, as I
think, with Verlaine and other good judges, to
Rimbaud’s prose—after we have set aside certain
socialistic-democratic-anticlerical crudities (these
forms of enthusiasm Rimbaud soon outgrew)
and the inevitable copies of Hugo, Musset, and
others (a boy of sixteen must learn his trade),
fall under three beads: a rich and savorous
realism, suggesting that Rimbaud had Flemish
blood in his veins; a hyperbolic intellectual
humour, delightfully expressed in completely
harnessed and caparisoned Parnassian verse ; and
the efforts towards a new poetic language,
“accessible,” Rimbaud dreamed, “to all the
senses.” Well, after the Bateau ivre, which is by
no means a miracle of lucidity, Rimbaud might
well say that “he reserved the translation thereof.”
The “ stammerings ” of his later verse are only of
interest in that they suggested to Verlaine a new
metre. It is generally vain to search for their
signification. The reason seems to be that, in
endeavouring to preserve the freshness and magic
of the moment of inspiration, Rimbaud forgot to
clarify its turbidity. His images, thrown at you
as they arise, possess seldom more than a chance
personal association, to grasp which one would
require to be in possession of the author’s state of
mind at the time of conception. Herein the un-
intelligible Rimbaud differs from the obscure
Mallarme, who is obscure, voluntarily, because he
will not give you any unnecessary associations to
Earn per your sloth, yet is intelligible, because he
as refined his symbols till nothing remains but
the necessary, natural, logical links between them.
The Illuminations, a mythical transfiguration of
the events of life, small or great, indifferently,
belong to Rimbaud’s pioneer work, are his real
achievement. They generally explain themselves,
and if there is a residue of mystery it is at least
beautiful. Here is one :
Dawn
I have embraced the summer da wn.
Nothing stirred on the palace fronts. The water
was dead. The shades were still encamved on the
road to the forest. I walked on, arousing warm,
living breaths around me, and the precious stcrnes
peeped out at me, and wings rose noiselessly.
The first adventure was, on the little path already
filled with fresh pale glances, a flower that told me
its name.
I laughed at the waterfall, dishevelled among the
firs ; on its silvery top I recognised the goddess.
Then I raised her veils one by one. In the
avenue, as I waved my arms. In the plain, where
I announced her to the cock. In the city, slit fled
among the steeples and domes, and, rannim like a
beggar along the marble quays, I pursu :■'/ her.
Where the road mounted, near a anrd-tvood, I
clasped her with all her gathered veils, and I
felt, a moment, her immense body. The dawn and
the child fell together in the depths of the wood.
When I a woke, it ivas noon.
Rimbaud possessed the mytliopceic faculty, and
his admirers have speculated as to what renewal
of the human spirit he might have produced had
life been prolonged to him. At least he di 1 this.
With his intense perception of the life that is its
own evidence, he touched the central fact of
poetry, with the enterprise, rare among those
endowed with the gift of song, to live his imagi-
nation without the intervention of the word. And
with the poet’s fuller instinct he anticipated
Nietzsche, even to _ his judgments concerning
history and civilisation, without for that losing
his mental balance and degenerating into megalo-
mania. Ho wrote the Bateau ivre, which must
stand in the Anthology of France ; and, as it will
always be told, he influenced Verlaine.
C.B.
* Raphael, Purcell, Watteau, Mozart, Burns, Byron,
El Mahdi. Will anyone extend the list?


Medical.
tfkin *t)i6ea4e6.
s9leu) Wkeotiery
“*£iymo{{kne. ”
the GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
tIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
RARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own had case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it..—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOI.LEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. 11. EMBLING,M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
gi r< I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
savs it is the best reined v she ever tried for that com-
plaint.— Yours faithfully, \V. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Mai.vox,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which i suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept mv hearty thanks, and remain yours
Sincerely, TIIOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, H.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRYMALYON,
Manufactui-in<j Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. aud 7b. GcT. Each.
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Stdkbt ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
[ Cramps,\
\ Colic, '
\ Colds,
k\
Croup
Coughs
Tooth-
ache,
Cuts « \
L Burns, '
\ Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
■Pain-Kitter
(PEBEY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
“ d LOZENGES.
Cures Without Medicine.
N
m
™»nn
A RE you Nervous, Weak,
Despondent, 111? Have
you tried drugging the
stomach until almost ready
to give up in despair? If so,
why not try Electricity?
Hundreds have been perma-
cured by this wonder-
ful remedy as applied by the
great American Invention
“Dr. Pierce’s Galvanic
Chain Belt." Scores of grateful letters like the lol-
lowing are constantly being received :
From Africa : “ Somerset East, Cape Colony, South
Africa, Aug. 15, 1898. lam much pleased to say that Dr.
Pierce’s Galvanic Chain Belt acted like a charm with me.
I am now cured and strong.—Yours truly, T. K. Wish.”
From England. : “ I am extremely pleased to be enabled
to say that your Belt has had a wonderful effect in curing
me of varicocele.—Tnos. Baxxistkr, 13 Richmond Road,
Montpelier, Bristol.” From Australia : “ 1 am now a
new mnv, after taking tons of medicine which did me no
good. 1 was hardly able to walk before J got your Belt. —
D. Cameron, 1 Stewart Place, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.
Wales.” From America : “Co. H, 18th Infantry, U.S.
Army, Camp Merritt, San Francisco, June 9, 1898. Last
October, while in garrison at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas,
I sent for one of your famous Dr. Pierce’s Electric Belts
for Rheumatism, &c., and after wearing it only about two
months my complaints entirely disappeared, and I have
not been troubled with any pain or discomfort since.—
Yours gratefully, John P. Anderson.”
iW Call at Sydney Agency, or send 2d. in stamps for
our New “ Booklet No. 2.” It gives price-list (in English
and American money) and full information. Address—
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market-St., San Francisco, U.S.A., or Washington
H. Soul & Co.. 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
— i
Any Bushman Will Tel.
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering iniurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n)brocatioQ.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&k
*oy
&
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COG L. AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ M- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Not at all. It is merely a case of
cause and effect The cause was an
How Wonderful!
Allcock’s Porous Plaster placed right over
the small of the back. The effect was the disap-
pearance of the lameness so suddenly
that “ lost ” was the only term which
could fairly be used. But it is not
lameness only that thus disappears
under the touch of
All cock's
Porous piaster
It is equally effective in sprains,
stiffness of the joints, sore muscles, pain in the chest, any
trouble arising from taking cold from accident or over-
exertion. v
REMEMBER when 3'ou need a plaster
Allcock’s PIASTER
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S.
BEECHER-STOWE S
PRODUCES A BEAUTIFUL GLOSS ON
’shirt bosoms,cuffs, collars,lace,curtains v
PRICE*
WASHINGTON.H.SOUL& CD
160 £ 468 PITT 81 SYDNEY _
POSTAC6
3-
BRUSH’S
HIGM-lUSTUR CERTS SIDtES.
brush
M*krr
Stones
La**-*
S/s'&o f .,
Natural Saffron
, • iw
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
BRUSH,
SYOtvit,
: fa'.i
.:■•• •
No. 19. No. 21.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, witl
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“Brusll, MJELICor*, Syc3.lO.ey, Registered.’
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit foi
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, .£3 ss'j A, *3 15s; B, .£4
0, .£4los; D; «£5; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
[s a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s tc
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired.
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskm Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d. . , .. . . . „ _ ...
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station m N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired-No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations of
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GJ TGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THJE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
g§®l^
UVWV
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis.
ld ; 10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs,
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
rnania, 5d ; 8 Egvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differed ts (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
King Street, Sydney.
fringes,
Waturat Curly, from 3/6 e&ctw
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOin. lone, '/&. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBING*-
up, i/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestln Ante
trail a for all Hair Wort,
Send Color of Hair. <r
W. H.Mtfijzell?
110 William Strbet. s
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full -Prioo
Prompt attention'giyen to Country OrdeTt
mus'
The Reform Price
Jewellers-*.
Watches Cleaned and Regulated, 2/6
Best English Mainspring - - - 2/6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jewellery Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
FREWCH’S, 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobabt.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. M ALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney's leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
ECZEMfIOLEfIC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince oi Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Not a
Grease. Does not stain the linen. Full directions
each jar. Testimonials from all parts of the
colonies, copies on application. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10.
Chemists or Depots:
BYDNEY—M. Lovett, 60 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAII E— Habbis & Kemp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOURNE— Fred. J. E. Phillips, 817 Collins c t.
am
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable,
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
r i»]
▼
A
4
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET, DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
HIGH-GRADE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINE R,Y


Address S
Care GEO, ADAMS,
Hobart
Metropolitan S. September 12.
25,000 Subscribers at £5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot mo
Name
Address
£ * »
.shares in the above.
Demonstration H. October 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in the above.
Kamo
t
Address.
CAULFIELD C. October 21.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mn
.shares in the
.Cup.
• Kamo
Address.
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 3,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— La tlio &bor&
Namo ..
Address ’
« t s
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers a.t 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo ~ , , . shares in the abeve.
Name
Address
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Metropolitan S.
Caulfield C. ...
... 25,000 at 5
... 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C.
.. 100,000 at 5
TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
llic
Name.
«, Shares
Special .
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” car© Geo. Adams, Hobart.


t
Anthony
Hordern’s
for EVERYTHING 1
Yon can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get . .
THE BEST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in ...
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US !
and taste our
QUALITY.
SEND FOR—
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydnev
PAKRoT
TOLVpTvr
IMS tfoUNDC
CpV6R$ (01P5
[Beware of
Imitations
Modern
Milling-
Machinery,
V
■ \
BAND SAW MITJ-S. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MAC! 11NER Y.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery creeled by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, ns used on the Railways of
K.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarenee-st., Sydney.
“ DOWRIDGE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Ahd GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
<3-0 TO HBLL-
K-JOGANI) for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real sfood stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOC I ETY is prepared to LEND in anyamounta,
at lowest Current rates, upon FREEHOLD an.) LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES ; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode*
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of lona fidcs on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £0 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Bnekboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- ]>er Set.
B3T Send for l’rice List.
H. HILIiIEB., 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: 11ELBO URN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent* Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Woiks: MELBOURNE-ST., CUN COlil), SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Oar. ages. Broughams &e., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINS
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
2/6 & 4/L
OF ALL
HEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
QKO MARICOPAS COY.i LT D
I The
Celebrated
I Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“ 1 have used
your ' KOKO ’
now since June
last, and 1 have
not only at pped
the falling out,
which had been
exceB*ive after a
6evereillncs«,but
Ihavean entirely
new growtn of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 »m not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this ia a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion."
:fe e
$
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
\A7HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
V» LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge —2O years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured bv quacks, anti are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere Jgo 1 hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says :— ** By a mere chance 1 have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
Ana
Ve
as
wfts finite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most tilings men! ioned without any result. A i
airo he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course 1 laughed, and tor which yo
n, v friend until a few davs ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
ead, but with a full, thick head of hair.”—l'. J. CONNORS, Esq., Toorna, N.S.W. -20 9 97.
few months
ago he lntormea me ne ■■■ ■- >■■■■■ —~ , jou must for-
give me. 1 did not sec :
rade piuCE 'per Bottle',Us.’, 45.” 6 s.’,' 10s. Gd, 12s! Gd! 'Ninepeiice (small) and Is. extrafor postage. Sold by all Chemist*.
E. HOLLAND,
UAIJt SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
Plum
pm
TUB
Plum*
/GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor*
(rial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Reim; practical tradesmen ourselves, ve know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. Wc nuarantce ca'-h Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, .-p'-cially made - for this razor, 7s 6d. *
Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, Gd. cake.
_ . / Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21*.
I rice U; ,] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30*.
JtetiiHcrcd and sent J'ost Free to any part o' the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY
3SI.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Man f. Company,
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfcrn, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description o(
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spriug Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
•ot. more for your requirement*.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL So. 8
£8 18/6
DelWered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Johnny Sits a Buck.
John Andrew was a younger son,
A n enterprising lad,
His father owned a cattle run
And lots of horses had ;
Both good and bad
Belonged to Dad
And breaking in these horses was our Johnny’s
little fad.
But Johnny had more heart than “ holt, ’
And far more grit than grip,
And now and then an awkward colt
Got John beneath the whip;
Then John would tip,
The colt would rip,
And Dad would pay the doctor’s bill and swear
with bearded lip.
Now Johnny had a brother, Tom,
The eldest in the nest,
The others caught impressions from
Opinions Tom expressed,
And Tom confess ed
He thought it best
For John to break his blanky neck and give them
all a rest.
This may have been a trifle hard,
But anyhow, one day,
When John was working in the yard
And Tom some chains away,
The c’ua . rose gray
Where wi red the fray
Of sixteen hands of or .eflesh and the hero of this
lay.
And now and then, as Thomas bored
His hardwood for the nails,
He heard the noise where Johnny warred
And saw, through dusty scales,
Sheepskins and bales,
And heads and tails,
With ruddy oaths and whistling snorts flung up
against the rails.
Then suddenly, to Tom’s amaze,
Popped out across the bars
An eight-foot fence with gidyea stays—
That colt of Morning Star’s,
He shook the spars,
But, great cigars !
He never shook our Johnny in his saddle —that
is, Pa’s !
Then off, like Tam O’Shanter’s mare,
He cleared across the flat,
His haltered head was in the air,
His foot in Johnny’s hat;
Then, tired of that,
His head dropped pat,
And round he bucked as, after rain, bucks any
household cat.
But Johnny, riding like a book,
Stuck closely to his hack,
And Thomas, turning for a look,
Roared loudly at his back :
“ Go it, the pack !
Stick to him, Jack 1 ”
Aside : “He has a bit of pluck, tho’ science he
may lack.”
Just then a frightful thing occurred,
Tho’ fiction it may sound,
But, if you doubt my given word,
By oath I will be bound ;
The colt swung round,
And then Tom found
The rider’s leg came clean away and dropped upon
the ground !
Then Johnny swayed ; horse kicked ; an arm
Flew upward to the sky,
And, racing'in a wild alarm,
Tom made the pebbles fly,
With helpless cry :
“ Poor Jack will die.”—
Another lash, the other leg went soaring haystack-
high !
Tom straightened out and ran his best,
And dropped his pot of paint,
His tears fell dumbly on his vest,
He prayed like any saint,
“ He’s bust, he’s brain’t!
He’s dead, he ain’t! ”
Then, overpowered with pace and fear, fell for-
ward in a faint.
The colt cleared out across the hill,
And kicked a waistcoat clear.
And John, with laughter nearly ill,
Came gasping in the rear :
“Oh ! Lord ! Oh ! Dear !
Look, Toni, I’m here,
He’s got a dummy on his back, some bags, and
Daddy’s gear! ”
And then the air for miles around
With blasphemy turned blue,
Yon might have heard the curses sound
Right out at Dandaloo.
When calm he grew
Tom told our crew :
“ The next big blanky colt can kick the blanky
blauk in two ! ”
WILL H. OGILVIE.


The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
'THIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting: all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
•** which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.G.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £218,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney.
• -a** .
W. J. Adams, Manager.
Tariff: 10s. per Day.
£3 per Week.
What Visitors say of this Hotels
“Everything is new; and
everything is of the best.
We cannot suggest an
improvement.”
Painless Dentistry,
THE .. ..
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. LEV Eli, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mk. S. D. ASH ER, Dentists.
}aty~ Modern Dentistry in all its liranches
legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
troubje. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY — 98 KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN—
EDWARD STREET, BlisbailC.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from 6/- per Day.
Telephone 784.
D. Swiss-Dayies, Prop.
(Member Com. Trav. Club.)
Or'catcst demand
Cigarettes
Because the Best
NOBEL-GLASSOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL'S.
“Thistle” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTITC.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
t>y
MOISTURE.
a
UK
m
Unsurpassed.
PENETRATION
Excellent.
f
VELOCITY
SPORTING BALLX JTi jI'JEJ won over .£6OO at Gun Club, Notting Hill, in November
and December, 1898 ;or more than all other powders combined. — Vide Field, 14th Jan., ’99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes : “ Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp.”
AGENTS: NS. W., Messrs. JDalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
“STRONGANUF.”
A good word, but it only expresses one-
third of the story. The balance reads:
LONGANUF - LARGANUF
AMERICAN
Denim Trousers. Jumpers.
Cast iron Pants would wear
longer, but they would be un-
comfortable.
“ STRONG ANTJF 99
American Denim Pants are
copper-riveted ! fit well ! wear
well! Retailed by all Store-
keepers.
A coat of mail might he use-
ful in some countries, hut —
“ STRONG ANTJF”
American Denim Jumpers
are more useful in Australia,
more comfortable, and cost
less. Retailed by all Store-
keepers.
RETAILED BY ALL STOREKEEPERS.
E. RICH & GO. LTD
SYDNEY. • BRISBANE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
u
Fair Girls # Gray Horses.”
OVER
illion Lbs. Tobacco
!
TONS
Is the OUTPUT of
PIXSON & SONS’ Sydney
Factory for year ending 30th June,
being tons more than any other
manufacturer .
DIXSON’S Great Leading Brand is
Yankee Poodle
Yankee Doodle, dark, is mild smoking and the richest
flavor.
Yankee Doodle, bright or gold leaf plug and cutis increasing
by great strides with those who formerly smoked only the
well-known American and English brands.
(Dixson’s leaf purchases in America this season reached £25,000).
CHAMPION —the choicest gold leaf plug or cut. .
■— - , $ * <
CONQUEROR the working nuin’s great favorite for
smoking or chewing ; rich and good, always the same.
BONANZA CIGARS — a marvel of cheapness —-retailed
4 for 6d, yet guaranteed Havana jaml, American Tobacco,
Sumatra covered, made with the. latest machinery.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 20.—N0. 1017.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12 , 1899.
Prior 6d.
THE SITUATION IN QUEENSLAND— A STUDY IN BLACK AND WHITE.
FEDERATION IN QUEENSLAND.—AN ENTHUSIASTIC GATHERING.
“Brisbane, Monday.—A big demonstration, under the auspices of the Federation League, took place in the Exhibition-building to-night. he hall was well filled, and the attendance
included a number of ladies, who occupied seats in the gallery.... The organ struck up ‘ Rule Britannia, and cheers were called for a white Queensland,' which was responded
to ."—Daily paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Buileitn
Newsprper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® %
Half-yearly 0 U , b
Quarterly... ... ... ••• (Job
NOTICE.
/>’?/ sending direct to Thus Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province ,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not extending two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable M'S. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any 'picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
<Sc Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. — The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street. Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland ivill be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exactedby the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition 0/ The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
77ie
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1899.
The Wormy View of Things.
The great Federal majorities in Tasmania
and Victoria, following on the two other
large Federal majorities in South Australia
and New South Wales, have had one effect
which might have been easily foreseen.
They have supplied the anti-Federal crowd
in the two wavering provinces, Queensland
and Westralia—but especially in Queensland
where the fight is in full blast, whereas it
has only just begun in Groperland—with a
new argument. In every province the cry
of the parochialists has been that Federa-
tion was a midnight conspiracy on the part
of all the other provinces to rob “our”
province ; and that if any other province
voted “yes” it was only a sign and sure
evidence that it saw in Federation a glorious
opportunity to batten on “our” province.
Also in every province the parochialists
declared that “ our ” province was the
one province that had been grossly and
shamefully swindled in the matter of re-
presentation, and in the financial arrange-
ments, and in the control of everything
and in the general arrangements of every-
body. The fact that any other province
showed an inclination towards union was
held to prove conclusively that that province
saw its way, by federating, to trample on
“ our ” province, and suck its blood, and
chew it up generally. This strange kind of
logic is still in good working order—espe-
cially in Queensland. And as four Slates
have now voted “ Yes,” and it is understood
in anti-Federal circles that this proves the
States so voting to be banded together for
the horrible purpose of robbing somebody,
the anti-Bill inference is, of course, that
N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., and Tasmania are
banded together to loot Queensland. And if
Queensland comes in on 2nd September the
equally natural inference will be that it and
the other four provinces are banded together
to loot Westralia. And if Westralia comes
in (seeing that it is alleged that Federation
must be a scheme to rob somebody ) the only
possible inference will be that all the six
provinces are leagued together to plunder
Europe, or South America, or Jupiter, or
some other place.
* * * »
In the meantime, Queensland is filled with
an anti-Billious moan, whose burden is that
the people up North should be warned by
the suspicious enthusiasm of the South, and
should lie low in consequence. According
to the logic of the Brisbane Telegraph and
its ragged political push, these five things
are certain : (1) Nobody in this world can,
by any chance, have a good object, there-
fore the South can’t possibly invite the
North to federate with it except for a base
and mercenary purpose. (2) Nobody can
possibly be honest and truthful, therefore, if
the South says it believes that Federation will
make all Australia richer and happier, that
proves that the South doesn't believe it. (3)
No wealth can be acquired except by robbery,
therefore, as the South hopes to be itself richer
through Federation, that proves that it in-
tends to loot the North. (4) When any other
State is willing to federate, that proves that
Queensland shouldn’t federate, for the other
State couldn’t possibly want to do it unless
it saw it could thereby do Queensland an in-
jury. (5) Therefore, the only time when
Queensland should be willing to federate is
when no other State is willing to federate—
in fact, the only time any State should be
willing to federate is when no other State is
willing to do the same. And if the South
believes in disunion, then the North should
preach Federation with all its might, for the
South couldn’t possibly believe in disunion
unless it saw in it a means of plundering
someone—presumably the North. And if
the South is converted to a belief in union,
then the North should slew round and preach
disunion, for the South couldn’t possibly be
converted to a belief in unity unless for some
foul purpose. That is the doctrine of Queens-
land's leading anti-Federal organs in half-a-
dozen sentences.
* * * *
And yet this world, even at its worst,
isn’t all grovel, and worm, and Brisbane
Telegraph, and muck-rate, and abject
crawling in the dust after a casual copper,
and grubbing in foul places for other
people’s property. The Brisbane organ,
with its doctrine that everybody must
necessarily be a liar every time, and that
nobody can possibly have any honest pur-
pose, or any redeeming trait in his character,
possibly judges others by itself. There are
a few honest enthusiasts with brains and
ideals, and these idealists have led the
Federal movement all along. They didn’t
want to rush the Queensland market with
cheap butter when the duty came off—Bar-
ton, and Wise, and Deakin the lofty
dreamer, and Charles Kingston, and Fysh,
and Braddon, and old extinct volcano
Berry, haven’t -|lb. of butter to sell among
them. But they had visions of what Aus-
tralia might be 1000 years hence if it was
one solid nation, and of what it might not
be if it kept asunder like old Germany,
where people of one race and one speech
fell apart and went through 1000 years of
internal strife and bloodshed and periodical
subjection to foreign conquest before they
groped their way back to something ap-
proaching unity. They looked forward to
the time when the British Empire will have
gone the way of all empires, and Australia
must needs fend for itself in a world where
all weak States go to the wall, and they saw
that even if that trouble was 1000 years off,
it was none too soon to begin making the
nation which might one day have to hold
Australia single-handed against all comers.
They took stock of the nigger curse, with all
its attendant calamities, in the United
States, and saw the beginnings of a similar
woe in Northern Australia—a woe which
Queensland is too weak or too supine to deal
with ; and they desired to create a central
Government strong enough to deal with it,
and in which the white sentiment of N.S.
Wales, Victoria, and S.A. would be able to
join with the white party in Queensland, and
shut the door conclusively against the great
Jap. invasion. They wanted to keep Aus-
tralia for the white man, and to mako Aus-
tralians a white race—not whitey-brown, or
speckled, or dirty-yellow, or piebald, or any
other doubtful tint. And they recognised
that the great nigger curse in the United
States grew to its present huge dimensions
in little more than a century, for curses grow
fast though blessings are gradual ; and "that
there was no time to lose.
* * • *
They had other reasons besides this. The
Northern Territory is still purely British
property temporarily administered by S.A.
at great expense to itself ; and if ever S.A.
feels unable to stand the expense any longer
and lets go, the Territory will revert to
Britain. And Britain will probably lease it
out to some Chartered Co. which will flood
the country with Asiatic labor, and make a
racial trouble that may keep Australia in a
ferment for many centuries. Until
there is a central Government which
can procure the absolute cession of the
Northern Territory (S.A. alone having tried
to do it and been met with a flat refusal)
Australia doesn’t even possess the full right
to govern its own country. And besides all
these and many other matters, these enthu-
siasts probably had a vanity of their own.
They wanted to be remembered after they
were dead as the men who did a great deed,
and laid the foundations of a great nation,
and drew up the most liberal Constitution in
the world, and not be forgotten when they
had been safely buried, like the casual
yellow dog, and the bush alderman, and the
editor of the Brisbane Telegraph, and the
late-lamented ’bus-horse, and the other small
fry of the moment. Also, it may be, they
had honorable ambitions after Federal office
—the man who hasn’t any honorable ambi-
tions is a very poor creature indeed. There
are some small salaries attached to such office
about half as much as Edmund Barton
used to make at the Bar before he wrecked
his practice by giving his time almost en-
tirely to the Federal cause, and perhaps
rather more than half as much as George
Turner’s legal business was worth before he
took to politics.
V * * * -
The great Federal vote which carried the
four Southern provinces was raised mainly
by the burning enthusiasm and persistence of
two or threedozenmen. The splendidly demo-
cratic Constitution was mainly drafted by the
same men. The dismal croak of the Queens-
land and Westralian anti-Federal party, that
Federation is a selfish scheme for flooding
their territory with the produce of the other
States, is flattened out by the fact that
among the men who created Federation,
there is hardly one who has, or ever had, an
ounce of produce to sell. The butter-
makers, and whisky-dealers, and traders in
spuds and large pumpkins, who, on the
provincialist theory, ought to have been in
the forefront of the battle, weren’t there.
To the organs of the Brisbane provincial
party, which preach the doctrine that the
South couldn't be so strongly Federalist
unless for an evil purpose, and that every
great national ideal must be based on
the desire to steal some small article or
other, and that every patriot who left an im-
perishable name behind him must have been
really actuated by the hope of embezzling
6d., or robbing a clothes-line while the
owner was asleep, the situation doubtless
seems unaccountable. It is probably moved
by the sure and certain conviction that its
own provincialist motives and ideas are
purely sordid, and by its knowledge that
when it says a thing is so that fact is suffi-
cient evidence that it isn’t so, and it judges
others accordingly. Yet, even in this tired,
hustling, commonplace world, there are ideal-
ists now and then. History is dotted over
with stories of men who have thrown away
respectable billets and perquisites to die for
an ideal ; of whole nations which have aban-
doned the commonplace comfort of three
square meals a day and a bed, to fight
a hopeless battle for an ideal ; of dull,
ordinary-looking persons who have left
a very profitable butter or pork trade,
or a decent legal practice, to preach a
crusade that had no money in it, against a
great wrong or a great folly. The world, as
already mentioned, isn’t all worm, and
muck-rake, and illiterate Brisbane Tele-
graph. It is a mean, bad world, but now
and then it lifts its glazed eye from the dirt,
despite the objections of the Queensland
anti-Federal press, to look at brighter
things. Even Australia, surprising as it
may seem, has an ideal now and then.
Some Northern Anti-Bill Lies.
These few samples are gathered at random
from a week’s issue of the Kanaka Parish
Pump press:
The union now proposed is one that will take away a
natural or an adopted allegiance and attach it to a
Government in which the subject will not even be repre-
sented. There is nothing like it at present. In America
every citizen owes allegiance to his State ; it is the same
in Germany ; it is the same in Canada. But here, every
person born in Queensland will owe allegiance to a
Government in Melbourne ; and every foreigner coming
to reside in Queensland, and wishing to be naturalised,
will have to take the oath of allegiance to a Government
in Melbourne.— Brisbane Telegraph.
Apart from the fact that there isn’t a word in
the Commonwealth Bill about any Government
in Melbourne, and apart also from the silly
lie about Queenslanders “ not being repre-
sented,” when in reality they get rather
more than their fair share of representa-
tion, it is interesting to note that this
woefully uneducated paper really tries to in-
form the public that a stranger becoming
naturalised in (say) New Jersey takes an oath
of allegiance to the Slate of New Jersey in-
stead of to the U.S. Federal Government at
Washington. Also, that a stranger becoming
naturalised in Canada takes an oath of fidelity
to Quebec or Ontario instead of to the British
Empire. Probably it doesn’t know any better,
but its successful avoidance of information is
something wonderful. Besides, no foreigner
coming to settle in Queensland now takes an
oath of allegiance to Queensland separately ;
he takes it to the Queen and the blessed em-
pire. And he’ll do just the same after Federa-
tion.
If southern voting on the Convention Bill does not
open the eyes of Queenslanders nothing will open them.
The voting in South Australia, Tasmania, and Victoria is
solid ; and always will be. Those three States must, and
will, stand together against the world. Should New
South Wales and Queensland join, the voting will always
be thus
Victoria 24
South Australia 8
Tasmania 5
37
New South Wales 26
Queensland 8
34
—Brisbane Telegraph.
The only objection to this fish-story is that the
statistics are not true. The real figures for the
House of Representatives, as things stand at
present, are : Victoria, 22 members ; S.A., 7 ;
fasmania, 5. Total for the three southern
provinces : 34. New South Wales, 25 ; Queens-
land, 9. Total for the two northern provinces :
34. The southern majority shown above is the
usual lie.
• * * *
It is further provided that the central Government
may take over territory (clause 110), railways (clause 51,
section 33), and debts (clause 104) of any State, further
limiting State administration. The last sweep of the
hand is that (clause 105) the constitution of each State
shall continue as. at. present till altered in accordance
with “ this Constitution.” —Brisbane Telegraph.
It is a rather remarkable fact that the Brisbane
anti-Federal paper doesn’t even get the correct
numbers of three out of the four clauses quoted,
let alone the correct meaning of them. Clause
110 of the amended Bill—the Bill now under
consideration—-doesn’t so much as mention
territory, or the Central Government, or the
taking over of anything. But clause 111,
which is evidently meant, says—not that the
Federal Government may take over State ter-
ritory at its pleasure—but that “ the Parlia-
ment of a State may surrender any part of the
State to the Commonwealth” if it feels that w’ay
inclined. Clause 51 says that railways may be
taken over, with the consent of the State, which
latter line makes all the difference. Clause 104
says not a word about debts, as alleged by the
Brisbane paper, whose eye seems to be woe-
fully askew; but clause 105 does happen to
mention the terrifying fact that the Federal
Government may relieve the States of their
present burdens and consolidate them (in order
to reduce interest), each State being still
responsible for its own (reduced) interest bill,
so that N.S.W.’s debt, for instance, can’t be
shunted on to Queensland. And clause 106
(not 105) says that the Constitution of each
State shall remain as at present until altered
(not in accordance with “ this Constitution ”
that is the mendacious Brisbane paper’s inven-
tion), but “ in accordance with the Constitution
of the State." In other words, until altered by
the State itself, just as is the case now.
* * * *
It must be very well known that the tariff is ready even
now-, and that it will be imposed at once.— Brisbane
Telegraph.
Query : Who elected the Federal Parliament
which drew up the tariff that is “ ready even
now ” ? And where did that Parliament meet,
and when ? Also, where is the tariff, and how
did nobody hear about the passing of it ?
The small creameries of the Downs have been
bought up by large capitalistic firms and have the
suppliers at their mercy, by giving them a price for their
milk which is infinitesimal in proportion to the unearned
increment of the company. How will we fare under
Federation? Competition will kill off the few little
industries we have. I mean those more especially con-
nected with the farming industry, because want of rail-
ways and population will not aliow the majority of our
farmers to compete against the accumulated “ trade ” in
the southern colonies, who are only waiting for the
“ barrier ” to be raised, in order to crowd our colony with
their manufactures. The factories know this, and are
against Federation, except in isolated cases. The sugar-
grower is assured of this, and is dead against Federation.
—Toowoomba Chronicle.
In other words, Queensland creameries have
come to awful grief under the provincial system,
therefore it is advisable to hang on to the pro-
vincial system all we know. Also, the sugar-
grower should be against Federation (which
will give him free access to the southern mar-
kets, all now partly blocked by duties) lest the
southern provinces should flood Queensland
with their sugar. And all Victoria, N.S.W.,
South Australia, W.A., and Tasmania don’t
grow one-sixth as much sugar as is required for
their own consumption !
Westralia intends to have better terms or not to enter.
If you say and do the same there will be no union. New
South Wales dare not enter without Queensland.—Bris-
bane Telegraph.
And yet New South Wales is going right on
with the last act of the Federal drama—the
address to the Queen —the act which definitely
commits N.S.W. to the Commonwealth—with-
out even waiting to find out whether Queens-
land is coming in or not.
By and by it will be possible to fetch a bag of potatoes,
or a crate of cabbages (to Brisbane) from Melbourne
cheaper than from Toowoomba.— Brisbane Telegraph.
So it would—if potatoes and cabbages grew in
Melbourne ; but they don’t. Melbourne is
chiefly occupied by large buildings and tram-
cars. When potatoes have been humped 167
miles from Warrnambool (the great potato
centre) to Melbourne, and then 1070 miles
further to Brisbane, they haven’t much show
against the local “murphy,” which has only to
travel 101 miles from Toowoomba.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Westralian Bluff.
The Westralian Parliament has appointed a
committee to look for some decent excuse
whereby the Forrest Government can refuse
to let the people have any vote or voice in the
acceptance or rejection of the Commonwealth
Constitution, and that Commission has com-
menced to lie down on its investigations. As
John Forrest explained to the Assembly, he
couldn’t leave the acceptance or rejection of
the Bill wholly to the people by referendum,
because he had no direct authority to do so.
He has also no direct authority from the people
to refer the Bill to a Committee ; nor has he
any direct authority to deprive the people of
all voice in the matter by rejecting the Bill
without any reference to the country, either
by referendum or general election; but he con-
trived to do one of these things without undue
strain on his political conscience, and he will
probably manage to do the other also. Ihe
Committee is struggling with the matter in
the light of a report issued by the local
statistician, which document is already dead
and gone, and exploded, and burst up,
and out of date. It is based on the fact
that Westralia’s customs and excise revenue for
the year 1898 was ,£925,000, and on the assump-
tion that it is going to continue at that rate
permanently, and that the population will
always remain the same. It is assumed that
there will be certain additions to the revenue
through the Federal tariff being higher than the
present W.A. tariff (the Westralian tariff is,
on the whole, a very moderate one, and the
huge revenue it has produced was merely owing
to the great importations in the boom-time and
the small local production), and through the
fact that the excise duty on liquor and tobacco
imported from the east will then be credited to
W.A., instead of going, as at present, to th
Treasuries of the States where the goods a/


produced. It is then assumed, correctly
enough, that there will be certain losses
through the gradual introduction of interpro-
vineial Freetrade ; and, what is probably
quite incorrect, that the Commonwealth
will annex for its own use the whole
25 per cent, of the 1 customs and excise
revenue, which it is permitted to retain
under the Braddon clause. The results work
out that in the first year Westralia will be
,£9500 better off than it is now ; that it will
lose £150,000 in the second year ; £196,000 in
the third year ; £242,000 in the fourth year ;
£287,000 in the fifth ; and after that £333,000
a year regularly. And already this report is
waste paper, for the returns for the year ended
30th June, 1899, show that the customs and
excise revenue has gone down by £150,000,
as compared with the figures for year
ended 30th June, 1898, which knocks £37,500
per annum off Westralia’s possible contri-
bution to the Federal revenue in one
year, and reduces the possible loss under
Federation by fully £50,000. Next year the
customs and excise will almost certainly get
down still lower, and in three years it will pro-
bably stand at about £500,000 instead of the
£925,000 reckoned upon, for YV.A. can’t keep
buying at the extraordinary rate of the boom
years —it hasn’t the money to buy with. And
whereas the Statistician laments that it is
quite impossible to fill the alleged gap of
£333,000 by direct taxation, Premier For-
rest already finds that he can raise one-
fourth of the amount by a
alone. Moreover, the Statistician assumes
that population won’t increase, in addition to
the other assumption that customs and excise
revenue won’t diminish, and on this ridiculous
proposition he bases a lament about how W.A.
will be swindled and knocked out in one round
if the Federal Parliament ultimately decides to
divide the surplus according to population. As
already mentioned, the customs and excise
revenue is diminishing violently, which drives
one mass of figures endways ; and the popu-
lation is increasing, w hich knocks the other
bogey into a cocked-hat. And consider-
ing that the W.A. Statistician knew per-
fectly well, when he based his report on the
assumption that the customs and excise revenue
would stand permanently at £925,000 a year,
that it had already dropped far below that
figure, his tables look like premeditated bluff,
and inaccuracy with malice aforethought.
Tammany in Melbourne.
Respectable Australia professes to be ex-
tremely shocked at the revelations about New
York Tammany and Boss Croker, while from
the pepper-box tower of its own Town Hall
rises a perfume beside which the sewage-farm
of Poet Fitzgibbon is myrrh and frankincense.
Melb. Town Hall is the centre of all things
gilded and respectable in the Southern city. It
apes the institutions of bumbledom in the
old world. It dresses up the retired sani-
tary and other contractors which consti-
tute its members in a fancy-ball attire. It
conducts the meeting dealing with the disposal
of offal with the solemnity and theatrical dis-
play of a canonisation. And it is one of the
boss muddlers of Australia. In June, ’97,
when the Jubilee hysteria was at its height,
£16,000 was subscribed by Loyal Melbourne for
the purpose of celebrating the event by founding
a fever hospital. Such an institution was not
required—what Melbourne needed was £16,000
to keep the existing hospitals alive but
the fever hospital was the fad of the
day, and the money was raised. The
Town Hall crowd was entrusted with the
money. That was in June, ’97. June, ’99,
sees not a sod of the ground turned for the
foundations of the new hospital. It sees no
plans accepted. It sees an unseemly squabble
taking place between the competing architects
and the committee, and it sees that same com-
mittee doing nothing with the pertinacity of a
star-fish. The committee wasted six months
in getting out conditions of an architectural
competition. It wasted more time in useless
consideration of the drawings received. Even-
tually, in the absence of its expert members,
it chose a set of plans which the experts now
say are simply impossible, and having done so,
it imposed upon the architects the work of
making them more unsuitable than ever by
various impossible alterations. Then it tried
to get the drawings back from the men engaged
to alter them, and threw out threats on their
refusal. Next it attempted to disqualify the
architects altogether, because of some confused
story about blackmail, and there are suspicions
that it has in this matter rendered itself liable
for libel damages. Finally, the Board of Health
blocked the plans, by reason of the very altera-
tions the committee insisted upon, and there is
much chaos, and no more sign of the new fever
hospital than there was at the beginning.
+
Sydney v. Country.
The letters of C. G. Heydon and Edmund
Barton re the Federal capital, lately published
in Sydney Telegraph, have amusing aspects.
Heydon beean the correspondence, his grief
being about the proviso in the Federal Consti-
tution that the Commonwealth Parliament is
to meet in Melbourne till the permanent capital
(which must be in the country districts of
N.S.W.) is fixed upon. The Bill doesn’t
specify the exact time within which the capital
shall be selected ; it is to be done as soon as the
Federal Legislature can struggle to an agree-
ment. And C. G. Heydon is unable to sleep
at night for fear the Victorian members of the
Federal Parliament may attempt to prevent a
definite agreement being arrived at, so as to
retain the Parliament at Melbourne as long as
possible. Therefore, he desires, even at this
late hour, to have an amendment put in the
Bill :
But if the seat of Government shall not be determined
within years the Parliament shall thereafter sit at
Sydney until it meets at the seat of Government.
That, of course, obviously means that instead
of the Victorian members combining to post-
pone the fixing of the capital in order to keep
the Parliament in Melbourne as long as pos-
sible, Heydon wants to arrange things so that
N.S.W. city members will postpone the fixing
of the capital in order to keep the Parliament
in Svdney as long as possible. He is so much
grieved at Victoria having a chance to evade
the spirit of the Constitution that he
wants (not to prevent the Constitution being
evaded) but that Sydney shall have the
chance to do the evading instead. C. (7. hey-
DON says that what he desires isn t to dodge
the clause in the Bill which prohibits equally
Svdnev and Melbourne from being the federal
city, but to ensure that all possible haste shall
be made in selecting the permanent metropolis.
That is what he says. But lie doesn t propose
any scheme for accelerating the decision—
such, for instance, as providing that, 11 the
Federal Parliament fails to come to an agree-
ment in three or live years, the British Govern-
ment, or some other outside authority, shall
arbitrate in the mat ter. Nor does he propose
that if, after four or five years, the federal
Parliament sitting temporarily in Melbourne,
has not fixed upon a permanent capital, it
should thereafter meet at (say) Anmda.e or
Goulburn, or some other N.S. W. city which is
eligible to be the permanent capital, and remain
there till a decision is arrived at. Such a
provision would look like an honest attempt
to fulfil the spirit and letter of the Federal Con-
stitution which is apparently the very last
thing the grasping C. G. Heydon push desires.
According to the Constitution, the only places
eligible to be the permanent capital are those
parts of N.S. W., like Armidale and Goulburn,
located over 100 miles from Sydney. Mel-
bourne and Sydney are equally barred. And
C. G. Heydon, after proving to his own satis-
faction that it will be dangerous to locate the
Parliament in one disqualified city—Melbourne
(pending the selection of a capital) for more
than three or four years, mildly proposes that
it should be located in the other disqualified
uity Sydney—(where his own law business is
and where his own interests he) indefinitely
and with no limitations as to time whatever.
He doesn’t even suggest that if, iu 19 1 .V years,
the Federal Parliament is still at Sydney and
the N.S.VV. members are still stonewalling the
capital question, it should move to Brisbane or
some other place pending a decision. Appa-
rently, however anxious C. G. Heydon may say
Victorian politicians are to rob N.S. W . country
districts of the Federal capital in the interests
of Melbourne, their anxiety is nothing com-
pared to that of C. G. Heydon and his party
to rob the country districts of his own province
in the interests of Sydney.
Municipal Government.
“ C.D.” writes from Tasmania :
He your articles on reconstructed Sydney and sugges-
tions'for better local Government. In the little city of
Launceston, at the northern end of the despised “ fly-
speck,” a great many of the proposed reforms have been
in force for years. Rates are levied on the value of land
as well as on improvements, and the man who allows a
valuable allotment to lie idle waiting for the “ unearned
increment ” has to part to the extent of 5 per cent, on
the capital value. Rates are not recoverable after six
years, but after five years the Council may annex the
land on which arrears are due. Council has power, and
exercises it, to order removal of dilapidated and un-
sightly buildings, fences, &c. Water is supplied in
abundance by the Council, which also has the best water-
driven electric plant in Australasia, from which it bril-
liantly lights the streets and provides motive power.
There are two municipal baths, one outdoor free, and one
covered where a swim costs 3d. There are also hot
plunges and a well-arranged and ventilated Turkish bath.
The abbatoirs are controlled by the Council and strict
supervision is exercised over all meat for consumption.
In sewerage matters Launceston was one of the first
places in Australasia to adopt a thorough system of
drainage. There are a museum and art gallery, both
belonging to the city. The Council owns its own stone
quarry where materials for footpaths are prepared. New
streets must be laid out and properly formed to the Coun-
cil’s satisfaction, and no new street over 100 ft. long may
be less than 60ft. wide. Finally, the accounts are audited
half-yearlv by the Govt, auditor, who, however, has not
the power to carry out the admirable suggestion of The
Bulletin— to compel a sufficient increase in the rates for
ensuing year if the year just closed has shown a deficit.
4
Another Victorian Infamy.
The Victorian authorities apparently wish to
justify their expenditure in building the new
women’s wing of Pentridge Gaol by providing
a weekly prisoner or so. The obstreperousness
of the Vic. female in not getting gaoled as
often as she should is a source of great worry
to the penal authorities, and the spectacle of
20 or more warderesses keeping watch over one
or two harmless old women is calculated to
provoke the laughter and scorn of the common
person. So an accommodating police depart-
ment, with the assistance of an obsequious
J.P. or two, has kindly undertaken to provide
ready-made prisoners to order. The Melb.
suburban courts are complaisant in this matter,
but Coburg excells them all; Coburg is so
handy. On Monday morning, June 26th,
Mary Turner issued from the blue-stone
gates, after a three months’ spell, rejoicing
in her freedom and anxious to rejoin her
friends and take up her life where she
had laid it down. She meant well, but she
didn’t know. Didn’t understand the inscrutable
ways of Vic. officialdom. In less than an hour
she was in the lock-up, and before night she
was back in her old cell again, sentenced to a
further six months by sundry awful Coburg
J’sP. This ruffianly criminal, for whose refor-
mation the stone walls, the iron bars, the
solitary cells, and the starvation diet exist, had
been gaoled for “having no lawful means of
support ”1 1 It is hopeless to expect the pre-
posterous beak and the asinine “ authorities ”
to perceive the absurdity of requiring a person
just discharged from gaol to have acquired a
competence, or found a situation, half-an-hour
after being chucked-out. And this isn’t an
isolated case—Victorian law is doing exactly
this sort of thing every day in the week. Very
often it doesn’t even go through the form of
releasing the prisoner ; the J.P. calls in at the
gaol and gives him or her a new sentence before
the old one has expired ! Will some
Labor-member —when the Estimates come on
—draw attention to these continual out-
rages, and (it being mere waste of time to talk
about the cruelty and disgusting injustice of the
case) artfully inquire of Chief-Sec. Peacock
why he persists in accommodating poor people
in Pentridge when they can be maintained so
much more cheaply outside. The financial
side of the question will strike the Victorian
Premier on his tenderest spot.
Big JOHN FORREST to Westralia’s Assembly :
What right have we to say that we will take this Bill,
framed in another part of Australia, and send it to a mass
vote when we were not sent here to do it ? Where is our
authority? I ask everyone, where is our authority?
And all this sham woe is because Bigjohn
Forrest is afraid he hasn’t got authority from
the people to leave the decision of the Federal
question wholly to the people. He is in the
position of the well-meaning trustee who dido t
want to bolt to South America with the money
but was driven to it because he found i hat the
trust-deed gave him no specific authority to
stay away from South America. In the absence
of any such authority he felt himself reluc-
tantly driven to go there with the cash, but he
was just as much grieved about the matter as
Forrest is.
♦
Labor-member Sangster was the one man in
Vic. Assembly who could speak feelingly
upon the Madden-Syme business and properly
taunt Frank Madden re the change that has
come over his views of Parliamentary privilege.
“ When I was said to have traduced the charac-
ters of the Marine Board,” said Sangster,
“ the honorable member (Madden) was very
anxious that my statements should go before a
board, and declared that if they were not pro red
the honorable member who had made them
should never appear in the House ayain.” W ith
a Deakin in Sangster’s place the castigation
of Madden would have been a delightful epi-
sode. The dreary old champion of the seamen
had the House with him all the time, and
especially when he wanted to know in w hat
way his privileges had suffered through the
appointment of the Enquiry Board which Ma“d-
den and others had howled for. “I can repeat
the same charges, and I have repeated them,
says Sangster. And he still lives—respected
for speaking what he reasonably believes to be
the truth.
♦
Kidston, M.L.A. (Rockhampton), in exhorting
the Centralians to fight desperately against the
Commonwealth Bill, draws the attention of
people to the startling fact that Switzerland,
with an area of 16,000 sq. miles, has no less
than 22 self-governing States, with an average
area of 727 sq. miles. If this question of area
is to go for anything, the best thing we can do
is to split up the Central desert into a few
score States, and thereby give a little mote
self-government to an oppressed and sandy
locality. Allusion is further made to Germany
as being a conspicuous success under a federal
union owing to the fact that the principle of
local government is recognised and powerful.
Why doesn’t Kidston draw the attention of
Rockhamptonites to the state of Germany when
local government in separate kingdoms and
duchies was even more recognised and powerful;
when every foreign foe could overrun Germany
at pleasure ; when Deutschland was the foot-
ball of Europe and a by-word among the
nations? Why not tell them about that idyllic
state of things when a vessel going up the
Rhine paid toll to a couple of score of petty
principalities, in all of which the “local
government was recognised and powerful?
(Isn’t it Heine who tells how lie crossed the
Alps and saw- Deutschland slumbering below
“ under the peaceful protection of six-and-thirty
little monarchs”?) And, inasmuch as the
Rockhampton legislator talks much and long
about the Canadian Constitution, why doesn’t
he bid his constituents look at Newfoundland,
the one State that stayed outside the union,
maintained its independence, and ran down a
steep place into political and financial sheol?
The secretary of the pompous N.S.W. Marine
Board pompously tells the daily press that
Smith, M.P.’s charges are “ a tissue of perver-
tions and exaggerations.” But the charges are
“ too long to criticise ” —weak refuge of the
impotent controversialist ! as if any sane criti-
cism could be too long on such an important
subject '.—and the public must be content with
the secretary’s block denial of Smith’s de-
tailed charges. “A bit of decayed iron,’
says the cheerful secretary, with the air of a
fossil who wonders what on earth all the fuss is
about, “ a bit ot decayed iron could be found
in many of the best steamers afloat. Beauti-
ful washerwoman’s consolation when a rotten
steamer goes down for want of proper super-
vision : “There’s plenty more like it, mum !”
And that is absolutely all N.S.W. Marine
Board has to say for itself.
♦
An eye-opening Old-Age-Pension text :
Sydney’s Benevolent Society (writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent) is a curious institution, and the report of the
Royal Commission on Public Charities on the Society is a
curious document. The present is an opportune time to
draw attention to this report, as the question of the
Society’s subsidy will shortly come before Parliament on
the estimates. Govt, has but little check on the Society’s
expenditure and no say at all in its management, yet the
institution is almost wholly kept up by the State. Its
premises and land are a gift from the Stat*, und out of its
revenue of £9OOO per annum Govt, contributes £5OOO
about 60 per cent. But the amazing fact about the
Society is that it has at fixed deposit about
£28,000. This big sum is made up by £lO,OOO
legacies, £9OOO sale of land (land given to the Society
originally by Govt.) and the balance accrued interest
and saving from past Govt, grants. The legacy-money
is locked up, but the rest of this reserve is free, arid can
be applied to any purpose whatever, despite which fact
the directors this winter announced in the daily press
that they had been forced to stop “rent-money,” a
miserable weekly dole, by withholding which they saved
a few hundreds at Heaven ordy knows what cost of
suffering and privation to their dependent destitute.
Since ’94, the society has received some £40,000 from Govt.,
and despite this, and also knowing that they had a
balance at the bank of £28,000, the directors ground
down their unfortunate constituents by a paltry Is. or so
per week, with the result in many cases that a little home
was broken up, and poor old men and women driven into
separate Govt, asylums. The Commission has made half
a dozen recommendations, which, if carried out, will
seriously curtail the operations of the society, but never a
word as to the disposal of its accumulated funds or as to
future action as regards its subsidy. _ M's.P. will do
well to consider whether a benevolent institution which
steadily accumulates funds is not receiving more money
than it really needs, or whether it has failed in the object
for which it exists.
♦
Dear Bulletin. —Premier Reid’s wail about a
conspiracy to “ prevent me becoming Premier
of the Federal Parliament ” reminds me that
he was the original conspirator himself—when
he tried all he knew to prevent a Federal Par-
liament ever being established. He has since
then further conspired against his Federal Pre-
miership by rendering himself impossible of
acceptance by Victorians, whom he over and
over again insulted ; by Tasmanians, at whom
he jibed and jeered ; and by South
who, lie said, “wanted to steal our rivers.
In furtherance of this conspiracy against him-
self, he had printed his now celebiated King
election handbill commencing “ Beware of Vic-
torian gold ! ” He further conspired by making
himself disliked and distrusted bv the Pre-
miers and leading men of the other provinces
in the Federal Conventions. His past state-
ments rise against him, and he cannot expect
such evidences of his own conspiracy to be soon
forgotten as the “ five drunkards’ ” speech, and
the “ make me a citizen of Victoria or Tas-
mania and I would vote for this Bill, because
those colonies will be able to loot N.S. \\ . !
But, last of all, he has conspired “with divers
other persons,” to wit, the Freetraders of
N.S.W-, to render it utterly impossible for
him ever to be Premier of a Protectionist
Commonwealth. He might have been
wise under happier circumstances. Now’, if
Sydney Datt.y Telegraph were to Australia
what it once was to N.S.W. —and if he were
the same old CeorGE once more to the I). 1.,
and if there were another Governor Duff—
well, there’s no saying wdiat might happen. —
Locust.
-♦
“ Dioptric ” to The Bulletin :
Certain of your correspondents who have been advising
the release of J. B. Gregory should read a story “ The
Beetle-Hunter in the Strand for June,’9B. A aood
word-picture is given therein of the unfortunate barris-
ter's trouble —paroxysmal mania of the homicidal type.
One peculiarity of this form of madness lies in the fact
that the paroxysms are often separated by long periods
of apparently perfect lucidity. The memory and intel-
lectual powers are not affected until a late stage, and the
onset of the disease is gradual, eccentricities gently
developing until some sudden outbreak occurs. In the
case in question the history is very clear. For several
years Gregory, always a silent, retiring man, showed an
increasing dislike to strangers. He built round his house
at St. Hilda a high fence, the gates being provided with
slides through which the tradespeople were communi-
cated with, no one being allowed inside. This was at
first looked upon as a mere foible, but when he pro-
ceeded to get rid of his servants, refusing to engage
others, people wondered slightly. The next develop-
ment showed itself in a violent dislike to his
family (he was previously a most affectionate hus-
band and father), which steadily increased. He
then took to carrying a revolver, which he
was in the habit of showing to clients, explaining its pre-
sence by the fact that he was persecuted by the tramway
authorities (the tram officials on the St. Hilda line had
trouble with him on several occasions, and one scene at-
tracted the attention of the public). He was quietly re-
moved to an asylum for several months, to the great
relief of his family. Released by his own constant agita-
tion and the mistaken kindness of friends, he soon re-
verted to his previous peculiarities. Hpavy iron bars
were placed by his orders on his bedroom windows,
strong locks fitted to the door, and he was in the habit of
secreting weapons in the bed. The hatred for his family
grew, and on several occasions acts of dangerous violence
were with difficulty prevented. It culminated at last in
a distressing scene, which was only averted from tragedy
by the presence of mind of one of his family, and shortly
afterwards the unfortunate man was again sent to an
asylum, where he has remained ever since.
There is no doubt of his intellectual capability, but this
is a small consideration in brain mischief of his particular
class. It is not the wheels of the machine that are
faulty, but the governor-belt, and a tragic finale
would be but a matter of a short while, were be re-
leased. There are many more of the same class of
patient in the asylums of Australia, but Gregory s clever
brain, stimulated by the desire to carry out his secret
schemes, enables him to attract more attention than the
man of less intellectual tonnage. There is method in his
madness, and it is probably only to certain individuals
that its consequences are dangerous. For their sake, it
is necessary that he should not be free, and it is in the
light of these facts that such men as Mr. Topp and others
oppose his release. His complaints against the so-called
amusements of the asylum are but- natural, and are due
to the fact that the majority of Australian institutions of
the kind are exceedingly behindhand in the matter of
supplying occupation to unusual cases such as his. But
it is not safe, on these grounds alone, to advocate the
release of such patients, and, until a better regime is
brought about, there will be ever-recurring rumors of the
compulsory detention of the “ perfectly sane.”
A wail from the Northern Territory :
Dear Bulletin.—The Northern Territory elections have
unfortunately returned the old members, so we may ex-
pect the country to crayfish along as of yore, to the advan-
tage of a few money-grubbers, who don t care whether
the country sinks or swims so long as they can have it to
themselves', keep out the European, and get the China-
man to work for a shilling a da}'. (The greatest ambi-
tion of the jacketoo of the Territory is to wear a white
shirt and kick Chinamen.) It is certain that we shall not
be able to protect our interests until the European popu-
lation becomes stronger, but we should at least try to
protect our lines. A crying evil here at present is the
employment on the mines of Chinese engine-drivers,
most of whom know just enough to keep the water boil-
ing, and wouldn’t be allowed to touch an engine in any
other part of the world. All very well for them to drive
their own crushing-batteries, but when it comes to put-
ting them on the winding-gear with white men’s lives de-
pending on them, it is time for Government to enforce
the laws that we are taxed to support, Some managers
will take a Chow, give him a few weeks’ lesson, and put
him on driving, and, if the few' whites on the mine ven-
ture to protest, they are told that they can “clear” as
soon as they like—“ White labor is only a nuisance!”
This state of things has caused a good many accidents,
and must result in serious loss of life, and then the blame
will be laid, not upon the Chow driver, or the manager,
or the Government that is too tired to do anything for us,
but upon the poor devils who get killed. It is high time
we had a Minister for Mines and proper administration ;
and I trust you, Bulletin, will give a hearing to unfor-
tunate men fighting to get their country back from China.
A country, too, with splendid climate, productive soil,
abundance of water, and huge undeveloped mineral
wealth. —O.H.
Alfred Deakin’s contention (B. 22/7/99) that
“ religion is an essential of complete culture,
and that, therefore, its elementary principles
ought to be taught in an elementary school,”
may be accepted if he will kindly define those
principles. Nobody has yet been able to do so.
Also, lie says, “so far as they are common to
both Protestants and Catholics, and so long as
parents do not object.” What about Judaism
and Islam —the latter has many followers in
Australia? The world grows rapidly smaller,
peoples are being drawn closer, and the notion
is obsolescent that “ religion ” means only the
beliefs of Western Europe. What is needed,
in addition to moral teaching, is a systematic
analysis of all the religions of the world.
Mohammedanism, Buddhism, and Hinduism
have each a theology and a vast following, and
that they are not European religions is nothing
to the purpose. Their professors are being daily
forced into closer contact and competition with
Europeans, and, spile of all the boasted “mis-
sionary activity,” they do not become Chris-
tians.
John Norton’s Bill to “ abolish or modify ”
the system of payment of members in N.S.W. is,
of course, meant to abolish, if possible. Every
forward step in the government of the world is
followed by reactionary efforts to force the. race
back to its old standing ground. Norton would
act more straightly and be as likely to attain his
object if be made his Bill one to abolish the direct
representation of Labor by members of its own
class.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS oyer LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office m the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MOST MLO •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’ ’
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. II’ARCY IRVINE, E.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
STAMPER
BATTERIES.
American or Australian Type.
10 to 100 Head. From 600 to 12501 b. Stamps.
FRAMING EITHER TIMBER OR IRON
PACKED IN PARTS
To facilitate Economical Transport.
CAMS, TAPPETS, SHOES, DIES, etc.
of Unexampled Durability !
f®E
ENGINEERING'
COMPANY L
Cj.yde Works, Granville.
i WI&&.
I,
;%
K\
~TdS
£.
IMmm
mm>
m
llllllf
«S'osas®
mßa&
fg&m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR DOMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Kind's Musketeer."
Royal “The Brixton Buryiary” and
“ In Honor Bound.”
Lyceum “Shall We Foryive Her?”
Criterion “ The Kelly Gan»-.”
Tivoli Rickards’Go.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ A Stranger in New York."
Theatre Royal “ The War of Wealth.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
St. George s Hall. ... M’Adoo’s Georgia Minstrels.
Town Hall / Afternoon j Scherek’s Orchestra.
(Saturday) ) Evening... | Fuller’s Myriorama Co.
In staging the “ Brixton Burglary ” at
Sydney Royal, Brough has gone back to his old
love—farcical comedy. There is no Woman with
a Past in it, no social problem, no high art, no
moral, no despairing person given to secret drink-
ing who awakes to find unicorns on his bedpost.
It is fun and plain joke with the old-fashioned
policeman in it, and the mother-in-law,
and the agitated man telling lies to conceal the
fact that he has been out all night, and the
other old properties. Nearly everybody in
the “ Brixton Burglary ” was out all night. Dr.
Pontifex, in his wife’s absence, went with Diggle
to have supper with the Bounding Sisters, and
owing to a Bounding Husband coming home un-
expectedly they spent a forlorn night concealed
among the coals. Pontifex feels that his wife
wouldn’t care to hear about the Bounding Sisters.
In his absence servant-gal Perkins put on her
rational knickerbockers, and went forth joyously
in all the bloom of her youth on master’s bicycle,
but when she ran over somebody, and a policeman
tried to arrest her, she felt she wasn’t equal to ex-
plaining the situation, so she left the bike with
master’s name on it in the hands of the enemy, and
fled. The man she ran over was master’s father-
in-law, out illicitly on another bike, and he, too,
fled for reasons of his own, leaving his hike also,
and his other suit of clothes, in the hands of the
police. And, in the absence of everybody, flunkey
James went out in his master’s clothes to a fes-
tivity in somebody else’s kitchen, and somebody
else coming home unexpectedly, he fled over the
back fence into an empty house, where a burglar,
who badly required a disguise at the moment,
made him change clothes to save his life. And
James sneaks wretchedly home in the morning,
unaware that the clothes the burglar gave him had
been a few hours previously stolen from Diggle,
and he can’t imagine what Diggle is so excited
about. And Pontifex can’t imagine how a
burglar who escaped partly undressed after a des-
perate resistance should have left his (Pontifex’s)
coat in the hands of the police, nor, in view of the
Bounding Sisters, is he prepared to explain even if
he could. In fact, nobody is prepared to explain,
but the house is overrun by police, and James
thinks he is wanted for clothes-stealing, and Ponti-
fex fancies he may be wanted as co-respondent to
a Bounding Sister, and servant-gal Perkins be-
lieves she is required for bike-stealing, indecent
conduct in knickerbockers, and manslaughter,
and the old man fancies he is required on general
principles. Also, there is a tendency to arrest
Diggle and Pontifex for illegally harboring James,
and Brough tries to disguise himself as servant-
gal Perkin 3, while the father-in-law professes
vaguely to be the coachman.
* * » *
The mystery is built on very slender foun-
dations—as a farcical complication it isn’t in the
same city with the old “ Magistrate yet it rolls
along pretty cheerfully for a couple of hours. It
ends with no definite explanation, for things are
too tangled by 10.45 to be explained. Miss Bessie
Thompson’s mother-in-law is the gem of the cast,
and the old lady is beyond any ordinary terms
of praise. Miss Temple’s servant-gal Perkins is
also excellent; likewise the crushed and wretched
James of Leslie Victor. Robert Brough does good
work with Pontifex, hut though there is a great
deal of Pontifex he is a stereotyped character of
comparatively few opportunities ; and Dartrey,
Percy Brough, Majeroni, Miss Grace Noble, and
others help to drag the tangled tale along till it
grows too mixed to be dragged any further.
* * * *
The “Burglary” isn’t quite large enough
to fill a whole evening by itself, so that pretty
little comedietta, ‘ ‘ In Honor Bound ” is thrown
in. Mrs. Brough and Miss Noble decorate this
play with some clothes that can be highly recom-
mended, and Lovell and Carne do the rest. Com-
pared with the dishevelled riot of the other play,
“In Honor Bound ” is a restful little item, aiid
the four characters—but Mrs. Brough especially—
all earn the respect of this discriminating publi-
cation.
** * *
Further consideration of “The King’s
Musketeer ” as it clanks around at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) only further convinces this paper that
Augustus Glover’s Porthos is the finest single
circumstance in the cast. Glover looks his part to
the life ; tiis great size, and his swagger, and his
rolling voice, and the large, unctuous eye which he
casts on the passing girl, and the proud fashion in
which he heaves his great limbs along all tend to
make him ap ideal Porthos. And he is all the
more convincing by comparison with Athos and
D’Artagnan, who fit their parts only indifferently
alongside Porthos the great. The character of
D'Artagnan is baggy on Cecil Ward where it
ought to be tight, and tight where it ought to be
baggy. The dramatist, too, has put an irrelevant
drunk into it; he makes D’Artagnan a very beery
Gascon on that occasion where he pursues
Constance Bonacieux to the house where
Buckingham lies concealed, and Cecil Ward
is a joyous, comic, friendly baby-tight,
which isn't in keeping with D’Artagnan’s
character. That musketeer was a strange
mixture of caution and recklessness, and he would
probably be proudly and resentfully drunk, with
a streak of reserve and suspicion about him, like a
man who is prepared to object to anyone who
looks at him with a needlessly sober expression.
The joyous abandon of Cecil Ward’s plump round
warrior, who is ready to sing a comic song through
a complete stranger’s keyhole, is out of perspec-
tive. And it is difficult to say that the dramatist
has improved on Dumas by making Miladi yell
herself to death in the agonies of poison. Dumas
supplied her with a picturesque end ; the river by
night, with the wind moaning among the trees on
the shore —so good a stage-manager as Williamson
could arrange for the wind to moan for all it was
worth ; the four French gentlemen on the near
shore ; on the far one, the executioner hustling his
captive up the bank, so that she might be be-
headed in a dry spot; the branded woman kneel-
ing on the dry spot when it was found, with
her hair down and her dishonestly-acquired bangles
on her white arms—and then a large paper sword
coming down on her neck as the curtain fell.
* * » *
After all, Henry Hamilton’s “Musketeer”
would be a, first-rate drama, and Williamson’s
version of it a first-rate version, if it wasn’t for
the tendency to draw odious comparisons between
it and the book. Cecil Ward’s D’Artagnan would
be a very fine warrior, too, if it were possible not
to know the much finer one that Dumas drew.
The same remark applies to Plimmer’s Athos.
Miss Henrietta Watson’s Miladi, and the Queen
as represented by Miss Emilie Hughes, and
Porthos, are all excellent without any reservation
whatever, and Richelieu is improving on longer
acquaintance, though the idea that his whole
name is Donald Richelieu is overpowering at
times. , And The Bulletin really likes the
‘King’s Musketeer ” in a general way, though its
affection is disguised in the above remarks and
observations.
** * *
The little coolness, or misunderstanding,
or whatever it was, between Mr. M. B. Curtis
and his co. having been satisfactorily settled, the
coons have gone to Maoriland, where Black Dante
will continue to make real roses grow out of em pty
pots, and draw a quart of assorted liquors out of
a half-pint bottle, and, finally, discover a white,
dry, and perfectly sober rat in the self-same bottle.
** * *
“ Our Native Home,” that tangled drama
which has dredged so irrelevantly at Sydney
Lyceum and brought up nothing in particular
from the bottom of the author’s imagination, ends
this week. “Shall we Forgive Her,” by Frank
Harvey, which is at least vastly better than its
late demented predecessor, is to be produced this
(Saturday) evening. For the benefit of those
people who like a happy ending to the story it
may be mentioned that they did forgive her in the
end, .though they were a needlessly long time
about it, and made her abase herself a great deal
and be pitiably ’urnble before they resolved to let
her off.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Virbo discourses music,
sweet and otherwise, from no less than seven in-
struments. One, a huge trumpet about sft. long,
recalls the pictures we used to see in Sunday-
school books of long ago, in which five angels with
distended cheeks were represented as blowing for
all their eternal lives on long, noteless tubes with
bell-shaped terminations. He also takes the
awful, low-down, seven-and-sixpenny concertina
and imitates the church organ, plays the Psalms
and sounds the big Amen, and even drags out
of it a fac-simile of the chimes of St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Cinquevalli does the usual weird
things with edible tubers and knives, and billiard-
balls, and a cue ; plays fantastic tricks with hats,
tubs, brooms, a huge cannon ball, and his assist-
ant ; and finally makes a bottle, with a glass of
wine balanced on top, roll all over his head and
neck and then back safely to where it started from.
The discordant note of the show is when Mr. Geo.
C. Dean sings some songs that might be better of
washing with monkey-soap before being served up.
*# * *
The “ Kelly Gang ” is still raging at
Sydney Criterion in all its wealth of gore and
hardware, and, judging by the crowded houses, is
likely to continue raging for a long time. It is a
pitiable fact that this mass of crude woe and raw-
ineat and butchery and Dead wood Dick is the
most sudden success that Sydney has seen for
many months. And the city appears quite con-
tented in its artistic degradation.
** * *
At Sydney Opera House last Saturday
night there was a resurrection of “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin.” Some of it was utterly ghastly, and the
coons’ capers were an eyesore. Other parts of it
were less awful, but it only lasted two nights
altogether, and the Opera House is in darkness
again.
&* * *
“The War of Wealth,” at the Royal, was
rather an object of suspicion last week, owing to
the outrageous conduct of Bland Holt’s previous
drama. When the run on the Sydney bank, the
beautiful scenery, the rescue of the chief cashier
nitro-glycerine, the extraordinary disappearance
of Miss xvoss, and other cheerful excitements come
to be talked about, the tide of populace will flow
back to the good old flea-bitten theatre and carry
the treasurer off his legs. “War of Wealth ”is a
mighty fine fiction from first to last. It would be
better, in its gorgeous, improbable way, if Miss
Ross were to talk, move and have her bein«- as
rapidly as she gets away with the corner of North
Shore, but even the measured method of that
elegant young heroine can be forgiven for the sake
of her grey-haired father (Corlesse) who is open to
commit any reasonable crime to make her happy
The ardor with which Corlesse helps his darling’s
best bank-director to shake the assets whilst refusing
to take the price of a tram-fare for his own rugged
self is a lesson in parental affection. Charles
Brown, as a wandering bluey-humper and droughty
adherent of Bland Holt from the Waybaok, sup-
plies a bright bit of Australian color, also the two
irrelevant ladies —Miss Gill and Miss Harrie Ire-
land—-are very womanly items. Their sole pur-
pose in the play is matrimony, and they never
give tneir respective selections a chance to escape.
Aliss Gill is a widow, a fair, plump and frequent
widow, and although Bland Holt merely intends
to borrow the dress-coat of a late husband, she
hills upon his chest and marks him for her own.
After which her educated embrace grows upon the
prisoner, so to speak, until he is glad that he con-
sented to name the day. “The War of Wealth ”
contains sundry love passages that lead to Sydney
Harbor where illuminated steamboats move across
the 111 ue bosom of the water that washes the out-
skirts of Woolloomooloo. It is the most Federal
drama ever staged in Melbourne.
* * *
Albert Bellman and Lottie Moore are mak-
ing their absolutely final appearance at the Bijou,
it is said, therefore all earnest admirers (and their
name is Legion) of the clever artist who turns the
sublime somersault are exhorted to come and see
her feet twinkle once again ere they fade into
memories of the past. Friday is the night
appointed for Lottie’s tootsies to say farewell.
' °thing else in particular will happen at Rickards’
until Saturday brings a fresh somebody or other
upon the scene. Twenty minutes of the present
show are devoted to Richard Douglass, and it is
generally admitted that the vigorous little mono-
logue man makes himself acceptable all the time.
His travestie business is old in the idea, but
mostly new in the working. Also, he knows the
relative values of his points, and never tries to be
too much funny in one place.
* * *
.1 a k the Town Hall, repeated his
‘Doon the Watter” programme last Saturday
under the patronage of numerous warriors in
kilts, this Saturday the Myriorama will give
Ireland and the Shamrock another show, after
winch the Town Hall is to be flooded for several
Saturdays by further talent from Bendigo and
other cradles of art, and Fuller will seize the
opportunity to go to Bendigo himself with a view
to getting his voice discovered. Which somehow
reminds ihe Bulletin that a grand opera season
is being made ready for action at the long-lost
Alexandra, and will start on August 26 with
Faust ” in the Australian language.
** * *
M‘Adoo’s Georgia Minstrels opened at St.
George’s Hall (Melb.), on Saturday, before the
biggest multitude that ever squeezed into the
oblong establishment. The bulk of the audience
downstairs parted 4s. each for their seats, and the
people upstairs had mostly paid an early-door fee,
and perhaps the thought of all this expense made
them hard to please. Anyway, the show fell
rather flat, considering the size of the attendance.
Ihe concerted vocalism is very good, the mon-
archal basso personage who plays the part of a
tragic interlocutor is interesting, and the two-
voice l lady appears to have a third voice extra ; but
m the larger part of the colored people’s perform-
ance there is nothing that can’t be done, and isn’t
done in a usual way considerably better, by com-
monplace white folk. Feriy, the “ Human Frog,”
who is the one surprising stranger on the bill, ap-
pears to have lost his color, if he ever had any.
The present writer feels a profound respect for any
JVI Adoo co. that “Steals Away” or chants the
Lord s Prayer in an ole plantation manner ; he
likes the coon melody which is coonish in senti-
ment, and he has a languid appetite for a small
slice of Alabama cake-walk; but this tame,
colored competition with the pale faces at Rick-
ards’s was not what he bargained for when he
didn’t pay to go in. The Georgia Minstrels may
flourish awhile, all the same.
** * *
Manager J. 0. Williamson, interviewed as
to why Melb. Princess’s is To Let from December
next, didn’t throw much light on the intentions of
the present firm of W. and M. “ Our lease of the
Princess’s expires on 18th December, and, up to
the present, we have not renewed. I want a vaca-
tion that will allow me to go away for a time—but
I have no intention of giving up theatrical manage-
ment in Australia. ... If the Princess’s Theatre
Proprietary Co. are able to get a good tenant, I
shall be well pleased.” Considering that the
P. I.P. Co. offer to let the theatre to any suitable
tenant for five years, and that the scheme for re-
building the Opera House has been almost aban-
doned, the time of J. C. W.’s managerial re-
appearance in Melbourne may be far off) Yet it
isn’t likely that the Princess’s will get any new
customer on a long lease. There seems to be a
good deal of finessing just now between theatrical
landlords and prospective tenants.
** * *
The announcement that Melb. Princess’s
may be leased for a term of months or years from
Dec. 10th, 1809 means, of course, that the Austra-
lian theatrical management, so long and honorably
known as “ the Firm,” will cease to exist on Dec.
18th, or thereabouts. The Firm has had three
periods in its career. There was firstly the Tri-
umvirate of Williamson, Garner and Musgrove;
then Williamson and Garner, and finally William-
son and Musgrove, whose partnership is drawing
to a close. George Musgrove, much enriched by
the success of “ Belle of New York ” in Hingland,
has seemingly no further use for this country, and
J. C. Williamson, it is said will return to his
native America when the Firm comes to an end.
Ho has tk) landlordly interest in the present
Princess’s Theatre, which was built by Musgrove
and Garner, on the site of the old Princess’s a
dozen years ago, Garner’s share of the property
passing into the hands of the Bank of N S W
when the Land Boom had left him insolvent
A ustm li a wil! be sorry to lose J. C. Williamson,
and the 1* inn of which he was always the chief
outward and visible sign. His name'is associated
m the public nund with the most notably dramatic
events that happened in the halcyon ’Bo’s and ’9o’s
and both as the actor who introduced himself with
btruck Oil, and as the founder of the business
that made ,£30,000 profit in the year of Tither-
lirst .“Silver King” appearance, J. C
Williamson is to memory dear. In talking of the
pahiiy days of B. and B. one is apt to forget that
the I irm originally imported the Broughs and
Boucicaults, likewise the G. W. Anson and
JLitheradge who helped so materially to make the
B. -L. comedy co. famous. Bland Holt and Dampier
were appearing under the Firm’s management in
83, with Blanche Stammers (Mrs. Garner) for
leading lady. Frank Thornton as “The Private
Secretary, ’ owed his being in this country to
Williamson and Co. Directly and indirectly tin
J: inn has been responsible for nearly everythin r
memorable in the history of the Australian stage
these 20 years.
** * *
With the Firm near its end, how mon-
strousiy absurd looks the yarn about manager
Williamson offering to speculate JMDOO in musical
education for Amy Castles on the chance of get-
ting repaid by her services four or five years
hence ! Yet this impudent fabrication, spread by
little Amy s” barraekers, was an important
factor m her Melbourne boom. “If she isn’t a
phenomenop, why did Williamson make that pro-
posai ? enquired an Argus gusher of a Bulletin
infidel. And when he was told that J.C W
didnt make any such proposal the Argus man
said he knew the contract was drawn up “ because
a priest had told him so.”
*# * *
Melbourne isn’t taking much “ Trip to
Chinatown ” just now, and the show which was so
vehemently and wearisomely applauded by a por-
tion of the first-night crowd, will give up its
neglected ghost on Friday of this week. The
Bulletin reckons that musical trifles like “China-
town suffer considerably from the encores they
have to go through at Melb. Princess’s, on a first
night. The incident of a large tenor sitting
astride a chair in the centre of the stage to warble
‘O, Nancy, you are my fancy ” would be soon
forgotten if he did it only once. But when he
gives them a second dose of Nancy, and tells them
for about the tenth time that Nancy is sweeter
than a stolen chicken, they realise the indignity
of their position, and they owe the performance a
grudge. ISothingin “Chinatown” should be said
or sung twice over at the same sitting. On
batuiday the co. will test Melbourne sentiment re
A Stranger in New York,” which alleged comedy
has probably profited a little by its sad experi-
ences in Sydney.
** * *
Miss Amy Castles is to give a concert at
Brisbane Opera House on Monday, 21st August
Melbourne and Sydney have both wrestled' tre-
mendously with the question : “Is Miss Castles
the greatest Australian singer up to date, or is she
not?” and, in Melbourne at all events, the pro-
blem has been near to ending in bloodshed. Bris-
bane is now invited to arm itself for its own de-
fence with the axe, and the fireirons, and the mm
and take up the problem.
Q. Federationists are beginning to hustle ;
and they need to. Byrnes would be a tower now’
Ex-Speaker Cowley’s advocacy—he is ab.mt the
most unpopular man in the province, even with
his own sugar-planting class—does the cause more
harm than good. It is quaint to find the Col.
Sugar Co. advocating Federation. ' E. B. Forrest,
its local director, is a strong supporter, and the
minions do his bidding. The co. has apparently
made up its mind to the inevitable, and decided to
throw more money into Q. and less into Fiji.
Anyway, it is enquiring for sugar-land.
Griffith, M.P., introduces a Bill to make
N.S. W. State-school instruction absolutely free to
all. The Bill will probably be opposed on the
ground that the country can’t afford it at present.
But N.S.W. can afford to convey hundreds of
tons of newspapers free through the post, at an
annual cost of scores of thousands sterling, be-
cause— “ the Press is the greatest modern educa-
tional force.” Yah ! The N.S.W. Press has up
to now had the politicians under its thumb, and
free newspaper-postage is a mere political bribe
to the newspaper bosses. There is a horrid rumor
that the Reid Govt, proposes to impose news-
paper-postage in order to make up N.S. W.’s con-
tribution to the Pacific cable.
The anxiety of Dan’l Cooper, as conveyed
by his agents to a Sydney Court the other day, to
preserve the native flora on his estate about Rose
Bay, is pathetically patriotic. Dan’l, through his
agents, fines or gaols a number of persons every
year for gathering Xmas-bush from his unfenced
ground. Native flora and native people (against
which latter the land is unproductively locked up,
but who are yearly adding to its value by residing
near it) are different'things to Dan’l. And, again,
how many land-lockers around Sydney, while
waiting for the increment to mature, let spaces in
their paddocks to quack advertisers? That is an-
other way of patriotically protecting the native
flora.


The Commercial World (London) writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society:—
“ As a matter of fact, the Society earns its. success by
deserving it, and, that much being conceded, the best
possible has been said for the continuance of the large
measure of public support which has hitherto fallen to its
fortunate lot to receive.”*
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc-., mining engineer, of 434
Collins-street, Melb., is about to visit Western Australia
to report on a newly-discovered copper property. While
there he is open to investigate other properties.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant.—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, W' 1-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
nd particulars apply 80-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Fiw't any Otm Fitld.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°/.
All Mining- Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv- Markv/ald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
ilPwt-ft., Sydney; 28 Chirriest., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street
Britt. } Lamiton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
The wILD CAT
COLUMN
The revenues for July, 1899, of the provinces
which make monthly returns (the usual curse at S.A.
and Maoriland for their slow and painful quarterly system
is here to be taken for granted) were as follows :
Increase as
Revenue for compared with
July, 1599. July, 1898.
Queensland „ £336,304 ... £41,200
Victoria „ „ 689,383 .. 25,538
Westralia 170,741 M 13,196
Tasmania „ 79,917 .. 11,598
Decrease as
compared with
Julv, 1898.
N.S. Wales .. .. £803,492 .. £34,256
The month just closed is the first for a long, long period
when the finances of Westralia haven’t been going down
hill. In proportion to population Queensland, Westralia
and Tasmania show about the same increase. With regard
to four of the provinces July is the first month of a new
financial year, but it is the seventh month of the mone-
tary year as regards Tasmania. The progress of the five
provinces, so far as their financial year has gone, is some-
thing like this ;
Increase as compared
Revenue with the correspond-
ing period of last,year.
Queensland(l month) .. £336,304 £41,200
Tasmania (7 months).. 541, 565 29,471
Victoria (1 month).. 689,388 25,538
Westralia ( „ „ ) .. 170,741 13,196
Decrease as compared
with corresponding
period of last year.
N.S. Wales (1 month ) .. 803,492 £34,256
* * * ♦
The M.L. Government’s new Auctioneers’ Bill
proposes, among other things, to fine the seller’s dummy
who makes bogus bids with a view to running up the
value of the property, in the sum of £lO, and to make the
auctioneer’s license forfeitable if he is twice found abet-
ting that shady impostor. Seeing that the dummy
bidder is merely a device for getting money by false pre-
tences (the pretence being that there is a demand for pro-
perty which doesn’t really exist), this is about a fair
thing.
* • • »
The Bank of New Zealand shows a net profit
for the year ended 31st March, 1899, of £93,920, which
compares with previous returns as follows :
March, 1894, Profit £41,079 I March, 1897, Profit £39,391
„ 1895, Loss 37,356 „ IS9B „ 74,900
„ 1896, Profit ■ 35,325 | „ 1899 „ 93,920
This is net profit, after paying £BO,OOO for interest at 4 per
cent, on the £2,000,000 of State-guaranteed capital, and
£17,500 for interest at 3£ per cent, on the £500,000 of pre-
ference capital held by the State. Therefore the 8.N.Z.,
under State management, has earned the splendid return
of £22 15s. 6d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
private capital (£412,354) a rate that no privately-
managed bank in Australia can even approach. And the
lives of these shareholders would be a golden dream
of affluence if it were not for the losses which the
old private management left behind it, and which
the State is now patiently clearing off. The whole profit
goes for this purpose : £50,000 towards the huge and
weary shortage, in the B.N.Z. Estates Co. ; £30,617
towards writing-off that more or less dead account,
“ B.N.Z. Estates Co. Assets in Liquidation ’’ ; £8303 to-
wards writing down the purely paper asset, “ B.N.Z.
Estates Co. Debenture Conversion account” ; and £5OOO
off another paper asset, “ Goodwill of the Colonial Bank.”
On present appearances the private shareholders may
have a show for dividends in eight or ten years—or again
they may not see a div. for twice that period.
Among the assets of the B.N.Z. there are
£2,380,783 worth which are partly dubious and partly
quite valueless and mere paper entries. These are all
relics of the old bad days when an utterly reckless private
management ran the B.N.Z. aground. Some of them
have to he wholly written-off out of profits, there being
no security behind them, and others will have to be
largely written-down out of profits, the securities being
much below the normal value put against them. This is
how the process of writing-down and realisation has been
getting on :
March,’97. March,’9B. March,’99.
Assets Realisation Board
debentures £2,680,285 £1,880,285 £1,805,285
Estimated amonntof first
call recoverable ... 4,141 1,534 425
B.N.Z. Estates Co. assets
in liquidation 680,065 540,443 455,063
Do. debentures account. 68,445 68,313 60,0X0
Colonial Bank goodwilL. 75,000 75,000 70,000
£3,407,930 £2,555,575 £2,330,783
The clearing-up process is certainly going on very rapidly,
though there is still a great deal to be done. The Colo-
nial Bank goodwill (£70,000) and the debenture-account
(£50,010) have to be wholly written-off out of profits ; and
the Realisation Board debentures and “assets in liquida-
tion ” (£2,260,348) are items on which there may be
£1,000,000 deficit, or any less sum, or none at all—though
the latter is by no means probable. Everything depends on
how the huge mass of old assets still in process of realisa-
ation pan out. When the above dubious items are all
cleaned-up there should he £60,000 a year profit for the
shareholders (equal to 12 per cent.), despite the annual
payment of £50,000 a year that has to be made to the
Assets Realisation Board until that indefinite period
when all the bad securities of the old bank are realised.
Meanwhile the B.N.Z. has a good and con-
stantly improving business—deposits are now £7,834,000
and note-circulation £666,000, and the reserve of cash and
liquid securities is over £3,823,000.
• • * •
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria ended
the half-year to 30th June, 1899, with a loss of £5038.
This is the long and cheerless procession of financial spec-
tres in the Land Mortgage Bank’s recent balance-sheets :
Dec., 1894 Loss .. £6,038 June, 1897 Loss .. £14,425
June, 1895 „ .. 6,617 Dec., 1897 „ .. 8,508
Dec., 1895 „ .. 8,847 June, 1898 „ .. 10,915
June, 1896 „ .. 9,696 Dec., 1898 „ .. 6,963
Dec., 1896 „ .. 10,494 June, 1599 „ .. 5,038
The present certainly looks like the best half-year since
1894, but it is impossible to say that it is. The losses in
previous half-years include those made by the sale of
property at less than book value. This time the amount
of that shortage is carefully concealed ; it is merely
mentioned that the profits made by the re purchase of
debentures at a discount have covered the losses by sales
of property below book values. During the past two years
the Land Mortgage Bank has made a profit of about £41,000
by the re-purchase of its debentures at a discount, yet even
with all this the accumulated loss now stands at £44,071.
It has alleged assets to the value of £1,060,000, but as they
only yielded last half-year at the rate of £1 19s. 2d.
per cent, per annum on their nominal value tticy are
probably worth between £400,000 and £500,000 for
immediate selling purposes. They don’t earn nearly
enough to pay interest on the £705,000 of 3J per cent,
debentures ; and when the interest on these reverts, at
the beginning of 1902, to the old 4$ per cent, rate, things
will probably be worse. There were originally £900,000
worth of these debentures, but by making a call the Land
Mortgage Bank raised enough to buy up £195,000 worth
at a big discount and thus reduce the liability. If it
could see its way to make two more large calls, and could
buy up all the remaining debentures with the proceeds,
it could then lie low and nurse its £960,000 of dubious
mortgages till they became really worth something like
£960,00(> again, arid out of its earnings it might even pay
a very small dividend—l or 1| per cent.—in the mean-
time. But, apparently, it has to keep selling its secu-
rities at a great loss in a depressed market in order to
meet its debenture interest, so it is destroying itself by
leading a precarious existence on its own tail. If the
more solvent shareholders would make a good-sized effort
they might save their bank even now and perhaps in a
few years get back ail their vanished money, but ap-
parently they aren’t solvent enough.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (Sydney)
realised a profit for the six months to 30th June, 1899, of
£5286, and declared a dividend at the rate of 6 per cent,
per annum and 1 percent bonus, making the whole distri-
bution at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum. This absorbs
£5039. The other £247 goes to reserve for equalisation
of dividends. This is the third Bpercent, in recent times,
and for a long time previous to June, 1898, a steady 6 per
cent, was divided. The North Coast Co. has t-125,972
paid up capital, and various reserves amounting to
£23,571. Also, at date of balance-sheet it seemed to have
only £299 in actual cash with which to pay £5039 divi-
dend, and it has a healthy mortgage of £40,000 weighing
down its wharves. Unless it reduces its dividend to 5
per cent, and keeps it there the prospects of shifting that
large, hulking incubus seem very remote indeed.
* * * *
The Queensland Trustees, Limited, shows a
large improvement for its eleventh j’ear (to 30th June,
1899). Profits are £2248, which compare with previous
returns after this fashion :
1893 ... £lOO 1897 .. £1077
1894 ... 1065 IS9S .. 1195
1895 ... 714 1899 ... 2248
1896 .. 920
The Queensland Trustees paid 2§ per cent, dividends in
1894 and 1595 ; 3 per cent, in 1896 ; 3J per cent, in 1897 ;
4 per cent, in 1898 ; and it now goes up with a reckless
jump to 7 per cent. The co. has no reserve fund, or con-
tingency fund, or reserve for possible depreciation of
securities, and the balance of accumulated profits, after
eleven years, is only £lOBO, which is very little security
indeed in a business which depends so greatly on the
maintenance of public confidence. Considering the
absence of reserves the management’s haste to divide 7
percent, seems wholly unjustifiable. A moderate 5 per
cent, would be quite sufficient until the institution gets
into a more solid position.
* « * *
The most notable features about the balance-
sheet of the Port Jackson Co-operative S.S. Co. (Sydney)
for the half-year ended 30th June are that the receipts
were £BB7B, and expenses, depreciation, and amount
written off goodwill absorb £9144, so on paper the profit
balance has been reduced from £3503 to £3237. AlO per
cent, dividend to shareholders (£1250), and 5 per cent,
interest on debentures (£219) will further reduce it to
£1768. The depreciation item, of course, will not always
be so heavy as it is this half-j’ear—the £4359 written off
represents a cleaning-up of arrears ; and another half-
year at the present rate will see the lamentable good-
will “asset” written off entirety. After that the Port
Jackson Co-operative Co. should be a highly profitable
affair—until the next unforeseen trouble happens.
* * * *
Elder, Smith & Co., Limited (Adelaide), oue of
the few big wool and produce co’s which didn’t strike a
very awful rock—it only struck a moderate rock —in the
bad days at the beginning of this decade, reports that the
earnings for the year to 30th June, 1899, were £15,601.
Against this an interim div. at 6 per cent. (£5700) was
paid last Feb., and a similar one has just been declared,
making £11,400 paid away. Some former profits were :
June, 1892 .. £19,142 June, 1896 .. £22,679
„ 1893 .. 22,700 „ 1897 .. 11,285
„ 1894 .. 23,962 „ IS9B .. 8,890
„ 1595 .. 15,433 „ 1899 .. 15,601
The position of Elder, Smith and Co. appears rather un-
certain. It once had a reserve-fund of £35,000, but, in
1893, the usual disaster struck it, and it had to write off
£78,982 for losses. This absorbed all reserves, and the
best part of two years’ earnings as well. In 1898 it paid a
6 per cent. div. which wasn’t fully earned. It has no
reserve fund, but there is a balance of £29,648 accumu-
lated profit. Whether there are assets enough to cover
all the liabilities is a question which the balance-sheet
leaves open. One item among the assets is “ Land, pre-
mises, plant, furniture and goodwill, £71,551 ” ; it doesn’t
say how much of the amount is that purely paper asset
called goodwill, and if it happens to be more than the
profit balance of £29,648 then Elder, Smith and Co.
hasn’t real assets sufficient to cover its liabilities. The
goodwill item should certainly be shown separately. Like
most concerns of its kind, Elder, Smith and Co. works on
a small capital and a top-heavy mass of borrowed money;
the paid-up capital is £190,000 while “ Deposits and other
Liabilities ” are £477,000. Still it looks very much more
sound than the average wool co. is in these times.
* * * *
Chairman Robert Harper, at the Commercial
Bank meeting, said—“ This was the only institution of all
those which had suspended to entirely change its direc-
tors ; the new men could have no motive in withholding
anything that was good for the shareholders to know.”
Well then : Is it good for the shareholders to know
whether the Assets Trust, which really constitutes nearly
one-half of the bank, is, or is not, making such alai’geloss
as to swallow up the profits made by the visible half of
the hank ? In other words, is it good for shareholders to
know whether their institution, as a whole, is a good one
or a bad one? And if it isn’t, why isn’t it ? And if it
isn’t, why didn’t the dilectors explain when they took
office that they mustn’t be expected to tell the share-
holders how their bank stands? Also, as regards the
directors themselves : Supposing it turns out in the end
that the Assets Trust is better th >,n is generally sup-
posed, won’t any director who may have bought extra
shares during this period of strange silence be apt to be
regarded as a man who kept the good thing dark in order
that he might make a profit for hitnself at somebody
else’s expense ? And if the Trust turns out to be worse
than was expected, won’t any director who happened to
sell shares during this spell of strange reticence be liable
to appear before the world as a man who kept the bad
news hidden till he had passed a part at least of his
loss on to an unsuspecting fellow creature ? Present
writer doesn’t profess to be needlessly particular, but still
he wouldn’t care to look like either kind of director.
* * * *
Apparently Broken Hill people have little faith
in the much-taiked-of public water-supply as a competitor
with the B.H. Water Supply, Limited. For a long white
they declined to connect with the co.’s mains, in the
hope of something turning up, but they have got tired of
waiting, and the connections made last half-year were the
most numerous on record. Still, not a fifth of the pre-
mises tap the mains.
* * * •
A London syndicate is treating for the purchase
of Adelaide tramways, now owned by various companies.
For some time past there has been a fast-growing demand
for purchase by either Government or a municipal trust,
and the Kingston Govt, hinted last week that no group of
London fat men would be allowed to stand in the way of
this most essential development of State enterprise. Ade-
laide tramways (still run by the antiquated horse traction)
are bossed by a little ring of wealthy men, who control
the shares in most of the companies, and have success-
fully opposed all attempts to secure a cable or electric
system. Adelaide has suffered much in the past from the
fossilism of its private tramway co.’s, and it wants no
more private co.
* * * *
The Central Queensland Meat) Export Co.
(Rockhampton) sent in a claim for compensation for 74
acres of land resumed by the Railway Commissioner. The
co. claimed £19,000, and the Commissioner offered £l6.
This did not satisfy the co., and the matter was brought
before the Railway Arbitrator to decide. One of the
witnesses —evidently a highly objectionable person—sug-
gested ss. as fair compensation. The co. didn’t ask this
gentleman any more questions. Finally the arbitrator
awarded £146 in full settlement.
* * • •
A lot of people are wondering what the recent
fall in Australian Star shares is stuffed with.
* * • *
Apropos the rumor about Anthony Hordern and
Co.’s contemplated invasion of Melbourne. Foy and Gib-
son, the mammoth Melb. providores, a,: ejecting new
premises at Collingwood, at a cost of nearly £60,000.
* * * *
With regard to a paragraph in The Bulletin of
29/7/’99 about Mr. YV. 11. Woodward, of the British
Broken Hill and a mine which only floated in London
with indifferent success, Mr. Woodhead, who reckons
he is the person alluded to, desires to have it stated
that his mine floated like a cork, and with no diffi-
culties or reservations whatever. It is stated accord-
ingly. The person who wrote the original par. has been
executed, and his head is being forwarded to Mr. Wood-
head by book post.
> • • •
Sense : So far as The Bulletin knows, 99 out
of 100 N.S. IV. dredging-speculators are buying, not to
await dividends, but only to sell on the rise.
* * * *
Heimsdal: The mine you ask about exists in
name only and is held as a mineral prospecting lease,
which fact isn’t strikingly indicative of its being worth
anything for gold. Its area is its only recommendation.
The show, in the opinion of those best able to judge, is
not worth encouragement and should be killed to pre-
vent waste of capital that might be used for legitimate
mining.
* • • •
Broken Hill Proprietary Co.’s divs. and bonuses
record to 3lst May last Cash : Total amount of divs.
paid (Nos. 1 to 122), £6,880,000; total amount of cash
bonuses paid, £BB,OOO ; total amount of cash received
from British Broken Ilill Proprietary Co., Ltd., £576,000.
Total, £7,544,000. Shares: Nominal value of shares
received in Block 14, £432,000; British 8.11., £400,000;
Block 10, £912,000. Total, £1,744,000; grand total,
£9,288,000.
• • • •
The recent £ 18,000 dividend declared by the
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. went thus : London,
£31,556 10s. ; Adelaide, £8774 3s. ; Melbourne, £5437
2s. ; Sydney, £1756 16s. ; Hobart, £268 35.; Port Pirie,
£lO6 10s. ; Broken Hill, £lOO 16s.
* • * •
B.H. South is having more trouble owing to the
extreme hardness of the ore. Although it was thought
that recent additions had brought the crushing capacity
quite up to the milling, the mill had to be shut down
lately’ for want of crushed ore.
* * « *
“ Moa ”: The people who have been spitting
fire in your columns at the arrival of the dredge in N.S.W.
are apparently mostly minus “ a little bit off the top.”
For instance, last week, “It would be a joke to start a
Coolgardie River dredging scheme.” This humorist may
yet see the saltpans in the vicinity of Coolgardie, helping
the dredge to do a bit of “ specking on its own.” An-
other largely’ ascribes the N.S.W. dredging-boom to a
remark of VVallace’s —that he made £20,000 in one year
from the Staghorn claim. Booms are not built with that
kind of brick ; 20 years (not 10) of M. L. experience has
taught that a grain to the load with a good dredge spells
divs. It’s just this gift that has made 90 per cent, of the
Maoriland dredges (what a host there is of them !) a suc-
cess ; 90 per cent, of our gold-mining ventures are frosts.
If N.S.W. mining-men were not too slow for a funeral we
should years ago have had the dredge delving for us. It
has come at last, and come to stay. No doubt the mining
shark will seek whom he can devour, but if the public fall
in they have themselves to blame. In most cases, the
bore can test a dredging property with almost as much
ease as a heap of tailings. Give an up-to-date dredge,
water to float in, a grain to the load, a suitable bottom, a
get-away for tailings, and bar bad management and over-
capitalisation, the result’s a dead bird.
* ♦ * *
“Molyneux ” : “About this dredging bubble.”
Your correspondent, H. Young, must, in dredging
parlance, be “ off his tumbler,” or suffering from bile,
else he would know better than to damn every show in
N.S.W. that smells of a dredge; by-and-b.ve, when he
learns a bit more, he’ll stand in a corner and kick himself.
Wright speaks of the “shallow rivers where no dredge
can float” —a new remark. Let him watch a dredge
working on a river bank ; he’ll open his eyes, and perhaps
learn something. With a fine snort and a sneer, Wright
sa.vs, “ Then take Araluen.” By all means, especially
Araluen Prop. Does he know that the ground of this co.,
with its small capital, consists of 329 a., more than half
virgin soil? That less than an acre, worked right across
the face, was put through, previous to the co.’s flotation,
for a return of 10360 z., worth £4040!!? This, without
treating the 20ft. of overburden, which alone will pay
ex’es—and more. What price an Earnscleugh No. 2,
dredging dirt for a penny a load 1 Araluen Prop, has an
ideal soft granite bottom —almost as soft as your cor-
respondent’s head. I’m not barracking for Araluen, only
stating what I know ; I’ve been there.
* » * *
Half-year’s work at Baker’s Creek, the Hill-
grove (N.S.W.) mine, held mostly by S. Australians—
Stone crushed, 6818 tons (5977 tons in preceding half);
gold, 66420 z. (against 49I0oz.); proceeds, £22,772
(£17,029 previous half) ; profit, just in excess of £7OOO.
The stone was thus 3dwt. better, and, despite increased
tonna_re, expenses only £306 more. Two £5OOO divs.
(48th and 49th) have been paid, but one was out of accu-
mulations. Prospecting has not, however, resulted very
satisfactorily, especially at the deeper levels.
♦ *♦ * *
Though tin prospects are very good (when the
copper-boom was starting a “Cat” writer showed that
there were better chances for a tin rise), it is doubtful if
the late big jumps are justified by the outlook. Labor
troubles have been exceedingly prevalent in the Straits,
whence three-fourths of the supply is drawn ; and, as
there is plague among the coolies, importations of that
cheap brand of labor, much favored by the Chinese
bosses, have been suspended for two or three months
past. Add to these items that the Govt, has lately’ been
shutting down upon alienations of mining land, and that
some holders have been hanging on in the hope of induc-
ing the Govt, to reduce the export duty ; and there is
some explanation at least for part of recent huge strides.
* » • *
Gympie shows signs of its usual little boom, but
Charters Towers is very tired just now. Some recent
results : Gympie Smithfield and Phoenix Golden Pile, 148
tons for 3740 z., 6d. div.; S. Glanmire and Monkland, 792
tons for 7950 z., 4d. div.; 2 S. Great Eastern, 515 tons for
20200 z., 2s. div. Charters Towers: Da.v Dawn, 6d. div.;
Kelly’s Blocks, 6d. div. —somewhat weak result of 6020 z.
froni 535 tons—sellers 175.; Brilliant and St. George, 1332
tons for 16600 z.; Brilliant Extended, 646 tons, 3440 z. Mt.
Morgan gives its usual 7d. div.
* * • *
Croydon Notes. —Yield for June, 6557| tons,
7337J0z. Of this quartz gave 4061 Joz. from 3358 \
tons, and cyanide the balance. Half - year’s re-
sult, 35,543 tons, 36,3140 z., of which 18,777 tons for
24,1270 z. was from quartz crushing. Chief yields:
Golden Gate 3 and 4 S., 2639 J tons, 5575j0z. ; G.G. No. 7
N., 719 tons, 4082J0z. ; G.G. No. 1 N., 2048 tons, 2291J0z. ;
G.G. No. 5 S., 760 tons, 13390 z. Federation Co. still keeps
average of field down, 4422 tons during half-year having
yielded but 1128 oz. Several interesting developments
occurred early in July. Roger’s Golden Gate, just
bought by a Bull crowd and floated successfully’, struck
pay ore in a hitherto unpayable part of mine, nearly
Boz. per ton ; also in sinking new.shaft struck a new
reef averaging 240 z. Jo.v for Bull in consequence.
Croydon Consols, another British-owned mine, found at
last the lost lode from which £50,000 was formerly paid in
divs. on a working capital of £lO,OOO. Fred. Cuthberb
still in luck. His No. SS. G.G. early in July gave 17260 z.
from 645 tons. Shareholders divided £450 per one-sixth
share. Reef 6ft. thick in sink. Mountain Maid
United turning out a wonder under practical manage-
ment. Later : No 7 N. Golden Gate, 310 tons f0r22430z.
Div. of Is. 3d. per 40,000 th share declared and £7OO
carried forward ; mine looking well, specimen stone in
sink, trending towards Croydon Consols.——No. 3 and 4
South G.G., partial clean up, July 7, 380 tons, 9980 z. ;
large bodies of pay-ore in sight, and deep ground proved
by the cutting of 2oz. reef in a block known as the
“ Ninety-Eight.” No. 5 South G.G., 645 tons for
17500 z. Div. £420 per one-sixth share to tributors and
£573 royalty. Immense ore-bodies in this mine. Both
No. 3 and 4* and No. 6 South Gate held privately—valu-
able properties.
Advices from Croydon, dated July 15, reported
a mining boom in full swing caused by the discovery of a
4ft. reef in the No. 4 and 5 South Golden Gate. Some of
the stone estimated to go soz. per ton, hut average cal-
culated at 2oz. Shares jumped in a few days from lOd. to
11s., but steadied back to Bs. Several valuable mining
properties in the vicinity of new find, and great impetus
to mining on Croydon expected. Usual number of
“ wild-cats” floated on the strength of the boom, but the
local Mining News had sufficient respect for the reputa-
tion of the field to snuff them out.
The “Number One” mine, Croydon, has had a
chequered career lately. “Jimmy" Rogers sent it ’Ome
for sale at £60,0(10, which was reduced by degrees to
£lO,OOO, at which price the Royal Bank, Rogers’ mort-
gagees, sold to an Eng. syndicate which, through Elmslie,
Limited, took possession. Co. was floated in London to
acquire the mine for something like £lOO,OOO and shares
were selling at £1 65., when a hitch occurred. New
management found mine almost buffered, but on sinking
a shaft in a fresh locality struck a new reef. Simulta-
neously came a valuable discovery of stone in the main
workings. At this juncture Rogers repudiated the sale
effected by Bank and declined to transfer, alleging the
Bank had no authority to sell on terms accepted by them.
Bank said it had authority under a lien and otherwise.
Then Rogers issued plaint in Warden’s Court to oust
Elmslie, Ltd., from the mine, and put hiniself back in
possession. So the matter stood when mail left Croydon
on July 22, and the first steps in a big mining action were
to be taken in the Warden’s Court a few days later.
• * • »
Despite frequent published denials one big
Chillagoe holder who had originally 48,320 shares had on
16th June a balance of 15,000. This is taken from the
share register.
* • * *
The directors of the Hampden copper-mines
intimated through the Melb. papers that Mr. H. H.
Schlapp’s report on the property was unsatisfactory be-
cause the lower levels are not looking so well. The pro-
perty had previously been reported upon by three ex-
perts, and it will be interesting to watch the outcome of
the developmental work, for when experts differ who
shall know the truth ? The day before the report ap-
peared there was a sale at £525, and it is quite pro-
bable their present value is £BO, the amount paid for
original shares. The directors’ paragraph has had the
effect of putting the Hampden field on the shelf for the
time being. Messrs. Knox and Orr have come in for
much adverse criticism for not publishing Schlapp’s
report in full.
* • * •
“ Keep your eye on the Northern Territories,”
said Horatio Bottomley last year. One bold, bad share-
holder recently remarked that it would have been much
betterhad they kept their eye on the directors of that
awful “ cat.” The shares are now practically unsaleable,
but Bottomley’s confidence is unlimited—there is no end
to his cheek. He still declares that there is £4,000,000 of
gold in the Howley, that he is constantly receiving let-
ters from men engaged underground who send him part
of their wages for the purpose of buying Howley and
Eureka shares. Are these men really miners or Bottom-
ley's underground engineers ? Bottomley also challenges
Pall Mall Gazette to send out at his expense any expert
to examine the mine. He has now extended the chal-
lenge to “ any journal of respectability ” in England.
And there are thousands of dreadfully respectable people
in England who still take Bottomley seriously.
Thus Brookman at a meeting of his S. A. Copper
co. : “ The chairman explained that it was originally in-
tended to work the property privately, but information
concerning it had got abroad, and it was found that a
number of friends desired to participate in the concern—
hence its extension. Some misunderstanding, however,
existed on certain points. For instance, it had been said
that the vendors had taken too much out of it. Let him
explain. For about two years Mr. De Rose and he bad
been trying to secure a good property for the South Aus-
tralian public.” How touching is this desire to help the
public along ! Nearly as pathetic as the flotation of the
Boulder before the Boulder lode was known.
» * * *
S.A. copper-boom gathers rather than loses
strength, and numerous co.’s are being floated.
Tower Hill Lease, situated about half-a-mile
north of Sons of Gwalia mine, Leonora, has just completed
crushing of 260 tons at Leonora public battery for an
average of Bdwt. to ton. Stone taken from an open-cut
on surface. To give some idea of the immense body of
stone here : Shaft been sunk 75ft. in solid body of quartz,
a crosscut driven west 95ft. to foot wall, then to the East,
a distance of 207 ft. without finding hanging wall. A drive
has been put 130 ft. sou f h, where prospects equal to 28dwt.
were got. Rumored 50 head of stamps to be erected.
* » * *
The cyanide plant at Sons of Gwalia mine,
' Leonora, will be completed shortly. Said to be £60,000
worth of gold in tailings. The greater part of this
amount is to be spent in the erection of extra machinery
and plant. Another 40 bead of stamps to be erected. A
profit of about £5OOO monthly from the present 10 head
looks like big divs. when the 50-head get going.
• * * »
The Leonora deep lead which caused great excite-
ment a couple of months back, has, like most W.A. deep
leads, “ blown out.” Five-ton crushing from finder’s
claim averaged about 12dwt., the next 5 tons about sdwt.
Only about 3 claims in 20 bottomed on colors. Now
totally deserted.
* * * •
The reported discovery of coal on Tas. West
Co. has filled many hearts with hope ; but there is very
little so far to show that it will fill many hearths with
smoke. Further prospecting is being carried on.
* * * •
Rumored that there is to be a big boom in oil
in Taranaki (M.L.). Petroleum has been frequently bored
for at New Plymouth, and has been struck several times.
The sea-water, however, has always penetrated to the
bore. Now they are striking for it inland, certain to
evade the water, and hoping to tap the main reservoir.
A local syndicate has secured boring rights over some
15,000 acres inland of Stratford, and means to “ go in big.”
There was a late “Wild Cat” reference to the Bull
(and Frog) owned Group of Union (N. Territory) mines,
managed by D. D. Rosewarne, and it was remarked that
nothing was heard of them this way. Whereupon Rose-
warne, who has been down south, asks “ Whaffor?” He ex-
plains that his co. spent >6OOO to connect the mines with
the nearest transcontinental telegraph station, and he is
thus in comparatively close communication with London.
The experiment was made of using mostly white labor ;
but pair by pair the imported men Wandered back to
civilisation, and practically only Chinese are now em-
ployed again. Mr. Rosewarne has been doing a little
cyaniding lately—to the intense mystification of the
Chows.
(Continued on page 18).


I
CL
A NEW DEPARTURE
In Orient Suit to measure at 63s
Davicl Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. J
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
Gov. Tennyson is so intensely serious that
visit to Oodnadatta, that part of S. A.
which chiefly consists of nigger, almost broadened
into comedy. His Ex. summoned the local black
men, grandiloquently informed them that he was
their “protector and friend,” and announced that
every nig. with a grievance would always have
justice done him, &c., &c. The chief grievance
of the Australian native is that with the advent of
the white invader his picaninnies have a strange
tendency to come into the world the wrong color,
and if Gov. Tennyson can explain this phenomenon
a great load will be removed from Tommy
Nungatina's mind.
* * » *
Lady Lainingfcon is not going to take
’Oine that little aboriginal girl. In fact, it
is said that her ladyship has dropped the small
dark person heavily in the mud. The vice-regal
children having got ring-worm and such-like un-
savorinesses from the young lady, her cake is
dough.
• • * •
The Sydney “College of Music,” which
is now crying bitterly in B flat for a State subsidy,
seems to be an affair whose demand calls for vigor-
ous suppression. So far it hasn’t done anything at
the teaching of music at all ; it has merely ex-
amined young piano-pounders and other aspirants,
and granted certificates. The applicants pay
their fees—there were 730 fees last year—and the
members of the college apparently divide most of •
the money among them in salaries. So far as can
be ascertained sundry estimable gentlemen (not by
any means.jVlozarts) who live by teaching music
struck the idea of calling themselves a college (the
institution hasn’t even a fixed habitation) and
examining pupils, and granting certificates, where-
by they gained a valuable advt. for their teaching
business, and made something in examination fees
as well. The college, so far as the visible evidence
goes, is spread about on the premises of these
various gentlemen, and it looks like a fair
thing for the State just to let them go on teach-
SHOPWALKER’S STEP.
What can I show you, mum?” “Step this way, mum. "
‘Walking-boots, please.”
ing, and examining, and taking examination-fees,
and issuing certificates of very dubious value, at
their own risk and profit. The only difference
between them and any other similar crowd of
music-teachers appears to be that this lot is less in
need of a subsidy than the other lot, because, in
addition to what it earns by instruction, it con-
trives, by calling itself a college, to scoop in a
decent income in the examining business as well.
* » * *
Scotch M‘Nab, M.H.R. for Mataura
(Maoriland), is trying to get it enacted that, when
the old man dies, as often happens, arid leaves all
his money away from his widow and children, as
sometimes happens, the Supreme Court shall have
power to set aside the will and give them at least
a portion of the estate. Which is good justice, if
not good British precedent. Even if the old
woman was thoroughly undeserving, want of
money isn’t likely to make her more deserving.
And the public doesn’t want to have to support
ht'r. The old man is dead, and the knowledge
that the dreadful old woman has got his money
can’t hurt him. The public is alive, which makes
all the difference. Besides, the public has its own
old woman to support; and it knows by experi-
ence that she objects to it having anything to do
with strange widows.
* * » *
The other day, in pursuance of his Govt.-
backed anti-sweating campaign, theS.A. inspector
of factories exhibited at a city shop a quantity of
sweated goods marked with the prices paid for
them -to provoke horror and disgust, of course,
beeing the goods ticketed people flocked in to buy
them; and one of the first would-be buyers was a
well-known worker in the anti-sweating cause.
11bus do the best-laid theories go to ruin when
there s a bargain sticking out.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—l confess myself a con-
vert to your doctrine that it is wrong to label the
married and spinster patients at Melb. Women’s
Hospital. True, as “Hermes” states, that a
large number of the single women who go there
to increase the population are Totties, and that
some of them have used the hospital four or five
times each for the same “improper” purpose.
But Hermes,” in defence of the labelling sys-
tem, says, “If the exceptions are not distin-
guished in any way, in course of time it will be
regarded as a proof of having passed through a
period of Tottiedom to have been an inmate of
that institution at all,” which is an obviously bad
argument. A married - woman patient, whose
friends and acquaintances certify to her character,
doesn’t need a label to strengthen her in the con-
viction that she is “respectable,” whereas many
a luckless spinster feels the cruel indignity of
being classed with harlots. The more Totties
there are in the ward the stronger the reason why
the other spinsters should not be distinguished
from married women. Even “right-thinking
persons” will admit that, though there may be
much virtue in a marriage certificate, an un-
wedded mother is not necessarily vicious. And
female degradation can be left to label itself.—E.
* * * *
“ Jack Shay '’ on one aspect of police-
inanism :
Nothing so much excites my contempt for the Sydney
policeman as the way he deals with the nymphs of the
pavement. In several quarters specially affected by
these unfortunates are to be observed special officers
u-hose sole occupation is to “harry” the miserable
women. They don't lock them up and be done with it
but badger and browbeat, them in every way that is pos-
sible to a mem, the idea appearing to be to keep th
herded up in a given area. Several of these fine fellows
have acquired quite a fame as “slingers-off,” and I my-
self heard one uniformed cur thus address a nymph who
was “ waiting for a tram ” : “ Now, then l/what the
blank blank are you doing up here? Didn’t I tell you to
clear out of this before to-night, you blank blank ! ” “A
nice way to talk to a woman,” whimpered the “ daughter
of joy.” “ You call yourself a woman ! —you blank blank
blank! Clear out, now !or I’ll lock you up.” And this
hero—so little does appearance of manliness go for !
was a fine, up-standing, 6-foot native. Why didn’t I
report him ? it may be asked, but I know too much about
the uselessness of that game unless you have two or three
M’s.P. to back you up.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Fe police-reference to
the general public as “civilians” (B. 5/8/’99), I
IDEALISTIC.
MISS BROWN : “Does your wife meet your ideal.”
MR. SMITH : “ No. I don't think a wife should make the acquaintance of her husband’s
typewriting girl.”
once, in an Irish assize-court, beard Dowse, Q.C.,
get on to ” a constable who had thus used the
erm in his evidence. “I am aware,’’ thundered
!)•> ' that you police like to flatter yourselves
that you are a kind of military ” (the organisation
and arming of the R.1.C., by the way, are entirely
military), “ but I will have you to know, sir,
that, if any man can be more a civilian than
another—that man is the policeman ! ” “ But,
can the learned counsel,” suavely interpolated
Judge Hamilton, “supply the constable—and the
community—with any single term which will
adequately import non-connection with either of
the -Crown’s physical-force services ? ” The
“ learned counsel ” couldn’t—and the term is
lacking to this day. —Alex. M.
At an “at home ” on an eminent person’s
yacht, a select party, headed by a rubicund labor-
member, made for the cabin at the host’s invitation.
There they found divers liquors of only mediocre
brand, but a search by the fat friend of the people
revealed a cupboard filled with the choicest
vintages of France. The laborite winked his other
eye and while a Minister of the Crown kept watch
at the door, the inferior tipple was transferred to
the cupboard and the divine swizzle placed on the
tables—where it didn’t long remain. Then the
party retii ed and a few of the very Naicest were
ushered in by the host. “We will—urn-urn—
have some—er —refreshment,” he said, and,
stepping to the cupboard, he was “ woodened ” to
see there only the stuff he had intended for the
second-raters. And then, turning to the tables,
he beheld the dozens of his slaughtered marines of
the corps d' elite.
* * * *
A military disquisition from “ Scotty the
Wrinkler ” :
Dear Bulletin.— Re what you say (29/7/’99). G. Rep.
Dibbs didn’t know about the local application of the
Queen’s Regulations. I wonder if he even knows that to
be “an officer and a gentleman” one must know the
regulations themselves? When first I joined the service
we were compelled to own and produce at inspections—
1, Queen’s Regulations; 2, Articles of War; 3, Pipon’s
Military Law ;4, Infantry Exercises. These were com-
pulsory for all corps, but I, as a “gunner,” had also to
possess—s, Manual of Field and Garrison Artillery Exer-
cises; 6, Artillery Regulations (showing uniform and
trappings to the 64th of an inch); 7, Artillerist’s Manual
and British Soldier’s Compendium (“ t he pocket book ”);
8, Division Book (list of my third part of a battery). As
officers, we had to possess these ; as gentlemen and sol-
diers, we had to study them. Later on officers' classes
were started under ( lie captain (Ist- caps, are now majors),
but as we alumni of the R.M.A. knew ten times more
than the old qui-hi’s, my class was brandy-and-soda, and
“That will do for to-day, gentlemen.” I have never
recovered the shock of the sight of a field battery at Syd-
ney Queen’s statue, horsed with cab or ’bus mokes, and
Colonel Spalding with hunting-spurs on.— Scotty thf,
Wrinkler.
A KEEN PERCEPTION.
AFFLUENT PERSON : “INEVER lend,
on principle. ”
NEEDY ACQUAINTANCE : “ Of course
not; but on interest, say sixty
per cent., eh?”
During i he
first miners’
strike at Bio
ken Hill Ser-
geant Scott
was sent up
with a Syd-
ney police
squad to
assist Sergt.
Saunders, the
local officer.
The results
were so good
that both
were ticked
off for pro-
motion. It
came soon—
they were to-
gether gazet-
ted sub- in-
s p e c t o rs.
Eight years
a f terwards
the next step
came the
same paper
which report-
ed Saunders’
promotion to
Orange as
inspector re-
ported also Scott’s death. That first Broken
Hill strike, by the way, was the happiest
ever fought ; and, appropriately enough, it
wound up with a friendly “ wrastle ” (Scotch
style) between Broken Hill Prop. Chairman
MacGregor, also lately dead, and Miners’ Presi-
dent Sleath, with Scott and Saunders as seconds.
* * * *
N.S.W. Irish Rifles consider they’re not
sartorially verdant enough, and want to be rigged
out in the shade known as “ Royal Russian
Green”— i.e., in billiard-cloth. Major-General
I rench replied that he generally leaves command-
ing officers a free hand in regard to the kind
of clothing to be worn, and would be happy to
meet them in any way they might wish. All
very nice in view of the fact that the public pays
the piper.
* * » *
The removal of a shop from the corner of
Bourke and Swanston streets, Melb., has brought
to light a fair-sized gum-sapling growing in the
small space between two buildings.
MATERIALISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are watching, my girl-wife and I,
The breaking of waves on the sand,
The glorious colors that fly
As the rollers come rushing to die
At the feet of the pebble-decked strand.
I gather the ships that lie under,
And marshal them, sail them in line,
I think of the world-wide sea-thunder
And pause for a moment to wonder
If the phrase upon paper would shine.
“That color, see ! opal and white !
How lovely ”... (I kiss the bright brows,
And joy in my girl-wife’s delight
For an instant, till day turns to night,
As she adds) ... “it would look in a blouse ! ”
Yic.
L. M. D.


Zetz Spa Water (naturally effervescent)
is as Nature made it. Take it by itself or with
your stimulants and see what a natural mineral
water is. Obtainable everywhere.*
\ x SPEEDILY r
CURED BY TAKING
Condy’s Fluid.
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Mahers.
Insist on buying “COWDY’S FLUID.”
S U 4H' Oil Cake
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Skirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post througho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & C s.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effective.*
An U pumFiEß. SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Lunges, Neuralgia and Headache. Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Senior’s Famous Pharmacy
All Business Communications to be
Addressed
FRANK SENIOR,
Chemist, 246 George Street, Sydney.
IN MEMORIAM.
VINEGARY LANDLADY (to impecunious boarder,
already weeks in arrear ): “ And what about
this week’s board?”
I. B.: “ Oh, mark it down with the rest.”
V. L.: “No, sir. I’ll mark nothing more down
for you.”
I. B.: “ Well, never mind. I dare say you can
remember it.”
A passenger in a Brisbane ’bus was
recently injured by a tram running roughly into
his vehicle. Tram-conductor averred that he
sounded his gong twice, but the obstructing ’bus
refused to get off the line. Apparently no attempt
was made to check the tram—whence the collision.
Verdict for defendant tramway co. No doubt the
’bus-driver was more to blame in this case than
the tram officials, but surely that doesn’t justify
the tramway folks in smashing recklessly into the
travelling public.
Another conviction-at-any-price police-
prosecution defeated by a common-sense jury. A
man, charged, at Narandera (N.S.W.) quarter-
sessions, with assault—“intending to rob”—had
been in complainant’s company for some time,
and had seen him “ sticking-up ” drinks. The
jury took this “ horse ” - proof that prisoner
couldn’t have expected to get blood from a stone,
yet Judge Rogers was “ surprised ” at the
verdict.
* * * •
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Dear Sir.—Glancing through N.S.W. Public, Service
List I read that
gers receive
school-book
on “ Work
are paid . .
of their |
even some of the messen-
£l9o per annum ! And the
used to tell us, in a lesson
and Wages,” that “ people
according to the value
work.” Yet
A LIGHT ORDER.
VOLUNTEER OFFICER (at
drill practice) : “ The
— haw—company will
advance in haw
columns of four, and
— haw —will form up
‘en masse' — haw—on
its own base—marking
time with both feet.”
engineers, carpenters,
sniiths, &c., mechanics
who toil with muscle
and brain, don’t aver-
age, not by long
chalks, £3 per week,
these times, while here
you have these messen-
gers, doing practically
boys’ work, receiving a
higher wage than
skilled workmen. How-
ever, this isn’t so as-
tonishing—in a country
where they pay the Gov.
merely for exhibiting him-
self to the mob occasionally,
far more than five times the
salary of the Premier !
This correspondent
thinks that a Govt,
messenger’s duties are
merely “ boy’s work,”
and not skilled labor.
But where is the boy
who can tell lies like a
Govt, messenger ? Liars
are plentiful, but skilled
liars, artistic liars, al-
ways command a price.
N.S.W. Public Service Board lately adver-
tised for fifteen emergency clerks for the
Govt, service—salary £l6O per annum. They
received 944 applications for the 15 positions, which
were to be allotted by examination. Owing to
the enormous number a liberal sifting has had to
be made of those whom the Board considers “ in-
eligible ” for examination.
A sad story of a “betrayed”
spinster, Annie, comes from North
Melb. Court. Annie stated that a
stranger accosted her at the back gate
to enquire about a waggon, and the
same night, under promise of marriage,
he accomplished her ruin. Call it “ blue
ruin.” Twins were the result of the
interview with the man whom she had
never seen before or since that fatal day,
until he came to court to deny the charge
of having “deserted his illegitimate
children.” The pathos of Annie’s
twins was intensified by her confession
that she had been a mother, but only
the mother of one, on a previous occa-
sion. Annie gets more unfortunate as
she goes along. Her next exploit at
the same Women’s Hospital will pos-
sibly lead to the arrest of another in-
cidental stranger for the crime of
deserting his unlawful triplets.
* * *
Dear Bulletin. —Be the noise
you make because John Chow and
Tommy Tanna catch leprosy in Aus-
tralia. I recollect the first cases of
diphtheria and scarlet fever in
China, whither the Englishmen
brought them. Since then both
have been rife, and pleurisy and
\ pneumonia now account for 50
per cent, of the deaths in Shang.
hai, where, 10 years ago, both
were unknown. Tot up the two sides
of the ledger, and I guess the balance
won’t amount to sixpence only to a matter
of bubonic plague or tuberculosis. Of course,
we are justified in legislating to prevent the
introduction of loathsome foreign diseases, but
are we not morally bound to avoid so serving
other peoples ? All quite apart, by thejway, from
the question of prohibiting the immigration of
colored aliens altogether. —C. F.
Announced in England that mate or
Paraguay tea may be got by writing to “ The
Manager, Cosine Colony, Paraguay,” for Is. per
packet, or 2s. 6d. for ljib. Lane seems
to have a kick left in him yet; but it’s strange
that he doesn’t send an agent to England to boom
the “ tea ” (already known there) instead of try-
ing to run a retail business through the post and
the custom-house— for mati is a dutiable article.
* * * *
A Costnd colonist to The Bulletin
Billy Lane, the man who started out to Anglo-Saxotiise
the land of swamp and monte, Paraguay, has had even
less luck than usual lately. The trip to England for
full-hreasted, broad-hipped females, warranted sound, to
mate the wife-less, tall, straight Westerners on Cosm6 re-
sulted in the arrival of eight gay girls. Two of the best-
hipped, regulation-breasted lassies were sacked within 48
hours as suspects. A third was boycotted until she
“ cleared ” shoeless and partly garmentless. She has
since married a renegade Cosman working-man in Argen-
tina. Three married loyal Oosmd-men ; one took French
leave ac Buenos Ayres, and the one remaining has filled
the cup of sorrow by leaving the vegetable paradise and
marrying a New-Australian and anti-Laneite. And the
right-living, unmarried Cosm6-man only lifts his longing
gaze from the horizon to glare at Lane and offer his share
of the Socialistic kingdom for the loving, broad-hipped,
full-breasted white partner that was promised him.
* * * *
The decision which puts an end to
Sunday “hurling” around Sydney will be
good for the overworked Australian adjective,
which greatly deserves a day off; but the
case leaves behind it a strong impression that
those who gave evidence for the prosecution did
so not because they were disturbed by the noise
and the beastly adjective, but because other
people were pleased by the “hurling.” If it is
wrong to feel pleased on Sunday, then games
should not be stopped, because now next Sunday
the good people who helped to stop them will feel
pleased, and so things are just as sinful as they
were before. One wonders sometimes what can
be the inner meaning of this Sunday fetish, and
why it is in the blood of the Anglo-Saxon race
and no other. The early Christians didn’t seem to
be bothered much about the matter ; probably they
were too busy being chewed by lions, and in
similar ways obeying the scriptural command to
feed the hungry. The Jews had a Sabbath, cer-
tainly ; but, whereas the Christian, horrified when
he sees Sunday a day of work, is still more horri-
fied when he finds it made a day of pleasure, the
Jew abstains merely from work, believes in
having a nice, good, cheerful time. The Catholic
goes with him—for half the day, anyway. And
if the true-blue Presbyterian would begin even by
taking ten minutes off, things might improve all
round.
• • • •
S.M. Herald advt. :
A BUGGY BOY, must be clean personally, and a
good driver, 6s. 253 Elizabeth-st.
At a recent Australian military re-
view the commanding officer of a large
Volunteer infantry regiment was unexpect-
edly absent, and the onus of marching the
men past fell upon the second-in-command
—a heavy, stolid-looking trader, who knows
nothing of drill. Ere he had time to hunt
up the adjutant for instructions, a general’s
A.D.O. galloped up with orders to march.
“Urn! Yes, of course,” said the amateur
warrior, gazing leisurely round. “Beautiful
day, isn’t it ? Hav.e a cigar ? ” The A.D.C.
replied that he thought the general would
be very angry if the regiment didn t move
off at once. “Of course, of course ! ” calmly
said the heavy fire-eater; “fine body of
men, these’’ (waving his arm round).
“Won’t move off for anyone but me, you
know ; er—try ’em.” The aide smilingly
told the trumpeter to sound the march,
and the regiment, of course, moved off.
“Good!” said the Volunteer warrior,
admiringly. “ You can’t stop ’em, though.
The A.D.C. motioned to the trumpeter,
who sounded “Halt!” and the men im-
mediately stopped. “By God!’’ said the
ponderous officer, with genuine admiration,
“ By God ! sir, you’re a clever man.”
* * * *
No. 1: “ Sandy MacTavish’s missus
got alarmed when her hairy lord had been
gone about a fortnight on his holidays, and
she sent him a telegram, ‘ Don’t forget you
are a married man.’ The reply came,
‘ Very sorry ; but your wire came an hour
too iate.’” No. 2: “Oh, Sandy only
wanted to frighten her for having wasted
saxpence ! ”
44 It will be a serious blow to the electric-
light co’s to learn that the Prince and Princess of
Wales have finally decided they don’t like this
illuminant, and resolved to have the whole elalio-
rate installation recently fitted throughout
Sandringham removed, and replaced by the in-
candescent light.’’— Sydney D.T.’s London corres-
pondent. » * *
N.S.W. Full Court, refusing a new trial
in Yidal v. Temperley, admitted that the verdict
was against evidence, but held that the damages
would be nominal and that the Court should not
<rrant a new trial so that mere nominal damages
might be gained. There is a nicety of legal
principle here and an incentive to discussion. But
the poor defendant (a newspaper man in the
North) and the offended plaintiff have already
lost so much about the case that the best thing is
to drop the subject.
» * * *
Recent Sydney ad. :
QITUATION wanted as Clerkess, to take charge of
Stationery Department.
Another addition to the vile tribe of superfluous
“ess” words that women-scribblers are foisting
upon the language. The pen-lady who first
styled herself “ editress ” has a lot to answer
for.
LOGICAL DEDUCTION
HER: “ Don’t you think Mr. Nibs will
injure his brain playing without a
hat in the hot sun? ”
HIM: “No fear! Why, if he'd any
brains he'd have his hat on."
N.S.W. country P.M., to man
charged with not sending youngster to
school, “ You must go to gaol for seven
days”—long pause—“ or pay Is. fine.”
And the local print describes this hilari-
ous and incidentally cruel ass as “ genial,”
and adds that “ the court roared !!! ”
The scaly question in Queensland bumps
up against the powers that be very awkwardly at
times. T’other day, Q. Home Secretary was in-
specting Mapoon River aboriginal station. Among
the natives turned up a full-blown leper. Meeting
dispersed hurriedly, and the corrobboree did not
come off. Perhaps, however, this will be adduced
as another proof that leprosy is indigenous to
N.Q. That charming theory is about the handiest
thing invented of late years.
* * * - •
Pt. Pirie, S. Australia’s biggest outport,
has just got a telephone exchange. And now they
are telling the story that one subscriber rang up
another, of the “oldest inhabitant” class, with—
“ Did I leave my stick at your place ? ” Where-
upon the Old Inhabitant —“Somebody did. Is
this yours ? ” holding the wood up to the machine.
Adelaide School of Mines, liberally sup-
ported by the Govt, and just helped on by the
Brookman gift of £lO,OOO, advertises that it wants
“ two smart lads.” One of them is to be a prodigy
of “ about 15,” “ with a knowledge of shorthand
and typewriting,” and to him the princely screw
of Bs. per week is offered. Knowledge of short-
hand and typewriting at 15 —and what do tie 1
medical people say ?
ART NOTE.
A half-tone process reproduction.
Cabled from Maoriland that at a recent
fire in Guv’ment ’Ouse, Lord and Lady Ranfurly
helped to fight the flames, and later on (affecting
incident!) Lady R. tied up the injured hand of a
fireman. Why shouldn’t they help to put out the
fire ’ The house contained a lot of their property.
» » * •
This slab from Cumberland Argus shows
what mav happen to a Governor in N.S.W. :
The allusion to “ Mr. Bowchong” in our last issue was
meant for Lord Beauchamp (commonly pronounced Baw-
chong) and not to our well-known resident of Harris
Park.
* ♦ * •
The danger of kissing the Bible in law
courts has been often discussed but how about
kissing the ring ? At Melb. Exhibition Building
t’other week many hundreds of the Faithful filed
past Archbishop Carr, and obeyed the instruc-
tion of his bodv-guard—“ Don’t bend the knee;
kiss the ring.” Raising the hand of the benig-
nant old gentleman the homage-payers put their
lips to the episcopal bauble with due fervor.
At a N.S.W. Northern
River court. Mr. Writ,
suddenly jumping up:—
“ Your Worship, I object
to that last statement of
Mr. Parchment's ” (oppos-
ing attorney), “and I call
upon you not to let it
pass.” J.P., rousing him-
self: “I didn’t hear what
he said, Mr. Writ, but ”
(vehemently), “ mark me !
if he says it again, I’ll
make it a caution to ’im !
Proceed! ”
* *
In a Sydney gun-
shop. Young man about
to go to British Columbia
examines a lot of re-
volvers, finally pitches on
a high-class Smith and
Wesson, asks price, and
is astounded when told
£4 4s. Wouldn’t think
of going above 15s. or £l.
Gun-man, blandly, “Oh,
I beg your pardon. You
see, I thought it was the
other fellow you wanted
to hurt! ”
* *
A crude bit of pathos !
She was brought into a
Melb. hospital a couple of
weeks ago, collapsing from
incurable disease, and her
husband, whom she had
left for another man,
sent her a oheque for £5. Other fellow, when she
told him, promptly snaveiled the cheque. Next
day, a few minutes before her death, the young
wife got a flower from the nurse, kissed it, and
asked that it should be sent to her husband with
the message, “ Forgive and forget.”
* * * •
Indignant protest lodged against a Taranaki
(M.L.) schoolmistress : ‘‘l can bring evidence to
show that on one occasion she stripped one of the
pupils to her chemise to look for fleas. This was
done before the whole school.”
THE OVERDRAFT.
When Georgey settled down to “ Yes,”
And fought his best for Federation,
The anti-push, and anti-press
Pursued him with vituperation.
They hated Reid, they did, indeed,
And one and all forthwith agreed
To blacken his administration
With sinister insinuation
They searched the vessel, fore and aft,
And found a heavy Overdraft.
Jehoshaphat! the shouts of joy
That greeted Norton’s revelation 1
The Antis, burning to destroy
Unhappy George’s reputation,
Told awful tales to New South Wales
Concerning purchases and sales
Which Reid denied with indignation,
But still they yelled in exultation—
“ What better proof of sinful craft
Is wanted than —an Overdraft?”
Poor George.v, in his hour of woe,
Oppress'd by weight of obligation,
Must often wish he’d stuck to “ No,”
Instead of backing Federation.
For when, O when fat merchantmen
Are fairly on the job, ye ken,
They love to help a poor relation
Whose hand controls the situation.
And cheerfully would they have laugh’t
Whilst squaring George’s Overdraft.


Tbe Principal Attractioi)
of t|>c Week
IS UpdoGbtcdly
Mark Toy’s Fair!
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
RUNNING
I
ft*
machines;
Write (or our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’t
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
Ren)cn}b?r!
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 Georsfe-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 8, 1899.
My Dear Myee,—
Along with the complimentary tea to Mayoress
Harris that came off last Thursday was presented
—by Dr. Anderson Stuart —an album inscribed by
various committees of women. An elegant little
album ; but glancing through it casually, I was
struck with the following : “Deaf and Dumb,”
Mrs. Talk-you-to-death, Mrs Hearall ; “ Poor
Gentlewomen, ” Mrs. Nobody Riche, Mrs. ’Orribly-
Gilded. To see d af and dumb written over a
committee was enough to indicate something
wrong. Then I turned another page and saw
“Stray Cats,” Miss Sweete and Mrs. Creamy, and
understood how very, very wrong I had been not
to know that these labels pointed only to the
oharities. Still you must own that those lists
might, under entirely different circumstances,
have been confusing.
The tea was a big, good-natured affair, in the
drawing-room and corridors of the Australia.
Crowds of women came and went from 3 till 6.
Premier Reid ventured in late with Mrs. Reid, in
a blue hat and navy coat and skirt. Another less
heroic man—because he has lately been through a
course of lectures to unmedicated women, and
doesn’t find afternoon-tea women dangerous after
that—was Prof. Anderson Stuart, with the omni-
potent profile. The Mayoress received her album
movingly, and clung to a big posy of flowers and
long ribbons braided with all the charities
represented at the tea. These were eight all told.
And all eight have been unweariedly presided over
by that “ large, calm lady” in a grey silk polonaise
over turquoise flounces, and a little violet toque
above a grey boa. As a chairwoman, the Mayoress
is excellent. Her record includes a feat few
chairmen can boast of—the turning out of some
unruly spirits from a meeting where everyone was
a woman who had come to talk polities.
Talking of nerve, a society butterfly bachelor,
long regarded as a fixture in bachelordom, is
announcing broadcast his engagement to a charm-
ing barmaid.
It seems that there are still some impossible
people left in the world. I gather this from
(among a few other things, of course) the fact that
certain Sydney aldermen are offended with the
flowers sold in the streets, and would clear the
kerbstones of jonquils, violets, and narcissi, if
they thought the flower-hawkers wouldn’t break
out worse than ever in wheelbarrows and carts.
For my part, I am glad to know that aldermen
haven’t the right to crush flowers out of the muni-
cipalities as relentlessly as they kill pigs.' To
come across these masses of mauve, and violet,
and yellow blossoms at work-a day street-corners
is a delicate relief after the human monstrosities
that we always have with us. The florists are the
only ones who suffer from this pretty-looking
business, although I hear that some of our flower-
shops do a big sale, on the sly, through the medium
of the street baskets. It is a little strange that
only men have taken up the business so far. Not
that I want to draw attention to that, as six-
penn’orth of flowers from a man isn’t the same as
sixpenn’orth. of flowers from a woman. Ask any
woman not in the trade. A woman counts the
violets one by o and carefully removes a stalk
without a jonquil on it from a bunch if she thinks
it looks overweight for the money. While a man
on the corner will say, “Albright, lyedy, take the
lot for thruppence, ’’ when a customer turns up her
nose at the idea of sixpence for f/mf-sized load.
August, and Spring fashions, and everybody
wishing that the flowers that bloom in the Spring
windows had nothing to do with her particular
case. Winter frocks have had no show whatever
this wet season. Everyone has lived in a macin-
tosh for nearly.the whole of the three months that
ought to be devoted to furs and velvets. Conse-
quently best winter frocks are still in the blush of
first youth, and the sudden flood of flowery mus-
lins and warm weather hats isn’t welcome.
Luckily, the silk blouse will help the Winter
skirt along for some time to come. A cloth skirt
and a silk blouse of the, same shade is not only
admissable, but imperative. You must have it,
and it must be tucked. The keynote of coming
fashions is in one word—tucks. Tucks on every-
thing—underwear, overwear, handkerchiefs, para-
sols. Last summer tucks waned a little, a delusive
waning, preparatory to the great breaking out this
year. I have just seen some lovely models of the
new blouses. They were all trimmed with tucking.
One was a soft pink silk, fastened under the arm,
and tucked slantingly on each side of the front,
and back into the front and back middle seam,
till the blouse looked like a big herring-bone.
Others were tucked in little groups of fours
and fives. Judging by our shops, the Spring
will be flowery. Hats are heavily flowered.
Checks and stripes seem to be disap-
pearing. Some of the shops have great
piles of white China silk at wonderfully low
prices. These silks are delightful for tucked-all-
over blouses. They wash and wear excellently,
and have the strange virtue of being cool on hot
days and warm on cool ones. Webb’s have a ease-
ful of lovely French hats and toques that you
should hasten to look at. Hordern Brothers have
also opened their Spring millinery, and some par-
ticularly snappy silk blouses are to be seen in their
windows.
Among the sales I saw one bargain. Books
at 4fd. Books in print you could easily
read, with hard covers. Quite respectable books
to. read and look at. Books by Jules Verne and
Tolstoi, among others. Fancy “Anna Karre-
nine ” at 4|d. ! This is the way the nineteenth
century encourages literature. Or is it?
Our Art Societies are getting ready for their
exhibitions, which open almost simultaneously—
unfortunately for people who like to eat their
sugar-plums at intervals. The Society of Artists’
show is to be vice-regally opened on Saturday,
Aug. 19, after which His Ex. will have his hand
in for opening the Art Society two days later.
The Art Society men have a-good show to put for-
ward. Eulhvood has already sold his chef-d'oeuvre ,
a view of Lake Wakatipu, which “previous”
bit of business points towards a Renaissance in
the L.S.D. of Art. Daplyn exhibits some Aus-
tralian landscapes, Kurringai Chase, and a
Hawkesbury “bit.” Lister-Lister has a large
pastel depicting moonlight on waves. Hansen has
a panoramic view of Narrabeen Lakes among his
many exhibits. Miss Una Russell is going to
show a clean-looking little water-color drawing of
Sydney golf-links. Mrs. Stoddart goes in for
portraits again, and Mary Stoddart for horses.
The Society of Artists is also making great
efforts for its show. The little president, Sid
Long, has worked his fancies into another dim
green and yellow pastoral that has panned out
withmore finish, perhaps, than his lastyears Satyrs.
He also ventures into a figure picture, a long,
draped woman, born of a line of Tennyson. George
Lambert will bring along “A Wool Team,’’show-
ing horses dragging a wool waggon in back-block
scenery. Also, a portrait of an aesthetic Sydney
girl who writes stories. Julian Ashton has
portraits, one of pretty Miss Enid Whiting
among others, and a big canvas called “The
Awakening.” Longstaff is sending over a portrait.
Streeton is also exhibiting with this division of
Long Hairs. Miss Theo. Cowan i 3 working at
The Coming, and The Passing, of Arthur, in
silver, and will show the cast of her bust of Toby
Barton, which is going to be presented to Mrs.
Toby by a hundred of her husband’s admirers.
Speaking of busts, did you know there could be
two meanings to that word? One society dame
rang up another lately, and said through the tele-
phone, “ We want to know if you and your hus-
band will join in Mr. Blanker’s bust. The sub-
scription will be a guinea.” The invited one was
quite gushing in her acceptance. “ Most delighted
to join,” she said joyfully ; “ thank you so much
for inviting us.” Later on she discovered that the
bust was cold, chill marble, which was not at
all like the thing she had been dreaming of.
Lady Mary Lygon’s chiselled cast of nose and
mouth has been giving society the impression of a
strict, unbending sort of big sister (like the Punch
lady who asks “What is baby doing?” “No-
thing.” “Then tell him he’s not to.”). Conse-
quently, everyone is staggered at the vice-regal
editress’s very earthly attitude towards the Press
Bazaar newspaper. She gently intimated that
she would like to see a discussion running through
the pages. And she named the subject. Nothing
to do with “Is church three times a day more
calculated to benefit humanity than two churches
and an extra family prayers ? ” What do you
think ? The airiest frivol imaginable : “Do men
gossip more than women ? ”
The gentleman sec. of a large charity cast a
bomb-shell into society’s lap the other day. Act-
ing on his own inspirations, he sent out post-cards
to prominent people who had engaged to sell cer-
tain charity - matinee tickets. Some of these
winged missives flew Potts Point-wards. Some
went to sober, respectable ladies, whose rule of
life is to pay John after every bunch of carrots.
The post-card intimated that tickets for the
matinee were ready, and “ your lot will be sent to
you on receipt of your twenty shillings ” ; which
hasn’t made things glossier for that already inter-
nally-disorganised charity.
“Mrs. Tanqueray’s ” week at the Theatre Royal
brought out crowds of women to see Mrs. Brough
weep all those real tears. The matinee was par-
ticularly packed, for a Brough matinee is becom-
ing a sort of thing women can’t do without, and
the very nicest females are not above spending
Thursdays with the Brough gods. In the matter
of frocking, Mrs. Tanqueray was rather a resur-
rection than a show of new goods. The only dress
that didn’t reveal a past out of compliment to its
wearer was a purple cloth walking dress, clinging
tight to the figure, and cut with a short overskirt
that ended in long, sharp points, back and front.
From under this the skirt flowed long and thinly,
and anyone who did not think of snakes thought
of eels. For evening dresses a tired pink and
yellow satin did duty. After Mrs. Brough, who
considers Paula her best part, and always rises
above herself when the problems begin to fly
round, came Mr. Leslie Victor as miserable,
sodden, little George. It was a. work of much art
and head to flourish that long red nose and weedy
black moustache, lie and snore outrageously on
the hostess’ sofa, look hideous and hen-pecked,
and yet keep the audience always certain it was
looking at a gentleman.
You would think that the woman didn’t exist
who had not heard something of the outlines of
Mrs. Tanqueray’s story. But, no ! Two women
at the matinee were all.in the dark about every-,
thing. “ Well, I never ! ’’ said one, when Paula
was explaining that she had “ kept house ” with
Hugh. “ Why, I knew all along she had been a
servant,” said the other, with the wisdom of the
ineffably superior sort of person who teaches little
girls “ Who signed Magna Charta?”
That merry, ridiculous farce, “ The Brixton
Burglary,” is running at the Royal this week.
Considering that the whole scream occurs between
7 and 8 in the morning, the women in the play
acquit themselves like heroines in the matter of
dress. Miss Noble is a sweet little green picture,
that never forgets to pose gracefully, although
one gets weary at times of that studied willowy
bend. She wears a tiny green cloth zouave,
slashed deep up the back, over the palest of blue
blouses, and a green cloth skirt braided in black.
A turquoise-velvet toque, with a soft silk crown
and masses of violets up against the brim, har-
mortises soothingly with her frocking. Miss Evelyn
Martheze looks “nice” in a simple tan costume
with a lace front and a well-poised little hat
turned up over red roses. Miss Bessie Thompson
plays Mother-in-law in a green mixture and black
atid mauve bonnet so delightfully and ira-humanly
that a man can’t help forgetting the words of that
haunting song, “If the angels are Going to Take
Mother-m-Law, Pray Let it Be Now.”
At Her Majesty’s, “ The King’s Musketeer ”
is drawing heavily. But Henrietta Watson
doesn’t get half the scope that Bernard Espi-
nasse’s version gave Lilian Wheeler. In fact, she
has only two chances. One, when d’Artagnan’s
treachery is revealed in the boudoir ; the other in
her dea,th-scene. She flares out in the first like a
dynamite explosion, and for three minutes acts so
finely and furiously that people with weak hearts
are just about to break into a cold perspiration
when the curtain drops.
Eram a woman’s point of view, there is one
scene in this play that needs explanation. Cecil
Ward is supposed to be drunk. Out comes
perky Rose Musgrove, otherwise his sweetheart,
Gabrielle. _ They talk a little. He has evidently
been looking long on the wine when it was red ;
can hardly stand, and scarcely speak. How is it
she never notices? She is very much in love v; a
him, but she never comments then, or at any
other time, on the noticeably knock-kneed condi-
tion of his legs.
Presumably, potters expect jars, but the way
in which a local putty-moulder was crushed
and eliminated by a well, anyway, he was
ordered by a big personage to bring to the
latter’s house a bust of a certain politician. He
humped the bust under his arm all the way out to
his patron’s house, rang the bell and explained
himself to the servant. The Master was out, she
would tell the Missus. The Sculptor and the bust
waited on the doormat. Presently the girl re-
turned. “Now you can jest go away,” she began ;
same time a voice called over the bannisters,
Mana, tell ’ini I never buys sculptoors at the
door from ’awkers.”
. A youth—well-known in Sydney society— went
into a newspaper office the other day, and asked
for the pen-lady. “I want to give you an
account of a smart up-country ball,” he said.
“Will you give me some ink and paper ? ” She
let him sit down at her desk, and looked on
curiously. He wrote, and he wrote, and he wrote.
Sheet after sheet flowed from his hands. He
never paused for a minute for another word for
“ chiffon, ” “ paillette ” or “guimpe.” He went
on, and on, and on. Then she took up the sheets
and read. He had described forty-six women’s
frocks, from memory. Never once did he falter
over the most complicated materials. Never once
had he called pink, red ; or alluded to mauve as
puce”; or said a dress was of black “stuff/”
He even remembered some of their wraps. Also,
he is living in Sydney. I mention that, in case
anyone wants to marry a heavenly young man who
wouldn’t say, “Is that a new frock ? ” to the dress,
she has worn wearily for the last three years.
. Girls go to balls by themselves now. The very
nicest; and even the truly nice. The telephone is
responsible for this freedom. An hour before she
begins to dress, the ball-goer rings up a “married
lady,” and asks, “Are you going to the dance to-
night?” “Yes.” “Then may I say lam with
you ? ” Mysterious reply. “Oh, but I don’t know
any men. ” “ That doesn’t matter, I only want to
use your name. I don’t want to use you.” “Oh
well, if you haven’t anyone to go with. . . . But
I may not be there till ten and I leave at eleven.”
' 1 That 11 do nicely ! ” —ting-ting. And she goes
in a cab, tells all her partners comfortably “I’m
with Mrs. Blankship,” never sees her fabulous
duenna, and finds somebody to take her home or
cabs back alone. No offence given; none taken.
The married lady doesn’t Want her. She doesn’t
want the married lady.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Chief Justice Madden, as Lieut.-Gov., was
duly ‘ Gorsaved ’ when he entered the Town Hall
at last week’s concert on behalf of the Hospital
for Women. Formerly, the tune was only played
for him when he was really Acting-Governor, but
apparently, now that he is permanently Lieut. -
Gov., he is to be Gorsaved wherever he goes. One
wonders whether he has a musical-box at home to
play it when he comes down to breakfast in the
morning. Anyway, he must know the tune by
heart by this time. Whereby hangs an anecdote.
While Gov. Brassey was in England the Maddens
were Gorsaved at every function. As with Mary
and her lamb, ‘ wherever the Madden family went,
the tune was sure to go.’ But when Uncle Tom
returned, it stopped. Whereupon one of the ladies
of the family remarked to a friend : ‘lt does seem
so strange to go anywhere now, and not have the
National Anthem played. One waits to hear it,
but perhaps we shall get used to doing without it
after a time.’ There is no need now.
“At the recent Trinity Dialectic Gathering,
Chief-Justice Madden looked like a plump Man-
darin in his Chancellor’s gold-brocaded black gown,
Honiton lace revers on vest, festoon of same on
shirt-front, diamond ring, knee-breeches, shoe-
buckles, fierce moustachios, etc. His speech was
fluent blarney. Poor Brassey, in plain red gown,
no diamonds or lace, pinched himself awake during
preliminary prattlings re Imperial Extension, etc*
He, only expert of that ilk present, got his inn-
ings last at time-limit. He revelled in the subject,
poor patriarch, but wound up wistfully—or was it
satirically ? saying he knew he’d been long-
winded, envied the Chief Justice’s lucidity, and
so on.
. '* Those Seamen’s Institute concerts have given
rise to many heart-burnings. When Lady Brassey
first started these sing-songs for the marines she
asked sundry matrons to follow suit, and the first
concert-giver to follow Lady Brassey wrote in-
viting the vice-regal presence—taking it for granted
that the principals of the movement would make
it a point to attend. There was a polite refusal—
a prior engagement. The next matron to take on
the business was refused in the same way, whereat
there was much tearing of hair. Then a leading
politician’s wife was due to raise the rag at the
Institute, and she approached Lord Richard on
the matter. ‘Couldn’t the Guv’nor and Lady
Brassey come to my concert?’ ‘Well, you see,’
replied the overworked aide, ‘ they don’t want to
make a distinction. If they go to yours, they’ll
have to attend all of them, don’tcherknow. ’ And
the lady had to be comforted with this excuse.
But Mrs. Edward Miller was more fortunate, for
His Ex. attended her concert, and now riot reigns
in the camp of the concert-givers.
’‘Be the marriage of Gov. Brassey’s ex-aide to a
daughter of the Grosvenors, a local non-admirer,
or, for all I know, a former worshipper of the
bridegroom in question, went to a novel - tea
wearing a portrait of the Earl of Shaftesbury— i.e.,
‘Wreck of the Grosvenor. ’ Also, a girl wearing
the label ‘ Such Cats ’ appeared at a novel-tea last
week. The title of her book was : ‘ A Woman’s
Thoughts About Women.’
“Some of the friends of a recent bride seem
aggrieved by the statement that she got married
before a ‘ small assemblage ’ the day after she
left home. As a matter of fact, the marriage
didn’t occur so very suddenly, and it was patron-
ised by a ‘ large and fashionable ’ crowd. Also
the dejeuner menu testified to the social import-
ance of the interesting occasion, as far as comes-
tibles can bear witness, and the happy man—an
energetic musician with a prosperous practice—
wears less hair on his head than was stated..
“People wondered why Marshall Hall’s ‘Aus-
tralian Hymn ’ was not played through, as per
programme, at the Queen Victoria Hospital con-
cert. Only one verse was played, and then the
composer banged down his baton and fled. No
explanation has since been offered. The reason
was that Marshall Hall didn’t like it when he
came to hear it at rehearsals. The music is good,
with a strong, clear melody, and the orchestration
very rich and fine; but the verses are poor, and
palpably insincere. The composer truckled to con-
ventional religious opinions in the last verse, pro-
bably with a view to make the work generally
acceptable; but he is too downright a man to
respect insincerity in his own writings. That
music to better verses would be memorable.
“That short-tempered critic, ’tis said, owes his
crustiness to cocksure would-be musicians. A
while back, said expert, visiting an ‘at homing ’
crony fell into an ambuscade of two pretentious
amateurs, aching to be ‘ discovered.’ Even when
their badgered quarry refuged among the ladies
and talked golf like mad, his tormentors per-
severed. ‘ What do you think of my technique ?’
pleaded the pianist. ‘ Didn’t notice you had
any, ’ snapped the victim. * What’s your straight
tip for me ? ’ persisted the vocalist. ‘ Study hard
for two years. Then I’ll tell you whether you’ve
got any voice or not, ’ was all the encouragement
given. Soon after, one of the ‘stars’that might have
been, married, and is now a conspicuous ornament
in Pa-in-law’s haberdashery emporium, while
t’other still fosters his ‘ technique ’ in the intervals
of physicking patients.
Thekla Dubberke is in the Deaconesses’ Home,
Melbourne, whither she went straight from Melb.
gaol after the trial. She has not put foot outside
the gate since passing within. She is a model of
good behaviour, and those who have had closest
opportunity for studying her nature assert that the
true Dubberke is now in the Deaconesses’ Home;
the Dubberke of Radalyski-Tod-association was an
accident born of hideous circumstance.
\ ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Australia’s union of hearts has been
triumphantly consummated, and there is also a
picturesque union of arts to be rejoiced over. This
is the combination of Nature’s greatest work of
Art (large A)—lovely woman, and one of man’s
choicest achievements—P.D. corsets. If the join-
ing together of the Austral States bestows as
much happiness upon mankind as the union of
P.D.s and loveliness, Australia will indeed be a
country for the gods. P.D.—poetic and divine.
Country readers would do well to try the
“ Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires no trimming,”
saves oil, has np smell whatever, and it is almost impos-
sible to have an explosion of a lamp in which they are
used. Messrs. Chambers and Seymour, of Collins-street,
have one window entirely devoted to the co.’s goods.*
E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
.£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agkkts Wanted. General Manager*
CAN
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The Great Curse in these colonies is
indigestion, and the Great Cure for it is Zetz
Spa Water taken with meals. It is rightly called
the “Premier Natural Table Water.”*
Roderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers.
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
—“Margaret”—will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number.
A GENTS WANTED.—Ladies or Gentlemen make from
£3 to £7 per week taking orders for our Gold Wire
Name Brooches and Jewellery. Greatest novelties in the
world. Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Terms to Agents
Free. It. SIMS, Gold Wire Jeweller,
Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne, Vta.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
William A. G. Fraser, whose death, at 77
years, is chronicled, hoisted the flag above Eureka -
Stockade on the opening of the fight at Ballarat
in 1854.
Many pressmen will regret to hear that
E. C. Westlake, long of the Argus, afterwards
of Sydney D.T., and lately sub-editor of the
Australian Star, is in a hopeless state of health.
After four years in N.S.W. Parliament
Dowell O’Reilly has gone back to his school-
master’s billet, poorer than when he started. His
stomachful of political husks will last him a life-
time.
The chief originators of the Robertson
Memorial Fund, closed the other day, were J. P.
Garvan, ex-Treasurer, and Patrick Jennings, ex-
Premier—both dead and both apparently for-
gotten at the inauguration ceremony.
HIS DELICATE STOMACH .
“ Why didn’t you go round to my wife and yet a
feed as I told you?”
"I went round, and she gave me the cold shoulder.”
“ What! Do you mean that she turned you away?”
“ No! I mean mutton —it always disagrees with
me! ”
Gov. Tennyson, of S.A., completes his
47th year on Friday, Aug. 11th, and his prede-
cessor, Lord Kintore, will attain the same age
Aug. 12, while Lord Ranfurly, Gov. of Maori-
land, will be 43, Aug. 14.
At latest, B. E. Minns, the well-known
N.S.W. artist, who had long been laid aside at
Guy’s Hospital, London, after a severe surgical
operation, had recovered sufficiently to leave that
institution and proceed to his home in Bucking-
hamshire, where he was doing a little work. Mr.
Minns will be represented by several small pic-
tures at the coming show of N.S.W. Society of
Artists.
The presence of N.S.W. Labor members
at Gov. Beauchamp’s board, the other day, re-
calls the first time Ninny Melville, coffin-maker
and politician of the intense Radical persuasion,
sat down to dinner with Baron Carington at Govt.
House. Said Ninny to Bibbs: “This is dazz-
ling.” After a while : “ Dibbs, this is near
heaven.” After another silence and some eating
and drinking (Ninny was a total abstainer) :
“Dibbs, this almost makes me regret I was not
born an aristocrat.”
One wonders what authority there is for
the statement made by Mr. J. W. Mackail in his
“New Life of William Morris” (vol. 1., p. 103)
that Tennyson “ had serious thoughts of accom-
panying ” the sculptor Woolner when he came to
Australia in 1852. There is no statement to this
effect in the life of Tennyson by the present
Governor of South Australia. “Emigration to
Australia or New Zealand was then greatly in the
air as a sort of Gospel,” says Mackail. But, see-
ing that Tennyson was made Poet Laureate in
1850, it is questionable whether he ever thought
of emigrating two years later.
Dear Bulletin. —lie your quotation about
Vabien Solomon. Dr. Leitner, of Lahore, editing
Indian Public Opinion (’G7), alluded to a young
Competition-Wallah as “an oiled Assyrian.” The
man was a bit over-pomatumed. One evening, at
the Anarkullee Club, the doctor, wishing to
remove the coolness that had arisen, proposed the
health of “ his young friend, Mr. L.G.” “ Stop,”
said the latter, “ let us rather drink to all honest
men ! You may sit down, Mr. Leitner.” As one
does sit down when his health is being drunk, this
ought to have been a compliment; but the Teuton,
taking it the other way, rushed round the table
and pulled L.G.’s nose. Then he departed for
his bungalow to prepare his lethal weapons, but
fell into a ditch by the way and broke his leg.
That’s all—except that I suppose the celebrated
Orientalist, just dead, is the same old Leitner.—
S. le W.
John Forrest will be 52 Aug. 22, and
Graham Barry 77 Aug. 28. Premier Turner was
48 Aug. 8, Attorney-General Isaacs 44 Aug. 6,
Alfred Deakin 43 on 3rd, and Dick O’Connor,
Q.C., had a birthday on the fourth.
Major-General French, N.S.W. Com-
mandant, has timed the extension of his appoint-
ment in Australia to fit in with the military
scheme of promotion and retirement. He is
fourth now on the list of Artillery colonels, and
will be due for promotion to the rank of general
in 1901, when he'leaves N.S.W., and when his age
entitles him to retire with the pension of that
rank.
The salary and allowances of manager
Lock, prime mover in the sensational Lucknow
strike of a few years back, now returning to Eng-
land, have totalled ,£5OOO per year. Mr. Lock is
lucky enough to have managed a mere mine, not
a province. Had he been Premier of N.S.W.
instead of manager of. Lucknow mine, he would
have had, say, <£4ooo a year less net income to live
upon.
At Narracoorte, - S.A., Father Tenison
Woods once delivered a three-column discourse.
It was to be fully reported by the local Archi-
medean lever, and the lecturer ordered in ad-
vance 200 copies, to be posted as per list ot
addresses handed in. After they had been
duly mailed he discovered that in a “com-
plimentary par.” re the lecture in same
issue it was stated that : “ Rev. Tenison
Woods was quite tii/ht when he said,” &c\,
&c. Only a“ t ” instead of an “ r.”
A certain Australian magistrate jea-
lously guards the secret of his limp. Ask
him the cause, and he replies, “Rheuma-
tism ” ; and only two or three members of
his family know otherwise. When he was
a nice little boy he was one day fooling
around with a spade, and ended by nearly
severing his big toe from the balance of
his body. A doctor was called, and the
toe was stitched and bandaged. A fort-
night later, little Tommy was seated on a
verandah, basking in the sunshine, his foot
temptingly extended ; a hungry pig passing
made a grab for the bandage and swallowed
it, toe and all. Parents thought Tommy would
die. But they were wrong—it was the pig that
died. However, that part of the yarn is purely
malicious. , •
Years ago, when Richmond Thatcher
sided over the old Bulletin Hotel, in Castle-
reagh - street, Sydney, the majority of the
boarders were a queer, nondescript collection,
who worked little and drank much One
day the whole household, including Rich-
mond himself and his star lodger, a bibu-
lous sea-captain, were ‘‘col fired” for a
coroner’s jury. The captain was chosen
foreman, and dozed throughout the pro-
ceedings. When the evidence was con-
cluded, Thatcher nudged the foreman
and asked him to consider the verdict.
The old salt, suddenly awakened, rubbed his eyes
and then scandalised the court by exclaiming,
with a beatific smile, “Mine’s gin and soda.”
“ Senex ” : A writer to The Bulletin said
that the late Mr. Hervey, of S. A. was not the
only “gentleman of color” who had sat in a
Australasian Legislature. Present scribe knows of
three—notably Francis Smith, late Chief Justice
of Tasmania, some of whose progenitors were
West Indian negroes. Another man who sat
in Queensland Parliament (name temporarily
escaped) would have had to be whitewashed an
ineh thick to conceal the effect of the tar-brush.
Archibald Michie’s friend, “Tom” Stubbs,
the Georgian auctioneer of Melbourne, originally
of Sydney, at a swell sale was asked by an old
Sydneyite to have a piano tried. Replied Stubbs,
“ I don’t see the use. You
have been tried once and
I don’t know that any
particular good
> . came of it.”
Mr. J. WATSON, late “ Starter ” to V.R.C.
Sirdar Kitchener, the English barbarian
who went head-hunting like a Solomon Islander,
is as good a savage as he is a soldier (good savage
and good soldier are indeed quasi-synonymous).
He clung to the Mahdi’s head as his own per-
quisite-keeping it to decorate his country-seat
as a Solomon Islander decorates his hut—and it
was only when the scandal became too serious in
England that he had it destroyed.
Interviewed by the Idler magazine, Max
O’Rell proudly exhibited an aboriginal’s boome-
rang “presented to me in Queensland by Mr.
Meston, the headman of the tribe.” “ Headman
of the tribe ! ” Alas for earthly glory ! William
Tell is a children’s myth ; George Washington a
steel engraving ; and Meston —Meston is “the
headman of the tribe ! ”
A N.S. Wales M.P. (now M.L.C.), ( while
addressing the “ free and independent ” at a
Western town, was much annoyed by a fre-
quent drunken interjection of “ Who shot
Hector M'Lean’s pigs?” He was then
owner of an adjoining station, and had,
not long before, made cold pork of some
of Mac’s trespassing grunters. The can-
didate, inwardly Coiling, appeared not to
notice the interruption, and the drunk
varied it to, “ What’d you do for us, if we
returned you to Parliament?” “Do!”
at last snapped the embryo M.L.C., “why,
shoot blanky pigs, and begin with you.''
Paddy S , a respected resi-
dent of W. Queensland years ago, once
gave an order for dungaree that fairly
staggered the Sydney merchants with
whom he dealt. However, as the old man
was a good mark, the order was fulfilled,
and to this day nearly every man you
meet in W.Q. wears both dungaree shirt
and pants. It was this way. Paddy,
who was no scholar, told his daughter
to write the order. “ What quantity
shall I send for?” asked she. “Put
down wan, ort,” said Paddy. “ Yes.,
father.” “Now put down another ort.”
“Yes, father, but -” “Do as I tell
yez. Have ye got that down ? ” “ Yes,
father, but ” “Put down another ort
at wonst. Sure an ort extry or so makes
no difference.” Paddy found out after-
wards that it did.
At the establishment of a very big
Sydney trader, who is no end of ahumorist.
a woman caught stealing a box of pills was
brought before the principal by his vigilant
assistants. “Now, madam,” said the boss,
“which will you do—take the whole lot or be
given in charge ? ” She swallowed them all.
Gov. Beauchamp at the Forbes (N.S.W.)
smoke-concert :—“Twelve months ago, I must ex-
plain, I was a member of a local school-board, and
a complaint having been lodged by someone, it
was unanimously resolved ‘That Lord Beau-
champ, Mr. Smith, and two ladies be formed
into a committee, with power to add to
their number, to make the necessary investiga-
tion.’” Now, the S.M. reporting - staff has
orders to “take” the Governor verbatim. The
public can imagine a conference of godly men in a
room in Hunter-street when it was prayerfully
resolved to Bowdlerise His Ex.’s remarks in the
spiritual interest of Herald readers of the three
sexes.
The impending election of a new N.S.W.
Speaker brings the fact into prominence that all
Speakers have had to lean heavily at first —and,
indeed, with few exceptions, always—upon Clerk
of Assembly Webb— an encyclopaedia of Parlia-
mentary law and prec dent. In the same way
the Cnairman of Comm ttees leans upon the
second clerk, Arnold (son of late Speaker Arnold),
who also gives the law to the Chairman when in
doubt. Indeed, there have been times when
Arnold might have been actually heard pumping
the decision into the Chairman as the latter stood
on his feet. Arnold is noted for being able to
summon sleep conveniently during all-night
sittings in Committee, and has a remarkable
capacity for waking up at the right moment, and
knowing everything that has been going on while
he slept.
Sub-Inspector Healey, who died in Sydney
recently, was among the first few to descend the
cliffs at Watson’s Bay after the wreck of the
Dunbar. He found Johnston, the sole survivor,
and improvised the lift that saved him. Healey
was one of the batch of London police brought
out by the N.S.W. Govt, in ’55 as the nucleus of
a new police force. Ex-Gaol Governor Read, also
a London policeman, was another.
Transvaal President Kruger is alleged to
have told a Jew that he liked the Israelites
because they are —singular fact in a history of the
race! —“mentioned” in the Bible; “whereas,”
added he, “you don’t find there any mention of
these world-grabbing Englanders.” But “Uncle”
must have forgotten, 2 Blessed are the meek, for
they shall inherit the earth.”
THE TROUBLES OF THE DAGO.
NEWSBOY (to itinerant fruit-vendor) : “How much
the pineapples? ”
I. F. V.: “Two for thrippence.”
NEWSBOY: “’Ave yer got any date-plums? K
I. F. V.: “Wo.”
NEWSBOY : “ Well, give us threepenn’orth of specked
fruit, and not too many watermelons.”
Barrister Gregory (Vic.), whose lunacy
application recently attracted some attention, was
known, at Melb. University, to be mentally queer
years ago. He was lecturer on contract law, and
used to be badly baited by the students, who
worried him with interjections and remarks until
he became almost frantic. He created a sensation
once by the announcement that someone had
stolen the keys of his desk and tampered with a
set of examination papers which he was going
through. Next term he appeared at lectures with
a steel ring round his wrist, from which the keys
of his desk ostentatiously dangled. His resigna-
tion followed shortly after.
Lord William Neville gets favorable men-
tion from one of his late companions in gaol, who
states that he saw his lordship one morning en-
gaged in “ scrubbing away at the steps with
might and main.” His lordship also takes kindly
to pick-and-shovel work, and can push a barrow
against any man in the gang, says the same his-
torian. Why not? W. Nevill was, no doubt, a
very bored, lazy lord until he went to prison, and
now he has the novelty of work to do and the
healthy excitement of wondering whether he will
be treated to Irish stew or currant dumplings for
dinner on account of his noble birth and good
conduct. It is a fine thing for the tired, self-
indulgent son of a marquis to be called by the
Law to a state of life where good digestion waits
on the appetite for dumplings.
Rumored that Ballarat Anglican Bishop
Thornton is to replace Melb. Bishop Goe—about
to retire. Amongst other little delusions,
“ Samuel Ballarat ” believes in the special sym-
metry of his understandings—hence his sobriquet
of “ Turkey-legs ” amongst the profane. Another
weakness makes him exact always the style of
“My Lord.” But the police aren’t particular
about titles; when they wanted him for a breach
of the municipal by-laws they just sent along a
summons, and got him fined as plain Sam Thorn-
ton. Samuel appears to be gloriously unaware
that, as there is in Australia no established
church, he puts himself, in calling himself “lord,”
exactly upon a level with the Bourke-street slop-
boot vendors who stick burlesque titles on their
signboards.
Ex-Labor-member Hutcheson, of Welling-
ton (Maoriland), re-elected by 1965 votes over
lawyer Jellicoe, was born at Dumbarton (Scot-
land) in ’55, and worked for a while in Denny’s
ship-building yards there. Turned sailor, and
rose to be first mate. Came to Wellington in ’BO,
spent 10 years in Mills and Co’s ship-rigging
firm, and then started “ on his own ” in the same
line. Elected Harbor Board Chairman in ’9si
Headed Wellington poll in ’96, as a Seddonite,
beating Stout and Fisher. The miserable little
penny-farthing row over Capt. Jones’s examina-
tion for some certificate or other (a matter which
in little gossippy M.L. has swollen to the size of
a national question) led Hutcheson to resign his
seat, and he comes back as an Oppositionist and
throws in his lot with the old Tory gang which
brought about so much woe in former days.
Hutcheson joins the enemy not so much, it would
seem, through conviction as through personal
pique, because the clumsy Minister Hyphenated-
Jones scoffed at his former occupation in the
fo’c’sle.


JOHN SOMERVILLE & CO’S LTD.
SLENPOUR WHISKY
SWIFT & COMPANY, AGENTS,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sold at all
First-class Hotels.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A patfe Carbolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
Hotel
Australia —n
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
TOURISTS
from all parts of the
world are unanimous in saying
that “The Australia’' Hotel
is the best thing in Austra-
lasia.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“ Drummer Delights of coaching Wil-
cannia to Oobar. Huge, ancient, lumbering
11-passenger coach that hasn’t had a touch of
paint for years. Nothing left of the curtains but
the straps, and passengers completely exposed to
»eather. Hideous old fabric patched up inside
with hoop-iron. Not a vestige of padding left,
nor even a cushion. The last time I came through
there were two ladies on board, and the driver
and I had to give them our rugs for cushions.
Trip takes from half-past 5 p.m. on Thursday
until 7 a.m. on Saturday— mortal hours with-
out a spell. Quite lovely during recent frosty
nights ; and then the privilege of paying J 24 4s.
for all this joy. Plain fact, Bulletin, every
word !
NOTHING TO SQUEAL AT.
THE TONORIAL ARTIST : “ Steady, steady, Bun-
garee! You ain’t at the blanky dentist’s. ’Air-
UTTIN’ don't ’urt !”
After spending £50,000 and the best part
of many lives on it, the Jesuits have just aban-
doned the Daly River mission-station in the
Northern Territory. Henceforward the blacks
thereabout will have to reach glory in the good
old way, or do without it altogether. The station
has been sold, lock, stock, and barrel— i.e., horse,
cattle, and goats —of the last-named a first-class
herd of 1500. The station was badly-placed ; the
plantations of bananas, oranges, and mangoes had
to be coaxed to perfection in the face of periodical
floods. A flight to higher ground was suggested ;
but the results among the blacks had been so dis-
heartening that abandonment was preferred.
* * * *
“ Shaker ” : “ The man who goes down a
shaft, for the first time in his life, as a full-blown
miner ” (B. 17/6/’99) is not the worst danger. He
takes no chances—knowingly; and even, “if he
does not let on to his mate,” the mate will
“drop” fast enough, and keep a look-out. The
real terror is the man who’s been reefing 10 or 20
years, and who, after sounding a “drummy”
place overhead, casually remarks: “ It’ll stand
while we get them two shots in, and they might
fetch it.” Or, at the windlass, sees a stranded
rope and says nothing, thinking, “It’ll pull that
bit of mullock, and then I’ll have time to fix it.”
Damn that sort l — it’s always loaded 1
A STRANGE FAMILY.
UNCLE : “ What do you think of the brumbies ,
Jess?”
JESS: “The ‘Brumbies?’ I don’t think I've met
them yet, uncle.”
“S.”: It Aas prior to the invention of
the safety-cage, and when accidents in the shaft
were common and generally fatal. The cage
jammed in the shaft of the North Nevertell
Extended, and four miserable sinners were penned
half-way between heaven and gehenna, with a
ton or so of rope on top and 300 ft. of clear shaft
and immortal smash just below. The work of
getting her loose absorbed many hours, and mean-
while the imprisoned occupied themselves with
fasting and prayer. At this point it occurred to
some genius to knock out the centres, and so
enable the men to escape on to the ladders in the
puinp-shaft. This was done, and the men reached
the surface in safety ; but when Saturday came
round the boss absolutely refused to pay them for
the half-shift wasted in the cage !
* * * *
“ A. 8.” : “Hardly think “ F.A.R.” (8.,
15/7/’99) could really have seen an aboriginal
“man-making” ceremony. The blacks never
perform such unless there are considerably more
than two neophytes to be initiated ; and anyone
who knows much about aboriginal customs knows
a casual stranger would on no account be per-
mitted to see the singeing part of this rite, called
by the coastal blacks “keeparra. “F.A.R.” has
probably only seen the subjects being smoked at
the main camp, always some distance from the
scene of the secret portions of the keeparra. Also,
the candidates are not compelled to fast, but are
well fed on meat deprived of all bone and sinew.
The “smoking” is almost the last act in a cere-
mony which may extend over a fortnight.
* * * *
“ N.Q. ” : Recently paid a business
visit to the domestic establishment of a negro
cook. The housewife, white, had seven olive
branches ; eldest branch being white ; second and
third, black and tan ; fourth, of distinct Chinese
caste ; fifth and sixth, white and black respec-
tively; and seventh white.
* * * *
A cheerful Maryborough (Q.) paper tells
how Hindoos are chipping in the local fields at 4s.
an acre. They live, our Indian fellow-subjects, on
sixpence a day. All they want is flour—and they
are fed and clothed. When the flourbag is empty
they convert it into shirt and trousers. Economy
can go no further.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —The “childrens’” or
“ Rock ” snake (Liasis childreni) is probably the
reptile that my critics refer to as a carpet snake.
It attains a length of 22ft., but a very slight
knowledge of snakes should prevent anyone from
mistaking it for a “carpet.”—H. J. McCooey.
* * * *
“S.W.”: Our naturalists say that it
is not the mopoke ( Podargus) that gives the
cuckoo-like cry, but the boobook owl. And, as
these birds are so frequently found in company,
may it not be that the little boobook is a sort of
jackal or pilot to the podargus ?
* • * *
“ Yarrum ” : Snakes do like music, but
they’re not particular as to quality. Went once
into a policeman’s house, and found daughter
banging wildly at aged piano, while her father,
with back against wall and cocked gun in hand,
stood waiting. Thought at first that he’d “ got
’em again,” but Robert explained that he was
“ waiting for a snake to show at a hole in the
skirting.” The “choon” was the “Irish
Washerwoman,” and it fetched the reptile right
enough. Bobby banged, and slaughtered the
snake, the third he had thus killed out of a tribe
that lived under the building. I have also seen a
Bungendore man, for a wager, bring a big black
snake out of a hollow log with a mouth-organ. I
also knew a fettler, on the Southern line, who
had to get rid of a piano because the sound
attracted hosts of snakes.
• • • *
“W. J. M‘D.” :Be ’roos fighting. Came
across two wallabies having such a “ willing go ”
that they let me come within a dozen yards. The
scrap lasted 20 minutes before the smaller of the
two was so “done” that I picked it up, after
having actually to chase the victor from the spot.
Gobung: A hen of mine had successfully
hatched a clutch of high-priced eggs, and was
strutting proudly about with her brood when the
rooster (Indian game), after calling the mother
away to partake of an imaginary worm, fell upon
the chicks and slaughtered them. Vacancy now
in my establishment for a rooster of moral
tendencies.
Demise recorded in Vic.
up-country paper of “ Sam "
Boanas, well over four score.
Sam (his real name was
Samuel, but it was voted too
toney, and Sam substituted)
was well - known on the
“fields” in the early ’so’s.
He made a fortune out of
flour and bacon at fancy
prices, but dropped it all in
unwise speculations of later
years. There are many
stories told of him. Once,
when he had amalgamated
the liquid business with the
solid, four miners entered
his store, one blazing day,
and demanded sherbet. Sara
used to pride himself on
never being “ out ” of any*
thing, but he wasn’t pre-
pared for this. The quar-
tette were the rare animals
of that epoch—teetotallers,
and the sherbet demand
was no doubt a freak, in-
tended to bother old Sam.
But Sam was equal to the
occasion, and, having on
hand a stock of seidlitz-
powders, he mixed four big
glasses, and saw them un-
winkingly tossed off. The
“sherbet” was voted
“ prime,” and before his
customers left there wasn’t
a seidlitz-powder in stock !
Boanas, in relating this to
writer, observed medita-
tively that he had heard as
how the sherbet - drinkers
“ didn’t do no work for quite
a time after that there
spree 1 ”
• * *
Dear Bulletin. —Be
dimensions of carpet-snakes,
killed one the other day
at Alooiubah (Q.) measuring
14ffc. Bin.-F.P.
Said the Illawarra man : “Was out with
the ole man line-fishin’, an’ me arm was near
broke pullen of ’em in, till we ’ad the boat that
full she was ony ’alf a inch out of water. But
the ole man wouldn’t throw one away. He’d
land the lot—or none. Worst of it was ‘Big
Ben ’—the ole shark that used to live there—was
doggin’ us up, with an eye on me. Things were
on’y middlin’ I can tell yer. Well, I asks the ole
man for his knife to cut tobacco, an’ he slings it
along, an’ it falls down at the side of the boat. I
leans over to get it, and over we goes ! —boat, fish,
ole man an’ all. But ‘Big Ben’ was so busy
among them fish that we swam ashore all right.
Next day we went down and collared ‘ Ben ’; he
was that full of fish an’ one of my boots that
he couldn’t get out of our way, The ole man
reckoned it was the boot pixened Ben. Of course
we didn’t sell them fish. We have a repitatiun
ter keep up.”
* • * *
A N.S.W. man, who recently had the
best cow in his yard condemned for tuberculosis,
bailed the animal up, half-filled his hat with
her milk, and drank it off. Said the inspector :
“You are a foolish man; you’re running a
great risk.” “Risk be hanged ! ’ said the
dairyman, “ I’ve had a drink from that there
cow every morning for 12 months, an’ I’m still
a blessed sight sounder man than ever you
were.” Perhaps—but it doesn’t prove that
the average man can safely swallow unboiled
tuberculous milk.
• * * *
A prominent Australian scientist, writing
to a person in "the country for some information
about the local aborigines, cheerfully observes
that “there is no doubt the old way of dealing
with the blacks with the rifle was the correct
one I—then1 —then we should have had no half-castes.’
« • * *
“ Y.A.” : Know of a well-authenticated
case of fox-terrier slut giving birth to seven pups
with docked- tails.
• * * •
Be hares jumping. At Moonee Valley
racecourse (Vic.) —also used as a coursing ground
it was so common for hare 3 to jump the 4ft.
pickets that wire-netting was at last stretched
above them.
* * * *
“T.F.”: Some curious Australian bird
facts. Up to ’B6, flock-pigeons, in millions, used
annually to visit the Flinders, Diamantina, and
Thompson (Q.) watersheds, but since they have
come only in small numbers. The gaily-piumaged
finches, known as “ painters,” around the Gulf of
Carpentaria, first arrived immediately after—
possibly in consequence of—the great Straits of
Sunda earthquake, in the early ’Bo’s, and seem
to have come to stay. Black and white ibis,
always common in the Eastern provinces, were
unknown in W.A. before ’9l, when they appeared
in large flocks. Don’t know whether they re-
mained.
* * * *
“ Doolan’s Ditmy’s dead ! ” “ Good God !
What was the matther wid um ? ’’ “The sthack
shlipped down on um this mornin’ an’ smothered
utn.” And Mick rode off. The news spread, and
when the Doolans were at supper buggies began
to roll up, then more buggies, and yet more—their
occupants talking in suppressed tones, till Doolan
went out. Then said one, speaking for all: “ ’Tis
sorry we are for your throuble, Doolan, and glad
to see you takin’ id so well, for small good is
sarra to the dead. God be merciful to poor
Dinny 1 ” “ Dead ! ” repeated Doolan—“ Dinny ?
Sure there’snare a wan dead at all, but Dinny, me
foine pig that the sthack fell an. As for me son,
Din, God bless um ! he’s been out on the tear iver
•since rafferindum day ! and ’tis dyin’s the lasht
thought in his head, I'll go bail ! ’’
Miss HENRIETTA WATSON (Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney).
Photo., Falk Studios, Melbourne.
“Cockies' hours” are supposed to be “from
jackass to jackass,” but O’Shaughnessey goes one
better. He sows only white spuds, and the un-
fortunate hired man is expected to “ keep on
diggin’ while ye can see the peytaties.” Mrs.
O’S. looks after the daylight end of the day.
Thus, at reaping time, when a few men must be
employed, that good woman, just before day-
break, takes up a position close to the men’s hut,
and salutes the tail-end of night with —“Good
morruning, John.” Then, in an assumed bass,
answers herself—“ Good morruning, ma’am.
Ye’re airly afut this morruning.” Now returning
to the usual shrill treble—“Yis, an’ the divil a
wan of my min up yet ; an’ there’s all the cocka-
toos atin’ a poor woman’s t whate. Here,
Shtumpy ! Hool ’im, Shtumpy ! Here, ag’in,
Shtumpy 1 ’’—finding a fresh imaginary flock—
and ending in a shriek that would raise anything
but the “min’s” wages. Result: a hurried
tumbling out of “min” who, after dressing by
WHITE EAGLE, taken from a nest on Ray
Station, Q., seven years ago. Roth parent birds
were of the usual black-and-tan color.
Photo, by John Pick, Brisbane.
slush-lamp-light, and walking half-a-mile to the
paddock, find there is still time for a smoke before
day-break.
* * * *
As to the lately-mentioned out-back N.S.
Wales station-hard, one-eyed, one-armed, one-
legged. The out-back has a handless traveller,
too ; a warrior with a single stump. How the
poor old fellow gets along at all is a mystery ;
anyhow, he yets along so badly that he was picked
up all but done-for on a track out from Wilcannia
the other day, making for Broken Hill.


One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a frost of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. Ho.vever, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney —who own the Willson patents for
Australasia—are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. This co. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers. *
u The Patentees —Macniven and Cameron, Ltd.,
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen The Pickwick Pen
The owl Pen The Hindoo Pen
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
in ol ' extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The “Fx & R” WATCH.
MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE AGE.
THE
25/6
42/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 Hunter-street (Only), SYDNEY.
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
THEY are Jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted
balances.
THEY have j ■ evel ruby roll' rs.
THEY n-e dust-proof and WAT
J llHi WISYh 1 ‘ ‘ ' , ,
THEY are sp (dally made to stand rough
riding and 'knocking about, and go
with great accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years and kept
in order (breakages excepted), for two
THEY are 25/6 each, in oxidised metal O.F.
i mi ! Cilitui* (I H
cases
; and 42/- in solid Silver O.F.
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful toetli or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bot ties. Mad ein London *
Roderic Quinn’s charming selection of
verses, “The Hidden Tide,” has been warmly
welcomed everywhere. The price is Is. 9d., post-
free from The Bulletin office.
GIVE THAT “TIRED FEELING” A REST
and drink
WHITE LABEL LAGER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“ Gad ” : Talk about “ Steele
Rudd’s ” dad. I met an ancient sand-
groper at work, W.A., the other day,
who said, “ Are you going to Nor-
tham, sir (portion of Albany and S.
Cross railway), because, if you don’t
mind, I would like to stick close to
you. I haven’t been away from home
since I was a boy, when I used to. go
down with my father to Perth, to
sell our stuff.” The old chap stuck to
me like a small boy until the express
came in.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin. — A friend of
mine, while recently travelling from
Clermont to A ram ac, met two men,
one of them so ill that his mate could
not leave him to seek assistance. My
friend, seeing the man was likely to
die, hurried on to a “ cockie-squat-
ter” (whose name I give you), who
promised to send a trap at once for
the man, and asked my friend to in-
form the police at Aramao. This he
did, but the police did not trouble,
and three days later another traveller
came along and found the man dead
on the track ; the mate still with him
and starving, because he wouldn’t
leave the corpse to the native-dogs.
How’s that for out-back humanity ?
J.M. (Q.).
* * * •
The imported fox is making
himself felt in S.A. as a lamb-slayer.
One station lost 300 lambs in this
way, and all for the sake of the
tongues and tails, which are all the
epicurean marauders eat.
* * * *
“Snell”: Witnessed a great
fight between two Clunes miners, hard
and Irish. It was a long and gory
encounter, both men being badly
hammered about the head, and yet
seeming good for another half-day
after an hour and a-half of it. Then
Hogan threw up the sponge, exhibiting a
ruined and helpless left. “ Begob ! ” he moaned,
“ I’d ’a-baten him before night if it wasn’t fer the
shtone ! ” —and he opened the mangled hand and
dropped a jagged rock, about the size of a hen’s
***• , . .
“Biijil”: Re “ Yarrum’s ” statement
(B. 8/7/’99) that part of a 'South Coast farm-
hand’s duty is to run down bandicoots and hares
for dog-feecl. Dogs won’t eat bandicoot at any
price—even when cooked. Even native dogs
won’t eat bandy though they will kill him.
* * * *
Western N.S.W. cockies have been suffer-
ing a lot recently with small grubs, which eat
away the wheat-shoots, near the grain, obliging
the farmer to replough and resow, with, even
then, no certainty that the same thing won’t
recur.
AT THE MUSEUM.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN YOUTH : “ Who's that, Jim?
SECOND DITTO : “ Dunno; 'sped it’s an old “pug”
after he got a stoushin'."
“F.” : Pig recently killed in Hokitika
(M.L.) weighed 5981 b., cleaned. One ham, 881 b.
Is this a record ?
* » * *
“Malle”: Re that gratuitous disinter-
ment of a Chow. Remember once that a lot of
“slack” coal had accumulated in one of our
bunkers, and the chief engineer wanted it shifted
before the ship was coaled again. Also, he
strongly disapproved of the port’s customs
officials, who had once upset a little pot of his.
So he dropped a couple of figs of tobacco just m-
EXPLICIT
"Look'ere, Smith, that's my heifer, and I’m going to brand her. She’s the coif of the calf, calf that’s out of
Murphy's cow that the church raffled and Biddy wan. Do ye mind me now ?"
side the bunker-door shortly before the searchers
boarded, and when they struck them they diag-
nosed a “plant ” under the coal, had it all cleared
out of the bunker, and then paid ss. to be let on
trimming it back again. Then the C.R. went and
shouted for himself.
* • • *
Bolus was a chemist in the rising town of
Bullaroo, and when he started a eucalyptus-
extract factory with a decayed boiler and a tabe
of niggers, the Bullaroo papers spoke of that
able and energetic citizen” and “another local
industry.” The niggers brought the gum-leaf in
bags, at per bag, and a splendid start had been
made when Patrick Jones M’Tavish arxived in
Bullaroo. Paddy had once been a native trooper,
but had got the kick-out. When the factory
started he was away on a trip, but now he came,
he saw, he enquired. Then he called on Bolus
and remarked: “Blackfellow no fetchem leaf
sposem he no get sickpen more long-a bag.
“ Won’t give it! ” said Bolus. ‘ All right, said
Paddy ; “ you think blackfellow dam fool. You
see. This all the same plurry white man strike.
And, sure enough, next day the factory had to
shut down. No nigger, no leaf. Also, as nearly
all the local washing and scrubbing was done by
gins, Paddy went round and called them all
“out.” The local publican, who had a mail-
contract, and kept a blaokboy to carry the
mails, promised him unlimited beer to be faithful,
but Paddy and his friends met him on the road—
with result that the boy, accompanied by Paddy,
took the mails back. “There your bags, Mr.
Bung,” said Paddy, “you tink this blaokboy
blackleg, eh? No fear!” Bolus brought in
a score of blacks from another tribe, but that
night there was a grand corrobborree, at which
the strangers were present by special request, and
next day they left for home. As a last resort,
Bolus tried opium. Paddy met Bolus, and en-
quired : “You gib it opium long-a blackfellow,
eh?” “Goto blazes,” said Bolus. “All right,
Mr. Bolus ; s’pose I tellem policeman you gib it
opium long-a blackfellow? ” “Look here, Paddy,
said Bolus, “how much money you want to finish
this strike?” “One poun’; you gib it?” said
Paddy. “ All right,” said Bolus. Next day the
“ strike ” ended.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Broda: You write verses as if you were shovel-
ling sand. Prose as if you were shovelling wet sand.
Esine : Too domestic. We’d as soon print a dipper.
The Pipe : Leave a little flesh on your bones ; we try
to steer between the Fat-Woman yarn and the Living-
Skeleton yarn. Rainbow: Thank you; you can
get P. B. Marston’s verses at Is. in “ Canterbury Poets ’
series J.D.: Too gushing 7C.C. : “Which are the
most reliable weather prophecies—Wragge’s or Russell s?
Answer (in the interests of peace): Both J.O. : A
Speaker who, while in the chair, makes a practice of
carrying on conversations with one or another member
sitting near him, will from time to time fall into errors
in his rulings. A Speaker’s whole attention should go to
controlling the House Pakeha: The ball can be pro-
duced with sworn testimony from a dozen or so of
witnesses that our statement is correct. There are
cheats in cricket as in all else. Cricket isn’t idealism.
Many a tough rascal is a don at cricket Pukaki: In-
terrupting at public meetings is a fine art. Rule 1.
Don’t ask questions, make statements. There are two
answers to every question, and if the speaker is
worth his salt, the interrupter gets the other answer ....
Queenslander : Bulletin never said anything so foolish.
What it said was that Australia raised 10,036,000 bushels
of maize in 1898, and that 9,516,000 bushels of this were
raised in Queensland and N.S.W. —not in Queensland
alone. Figures in Coghlan’s “ Seven Colonies for 1898,
page 525 F. O. Tottem : You said that Victorians sent
money to help the Bill cause in N.S.W. We asked twice
for names of some of these Victorians, but not a name
came along. You just kept on howling at large. Now,
you ask if we “ seriously expect you to hump round to
Bulletin office a shipload of statistical data. We
don’t We only want the names and addresses on
a postcard of (say) six of these alleged Victorian
corruptors you have been grassing about ..Fredo
P. : Read right through it before we guessed that
old American chestnut was coming .. 0.M.8. (Boorara,
W.A.) : Many thanks .. Audi Alteram Partem : In the
main it wasn’t rabbits, land laws, droughts or the a,n-
tao'onism of labor that made the trouble. Australia
started the most sudden and vigorous borrowing policy on
record. Monev became artificially plentiful. Abund-
ance of money always sends up prices (of land and
everything* else). Financial institutions, by raising
about £130,000,000 of foreign borrowed money, were
largely responsible for the inflation. By reason of this
inflation men bought land at (say) £3 per acre, which,
now that the inflation is over, is worth only £l, and Hu*
financial institutions which lent £1 10s. on it (lending
monev on the security of their own boom) are left. It
is the artificial interest-burden which makes most of the
trouble. Land has fallen as heavily in Sydney and
M' lb where there are no rabbits, asin thebackblocks.. ...
Gobung: “ Booze ’’-verse, appropriately shaky on its
metrical pins, and finally fell into the basket 0.J.1. :
Some power and pathos, but treatment “ slumps here
and there W.G.P. : You don’t appear quite sure of
vour own meaning, .nit the lyrical merit may
that . Geo. S. : “His real object is to gam the Gover-
nor’s notice, and thereby admission to his house. Non-
sense : his “real object” is the perfectly legitimate one
of pushing his business— i.e., selling his paper.......
Cane-top Smith : Many thanks for letter... Record :
Merchant asked bagman to dine with him and his three
daughters. Well, what about it? A.A.A. : Joke too
germy... Long ’Un : Little usable......S.K : Are you
sure you haven’t a “ down ’’ on that particular girl 7
Anyway, the alleged remark from the gallery is a time-
worn wheeze Baloo : Don’t want items that have been
treated in better style by the dailies ....Enos : Pa«- with
a polish on them acceptable A.C.T. (S.A.) Figures
can’t lie. The first test-match was a ‘draw because
the Australians, having got possession of the wicket, spent
the whole day in making 238 runs. Darling manoeuvred
to iret the other fellows into that tigfht corner .... H.P.B. .
Thanks J. O’D. (Melb.) : Glad to find that one Irish-
man can poke borak at the Castles Boom. But, on
second thoughts, we suspect you of coming from Ulster.
Overlander : Not up .... Wongabri : Long, moist poem
like a towing-rope .. . Charles B. : Don t pieach ...
Oz : Considering prose ; verse beneath consideration .
p s * Commonplace warble that a million bards have
warbled about . W.B.R. : First verses want brighten-
ing ; considering “Dog J.B.D. . No value... _..
G.O.M. : All good; Quinn posted A? 1 }?®! Considering
nous young gum-sucker you are J.H- . Considering
“Francesco”; printing the other. Hot Box . Too
vague; why didn’t you send clipping 7 T.C. . Not
rood enough as written. May deal with......R.M. : Ver-
sified copy-book headings W.H.D. : Empty’aegory.
....E. Vincent: May touch up and use .C.S. . Anyhow a
deputation told Premier Reid the other day that the Syd-
ney unemployed now number between 4000 and 5000
Beth : Your Castles commentary brightens nothing
G : Don’t think the public would stand comic Racon-
spere told in Saltbush Bill lingo ... Count Brenn : Don t
remember it, but we never print lengthy dialect matter.
E.H. (Ulladulla): Snake yarn not exciting enousrh.....
H.R. (Dunedin) : (1) Have made inquiry about the lady,
but can get no reliable information, at. the theatre oi
elsewhere. (2) Jfcl 2s. 2d. a year Agnostic : Too long
for interest Ho. : Pathos too much dragged 0ut....
H H.R.8.: Crow-sheep idea over-gruesome Flax-bush.
No flowers M.G. : “Bell ” unsuitable W.S. : lea-
poison ; don’t let it get near the billy W.G.B. . Her
footsteps deftlv fall;” but the poem falls like a bus-
horse Jack S.: Subject pretty exhausted
already Aramao : Too far-fetched KH.M. . Mono-
tonous! Quires and Wil : Please cast aspersions on
each other’s execrable verses Jumhack .
pieces . Bluey : Can’t shoulder you T.M.F. . You
ought to die pierced by ten thousand bad pens Harry
Me.: Tolerable jingle ;no humor J.C.G. : Hot up ■
Wiori : MS. utterly illegible. Your only hope is to buj a
tvoe-writer E.M. : Thanks C. : “Pluto, and P.
not up to your usual level .... A. de M. : .
Afterwards” declined, after much hard think ■hC.o';:
That person’s drunks are too well-known to be raM
news Alone 8 : Plump girl poem declined ..Adelaide
No room here for English-newspaper extracts lt red
W ■ Can’t even pretend to read MS. written in such faint
ink Henry E. :If by “square” you mean cubic,
can’t answer positively enough to decide wager , hut you
can get an idea on the basis of ljlbs. (avoirdupois) to
every 100 sovs .. Fred P.: Enormous idea! but we
couldn’t shock half the community by printing Uniys.
“Night of Life,” may possibly use Van Tromp . Noth-
ing to distinguish it'from 20,000 other broken-troth yarns.
... .Canuro: “Fortune’s Wheel” has good points, but
only mild merit on whole Kai T.: May do, as an
Australian variant upon an old-world gag ._ X. V.A. . n qt
so Xas Y, and a little more Z than either...R.G. : Hob a
varn ” just like Bill’s yarn, and Jim's, and the rest of em
Yar. : Doubtless, as you say, a bit of real life, hut you
haven’t made enough of it dramatically ... Robert d. .
■< Duck Farm” would suit kids’ story-book nicely; Bul-
letin's grown-up Marshall H. : “Filly,’ soul-harrow-
ing confusion of imagery ; female horse, fairy, sheep-fold,
campaign!—ye gods! “Sparks” don’t “fly u P w :f™-
M.B. : You’ve made a shocking hash of your titles.
Titular terminology is like nautical —apparently ,un'l?i-
portant variation stamps you as not really in t
know.” W.H. : Pars, may use, but won t look at any
more in such microscopic writing .....Wil. : The good not
new, and the new not good Widgee : “Last Straw,
may use Flabby P. : Are you really giving account of
the kava-process as a novelty? .... Gapheus : Which is
your address—Gladesville or Callan Park? Warngal .
“ Bludger ”is herewith bludged Alone 9: Too awk-
ward Billyram : Presumably referred to you ; don t
recall item ... Malle: Hot potato for jibber, old device.
Always give dates of items you refer to ; no time to hunt
up Tired Tommy: Stale news. F.O. : Isn t there
a river or a traction-engine in your t0wn......
G.B. : Why go into the details of a palpable “barney
COMMERCIAL.
MRS. BINKS : “I am sorry, my poor children, to
see your father come home drunk so often lately.
BILLY : “We ain’t, ’cos he alters chucks us
thrummers.
bike race two or three months after the event? F.O >n
The “ Prosper” story, as you tell it, has notion
written on its face .. Bob Acres : Every biff musician
from Europe has told dozens of Australian “prodigies
to go ’Oine and studj and become Famous and Great 1..
JG ’ Too like a literary exercise George J.: No point
to jingle T.C. (M.L.) : Heavy as a falling mountain:
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Magnet: A belated suggestion Schneider : Neither
suitable R. 8.0. : Too faint for reproduction
W S W. (M.): It would get us about 18 months......
S.C.O.T. : Indian-ink on Bristol-board. Ordinary ink too
faint for fine lines. Unavailable : M.L.H., Gus H.


A fear of ridicule caused a witness ttf*
hesitate in the Criminal Court yesterday-
before saying what his trade was. Even-
tually it turned out that he had learned
two trades —that of., hairdressing and boot-
»nuking. | ee nothing to be
Vashiimed of or to form -grounds for
ridicule in that fact/' chimed in the
Chief Justice. “Yx>u ought to be proud
that you have learned the way to attend
to the two extremities of mankind.”
,, s ffb ®4\i
A NEW MISSIONARY.
THE REV. C. H. YATMAIf.
An audience which filled every part of
Wesley Church, Lonsdale-street, atten-
ded the first mission service held in Mel-
bourne yesterday evening by the Rev. C.
H. Yatman.
, Mr. Yatman does not believe in the
• ordinary method of conducting a service.
He ‘likes life put into it,” and at once pro-
ceeds to do all he can to accomplish th}s
desire. “Well just sing, ‘Neared Myi
God, to Thee/ ” said he, and the audience
sang the hvmn. “No/' said the preacher
emphatically, “I guess that won’t do.
There’s something wrong. You don’t sing
it properly. Sing it again. And the audi-
ence sang it again, and this time to hi*
satisfaction. “Now,” continued Mr. Yat-
man after a short prayer. “I want you
all to keep very quiet, and pray to your-
selves,” and there was a deep silence,
throughout the large congregation, broken
only now and then by a soft rustle. “I,
want -you now,” said the preacher, to sing
“Nearer, My God, to Thee,” with your lips
closed. Never mind about the words,
and,himself leading, the sound of the hymn
rose and fell very softly aa if it came from a
distance. Then Mr. „Y.akwau .commenced
v his address*
fa/
<sj sou/ rfe dryfi? o
effect fe sfa <
fa/e 7/eJ S '*S>s
/j~ />? Ijds
7?OS //0r,..
o*7'
fas °ft*9 i
df/'e) Jk
\ nii K f
Mr. Murray Smith proceeded further. “ I
feel that the Right Hon. Sir George Turner,
K.C.M.G., P.C., D.C.L., stuck up with titles,
and hung round with strings, is not nearly so
safe a guide to this House as plain George
Turner, and L can tell him that I have been
disappointed at the eager acceptance by him
of these titles.”
• Art V /
l M "
Mr. Higgins said that Mr. Murray Smith had
quoted some remarks made by him (Mr. Higgins)
twelve months ago on this question. He adhered
to his statement, that it required a good deal of
study and attention before the Hare system could
be appreciated and understood. It was not fair to
try to hang round the simple proposal before the
House this proposal for proportional representa-
tion. He thought members of the Assembly
fairly represented the country. • The Assembly
I did not stand so much in need of reform as the
Legislative Council did, and the principle, of pro-
portional voting should first be tried there;
is
essevfi °h \
’beY'fe c^G ,l 7sfr^'ft ,, 7- c^
tf.LA 1 brof>o 5 e'tfaryou.iry w
Wl T^j
%
' > e
ifi. ,
%, 0i
c .
dfe ~sose <\££7eV/-\rf?d .
j&eiftcozf? of qje A/sU Scotf/rs# 4
MELBOURNIANA.


“Acting on the instructions of the Minister, N.S. VV. Agricultural Department has
just obtained several mules for use on the Hawkesbury College Farm, to see how
their work compares with that of horses. Mr. Cook says it is strange that the
farmers in N.S.W. have not given more attention to mules, as it is gener-
ally recognised that they are superior to horses for many farm operations.
They are hardier than horses, less nervous, eat and thrive on coarse
feed, while their small feet, which follow each other more directly than
those, of the horse, render them less liable
to tread on plants when cultivating
between crops.”
A mule belonging to the U.S. Government once
assaulted our artist with those “ small ” hind
feet. It was on the Appomattox River, in
1364, and he can “Feel the place in frosty
weather still.” Let Mr. Cook pause:—
unless he wants to see the agricul-
tural classes kicked into the
middle of next week.
MR,. WANT’S RETURN.
The Promised Explosion.
“ The ex-Attorney-Gener-
al was met on board by a
crowd of old personal and
political friends. He didn’t
actually dodge the news-
paper men, but when
tackled, he feinted and
passed. Then he got pos-
session of the ball again,
and shot straight for goal,
as it were, landing safe
and sound between the
posts at National Park,
without 'a scratch. In
his own ‘ twenty-five ’
—to continue the figure
—his defence was well
nigh invulnerable.
Attack from the rear
k or landward side of
V his “ Riverview ”
residence was blocked by uncompromising >
gates, and when things looked black on the .
water side, he could slip away on a fishing excursion in is eec
launch. He had some of his friends with him yesterday.
'“West Maitland, Satur-
___day.—Mr. Hogue, Minister
for Public Instruction, visited Largs yesterday, and was
met by a deputation of residents, who urged upon him
the desirability of the Government resuming the small
strip of land through which the Bolwarra drain passes, so
UNDER THE MILK-WHITE FLAG.
“ We should have a fight at once, but that this Ministry happens
to be charged with a mission, not only to the people of N.S.W.,
but the people of Australia. Keen as our desire is to put
an end to the sort of truce which allows your opponents
to insult you under cover of a white flag, there is
a higher duty to be dealt with which must
be decided first.”— 6. H. Reid.
as to enable it to be kept in proper repair The Minister
was then entertained at lunch.”
| Ye gods ! what a way to give a man an appetite for
| lunch ! And yet they say Australians have no sense of
i humor !
“ Mr. Haynes’s speech was largely quota-
tion, and he concluded with an amendment
to the address. He desired to inform her
Majesty that, notwithstanding the large
vote in favor of the Bill, over 82,000 duti-
ful and loyal subjects had voted against it,
and that such vote was not against Fede-
ration, but against the adoption of any
Constitution which could not be amended
by a majority of the Australian people.
He had put what he regarded as a con-
clusive case in favor of such an amendment
—a case which would cause a> big to
the Conservative party in the old country.”
QUESTION OF PRECEDENCE.
Scene—The turnstile at the entrance to Paradise. '
J St. Peter (to Moran and Smith ) “ Steady, gentlemen ; remember this isn’t a
Bean-feast ! ”
NOT EVEN A KICK LEFT.
John Haynes is here seen trying to “ sool ” George Pile’s dog. not)
somebody tell John that Geo. Pile’s dog is thoroughly dead 1
CARTOONLETS.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Which is the easiest, to know or to find
out? Every sensible person will answer “to
know.” Read on ; then you will know that there
has been another great invention discovered in the
manufacture of kerosene vapour stoves, which en-
tirely eclipses the Primus. Messrs. M‘Lean Bros,
and Rigg, Ltd., of Melbourne and Sydney, have
just landed, and are exhibiting daily, the “Juwel”
vapour kerosene stoves. This stove is constructed
on entirely new lines. The burner is connected
direct from the reservoir.' It has no tubes to
choke up, and can be cleaned out in a moment by
the most inexperienced. With each stove are
supplied a duplicate set of washers and screw-
wrench, thus meeting the practical requirements
of those residing in the backblocks and country
districts. For particulars write direct to M'Lean
Bros, and Rigg, Ltd. Melbourne or Sydney, the
home of up-to-date hardware novelties. Agents
for Razorine for dull razors, 6d. cake, posted 2d.
extra. The Primus Chief Cooking Apparatus
from 30s. The Royal Bat-h Heater 70s. Write
for our new cat-a-loy.*
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Blaok
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland whisky,
thoroughly matured, and guaranteed uniformity.*
A. SAUNDERS Nigb-ClaSs Jeweller,
always to the front for NEW and PRETTY DESIGNS
in Jewellery, Watch and Silverplate. All Articles Post Free.
/-adits' Long: Grannv or Muff Chain, 9c. Gold,
85s, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; loc. Gold, £4, £4los,
£5, £6. Silver, 7s 6d ; Gold plated, 15s, 20s
Gold Neoklets, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
Latest Gold Broooh.
Bed Stone, Bell and 2 Nobs, 10s 6<L
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold Brooch, Bell, Chain,
Bed, White and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 15c. Gold,
£2. Diamonds, £2 10s. and £3. Any Name
or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20a.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 16a
Gold, 15s; 180. Gold, 20s; Silver, 8s 6d.
9a. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and Heart,
10s; Special Value.
m
Gold Pearl Set Heart, 12a fld
m
A. Saunders.
3-Bar, 4 Diamonds and Ruby, 80s.
Very Neat and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
9a Solid Gold Raised Flowers, 6s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Solid Gold Opal Links, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s; extra strong-.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, 10s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d
and 3s.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
15c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Silver ss.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Eed Stone Set Soroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
9c. Gold, Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6d
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold-mounted Boar’s Tusk.
Chain and Bell, 16s 6d ; without Bell ana
Chain, 10s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
9c. Gold, Pearls and
Amethyst, 17s 6d.
16c. Gold, 30s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 88 6d.
Chased, 10s.
A. Saunders.
New Registered Diamond-cut Amethyst as Lucky 01orw%
15s ; with One Bird, same price.
SEND
FOR
Prick List.
Guarantee
the utmost
satisfaction.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
Any Name Free.
9c. Band Bings, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Send for List.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
160. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, +‘4.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Bubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 108,
£l5, £2O.
Chain Bings, 16s, 20s,
255, 30s, £2. Prioe to
quality and weight
9c. Gold 2-bar Diamond-out Amethyst, 20* |
16c., £2.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lucky Wish and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
SSffi
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set' Bird and Hear
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
150. Gold Raised Flowers, 20s.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keeper?
90. Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each;
16c. Gold, 16s ; extra heavy, 25s ;
18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s
Quality of Gold and Finish First-class.
815 George Street (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
North B.H. Co.’s report for the first half of the
year shows a fair profit -enough for a sixpenny but not
enough for a shilling div. ; and divs. have been weekly
expected from this mine. Further, as the cash in hand
at June 30 was under £2OO, the immediate prospect is not
very bright. Still there is a surplus of liquid assets over
liabilities of £3930, though most of this is made up of
concentrates whose value js estimated at something
beyond that advanced upon them. Profit and loss
account shows a profit on the h df-year’s operations, and
exclusive of surpluses realised, of £4022 ; but the co. has
not charged itself with depreciation—has not, in fact,
made any such charge for a long while past. The co.’s
subscribed capital is £lO,OOO ; on that basis, anyhow, the
return is pretty good. Still that is not the basis for pre-
sent intending buyers ; shares would cost them Bs. or 9s.
instead of 2s. In the six months 18,617 tons of ore was
handled ; making a moderate allowance for depreciation
the profit is equal to about ss. 2d. per ton. (This is in-
clusive of surpluses realised from shipments made in the
previous half-year ; exclusive of these, which were
mainly due to a steadily rising metal market, the profit
was 3s. 9d. per ton.) Where silver and lead are concerned
that is not a particularly comfortable margin. Although
neither mine nor mill results are likely to get worse,
writer confesses disappointment with the position dis-
closed.
Amalgamation of B.H. North and Junction
North was advocated here lately, and the balance-sheet of
the North shows it to be even more desirable than was
then thought. As to the simple matter of management
expenses (and that is only one item), compare the North
and a Bendigo co. whose report was issued simultaneously
—with the understanding that, as B.H. co.’s go, the North
is most economically managed. The North’s expenditure
was t 18,593 ; of this amount £550 was on account of
directors’ fees, legal manager’s salary, travelling ex-
penses, interest, &c.; but exclusive of rates, royalties, &c.
The Garden Gully United’s expenditure on mining was
about the same as the North’s, and other expenses
slightly less ; yet, though it was affluent enough to pay
£32,000 in divs., its management cost only £lB4, and sun-
dry office charges were under £5O. The amalgamation of
two B.H. co.’s would not, of course, bring expenses to
the Bendigo level, but the figures at least show the very
heavy handicap under which small B.H. mines labor.
And while they have only sulphides to depend upon, and
no better means of extracting the metals than by concen-
tration, small B.H. mines can’t afford to be handicapped
at all.
m * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in an.y part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * m v
Adelaide shareholders in the Broken Hill Junc-
tion North are beginning to kick against Melb. manage-
ment—just as they have successfully done hitherto in
connection with Block 14, South, and Junction co.’s. It
is the long suspension of divs. after one brief, bright
burst of prosperity that unsettles them. What is wanted,
however, is not a transfer of management to Adelaide ;
the thing to aim at is the amalgamation of Junction North
and North. They rightly constitute one mine, and cannot
be economically worked apart; while, as a further con-
sideration, neither is strong enough to bear the whole
cost of administration. And the sooner amalgamation
takes place the less waste there will be in unnecessary
duplication of plant and exploratory workings.
* * * *
Orange, N.S.W., after a long sleep in mining
business, has started a rush at Mt. Shorter, where some
big quartz-reefs have been found, but insufficiently de-
veloped for anything much to be said about them. Once
upon a time Orange contained some of the cutest boom-
sters in Australia.
* * * »
Inverell, N.S. W., seems very proud of its new
Diamond King, one G. B. B. Elliott, whose movements
are constantly wired to Sydney dailies. “ Mr. Elliott has
written, saying that he will be back on the field in a
fortnight, and that the shares of the recently-floated
Beveridge diamond mine, which are standing at ss. each,
will soon be up to £l.” This is truly gratifying. Inverell
is still running its Stock Exchange (seats thereon,
“ buyers £3, sellers £2O” !), and last week reported a big
line —the sale of 400 shares at 2s. 6d.
» .. » •
Sydney Daily Telegraph has sized it up thusly:
—“The Westralian mining-market is certainly running
mad. It is, -of course, the result of London operations,
but surely London is going far too fast. No one now dis-
putes that the leading mines at Kalgoorlie are fine pro-
perty, but, when we find that the market-valuations of
two companies extend to between £6,000,000 and £7,000,000
each, another up to £4,000,000, two others close on
£3,000,000, and many others at very high premiums, the
boom is evidently much too furious to last. Taking the
following 15, the bulk of which are quoted here, while the
last four are, we doubt not, a good deal higher in London
now than they were in June, it is found that the entire
£3,675,030 capital—some of it a good deal watered —now
stands at a premium of 810 per cent. Upon the basis that
gold-mines ought to pay 10 per cent., these 15 properties
should be returning £3,500,000 a-year to their share-
holders, and they are very far indeed from doing so.
Present share Capital Market Total Mar-
Quotations. ‘ paid up. Price, ket Value.
Lake View Oonsols.. £1 £250,000 £27 £6,750,000
Associated .. ..£1 450,000 13 13/- 6,142,000
Ivanhoe .. .. £5 1,000,000 14 15/- 2,950,000
Great Boulder .. 2s. 160,000 36 9 2,940,000
Do. Perseverance .. £1 175,000 13/10/- 2,362,00!)
Kalgurli .. .. £1 110,000 12 1,320,000
South Kalgurli .. £1 150,000 5/14/- 855,000
Oen. and W. Boulder £1 250,000 218/6 731,000
Hannan’s Oroya ~ £1 200,000 3/3/- 630,000
Great Boulder Main
Reef .. .. 10s. 120,000 2/7 '6 570,000
Chaffer’s .. 4s. 70,000 26/6 465,000
Last London Quotations —
Golden Horseshoe .. £1 100,000 40 4,000,000
Peak-hill .. .. £1 230,000 7/5/- 1,667,000
Sons of Gwalia .. £1 300,000 3/13/9 1,106,000
Hannan’s Brown-hill £1 110,000 9/12/6 1,059,000
£3,675,000 £33,547,000
The market never knows when to stop at a time like this.
The greatest and most permanent gold-mine in Australia
is at present valued at only £4,600,000, and whether these
Westralian properties can have anything like the
staying power of Mount Morgan is greatly to be doubted.
However, it is London which is making the running, and
at present quotations it will be no disadvantage to Aus-
tralians if they let London hold the scrip.
* * * *
The Wilfley concentrator has only been a short
time before the mining public, but has already demon-
strated its superiority, over 1200 being sold within the
past two years. This machine has a capacity of from
25 to 30 tons per day, and will save more sulphuret’ts,
float gold, amalgam or quicksilver, and make a cleaner
and better separation than any belt concentrator made.
It can be easily and rapidly adjusted while in motion, and
requires no expert attention. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Coy., South Melb, have been appointed sole manufac-
turing agents, and are now engaged constructing machines
for the colonies. The price of the machine is £ll5.
* * * *
Is the next bit of a boom in the West going to
be in long-neglected Murchison properties ? Curious, at
least, that very soon after the return of his old colleague,
Schlapp, Zeb. Lane paid his first visit to the northern
field, and was, of course, simply bombarded with speci-
mens. The reporters interviewed him when he got back
to Perth, and apparently expected Zeb. Lane, of all men
in the world, to tell ’em what he really thought of the
field. What he did tell them was that he had secured
some properties and some options, and he opened out on
them—and Lane chuckled as he read it all. Anyhow,
some of the specimens (4cwt. of them) which he sent
back were, as he said, as good as anything seen in the
West since’the Londonderry days ; and he promises to do
some vigorous prospecting—especially in the Tuckanarra
district.
* * * *
At the end of June, Lake View Consols became
the biggest gold-producer in the West. At the end of ’9B,
Great Boulder’s grand total was 60,00f)oz. ahead ; the
newer mine has in the meantime wiped all that out.
Peak Hill, Westralia, has won its alluvial fight
before the Full Court, one Judge (Hensman) dissenting.
But no boom in shares follows on the world-wide publica-
tion of this verdict. As all previous attempts to put these
shares to £l5 have failed, they will probably go back to
their real value, say, £3. They have been oversold in
thousands in London—which has more to do with their
high price than the yields from the mine, good as they
are. Every unbiassed person who has been allowed to
see it declares that there is no certain life for the mine ;
that it is living upon a precarious-looking formation ;
that the cost of working, by reason of the show being
gutted, is more than double what it should be ; and it is
only a matter of figuring to prove that the divs. now being
paid, and which cannot possibly be increased, represent
an insignificant interest on market value —£2,000,000.
* * * •
W. A. Wardens’ decisions are as variable as Wes-
tralian winds, and very “strong” at times. One Warden
recently decided in favor of a man who unfortunately
happened to be his own particular pal, on the ground
that though he hadn’t lodged a complaint for the for-
feiture of the lease, he intended doing so, as the Bench
had every reason to believe. Another lately decided that
he was unable to. forfeit because he had neglected to
enter in the books a protection-order which had been
applied for, and he left the bench for the witness-box to
make a statement to this effect., adding that although he
could not forfeit the lease in this way he could in another,
as the rent had .not been paid. Now it so happens, un-
less writer is greatly mistaken, that forfeiture for non-
payment of rent is quite beyond a Warden’s jurisdiction,
even in W.A., where so many strange things are possible.
• * • •
Hamilton and Bailes, Bendigo M’s.P., have
drafted a Bill for Vic. Assembly patching up the preten-
tious Mines Act. The most important provision is one to
limit the hours of labor in workings where the tempera-
ture is Bl)deg. and upwards to six per shift. The object is
to force owners to sink more ventilating winzes, &c. ;
wherefore it is proposed to allow the inspector of mines
to authorise the connection of levels 300 ft. apart by
winzes—a power which now only the Minister can exer-
cise.
* * * *
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assays alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not only give a statement of metallic contents—
owners will be adyised by an experienced, practical metal-
lurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in bulk,
whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation, smelt-
ing, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should not be
less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
* * * •
Garden Gully (Vic.) paid its first div. from the
reef now being worked on July 29, ’9B. Since then, the
payments to shareholders have reached £81,278—£2 Bs.
fid. per share. Previous record for a 12-month was £2 Is.
Total since the co. was formed, £24 ss. 9d.
* * * •
Some idea of what the butter trade means to
Victoria can be got from the fact that in S. Gippsland, for
instance, hundreds of seitlers who, before the creameries
started, just eked out a living, are how on the road to
affluence. In some localities it is not uncommon for a
holder of under 100 acres to draw from £2O to £4O a
month, all the year round, for milk alone—to say nothing
of the profits of bacon production. The butter-trade is
the best gold-mine Victoria ever struck ; it unfailingly
pans out a widely distributed cash-dividend every month.
¥ • * *
R. B. Pettigrew, one of the early birds at Kal-
goorlie—his best interests were in the Hannan’s, Brown
Hiil, and B.H. Extended—has flitted to London with some
Queensland mining options in his pocket, in anticipation
of a boom based on Oh llagoe. But it hangs.
From Cloncurry we learn that Knox’s Solshipp
is looking round for more of N.Q. for the weighty M.L.lv.’s
pouch. The embryo Hampden boom in Melb. will take
the bloom off the Hampden re-float, which only awaits
Schlapp’s edict.
* • * •
” Eidsvold (Q) seems to be suffering from an all-
round collapse, though expectations were big at the
beginning of this year. The Minerva is still producing
fairly ; then come in order, S. W. Minerva, Alma, Mt.
Hose, Stockman Junction. Shareholders were looking
forward to divs. and they’ve had to pay calls for expenses.
Result—shares forfeited all over the place and property
“ hung up.”
* * * *
A miner writes from Gira goldfield, Mambare,
Papua Dear Bulletin. —Let me warn miners against
believing such .yarns about New Guinea as that in Sydney
Mail of April 29th, to the effect that one man came down
in s.s. Aramac with 2000 oz. of gold, worth £4 per oz. I
have been six years digging in Papua, and can say for
certain that never has any one man in the country got
20Coz.—to say nothing of 2000—and there never were any
returns of Papuan gold. As for the “rush” here, 34
claims comprised all the payable ground found in the two
gullies, and as there were about 100 men, half of them, of
course, did not get a claim, while those who did averaged
from 40oz. a claim to 140 oz. per 50ft. In the reports
that got to Cooktown this figure was multiplied by from
2 to 20, but, as a fact, this ground was worked out long
ago, and very few here are making more than tucker.
Lots of men here would be glad to get away if they could
raise the money, but the majority haven’t the means, and
the stores won’t “ tick ” men they don’t know' well.
Nothing to come here for at present but hard work, for
mere tucker, in a deadly climate.


s
CURE
BILE BEANS are an undoubted specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache,
Indigestion, Constipation, Influenza, Colds, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls,
Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Troub ,
Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side, lullness after Eating, Lack o
Physical Tone, Heartburn, and That Tired Feeling.
BILE BEANS are obtainable from Storekeepersi and Chemistsi generally; price,
Is. l|d. per box. Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-streeo,
Sydney.
A WORD TO AUSTRALIAN MOTHERS-
ATTEND TO YOUR DAUGHTERS’ HEALTH.
READ THIS STORY AND SEE WHAT BILE BEANS HAVE DONE.
suffering? And yet bow fr^ 1 f offspring fade away and die for want of some remedy
position of being obliged to p eac j t hJ s tory which Mrs. Groves, of Queens Road, Lan b
to arrest the fell hand of dis u • f fche Newcastle Herald, concerning the sufferings
ton. Newcastle, related to a repunci
of her little daughter, Ethel Rose,
consumption of the. bowels, con-
vellow jaundice and kidney troubles,
cure by the use of Bile Beans.
“ From the time the child was
roubled with liver complaint. Whdo
sumption of the bowels, conges-
When six years old, she suffered
fever and yellow jaundice. Since
been diseased. Each winter she be-
insomnia. Her legs would ache after
3^,
a child of ten, from liver complaint,
gestion of the lungs, bronchitis,
and her subsequent and marvellous
Mrs. Groves’ story is as follows:
three months old she had been
teething, she was affected with con-
tion of the lungs and bronchi tie.
from a severe attack of typho
then her kidneys were said to have
came a martyr to gathered ears and
the least exertion, and she suffered
from pains in' the shoulder. Her appetite
feeling of languor, which reduced her to
left her,
skeleton.
and she
Owing
was overcome with a
to her declining con-
o a skeleton. Owing to llel ~ “rnnse
S the 33TW Medical hrtjH to ™._P• g •
A specialist pronounced the child to be suffering frc ■ ‘ j s j, e decided to give the child a
Groves read of some cures which had proves ‘“H noticed the girl was beginning to eat a
course of them. After a few doses, said M • 0 e , s ho is the picture of health.
This ~ the result of . thoteogh
course of Bile Beans, and I am sure they alone cured her.
A MELBOURNE LADY:
CURED OF DYSPEPSIA.
Sufferers from this most illness was a
ness, are frequently heard to remark 0 > ° 7 t P hi P does no t reduce its seriousness. It may
3 S 6 n«™ nd’the most serious them ™ in
it. Miss May Graham, of 99
bourne, cured herself of a most
taking Bile Beans for Bilious-
reporter of the Melbourne
suffered greatly from dyspep-
ful attacks of neuralgia in the
for weeks at a time. All food
listless and melancholy. 1
Gippsland for a change, but 1
turned to Melbourne, and be-
up hope of recovery. One day
of Bile Beans. I commenced
Il
im
acute attack of dyspepsia by
ness. Here is what she told a.
Record For three years I
sia. I had frequent and fear-
face, which caused me agony
disagreed with me. _ I grew
spent six months in bouth
got no benefit from it. I re-
carae pale and sallow. I gave
my brother brought, me a box
to take them, and in a short
time’felt decidedly better. Continuing with the Beans I BiEflStansls only thirteen
too strongly express my and sLkeeper, sell them, no one should be without a
Eor mTs’s Graham’l "t cannot be s P aid that this lady was to blame for having
acted so wisely as her narrative describes.
A M€DKIN€ for tl)€ P€OPLE
at a popular price.
“ vrrADATIO ”
The Great Herbal Remedy —Has Come to Sydney
VITADATJLO
Institutes .
47 Bourke-street,
Melbourne, Vic.
238 Bundle-street,
Adelaide, S.A.
481 Hay-street,
Perth, W.A.
39 Manners-street,
Wellington, N.Z.
A G ENVIES
IN ALL
IPrincipal T owns
TIIROI'OIIOUT
AUSTRALASIA;
AND
ALL CHEMISTS
:
■
BliSfiili
* m
iH iB
;-v'"
:
1
■ L'L.: :
Mr.S.A. PALMER
CUBED BY
“ VITADATIO”
of Hydatids,
OF 14 YEARS’ STANDING,
Can be consulted daily at
the Institute, 181 Pitt-st.
ALSO,
Mr. A. J. WYLIE
CUBED BY
“VITADATIO”
of Consumption,
after being given up by
leading doctors as a hope-
less Consumptive.
Call Early ancl be
convinced.
GROCERS.
VITADATIO HEAD OFFICE and
Delays are Dangerous.
FACTORY: CLARENDON STREET N., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY INSTITUTE: - - UBI PITT STREET
(Next Her Majesty’s Theatre).
Price of Vitadatio, ss. 6d. & 3s. 6d. Indian Oil of Cream, 2s. 6d.


SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
0-ra.ziuxrLa, and Fodah.
Most popular TEAS of the ajte.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDENIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow !
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW'S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMMENDADOR FORT WINE.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.’S SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc., Colonial and Imported.
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Millers,
Manufacturers and Importers,
DEANS PLACE, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
ASK
FOR
sun
brandy
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by tbe Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit ileri bants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Room?, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
E'-fT" Sales Held at the A uction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
OIL
The Perfect Slieep-Ma.rk.er.
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MARKIIMG or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. . KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
September 2nd, gazetted Referendum Day
in Queensland, is the anniversary of the battle of
Sedan (1870), the victory that made a united
Germany possi ble. An omen ?
In N.S.W. Assembly, Barton’s amend-
ment on Reid’s Federal Address to the Queen
produced 40 for the Govt, and 25 for Barton.
Where did W. J. Lyne sit ? Among the 40.
HENRY PARKES.
He trifled with Australia’s future, and
To punish him, the Lord took him on high
And showed him, far away, the promised land—
And then, like Moses once, He let him die.
Who will take the Commonwealth Bill to
England on behalf of N.S. Wales? Premier Reid
and Opposition-leader Barton both deny that they
ever thought of going; but it is evident that
Speaker Abbott has designs in that direction.
Melb. Age’s recent condemnation of
N.S.W. Premier Reid as a “political twister ”
comes curiously from the paper that sat so long on
the Federal fence. Why didn’t the Age “go for ”
Reid in his Yes-No days, instead of purring,
“shrewd politician,” and so forth, and letting
the inference, “ Them’s our sentiments ” stick out
in various ways?
Premier Turner’s just dictum in the course
of the Madden censure debate, to the effect that
, “ persons outside have a right to demand inquiry
by a fair tribunal into accusations made under
cover of Parliamentary privilege,’ 1 has been
Cannoned against by several would-be constitu-
tional authorities. But think what the contrary
of the dictum implies !
Echuca— 7oo votes ; of which just half-a-
dozen were anti-Federalists. Of the first 100
votes counted at Bendigo not one was an
anti. Altogether Bendigo’s was a thumping
vote, thanks a good deal to Dr. Quick. And
its neighbor, working-man Eaglehawk, finished
with just 22 Noes in a total vote of 1303. Yet
even that was not as good as Windermere’s 12 in
a total of 1341.
The Braddon Ministry is trying, with a
moderate amount of energy, to reduce the qualifi-
cation for members of Tas-
mania’s Upper House. To
be an elector for the Coun-
cil which sleeps in Slow-
bart, it is necessary to have
freehold property worth £2O
a year, or leasehold pro-
perty worth .£4O a year,
except in the case of uni-
versity graduates, barris-
ters, solicitors, doctors, par-
sons, or military or naval
officers —superannuated or
otherwise. To be an elec-
tor for the House of Assem-
bly one must be a ratepayer,
or be in receipt of at least
a year income. There
are about 31,000 electors
for the Assembly, but only
about 7000 have votes for
the place where the sacred
18 dream away their lives
and throw out Bills in their sleep.
The Maoriland law authori-
sing the compulsory resumption of
land for closer settlement is to be
extended, if the Government can
manage it, to give the State power
of compulsory purchase of vacant
land within five miles of towns and
cities—the properties to be cut up
and leased at the lowest payable
figure for workmen’s homes. Also, it is pro-
posed to lend at low interest part of the money
needed to build homes on these allotments, and to
supply a cheap suburban railway service. Which
is a practical way to alleviate the curse of the big
congested city with its slum population and other
horrors.
Ex-Attorney-General Want has come back
to N.S.W. with a dark threat concealed in his
hat about some “ revelations ” which he is going
to make—“ revelations ” which, if made earlier,
might have crumpled up the Federation Bill like
a dish-cloth struck by lightning. But all along
the anti-Federal party has been just going to do
something which, if it had been done earlier
(which it wasn’t) would have led to something
about the size of a prawn happening to somebody.
The attitude of Turley, the new Labor-
member for South Brisbane (Q.) is curious and
unsatisfactory. “He would, as they all knew,
gi ve Ins vote for Federation on Sept. 2, but he
would not take an active part in advocating it.’*
hy does Turley propose to vote for Federation
if he doesn’t believe in it? And, if he does
believe in it, why doesn’t he have the courage of
his belief and advocate it ?
The Cold-Tea-party at Balclutha (M.L.)
lately received a bad five minutes from Premier
Seddon. It sent a deputation of three to wait on
Digger Dick to ask him to send a “ decent ”
magistrate to the temperance - ridden district,
because the reigning S.M. did not condemn people
convicted of sly-grog selling to be hanged at day-
break, or something to that effect. Seddoh’s
answer probably lost him the Balclutha Cold-tea
vote for ever.
The Plural Voting Abolition Bill has passed
the Victorian Assembly for the seventh time or so
and gone up to be scoffed at once more in the
supercilious House of the 48 Rich Landlords.
I hat Bill is so very old and familiar that the
Assembly could pass it in its sleep. It knows
every comma of it ; and the familiar thud as it is
bounced down the stair of the House of Land-
lords arouses no more comment now than the
bang of the 19th baby, in a large family, falling
out of bed.
While Brisbane Telegraph is moaning
piteously about the inevitable ruin of Queensland
under Federation, one of its bosses has just spent
many thousands buying up Brisbane city pro-
perty, so as to gather in the unearned increment
when Federation brings wealth and prosperity to
the metropolis by the muddy northern river. And
if anyone really listens to the paper’s tales of the
downfall to come they may have led to him
getting the property rather more cheaply than he
otherwise would have done.
It is sedulously whispered into the ears of
N.S.W. Labor-men, sore over the referendum,
that they ought to combine with “true Demo-
crats ”to throw out the Reid crowd. The “ true
Democrats ” are, of course, Lyne and Jonaynes,
and Pilcher and Kohen, and the Heydons. But,
anyhow, all that these have in common is that
they were beaten at the polls. Can the Labor-
party, or any other Democratic party, move a
muscle to put people into power on the strength
of a defeat in a popular vote?
Anti-Federal war-cry from Brisbane Tele-
graph
We remember Wellington because he Invented the
leather-legged boot.
We remember Brougham as the inventor of the pill-box
carriage.
All Australians will remember Braddnn for his “blot”
in the Convention Bill. Boots, brougham, blot, Barton.
The parochial organ is q.uite serious, too. It
really thinks the Duke of Wellington invented
the boot that was named after him (it remembers
him, not because of Salamanca, and Vittoria, and
Waterloo, and such trifles, but as a boot-inventor).
And it really imagines that Lord Brougham was a
carriage-builder. There is a lot of mirth in the
idea of a paper that is steeped to the ears in such
cheerful ignorance professing to instruct the pub-
lic about Federation.
AFTER LIFES FITFUL FEVER, &c.
Scene—Station dining-room.
MR. JUMBUCK: “This fowl smells very queer.
When did you kill him?”
AH HONG (cheerfully): “Me no kill him. Him
DIE!”
August 3, the date when Premier Reid
moved the Federal address to the Queen, was also
the fifth birthday of the Reid Ministry—or rather
it was the fifth anniversary of Dibbs’s resigna-
tion. August 8, when Premier Turner was to
move the address in Vic. Parliament, was Turner's
48th birthday, and also the day when his Ministry
broke the Victorian record. It had then lasted
1776 days (4 years 315 days), against James
M'Culloch’s record of 1775 days continuously in
office, and Duncan Gillies’s 1722 days.
Someone at the P.L.L. Conference in
Sydney, convened to try Sleatli and Ferguson,
interjected that, anyway, a good many Laborites
everywhere must have voted for the Bill. There-
upon Brolly Hughes: “That was the result of
Sleath and Ferguson’s evil example.” (Applause.)
But there was the example of 17 other Labor
M.’sP. the other way; what Laborites had was a
free choice between the two examples. And either
political Laborites are infinitesimally few, or the
majority, being free, chose to follow the two in-
stead of the 17. In no other way can the fact be
accounted for that 15 of the 19 N.S.W. Labor
electorates voted Yes.
THE AUSTRALIAN FOOTBALL FIFTEEN—BEATEN BY
ONE POINT.
Maryborough (Q.) lately received orders from
the Wallaroo and Moonta copper-mines for wind-
ing-engines and boilers. A big machinery order
from Westralia has also struck the same town.
Wherefore Maryborough is exalted in spirit, and
finding it can hold its own against the rest of
Australia, cries “Hooray for Federation!”
Mackay, Bundaberg, Charters Towers, all the
self-reliant towns of Queensland, are Federa-
tionist. It’s the lame and the halt and the blind,
the poor, infirm towns, industries, and indivi-
duals that declaim against union in Bananaland.
Two items from one recent issue of Bris-
bane Telegraph :
We are invited to trust Victorians, and to believe that
Federaoion will “ work out all right.”
The only little effort at Federation that I remember
was the arrangement to garrison Thursday Island by Vic-
toria, N.S. W., S. A. and Queensland, and to share the cost
on the population basis. To this day S.A. has dodged
paying her share by all sorts of shifty excuses. The other
colonies pay up regularly, but not so S.A., as can be
ascertained at the Treasury. Is this an object lesson
sufficiently pleasing to warrant us in sacrificing security
for sentiment? As I used to say, the sentiment comes
from Britain. There is no sentiment with the men down
south. They are after the “ stuffing.”
Moral : The people of Victoria and N.S.W. kept
their engagements re the defence of Thursday
Island honorably, to the last farthing. Therefore,
they shouldn’t be trusted.
The Tasmanian Govt, proposes reducing
the 20 per cent, import duty on boots and shoes to
15 per cent. ; the 20 per cent, on drapery and soft
goods to 12J per cent. ; and the 20 per cent, on
woollen yarns to 10 per cent. Also, sheep, cattle,
pigs, horses, meat (fresh and preserved), bacon,
butter, cheese, fresh fruit, vegetables, grain, flour
and many other articles are to be put on the free
list, and the maizena, macaroni, rice and sago
duties are to be removed. When this is done
Queensland will be left with the most oppressive
revenue tariff in Australasia. And yet the Nelson
gang tries to scare the Queenslanders with the
legend that, under Federation, the “ oppressive
Victorian tariff ” will be introduced into all
Australia. What a load would be lifted off the
Queensland taxpayer if it was !
Brisbane Street, which is against Federa-
tion, issues a “ Warning Note ” re the recent meet-
ing of Japanese at Thursday Island, to protest
against the restrictions imposed by the Queens-
land Govt., and to take measures to induce the
Japanese Imperial Govt, to recognise those dis-
abilities and intervene, A la Bull in the Transvaal,
for the protection of the Little Brown Uitlanders.
And the Street, which barely knows enough to be
an alley or a cul-de-sac, declares that if Queensland
wishes to get rid of the Jap. it will have to be
done at the point of the bayonet, and advocates
crimson war straight away rather “than allow a
crowd of dirty aliens to dictate to Queensland.”
The spectacle of Queensland declaring war against
the Mikado’s 40 millions is wildly humorous.
United Australia might give the Chrysanthemum
Empire a fair rough-and-tumble, but Queensland
on her own would be swept like a wave by one
army-corps.
A United States court
has given a workman .£4400
damages against a railway co.
winch put his name on its
“ black list ” and sent it round
to other employers, thereby
preventing him getting work.
The U.s. is supposed to be
the home of the millionaire
and the “ring ’’ and the brutal
capitalist. Yet in free Aus-
tralia The Bulletin wouldn’t
give much for any workman’s
chance to get a £4400 verdict
against a Broken Hill mining
co. on the same grounds—
though at the Barrier the
black-list curse flourishes like
a Cl linaman’s bloated cabbage.
The direct taxation which,
according to Westralian anti-
Billites, will be one of the in-
evitable evil results of Federa-
tion, i* coining without Federa-
tion. The tremendous cus-
toms revenue of the boom
days is going down fast, and
Premier Forrest has to find
new ways and means. A beer
excise has already been estab-
lished, and now Forrest wants
authority to levy a 5 per cent,
dividend duty and a duty of 1
per cent, on fire and fidelity-
guarantee-insurance premiums.
Also he proposes that when
rural land has been held for
ten years without being im-
proved it shall be subject to
a tax of Id. in the £, if owned
locally, and if owned by
an absentee. So the plaint
about Federation involving
direct taxation may as well
be dropped. Direct taxation
is inevitable either way.
The leading Yictorian
dailies have been inundated
with Federation poems of all
degrees of badness, but nary
an Anti poet has dared to
come forth with his offering,
owing, no doubt, to the im-
possibility of getting a suit-
able rhyme to “ Higgins ” !
‘ Is Chamberlain or Kruger the ‘ bear' 1 ”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
is the present query round about the Stock
Lxchange. What does it all mean ? In two or
three days stocks and shares fell two or three
million pounds, and immediately in certain direc-
tions there was steady and persistent buying.
Someone knows something, but what is it? A
game of bluff so long as Kruger doesn’t think it
bluff. If he does and acts up to it then it is real
war. There are a lot of hungry military men
free from the Soudan looking for blood—someone
else’s, of course—and glory—their own ; and the
stake—the Rand—is a big one, almost worth inter-
national complications. But we can’t give China
to Russia as a gift. NO ! Well, Kruger has
yielded a week ago, and the Brummagem politi-
cian’s pals are reaping the harvest.”
Maorilanders, seeing that Australia is at
last in earnest on the subject of Federation, are
getting genuinely alarmed at the prospect of losing
one of the most lucrative markets for their pro-
ducts. A Federation League has been formed at
Auckland and the farming and commercial classes
all over the country are now aroused, so that there
is every prospect of the coming general election
turning upon the question of entering theCommon-
jyeaith. The small farmers are already asking—
What s the good of the Govt, encouraging close
settlement if it doesn’t keep the markets open for
our products ?” As yet, the politicians are dead
against Federation, and the newspapers are mostly
non-committal. Seddon will fight hard for the
legislative independence of Maoriland, but he may
have to knuckle under or face the alternative of
ejection from office. The chief Govt, paper,
Lyttleton Times, has gone over baldheaded to
the side of the Federationists, and by the Mokoia
has sent young Hugh Reeves (brother of the M.L.
Agent-General) to visit the Australian capitals
and report upon the chances of the inoa and the
kangaroo lying down together. A commercial
emissary from Christchurch arrived per same
steamer, to devise means of preserving the large
trade connection between M.L. and Sydney. For-
tunately for Seddon, Capt. Russell is committed to
the M.L. policy of isolation ; but the Opposition
may yet adroitly contrive to '‘score” by posing as
I ederationists."
>
We sell for export everything of American
manufacture, including bicycles at 355. and up.
Sewing machines, 345. and up ; Buggies, 70s. and
up. Over 10,000 illustrations and 100,000 quota-
tions in our big catalogue. Lowest prices ever
known. Cut this notice out and mail to us, and
we will send you the catalogue by first post, free.
Sears, Roebuck & Co., Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Will Ogilvie’s book of verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray Horses,” continues to sell splendidly. It
is unquestionably the most generally-attractive
poetry-book yet issued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.,
post-free from Bulletin office.


PALBNC’S
Tbs LARGEST I reporters of MCi&io|j
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
PIANOS
OR6ANS
and all
other
known Musical Instruments.
WE SAY IT TWICE =JUST TO EMPHASIZE THE FACT.
Tb€ Price is Right
Tbc Qtiality is Right
Easy Terms
Call or Write for
CATALOGUES—FREE
PALING'S
Tbe LBRS6ST Importers of MOSic
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
PIANOS
ORGANS
and all
other
known Musical Instruments.
S; PRLIN<3 & Co , Lu
338 Scorgg St.,
SYPNSy.
Brisbane and-Newcastle.
National Cash Registers.
No. 92. The Storekeeper’s Coupon-Register . No. 92.
A Coupon Printing, Detail and
Total-adding Cash Register!
What better could be desired ?
jOl. RECORD
OF
Every Individual Transaction.
A. Perfect Check
ON ALL
Cash. Received.
YOU WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
1. Whether you lost any money last month through carelessness.
2. Which of your clerks is making the most sales.
3. In which departments of your store you are losing money.
4. Whether goods sold on credit are always charged.
5. Which of your employes, if any, is careless.
6. How to secure a complete printed record of each day’s transactions
between clerks and customers in your store.
7. How to offer inducements to cash customers without discriminating
against credit customers.
The only method in the world which will economically and quickly answer
the above questions and many others of equal importance to business
men is i—
ft National Cash Register
Over 100 Different Machines Made suited to the Requirements of all Varieties of Financial
or Commercial Business.
Full particulars, price, etc., will be given on application to the
HEAD OFFICES FOR AUSTRALIA:
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDIffEY.
364 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager Australasia.
2,160,000
TYRE REVOLUTIONS
A YEAR
The average Cyclist covers considerably more than 3000
miles in 12 months, which means that the tyres make some
two million odd revolutions with the consequent wear and
tear from contact with the road. Cyclists should, therefore,
realise how necessary it is that nothing but the finest material
and workmanship should be embodied in a tyre that has to
stand so many million depressions without cracking at the
edges of the cover. Cheap tyres crack and start falling to
pieces after running a few hundred miles. But not so
Multiflex Roadster
which are guaranteed to stand 12 months’ wear
on the roughest Australian roads-
No tyres so durable! No tyres so easily repaired!
First in 1888 . . . Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Go. pstralasia [td.
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Mill. IDont it piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEHEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawn bro fchif/ Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
EOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
••• AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge-stogy^ney,
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. | ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPH ERSON, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Public Risk Depart-
ments.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. I Ad, o/ Co ii don.
Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. hiaonty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A.'W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessoe, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassai.l ; Perth, A. W
Fa Kuril a it. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Buy for the Children.
PERTH, W.A. Allotments on the main
road, opposite Brookman Park, the pro-
perty of W. G-. Brookman, Esq., .£lO
each. Easy terms. Torrens’ Title. Free
Deeds.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under th« Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DL’YERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J - > Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loqcloq 4 LaocaSbire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
NeW ßi°anc h hf ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, Manager.
FOREXG-1M STAMPS
PO STAGE
/mmm
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, Is6<l; 16 Roumania, 6d ;
8 Bosnia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 16 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d ; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
6d; 50, Is; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss. Re-
mit by P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
66- » A Watch and Chain for 6/6-
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on pay-
ment of 4/- extra,
an Open-Face Key-
less Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no Con-
ditions or Guessing
about this Watch.
We s r/ nd the Watch and Chain registered (any colony) on
receipt of Postal Note for 6 6 and fid. for postage.
W<> make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our Price hist, and will send as a FREE GIFT a heautiful
Penda.pt Charm Penknife to hanff on the watch-chain.
Mention ButTiBTlN.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
ybc TrGstccs, €xec(itorS,
AND
A SWy Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
S^£™ AL SUBSCRIBED £160,000 0 0
S£o££, AL PAID -UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30fch June, 1899 ..£6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Snath, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
N<x 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital
2,000,000
500,000
500,000
£3,000,000
—THE—
Commei rial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital.. .. £3.123,555 15 0
_ . „ Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. VV. H. Entitling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager; Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant; E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: IJi isit ops(jate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES'
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Hay market, Gosford (with agency at Wvongf), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAiThre
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Bates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
______ ROBERT KERR, Manager.
"-THE-, ~
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq •
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving’
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - *20,000.
\XMLL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors ;
Messrs. D. E. M‘Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neaie Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BKANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, £500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
The jjank of Berth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS. Esn.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co Lid)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £7OO 005
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £330 000
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., August 12,12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., August 19, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesdaj’, August 22, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, August 22, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE l
MARYBOROUGH [
ROCKHAMPTON \
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 12, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., August 15, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., August 19,12 Noon.
BUNDABERG A
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE I r
LUCINDA POINT f]
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c. J
Tj-rian, Sat., Auirust 12, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 19, 12 Noon.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CHICK ENT II ICES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
t~'m. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide: 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
ID'fEuiraifh, fH*gacharn & go
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Propr.eta"y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed
„ ~ Patent „
~ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps
„ All Russia Tan Calf
~ All Ooze Tan Calf
10/0
10/6
10/6
10/6
10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
. . SEND FOE . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies Gen tlemen%
and
CHILDREN'S BOOTS .
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
~„D Ef K t blE -.~ k ' ase ,l)form J’our readers that I have been
cured o f Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and w,II be pleased to send the means of cure
to ~H sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude arid
make no chart;e whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
riti 1 ’,*,,!' hhLLOCM ’
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP C(L
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
■S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Aug. 12
ALBANY, a
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to y
VASSE, DONGARRA, |
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
August 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
August 11.
-Best dJ Cheapest Route to Goldfields,
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUiLL and CO., Ltd., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Ana thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
: LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
lO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
terms for passages from England. EDWARD
LRLLAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker g (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
H, I P E \A LBANY ’ COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCIIELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sot* Uo M
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons' cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing - Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LTNE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships* as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
S.YDNEY’, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenger A cc.ommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
“Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST.
HOUSE.
liondon, E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
H* 1 3FC. J&l. IKT 23Z JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Messrs. CORRJE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
Important to Parties Furnishing*!
,♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers . . .
Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL'S give Value for Value — 20s. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. lIAI . i*r CxTV <T>VIPA N Y,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpooi-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
WHEN IT TICKLES
YOUR THROAT
Take TWO DROPS of “COLEMANE’S EUCALYPTE ” on SUGAR, and your “frog”
clear directly. Colemane’s Eucalypte is pure and strong.
POPULAR, MEDICAL, and SOCIAL SCIENCE.
PLAIN HOME TALK
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations.
A Sensible Book for Sensible People*
By the Most Celebrated
Medical Author,.
Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
(Den $ (Uomen
Married^
AND
UNMARRIED
Art* tempted to ask thousands of questions of their physi-
cians, but are deferred from so doing by the expense.
This work answers just such questions so fully and
clearly as to leave no one in doubt. Remember, it contains
nearly 1000 pages and 200 illustrations. A well-made, clearly
printed, finely illustrated and substantial cloth-bound book of
inestimable value. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Com-
plete, unabridged, cloth-covered edition of this great work,
Plain Home Talk, for only 7s. 6d., post Free.
hi
SESnSFMa
wm
mmm.
EDiCijr
mm
m
: : @
SESsBu!
rwhul
NOTE —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
SYDNEY.
16
PARK ST.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOE.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OW COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“ Orange, N.S.W.
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if be could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
Agonising Cough.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had hut two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it. —D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
0
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and l am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
e
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
®
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine. —(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” . 0
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
0
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ®
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom 1 paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, rny dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Sizs, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
kemp’s Patent Sb??P'Brai)dii)g LiqOi
MANUFACTURERS—-
Felton, Grim wade <fc Go-,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH &CO. LTD-
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
1 CLCISj
Guaranteed to Make a Clear Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Red, and Bine. 3s 6d per gall, in JVLello and Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, in Brisbane,


THE EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
is a perfect Bicycle at a fair price,
and the best at any price.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue hosted free on application.
y>
A
*
*
*
a
“ The [ord sends fiood |||eat,
But the j)evil sends Cooks.”
Some people could not build GOOD BICYCLKS with the best material.
We have manufactured the World's very best Cycles for over twenty (20)
years. During that time we have learned many things. As a result, the
“ RED BIRD” is stronger, has more improvements, and is in every way in
advame of all other Cycles. Of course, the price of “RED BIRDS” is a
little higher than other wheels; but, then, it’s money well spent,as a “Red
Bird,” second-hand, will bring more than most other cycles will new.
The demand for “RED BIRDS” during the past few weeks has been
greater than the supply, but as another shipment is just to hand we can
accept a few more orders.
The Goold Bicycle Co . Limited .
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
*
*
*
K
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE;
Telephone 3160.
261 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
Agents Eoerywhere.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Third test football-match, England v. Australia
(fourth and last will be played to-day), drew 18,000 people
to Sydney Cricket Oround last Saturday. The struggle
was tame indeed for Rugby, and would have been more
so but fora few flashes of brilliant passing by backs on
both sides. Overnight rain rendered foothold insecure,
and soft ground much hampered pace. Home team went
under by 1 point (11 to 10), but the visitors’ victory was
even more meritorious than scores would indicate, as
only one of three tries was converted, while Australians
converted both theirs. Then, again, Australia had a lot
of luck in getting the last goal, as the pass-word to Spragg
was undoubtedly “ forward,” and the try obtained should
never have been allowed. Under the circumstances, it
was fortunate the Britishers won, otherwise we would
have heard more about those “dirty little tricks.”
Seventeen minutes after kick-off Bucher'(Eng.) secured a
clever try, and Adamson converted an easy one : s—o.
Heavy", monotonous, aimless scrum-work, and referee
Carr’s compulsory frequent use of the whistle
worked the crowd up to swearing - point. Half-
time saw no change in the score, and disgust
written on every line of the face of everv man
who breasted the pavilion bar. All voted the game very
mediocre so far, and some went home. Second half
proved far brighter, things being lively from the start.
Bmin. after resumption Bucher (Eng.) scored an easy
try. Adamson made a great attempt to convert, but
failed. B—o. Less than smin. later some beautiful
passing by Australians saw Spragg(N.S.W.)make a grand
spurt, secure the try, and convert. B—s. The English-
men now threw a deal of dash into their work, and
magnificent play on the part of Nicholls (Eng.) notched
another try for his side. Adamson missed the goal.
11—5. After this the home team seemed used-up, and
were very weak in tackling. Ward (N.S.W.) gave Spragg
(N.S.W.) a iong palpable forward pass, which the referee
missed. While most of the Englishmen were appealing,
Spragg got home, and converted. England, 11; Aus-
tralia, 10. Seven minutes more play produced nothing.
Visitors are too good all round. England has won two
tests and Australia one. To-day may see honors easy, as
Hardcastle and Sampson may be included among the
home 15, which should make a lump of difference.
* * * *
At Sydney Cricket-ground, on Saturday, a
large British forward reached for the slack of KS.W.
back Spragg’s pants and pulled one-half clean off. There
was a momentary glimpse of one bony shank booting
wildly at the ball ; then the players gathered round, and
the line-umpire sprinted out wi'th a pair he had stowed
away under his coat in case of emergency.
* * * *
With a. pack of good “heeling-out” forwards
ahead of them the English backs would beat any football-
team Sydney has ever seen—the Maorilanders included.
As an all-round combination they are miles ahead of the
Australian backs—though they haven’t a dodger like
Spragg, or as tricky a man as “ Ginger ” Ward, or as fast
a sprinter as Miller. In the scrum the British forwards
can beat their opponents for the ball, but they seldom
send it out to their backs, who, therefore, have to make
all their own openings, and they do it so well that they
have won every game that has gone to the credit of their
side.
* * * *
British three-quarter-back Gwyn Nicholls is un-
doubtedly the finest back who has ever played on Sydney
Cricket Ground. There is absolutely not a point in
which he could be improved. Cool, fast, safe and unsel-
fish, as well as being brilliant in almost every department
of the game, and the clean, calm way in which he marks,
kicks and tackles is a revelation.
* * * *
Like Ranji with the English cricket XI., Parson
Mullineaux is the “Jonah” of the visiting British Rugby
team. In almost every instance to date, when the junky
little sky-pilot has played, his side has been beaten, and
whenever he has stood out it has won. Undoubtedly the
little parson plays his best game in the pavilion, as
putting him in the team means leaving - out either Cook-
son or Adamson, which “busts” the combination.
**. * *
In Adelaide recently there were two gory fights
on the field in the football-match between the “Sowths”
and Ports ; “ several spectators joined in the combat, the
ground being rushed.” These are further indications
that football is increasing in public esteem, for where
there is blood and language there also is gate-money.
* * * V
The Australians’ second defeat of the M.C.G.
must have again taken the heart out of English cricket
just as it was beginning to feel better. Four bowlers—
Albert Trott, Mead, Young, and Townsend—figuring as
“ cracks” against county elevens, had a go at the Austra-
lians when the team was carrying the full length of its
batting tail in Jones, Howell, and Johns. Four wickets
w ere lost for 31 runs, yet the score was carried to 319,
and the man to give the bowlers “beans” was Darling,
who had been decidedly off-color until then. In the
second innings, with the game practically in their hands,
the Australians made the necessary 92 runs for the loss of
one wicket, and this after ten M.C.C. wickets had gone
down for 151. On this poor performance by the local
bowlers All-England has no chance of winning the fifth
test-match. The left-hander, Young, had troubled the
visitors in the previous games, but now that Young has
failed to take a wicket while they were scoring 411 runs
in all, the most that All-England can hope for next time
is a fairly big score—and a “ draw ” as the result.
* * * *
The M.C.C. failure should put an end to the
hideous farce of cabling to Australia the “splendid”
achievements of Albert Trott, or any other bowler, in
inter-county matches.
* » • •
Iredale’s 115 against Grace’s eleven made the
eighth member of the team to reach the century, and
Darling’s 128 in the M.C.C. match made the nineteenth
three-figure score of the tour—the scorers being Darling,
Trumper, Hill, Worrall and Noble (three each), Gregory
(two), Trumble (one), and Iredale (one). The tenth
eleven thus hold the three records—highest individual
score, most centuries scored, and most members of the
team to secure them.
* * * *
The announcement that the Australian XI.,
after talking largely of projected tours through India,
America, and South Africa, has suddenly decided to re-
turn to Australia direct early in September, would seem
to indicate that from a money-making point of view the
tour has not proved too successful. It appears that the
team has been struck heavily in the matter of gates. One
source of annoyance is that the team does not get any per-
centage of the profits derived from the fancy prices
received by the various ground trustees for special seats.
Prices in the Lords match reached £2 per seat for the
three days of the second test-match.
* * * *
“Should England lose the present test-match
(the 3rd),” writes Tub Bulletin’s London correspondent
by last mail, “ interest in the game here will collapse.
First, Fancy Stuff Jackson declined to play because he
wasn’t captain in place of MacLaren. After coaxing he
did play and got ‘9 ’ only at his first attempt. Would to
Jehovah he had got a ‘duck!’ Shrewsbury wouldn’t
play because he has been ignored twice in the tests.
‘W.G.’ fears Jones on his prominent solar plexus and
the Surrey ‘ rot ’ threatens to overrun England. Reputa-
tions are frightening the bats and Albert Trott is getting
wickets daily with stuff that ought to be ‘ lost.’ Aust.
172 and Eng. 119 for 4 (with an awful tail, though) is hope-
ful enough to encourage us to pray that the latter win
and save the old ‘ home.’ ”
* * * •
“ The ‘ Darlings ’ may consider themselves,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ well out
of the third Test. They are much inclined at present to
despise the whole of the English bowling—not that they
are not nearly right —but the wicket has to be con-
sidered as a helping agent. Next to Worrall’s 76,
Trumble’s 76 for once out was a capital and serviceable
performance. Each time he helped his side at a most im-
portant epoch, and there are some who place him first in
the batting list of his side on that occasion. Hayward, the
luckiest batsman in England, undoubtedly saved the
defeat for England, as Kelly and Gregory each missed him
early. Briggs’s epileptic seizure was bad luck for his side,
which has now regained its courage, and a good game at
Old Trafford should result. If England win, the Oval in
August will be a sight for cricketers.
“ The peculiar result of the Nottingham
match ” (continues our correspondent) “ when each side
closed, was the result of the team’s determination to
dodge draws and snatch wins. There was little fear of
defeat, even with six wickets down for 38, for there were
Gregory, Iredale, Laver, M'Leod, and Noble to bat. Mac.
has not reached form yet, and none can tell why. The
order of going-in is altered now every match. Results,
indifferent.”
* » * *
“ Paint ” : Apropos Trumper’s big score against
Sussex. After the test-match at Lord’s, English critics,
commenting upon Trumper’s 135 not-out, said it was a
superb innings without the semblance of a smirch, and
played with remarkable coolness right through. One
writer was gracious enough to say that so “perfect” and
so “classic” was the young man’s style that he might
have just come with the veneer of England’s schools and
’varsities fresh upon him ; also that Australians as a rule
are not stylish—in fact, no member of the team bar
Trumper displays grace in batting. Now, style is all very
well for show, but execution is the thing. Sacrificing
execution to style has, probably, left ’Ome cricket where
it is to-day and contributed materially towards the re-
markable success of the present eleven’s tour. Writer,
as the result of long experience and close observation,
places little stock in style. N.S.W. sculler Charley Mes-
senger was full of style but never did anything worth
mentioning. Pug. Corbett had it up to the brim, but
clums}', ungainly-looking Bob Fitz. who seemed to be on
the verge of tripping himself every moment, took all the
starch out of the ’Murkan. Jockey Tod Sloan, the ugliest
rider who ever rode, has had a phenomenally-successful
career. The “terrible Turk” wrestler, Youssuf, abso-
lutely devoid of style, literally mowed down every man he
met; and so on. I could fill a big volume with similar
instances in every branch of athletics. Give me execu-
tion in competition, leave style to the circus or theatre.
* * » *
Dr. Laver’s gifts to the different members of
the Australian XI. turn out to be gold matchboxes, and
not gold watches as was cabled.
* * • *
A boy named Collins, captain of Clark’s House,
Clifton College, England, has made a record. Playing
for his house against North Town, this youth—he is but
14 years—opened the innings, and when his last partner
was bowled at 833 had the magnificent score of 628 to his
credit. Collins was six hours and 50 minutes at the
wickets, and gave only six chances. His hits included a
six, four fives, 31 fours, 33 threes, and 146 twos. Not
satisfied with having broken all previous batting records,
Collins took seven of the North Town wickets for 33 runs,
the whole side being dismissed for 87.
* » * •
“G.C.T.”: Yes, Fry, Ranji and Townsend
scored 38 among them in the test match—an average of
6J4 per innings. But since then Fry has made 181 in one
hand.
* * * *
S.A.’s decisive defeat of Victoria at lacrosse, in
Adelaide, by 10 goals to 3 once more proves that the
younger province leads Australia in the Canadian game.
The S.A. team’s pace and combination were too much for
the Vies., although the latter showed great improvement
on their previous display in Adelaide in ’96, when they
were beaten by 13 to nil. Lacrosse, by the way, has now
reached Maoriland, and has had a firm hold in Westralia
for three years past.
* •* » *
The V.R.C. this year will get the benefit of two
public holidays for its spring meeting. The Cup being
fixed for Nov. 7 (latest date possible for first Tuesday in
the month) the Oaks will happen on Prince of Wales’
birthday.
* * * *
The chances are that an early “ tip ” for Melb.
Cup will prove a delusion and a snare, but seeing that
the average eleventh-hour “tip” is equally bad for
losing purposes, The Bulletin is disposed to try a small
and early one this year. Fleet Admiral at present looks
very like the gee-gee that ought to win the Cup if
nothing particular happens to him meanwhile. He is
said to be the most improved horse in training. He is
certainly one of the handsomest. By Richmond—Foot-
step, and weighted as a 5-year-old' at 8.5 only, Fleet
Admiral has a respectable record behind him. ‘He ran
second for Maribyrnong Plate, and finished up his two-
year-old career with a couple of victories, after which the
handicapper thought him good enough to receive 7.10 for
Melb. Cup of ’97. As a 3-year-old the S. A. champion
■ went amiss, and he was not at all “ wound up” for his
engagements, nevertheless he contrived to get placed for
V.R.C. Derby behind Amberite and Aui um. As a 4-year-
old Fleet Admiral didn’t race at all. He passed his time
in studying for next Melb. Cup exam.
* * * |
The Victorian Club committee has further
damaged the feelings of lkey Mo (mad over the “Pro-
sper ” matter) by refusing to accept four nominations for
seats on the board. Two members of the committee
being due for retirement (although, of course, eligible for
re-election) at the Club’s annual meeting this week, the
dissatisfied bookies were reckoning on some “ new
blood.” But by the rules of the Club, designed to pro-
tect it against “professional” (t.e., Ikey) influence in
the management, new candidates have to be approved of
by the existing committee which, in this exceptional case,
didn t approve. Therefore, it was officially announced
that the four new candidates were vetoed, and the usual
election would be dispensed with. Ikey, at time of
writing, was tearing his hair with eight bejewelled
fingers and a thumb.
• * * *
Pastor Bevan, who has taken his cherubic
self to America, will not be back in Melbourne until
after the Cup, so his flock will be spared a course of
topical sermons on the Tote and Ikey Mo. Dr. Bevan
leaves them still in doubt as to whether he is for or
against the machine, but there is some ground for the
suspicion that their spiritual adviser has been persuaded
by Alf Joseph. The two stout gentlemen are on gentle
nodding terms.
♦ * * *
The market for Caulfield Grand Nat. Hurdle-
race pointed to Crysalite as a “ good thing,” inasmuch as
he started second favorite without having a ghost of a
show on paper. The gelding had run seven times (un-
placed) within the past year, and his recent public
“ form ” was hopeless. Crysalite had two “nowheres”
to his credit in June, the winner being Soult on each occa-
sion. As recently as July 22nd he started for a 2-mile
hurdle-race at Caulfield, with 9.9 up, but he carried no
money, and ran accordingly. Last Saturday, with 9.7
up, he was always among the leading lot for the £7OO
stake, and he won brilliantly at the finish. There are
people, here and there, who would like to know whether
the “ improvement ” in Crysalite’s “ form ” is supposed to
be due to the extra distance of the G.N. course, but
little matters like that never attract much attention—at
Caulfield.
Ditto, although he ran poorly enough in the
Hurdle race, may take the Caulfield Steeplechase next
Saturday. He won it last year carrying 11.4, and there’s
no doubt that Ditto is a good horse occasionally. Satur-
day may be one of his occasions.
The question as to whether favorite Valdis, the
V.R.C. victor, would bring off a double by winning the
G.N. Hurdle at Caulfield, was settled when he was going
gaily at the back of the course. Valdis contrived to hit
a fence awfully hard, and he came home dead lame.
* * * *
A good horse in Hainault seems to have gone
wrong beyond repair. The S.A. Derby winner has been
scratched for the two Cups.
* * * *
W. Kelso, jun., who took Waiter over to Melb.
to run for the V.A.T.C. G.N. Hurdles, had all his trouble
for nothing. The old ’un, being given a trial go over the
sticks at Epsom, hurt his legs so badly that he had to be
scratched for the big event, after final acceptance money
had been paid.
* * * »
The issue of weights for leading Spring N.S.W.
handicaps (Epsom and Metrop.) has led to but little
straight-out wagering, though the irrepressible punter is
assiduous in his attention to little and big doubles. Ikey
has already several short-priced ’uns on his little list for
Epsom, but, when ’tis all over, maybe the rank outsiders
Dalmenyand Beaulieu will be found to have beaten their
present short-priced rivals. In Metrop., the top-weight
seems to have a real good chance, and he should have
most to fear from the best of Mr. Long’s stable —per-
haps, Ace of Diamonds.
sp *■ * *
The bookmakers and the race clubs in W.A.
have come to blows over the tote. Helena Vale R.C., a
small suburban lim.-lia. affair near Perth, notified the
“ books ” that they would not be allowed to bet on the
co.’s course. Then, after a few of the sports had been
bounced from the course, they laid informations against
the club see. for unlawfully using a tote. The W.A. Act
permits the use of the tote by any club so long as the
proceeds are used to provide stakes for races. The
bookies, however, declare that in this case the proceeds
are used for the purpose of declaring divs. on the capital
of the co. This the club denies. The W.A.T.C., by
special Act of incorporation, is exempt from the condition
above-named, but all other W.A. clubs are compelled to
use all tote-profits for race-prizes. As things now stand—
matters have only reached' police-court stage, and no
matter what happens the higher Courts will be appealed
to —it is just a battle between the bookies and every race-
club in YV.A. If the club is victorious in the present pro-
ceedings (a wire says that the police-court has decided in
its favor), there wiil probably be an exodus of Israelites
from the golden land of LO.U.
* • * *
“Old Timer M.L. fighter, Otto Cribbe, with
his crude methods, regularly mowed-dovvn Sydney boxer
Frank Martin at his own game in Golden Gate A.O.
(Sydney), Saturday night last. Previously, Martin had
literally gone through his men—rushed them off their
feet, and come out top-dog inside the first three minutes ;
hence his fighting capabilities were an unknown quantity.
Martin tried the usual cyclone, but Cribb braced up, and
punched and roughed and survived it. Martin came
again, and this time their heads crashed with a resound-
ing thud. Martin reeled away—dazed apparently, and
blood gushed from a deep split over the left eye. Otto
was on to his man like a maddened bull-pup, and dealing
out “stoush” had him fairly broken up when the
“corner” bell called them off, amid the howls of the
crowd. Less than 15sec. sufficed to see Martin limp and
listless on the ropes, oblivious to everything, whereat the
towel was skied. Cribb, to fill in time, had a 4-rounds
go with: black Ike Stewart., and though it was not for
“ keeps,” the darkey found himself hotly pressed.
* * * *
Said that Melbourne Tim Murphy is the best
. middleweight (11.4 limit) Australia has seen. Members of
“ Belle of New York” co. told the writer there are none
like Tim in the States. Probable thatwinner of fight(at old
“Gaiety,” Sydney, Thursday, 10th) between Mick Dunn
and Jack Conlon may take on the Victorian for the Aus-
tralian middleweight championship ; if so, boxing pro-
moters in the three principal provinces will bid high for
the match. It will be worth a heap to any of them.
* * * *
Champion scratch - puller of N.S.W. , Larry
Ryan, and the 63-inch Ned Stratton, of the Champion
(A.U.S.N.) . tug-of-war, had a match at Federation
Hall, Sydney, last week. Conditions allowed a six-foot
pull with cleats, both men to lie down if desired. Ryan
scored first pull jn 12min.55see., but they were at the
next 2hrs. 20min. 45sec. without result, and the match
was declared a draw ,in Ryan’s favor. Latter wants to
scratch-pull any man in Australia.
* * * •
Cabled Monday last that N.S.W. all-round
swimming champion Fred Lane won the English 220 yds.
championship at Brighton in 2m. 38 l-sth sec., thus
accomplishing the particular object of his mission to that
country, and equalling his own world’s record for the fur-
long put up at Farmer’s Domain baths (Sydney) about
four months since. That he should have done in Aus-
tralia belter than any other known time over thedistance
is in itself remarkable, but to exactly repeat the achieve-
ment, even to the fraction, at the opposite side of the
sphere, under different climatic conditions and in water
of much lower temperature, is truly a wonderful feat.
* * < •
Cabled that Greasley beat Percy Cavill, of
Australia, by a yard in a 500-metres race on the Seine
(France), Saturday last. Nuttall (world’s champion) swam
third, and “Turns” Cavill (Percy’s brother) fourth.
Percy beat Greasley a year ago in a match at five dis-
tances, extending over some weeks, by winning three
events in succession. Greasley got away with the cham-
pionship of the Seine iast season. Nuttall’s position is
surprising. He has been the biggest swimming wonder
the world ever saw, and owns records that others haven’t
got within coo-ee of. Looks to the Writer as if the
stalky-built English man-fish was angling for a match.
Nuttall is not yet 30 and so can hardly have gone off
utterly, though up to lately he was “ mine host ” of a
popular pub.
» * * »
Sydney yachting men who have been laying to
their souls the flattering unction that they had dropped
across a yachting Governor at last, received a sad set-back
last week when Lord Beauchamp purchased the 2|-rater
Bronzewing. The Bronzewing was built to the
order of Mr. Sam Hordern some seven years ago, and
was sold some time ago to Mr. Cockshott. Latter took her
to Hobson’s Bay last year to compete with the little ’uns;
but she could do no better than third, and more recently
she was beaten in Port Jackson by a half-decked 22-
footer. The Governor’s purchase of the Bronzewing
would be about on a par with the action of Sir Hercules
Robinson, who came out here with a racing reputation,
buying a one-time crack racing pony which was sold last
week at Kiss’s bazaar for a fiver.
* * * *
In a Sydney boxing-hall: “Gen’l’men, we’re
goin’ ter dror the next round now. Jones drored a bye in
the other one, an’ ’e’ll ’ave ter dror agen, ter see who ’e’s
got ter meet besides ’esself.’’
* » * *
We are requested to inform Bulletin readers
that the management of the Sydney Safe Deposit (in Ash-
street, hack of Paling’s, Sydney) have decided, with a
view to popularising the use of the safes, to offer a special
discount of 25 per cent, to persons paying rent for two
years in advance. At present the annual rents in advance
are front two to six guineas, and the new system will
have the effect of reducing the rents to from to 4J
guineas. It has also been decided to lease safes at from
15s. per quarter and 255. per half year, a further innova-
tion.*
At Poverty Point.
Pity that Scot Inglis d’dn't live long enough to play
D’Art.agnan, in the “ Three Musketeers.’' It is difficult
to think of anyone in recent Australian times who would
have fitted the part so well.
Significant that at Melb. Princess’s, where Vice-royalty
has been held in grovelsome awe by the management for
many years, Harry Conor is now permitted to chant a
topical verse re Governor Brassey and his genius for
“ falling off.”
Herr Linden, who conducted the orchestra at that
great frost, Coolgardie Exhibition, must have felt flat-
tered when a blackfellows’ corroboree was advertised to
fill the vacuum caused by the withdrawal of his musi-
cians. The next “attraction” was an Afghan concert,
at which the inelegant camel-puncher juggled songs,
heavy-weights, &c. ; and soon afterwards the requiem
service was held.
Adelaide papers boomed Fredk. Villiahs’ war-lectures,
but as a matter of fact the audiences were poor. Villiers’
snapshot pictures and sketches are good, but he reads
his lecture, and his manner is wretched. Ori the plat-
form Villiers looks more like a tame curate than a war-
correspondent, and reads out the most graphic soul-
stirring details in a dreamy sing-song monotone for all the
world like an up-country reverend stating in his sleep
that “ Bawabbas was a wobbaw.”
Ada Orossley is conquering the big critics, as well as
the general public, in England. R. S. Hitchins, musical
critic of the World (and author of “The Green Carna-
tion,” “Flames,” etc.), has always seemed to have a
“ down ” on her, but he recants handsomely re her sing-
ing at a recent Patti concert. Thus :“ I have been in the
past obliged to say hard things of Miss Orossley, and
therefore it is a pleasure to me now to note her marked
and definite advance towards greater perfection. I beard
her a few days ago, and thought she had immensely im-
proved. She certainly has an artistic conscience, and
does not think that, because she makes money, she must
be perfect. She sings with real feeling now, and she does
not bawl and bellow for the benefit of the gallery, and of
those people who think that a loud voice that hits them
somewhere in the small of the back is the truest music.
The most interesting of young Victorian musical
artists is little Foley Westwood. The boy violinst is now
almost blind. He can’t see to read music ; but he can
hear to feel it very tenderly. Taking part in a recent
concert at the Sailors’ Home, Melb., he bewitched the
jolly jolly mariners with a Vieuxtemps Reverie, and
then drove them fairly mad with “Jack’s the Boy.”
Madame Trebelli has been singing to good business in
Maoriland, and she will not l.e heard in Australia until
the beginning of September, or thereabouts.
Some time ago the friends of a prominent Southern
society woman called in a hypnotist to endeavor to wean
her from her unholy passion for a nigger-comedian. Now
they think of calling in a nigger, or somebody, to wean
her from the hypnotist.
Talking of parsons and theatres, an enterprising
manager has succeeded in getting the blessings of sundry
shepherds for “ Women and Wine,” the awful drama of
dissipation which Bland Holt produced at Melb. Royal
the other month. One rev. enthusiast advised his Sun-
day flock to go and see “ Women and Wine,” and lay its
solemn warnings to heart.
“G. 8.” : A criticism upon Bernhardt’s “Hamlet”
(quoted by Melb. Age) states that when the divine one
dies in the arms of Laertes, her body is carried forth
“amidst the thunder of the Danish guns.” Which
suggests that possibly there was no anachronism after all
in Garrick's playing the part in the wig and knee-
breeches of his own day. Also, that the critic is an—
well, anyhow, it was Bernhardt, and if she had made
Hamlet a Chinaman, who dare say her nay? Or stark-
naked—and they would call it Art!
Mahlstick : George Gordon was qualified to take a
place near to the English masters of landscape art, such
as Constable, Cox, Linnell, Crome and Vicat Cole. He
only differed from Roberts, Stanfield and Cox in not
abandoning scene-painting.
“ J.A.C.” : The late Grattan Riggs, having once a week
to spare before opening in Launceston (Tas ), sent his co.
on by rail, and started, for exercise sake, to stump the
distance himself. About half-way, he halted at a village
inn to refresh, and in course of conversation he let the
barmaid know who he was, with result that afterwards,
when he asked for lunch, he was told that he would have
to pay in advance. Whereupon he demanded to see the
landlord. “ Did you tell your waitress that I would have
to pay for my lunch before I had eaten it? ” “Oi did,”
was the reply. “Do you know who lam?” “Oido;
an’ whaat’s more, Oi’ve had enough av broken-down
play-acthors paddin’ the hoof past here.” Grattan
cleared out, indignant ; and did another seven miles
before he oould “ stoke-up.”
“ H." : Irving’s Robespierre is taken by Sardou from
Alfieri’s “ Second Brutus,” which play was suggested by
Shakespeare’s Julius Ca)sar, but Alfieri put in a stronger
motive. Historians recognise that the rumor of Brutus
having been Caesar’s son is quite absurd. Alfieri seized
upon it as his central fact, and thus obviously
strengthened the Shakespearian plot. Bellew plays the
son of Robespierre at the Lyceum, and the discovery of
their relationship provides the one strong acting-scene in
the piece.
There is an old man in a certain Australian capital who
is said to be the original Svengali. He is one of several
brothers who for years were well known in Europe for
their music. The others have sunk into oblivion, but one
frequently meets this old man, who, as far as appearance
and get-up go, might be Svengali himself. He haunts
bars, and, when the liquor’s in, he can produce strains
from even the bar-parlor piano that would bring tears to
the eye of an oyster. At these times he often talks about
Du Maurier, whom he appears to have known intimately
in his student days.
“ A critic years ago said that outside his duty of telling
the public how badly the good actors played, he had a
hobby. It was to find the ‘good little people’ in the
ruck of the companies. Not a bad idea ? ” —Ex.
Between the Acts : “ I’m going to see a friend 1” “I’ll
go, too ; never saw one.”
Westralian anti-Federalists quite effusively
welcomed Thomas, the envoy of the N.S.W. anti-
Billite Labor-party. And then when Thomas
proceeded to explain that his party had opposed
the Bill because it favored VVestralia in the
matter of representation and also because it, as
they believed, made protection for Australian
products a certainty, they squirmed. The Bulle-
tin gave Thomas its blessing when he left; but
even then it didn’t believe that his visit would
pan out as well as it has done.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCnITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
m
“I us 3 a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Earingdon.
/ G-TSN ”S—Elliott • Hoffnung; D er<Ji” ;
A. D:tl? Co.; Felton; Fanlfllnar; F.. k
CURES COUGH
Missing Friends
WANTED, the present Address of ALEXANDER
CONNOLLY. Was at Silverton, 1887. Mother
dead. Mis brother, ANGUS, wi-hes to hear from him.
Anyone knowing his present address, kindly communi-
cate with ANGUS CONNOLLY, Barcaldine, QUEENS
LAND. Barcaldine, July 18th‘, 1899.
Over the camp-fire gallowa
hung a pair of moles ; one leg wound round the
cross-piece, the other depending into a cheerfully-
boiling kerosene-tin. “ What ?” I asked —“ wash-
ing day?” “No fear. The blessed goat ate the
puddin’-cloth last Sunday.” (I never did care
much for duff, anyhow.)
Public Companies.
The Sydney' & Suburban
Hydraulic power Co.,
LIMITED.
Notice is hereby given that the Eleventh Half- |
Yearly Ordinary General Meeting of the Share- |
holders will be held at the Company’s Registered ;
Offices, Mutual Life of New York Building,
Martin-place, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 17th
AUGUST, 1899, at 3 p.m.
The Transfer Books of the Company will be
closed from 3rd to 17th August, 1899, both days
inclusive.
Business :
To receive Directors’ Reportfor the Half-year ended
30th June, 1899.
To transact such other business as may be brought
forward by the Directors, in conformity with
the Articles of Association.
By order of the Board.
TOM DICKINSON,
Secretary.
Mutual Life of New York Building,
Martin-place, Sydney, 26th July, 1899.
Business Announcements.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNOT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH& C.0b83 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
ilSliffli
gsl
1
*8
-
it
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace/'
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pose
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
NEW DISCOVERY!
Q
BRANDI'S ;
I ACttVltHtil
ASGtHtRSfOR
A convenient portable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Household, Shop Windows, or Lantern Work.
Price (Generator only), 255. Pillar Light, with shade
and )4-ft. burner, 17s. 6d. Rubber Tube, 6d. per foot.
Calcium Carbide, and all accessories stocked.
BRANDT BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
%
R
;
m
n
THE
PERFECT Ricgde
as the name implies, lias no superior.
The DOMINION
affords the best value at a low price.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
(Sole Distributing Agent for Australasia)
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
3 icy cle a, A. ccessorie s, a, nd. Material
263-265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
of ACiStraliai) Federation
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
1 Diamond and Ruby
or Sapphire, 18c., £4.
2 Diamonds and Opal,
18c. Gold, 755.
14 Diamonds and
1 Ruby,
18c. Gold, £4 4s.
Any Name or Motto.
Soiid Gold, 12s 6d.
GtS
m=
180. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21s ; with
7 lovely Diamonds,
£5 ss.
. 3
18c., 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires or
Rubies, 27s 6d
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires, from
555. to i'lo.
SOLID GOLD PENDANTS,
PERFECT MODELS.
MANUFACTURED AND OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM US.
l2s 6d.
Solid Gold.
Pigeon Biuuoh.
9c., 5s 6d ; 15c., Bs.
Amethyst Heart and
Bird 8-ifety Pin, 6s.
Real Amethyst
Shamrock, 3s 6d.
Miniature Iron Horse-
Shoe Charm, set
with Stones, is 6d.
Gold Pin & Chain, ss.
Registered.
PLAIN BOWL, 12/6; MOTTO BOWL, 13 6.
SOLID SILVER FEDERATION SOUVENIR SPOON,
Manufactured and
Obtainable
Only From Us.
Post Free.
PLEASE SEND
FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES.
Emu, 12s Gd.
Solid Gold.
Swallow Brooch,
9c., 5s 6d ; 15c., Bs.
Bird Safety Pin.
9c. Gold, 3s.
Solid Gold Bird
Pendant, sot with 17
lovely Opals, 15s.
Japanese Lantern
PIN AND CHAIN.
Solid Gold, (is 6d.
Lantern only, 3s 6d.
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver, 3s 6d.
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interroga-
tion.) 18c., set
with 11 First-
water Diamonds,
4. 8 and £9 10s.
Lovely Diamonds,
from £3 to £35.
(59 SSa
18c., 1 Diamond and
2 Rabies, or
1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires, 455.
Smaller, 30s.
<SL_K
Solid Gold and 3
Opals, 25s ; Solid
Gold and 1 Opal, 15s.
m
90., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s; 150., 20s, 22s 6<),
27s 6(1 ; 18c., 21s,
255, 30s.
With name, Is extra.
Diamond, 18c. Gold,
40s, 60s, 80s.
NOTE —Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT ESGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
TTueaualled for the purposes iutended. Wilt give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article and canreconi-
Sole Agents toe New sffl Wales: TILLOCK & CO., KENT an,l LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
• ’ ' - v . ' ’ v.
-5 - S Y-*
Wm£
m
m
JITS
mim
m
Up to date 7300 old-age pensions, rang-
ing from J>lB to -61, have been granted in Maori-
land. Total yearly outgoing, .£128,000.
Becke and Jeffery's “The Mutineer,” a
story of the mutiny of the “Bounty,” may be had
for 2/6 in paper covers and 3/6 in cloth (postage
6d. extra) from Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
and all Booksellers.*
“ There will be nothing left for the Pro-
vincial Parliament to do,” is the cry raised by
ignorant Anti-Federal organs in Queensland. Yet
nine-tenths of the time of Q. Parliament is at
present occupied with revenue and estimate dis-
cussions, land legislation, mining concerns, rail-
way and other jobs, and educational affairs, and
these will still be left to the Provincial Parlia-
ment. So it won’t be entirely without something
to go on with.
Versatile Herbert Ingram Low has severed
his connection with S.M. Herald. Low was the
introducer to Sydney journalism of the discursive
or “ essayish ” leader, and has for years written
“Notes in Parliament” and “Fugitive Notes”
for the Herald. He made a distinct mark with
a series of clever sketches captioned “ The Shift-
ing Scene,” which have been largely quoted
abroad.
Australia’s happiness in the achievement
of union is almost as complete as the joy of those
wise ones who have Federated themselves with a
suit of clothes built at the London and American
Supply Stores, Bourke-str., Melb. These clothes,
like all the other wear of this enterprising firm,
unite all the virtues. They are distinctive in
style, superior in quality, and reasonable in price.
Send for catalogue to London and American
Supply Stores, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
Members of N.S.W. Assembly don’t “go
outside ” as they used to do, and the old familiar
invitation to come and exchange stoush is seldom
heard nowadays. It was like a voice from the
dead when Perry, M.L.A., grew angry the other
night and asked Premier Reid to come out and
have a free fight. The mere idea of any man of
Reid’s girth—especially a man whose girth is all
in the wrong place—“coming outside,” convulsed
the House. The humorless Perry threw away a
great opportunity, but then Perry is the sort of
man who always does that. If he had risen in
red-hot indignation at Reid’s insult, and challenged
the bulky one to a steak-eating contest in the re-
freshment room, the House would have laughed
with him instead of at him.
Dr. Whittell’s resignation as chairman of
S.A. Health Dept, will probably pave the way for
a settlement of local Hospital troubles. Dr. W.’s
successor will, it is expected, be Dr. Ramsay
Smith, who has always been the stumbling-block
in the way of the profession going back to Ade-
laide Hospital. The chief object in effecting a
compromise is the re-establishment of the local
Medical School. After two years of medical
training, students are now compelled to complete
their training in Melb. and Sydney. Not even
the bitterest of former disputants now desires the
miserable squabble to continue longer.
On the very day that Jack Want returned
to explore the ruins of Sydney, the “Death
Warrant ” of which had been duly notified by
“collect” cable, the Secret Conference Daily
Telegraph came out with an announcement of
“ a new feature.” Owing to the extreme activity
in the building trade in the metropolitan district,
a column would appear daily, headed “ Building
and Construction.” Thus did the Telegraph
welcome the “arch-destroying angel of Federa-
tion,” who had hurried home to weep over the
ruin (and ruins) of his beloved Sydney.
As a matter of course, appeal has been
made against the recent Sydney suburban police-
court decision by which a local public-school
teacher was heavily fined for alleged assault upon
a woman who had come to “ tongue ” him for ex-
pelling her son (a trespasser) from the school-
premises. Defendant, a man with a spotless re-
cord, deposed (and was strongly corroborated by
two other teachers) that prosecutrix, in addi-
tion to violently abusing him, h -id flown at him
with her claws, and that, in a Tempting to save
his face, he had accidentally pushed her down. It
is obvious, in view of such evidence, that either a
gross injustice has been done, or the press-reports
conveyed a very misleading and inadequate im-
pression of the evidence for the prosecution.
“ 8.5.” to The Bulletin :
The writer of that par. re “Bob” Burt and Parnell’s death
hereby jumps upon “ M‘G.,” who ventures to “ correct ”
the same. “ Parnell didn’t die until Burt was in Aus-
tralia,” says “ M‘G.” Wrong. Parnell died on 6th Oct.,
’9l; Burt came to this country by R.M.S. Australia in
May, ’93. Then Burt “ was correspondent for the biggest
London press agency.” Wrong. The biggest agency is
the Press Association ; Burt was Brighton correspondent
of the Exchange Telegraph Co., which is not even the
second biggest agency. Then, Burt guessed about the
wedding, and “ went back later and paid a search fee.”
Ridiculously wrong. “M‘G.” is evidently ignorant of
the fact that in England notice of marriages by Registrar
to he publicly posted up for three full weeks before-
hand outside the Registrar’s office ; so that anyone could
have seen the announcement for nothing. (Writer was
married by Registrar, so knows.) Then Burt “ lived in
the middle of Brighton Esplanade [he means Marine
Parade], and used to see the Uncrowned King crossing
his threshold pretty frequently.” Comically wrong.
Parnell lived in Walsingham Terrace. “ M‘G.,” who
knows nothing of Brighton, might as well say he stood on
St. Kilda Esplanade and saw a man come out of an office
in Oollins-street. What is more, Parnell and Mrs. O’Shea
were married at the Registrar’s office at Steyning. Fur-
ther, “ M‘G.” says it was the marriage business that led
to Burt’s being offered a billet in the London agency.
Wrong again. Burt went to London at the end of ’9l,
after Parnell’s death, and in consequence of his coups re
the death, as correctly stated in The Bulletin the pre
vious week. “ M‘G.” “ corrects ” without knowing any
thing about the subject.


Slop coughing!
Every cough makes your throa u more raw
and irritable. Every cough congests the lin-
ing membrane of your lungs. Cease tearing
your throat and lungs in this way. Put the
parts at rest and give them a chance to heal.
You will need some help to do this 1 and * t ou
will find it in
ytyer’d
'Gherrif
{federal
From the first dose the quiet and rest
begin; the tickling in the throat ceases; the
spasm weakens; the cough disappears. Do
not wait for pneumonia and consumption but
cut short your cold without delay.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral cures because it
heals. It goes to the very seat of trouble,
quiets the inflammation and makes a perma-
nent cure. Begun in time, it is the one great
preventive to all serious lung troubles.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is blown in the glass of
each Bottle. Put up in large and small bottles.
THE FINEST TONIC
FGR BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAYAIS
FER BRAYAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
| of the blood,and ena-
bling Ui. constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
l for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET. **A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“ma*aH
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digcstion t and
it does not blacken the teeth."
soin BY CHEMIBTS AI.L THE WORT.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
sals*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHOHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
The Control of Railroad Power.
A Bulletin correspondent on a warlike sub-
ject :
Britain as Mistress of the Seas has ions' been the theme
of poets, Prime Ministers, and enthusiastic sea-captains.
But Britain as Mistress of Railroads has inspired no one.
Kipling has never made the national back-hair stream on
the subject of railway extension. Up to the present, the
long, sinuous lines darting hither and thither through de-
batable territory have been regarded as commercial
speculations only. Later on, they will be regarded as
military manoeuvres. Russia does so regard them at pre-
sent. And in the inevitable war of the future, our rail-
ways—and the enemy’s - will play as important a part as
ships have done in the wars of the past. The two powers
are essentially the same. Mahan's recognition of the fact
that “ the power which can prevent an enemy from shift-
ing troops, while itself freely moving forces when it
pleases, must get the better of a war when the regions
in dispute are far apart and accessible by sea,” holds good
with the more modern mode of transition. For instance,
Central Asia is an ocean of land, and lines of railway run-
ning through it occupy the same position as fleets on the
sea. Russia has lately flung out a line from her Caspian
system to a spot within five miles of the Afghan border,
and until that line is checkmated by an Anglo-
Indian line, the Chaman - Candahar, for instance,
the Russian power of attack is largely increased.
The Trans Siberian railway, the longest road in the world,
twice the length of the Canadian-Pacific, traverses a vast
expanse of rough country, the natural features of which
are eminently inimical to long marches; a country
rigidly cold in winter, in some parts mountainous and
heavily timbered. It means that three small, well-
equipped armies of 20,000 or 30,0,10 men stationed at
Omsk, Irkutsk, and Port Arthur can practically garrison
the whole Russian Asiatic Empire, dominate Northern
China, and be a menace to any part of the Chinese Empire
that may fall to the share of Britain. Because at any
opportune time the three forces can be combined and
hurled at any weak spot with the men in good fighting
condition, whereas if they had to march through that
dreadful country they would be exhausted and demoral-
ised long ere they had a chance to strike a blow. The
utter physical demoralisation consequent on long march-
ing in the face of a more or less persistent opposition,
may be realised when we recall the story of Diebitoh’s
skeleton army which reached Adrianople in ’29—and then
had to turn back, broken down by miles and mountains,
with Byzantium in sight. The Siberian railway will be
finished in 1905, perhaps earlier, for the Bear works
secretly, doing much and saying little, while the
Britisher is for ever advertising his wonderful enter-
prise in the newspapers. Till it is completed the
combined British and Japanese diplomacy can be ex-
pected to be supreme at Pekin whenever it really talks
fight. But after the completion a large and noticeable I
change will probably take place. Control of the sea
means that a small force of, say, 15,000 men may keep a
whole continent under arms because the continent does
not know where the blow is going to fall. But if the
continent has a system of strategic railways by which as
soon as the 15,000 land they can be overwhelmed and
manned down, the control of the sea loses much of its
value. When a strategic position can be attained, not by
long exhausting marches, but by swift and easy transit
along the iron road, a force 1000 miles away is almost the
same as a force already on the spot, and the army that
can be mobilised at any one of six centres has the same
power as six separate armies locked up in each separate
centre. Which is a useful economy of fighting-material.
In Africa a British railroad from Cairo to the Cape means
that every other nation’s share of the continent can be
attacked from both sea-board and interior. When the
Khartoum-Cairo road is finished the present garrison, or
army of occupation, in Egypt will suffice, with a small in-
crease, to garrison the Soudan too, as the troops can be
conveyed so quickly from Cairo that they can be on the
spot to sweep away the head of any rebellion that may be
contemplated before it has time to grow a decent
body and limbs. And still they can get back to
Cairo so fast that the fact of their being 1000 miles
away will garrison the city almost as effectually as if
they were there all the time. In comparison to the num-
ber of its inhabitants, Australia possesses more miles of
railway lines than any other country on earth. But they
are not st rategic ; to be of any real dse in the defence of
the continent, they must be of uniform gauge. With a
uniform gauge and a workable military system, Australia,
from Rockhampton in Queensland to Port Augusta in
S. Australia, would be practically impregnable, as any in-
vader landing between those spots could be overwhelmed
by 200,000 Australian riflemen. If he landed at Brisbane,
the whole force of the country between the two points
named could be flung against him in a week, and in an-
other week or ten days the same horde could be back in
S.A. knocking corpses out of another invader about
Adelaide. When it is proposed to build a Federal trans-
continental line to Perth and another to Port Darwin,
the Australian merely says “ they won’t pay.” And, of
course, they won’t at present -in a purely commercial
sense. And yet some day, quite suddenly and unexpect-
edly, it may cost Australia three times as much not to
have them as the commercial loss would have amounted
to in half a century.
iy A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country’’ in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, i-y?' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
eve* awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
r '
KM
S. 1
€
rAX?. FEARS |
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEJT'Y CO MPBTITION.
WINES J, “ Best Br r h My •' SPIRITS.
oc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS,
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
'
■
1
1
1 ::
—— ■
MAKERS OP
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAERA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOE ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
INFANTS
*
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Hi"RaSSn)(iSSeo’S Alfaliijc Herbal Remedies.
More warvellously Sucssisfnl and. Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Piiblic for over 14 Years,
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
*■
m
:
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared iny skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
ad vice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one Of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify. —Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very trulv,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, 1 have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of thjse who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, TIIOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
limiiilUii!iillhiim)ini illiMimiiiii'llrmmmimiiiimim.'
Id JO JLSOd
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of liis Inter-
colonial Branches.
Aif aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d„ posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING--
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, TJy-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• - • WARNING
Herr Rassmnssen
desire* to injorm /us
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
| Head Office, or
■ his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Altaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
A!faline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassinusseii>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
m ■—■■■■'■ ''
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent fiee.
APVICC FREE.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -» Wonder-
ful Remedy for oughs, Colds, t onsumptidn, r rotnhitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Fiesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palat.eable. P ickets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful for Beautifying fie Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
A faline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thu
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tm/
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassiaassei’s Head pee - 547 GEORGE ST., S99RE9,
B AND IMPORTANT BRANCH GS AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rnndle-street (near York Hotel)
91 Lambton Quay
N.Z , WELLINGTON
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next xtoyalTTheatre)
COQECrARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


EillQJ-PHOnE.
Winter Evenings e } on s and cold, and
■ —- o residents of the interior
of Australia can beguile
the weary hours by entertaining themselves and
their friends with the
6RAM-0-PNONE.
This instrument has now reached a high state
of perfection, and is widely known and appre-
ciated. It fascinates the listener by its marvellous
reproduction of sounds, originating many thou-
sands of miles away; it brings those sounds within
the hearing of all,.and gives amusement and plea-
sure. It makes the weary and tired man or woman
bright and cheerful, gives the children endless
amusement, and is at the same time a money-
maker. If you desire to hear Sousa’s military
band, you can do so in your own home in the
interior of Australia, by putting a record on the
6RAM-0-PNONE,
just as easily as any of the residents of New York
city.
Albert Chevalier will sing to yon on demand,
and gives you encores ad lib without getting tired,
and he will do this in any part of Australia, and
save you going to London, provided you buy a
6RAM-0-PHONE.
This illustration represents the instrument de-
scribed.
M
.Further information u ill be continued next
week. In the meantime, apply for full particulars
A. P. SYKES,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Arnold’s Balsam of gorehoond
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
MOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
1 ' Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION. —Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold's Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1,6 and 2 6. if not obtainable locally.
KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
By using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair RejuVenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and iders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 1016 and 21- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AIT KEN,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Publications.
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1899.
I J, MILLER’S SPOUTING PAMPHLET
And Athletic Record.
Price Is. All Booksellers and Newsagents.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the li.lustiiathd London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaidia wdl supply ttie art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
etep in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chanters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
lettersand FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-Amkrioan Publishing
( 0.. Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
UNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOR THEE.”
Words by Edward Oxenford ; Music by E. J.
Emmerton. In Three Keys— E flat, F, and Q.
Of all Music Dealers. W. PAXTON, London
and Melbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” P.F.
By Willie Pape. Played by special command of
pheir Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
; ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
‘ and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers, or
from ihe Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
PHOTO 3 FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty,
Li mod exquisite Parisian laste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Uahinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Ca*a (umic, ss. Money Order. Beware poor imitations
of my High-class Art.
XI. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
Books! Books! Books!
Having the Largest Stock of SECOND-HAND BOOKS
in New South Wales, namely, Educational, Scientific,
Agriculture, Poetry, Ficton, and other subjects, kindly
make me your Book Agent, and let me know what you
may require, and I will at once advise you as to price of
same. 1 have also Three Choice Books (can only be pro-
cured by post), Is. 6d. each. All hooks sent post free.
Second-hand V
Book Arcade, J,
K. W. Skinner
1 105 Castlereajfh.
\ street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1846.
AM, ARTICLES OF GOOD QUALITY.
TDOOFING FELT, 75ft.x32in., 8s roll ; Dynamite, in ease
lots, Is lb. ; Good Quality Fuse, 5d coil ; Ingersoll’s
Rock Drills, hand power, £8 ea.; lin. Octagon Steel, £2O
ton ; Flax Engine Packing, 56s per ewt., good quality' ;
Governor-brand Horse-shoe Iron, l n , ), ljxj, Jx7-16, gx|,
£9 ton ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id per lib ; Globe Horse
Nails (slightly touched), 2d lb. ; Axle Grease, 2s 6d doz.
packages ; Iron Horse Rakes or Hay Ccliectors, 25s ea. ;
Hornsby’s Mould Boards, Is 6d ea. ; Single Barrel Muzzle-
Loader Guns, 15s ; Double Breech-Loader Guns, 80s :
Rities, 7s 6d and 10s, all good quality ; Chaff Knives, Is
ea. ; Drilling Machines and Lathes for Power, £lO and
£l2 ; Rumbler for cleaning iron, £5 ; Blind Stile Borer
and Mortiser, Fay and Co., £2l ; Galvd. Gutter and
Ridgeeap (slightly touched), Sd per 6ft,. length ; Wall
Paper, from 2d roll ; Cross-Cut Saws, 6s ; Pitt Saws,
7s 6d ; 2-Pronged Ilay Forks, Is 3d ; Hay Knives, 3s ;
American Axes, 3s ; Bullock Bows, Id per lb. ; Axle
Arms, 2 to 3J, Id lb. ; Damaged Mattress Wire, 10s ewt. ;
Sewing Twine, 56s ewt. ; French Polish, 4s 6d gallon ;
Oak Varnish, 6s gallon ; Good Quality Glass Paper, 7s 6d
ream ; Russian Glue, taking lewt., 7Jd per lb. ; Best Fine
Plumbago, 22s ewt. ; Steel Wire Rope, a few coils cheap ;
P langed Steel Truck Wheels, up to 36in. ; Brown Paper,
per scwt., 12s ewt. ; 500 tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 36in.
long ; Copper Sheets, Brass Sheets, Black, Galvd. Steam,
Copper and Brass Tubing, and all Descriptions of Iron-
mongery 7.
Cheapest Prices.
Joh ||)‘|ntosh and Sons,
Wholesale and Retail
- IRONMONGERS.
307, 321, 276, 280 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Eair girls and gray horses.
Second Edition. 220pp.—4s. 6d.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
TREE COOKERY LECTURES
IK TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Amusements.
OT. GEORGE’S HALL. MELBOURNE.
Every Evening!
Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Orpheus M. M‘Adoo.
FOR LIMITED SEASON ONLY.
Ks§?“ Instantaneous and Enormous Success Achieved on
Saturday Night by
MR. ORPHEUS M. M'ADOO’S
Celebrated Combination of
Genuine Georgia Minstrels
- - - AND - - -
Original Alabama Cake Walkers.
A Hit! A Hit 1 A Palpable Hit!
Success 1 Success! Hundreds turned Away. A Scene
of Wild Enthusiasm unparalleled in the history of this
hall. Overflow tickets available any evening.
Popular Prices : Stalls, 3s; Family Cirole, 2s; Gallery,
Is. A few rows of Reserved Orchestra Stalls at 4s. at
Allan & Co’s, Collins-street. No Early Doors.
SPECIAL MATINEES Every Wednesday and Saturday.
The Earl Waltz.
Dedicated to
EARL BEAUCHAMP.
-Paling & Co.
Ready FRIDAY, 11th Instant.
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
D.C.L. ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BRAND
C,i,o Tc^
Cli
BLACK BOTTLE
OF MERIT
ASK FOR
THE PUREST SPIRIT HADE
THE BEST.ALWAYS THE SAME
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
TOUCHES
THE
AND SOOTHES THE AOHIHG HART.
For all Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCEA
EMBROCATION. Sold in Collapsible Tubes.
0/ all Storekeepers , General dealers, and Chemists.
H, P
■
General Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney;
435 Bourke Street:, Melbourne.
—— Anw^rra
The Mason Regulating Co’s
STEAM AND WATER REDUCING VALVES.
L. Schuttes & Co’s
ROUTING'S BOILER REED INJECTORS ft EJECTORS.
Blake’s
SINGLE & DUPLEX STEAM PUMPS.
J. A. Fay & Egan Co’s
WOODWORKING MACHINERY & TOOLS.
W. F. & Jno. Barnes Co.
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & WOODWORKING MACHINERY
Always in Stock:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Lifting Tackle. &e.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
.» the MOST DELICIOUS sauce in the WORED.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
A'TivnNNv alos
saixxoa HO snoiTiiw
iii Bottles, 6d., i,'-, and 2- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &, CO , LEEDS ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales: ’
TIU.OCK & CO., Kl;nx and UVERPOOI, Sl'REO'rs, HVDNEV.
<§>
E. V. FINCKH & CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants 3s Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapin<rs, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Arnold Dbnham.
Advance ;
Australia!
Australia for the Australians.”
Australian Management /
Australian Authors /
Australian Actors/
Australian Audiences /
Instantaneous and Continued Success
• - - OP THE . - -
Famous Australian Historical, Pastoral, Tragical,
Comical, Musical Play,
“The Kells Gens.”
Redolent of the Australian Bush, Racy of the Soil,
and full of Life and local color.
Popular Prices2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, and 6d.
Box Plan, Paling’s. Day Sales, Johnstone’s, Strand
Arcade.
rpfiEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
•“ Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
the Bro6gb Co.
This Evening, at 8 o’clock—lN HONOUR BOUND.
At 8.45 p.m., the Original Farcical Corned v,'
“THE BRIXTON BURGLARY.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
T YCEIJM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson:
1-A.sT TWO NIGHTS OF
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
Powerful and Popular Dramatic Company, in
OUR NATIVE HOME.
SATUR’ AY, August 12-SHALL WE FORFfVE HER?
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
gVDNEY TOWN HALL. 1/- “ POPS/’
Sole Lessee and Director .. Philip Newbury.
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING at 8.
NEWBURY-SPADA 1-
“ POPS.”
A WEALTH OF MUSICAL MAGNETISM.
ONE SHILLING entitles Everyone to a Reserved Seat.
fTKII MA .1 ESTS THEATRE, SYDN.EY.
■A*. Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mnsgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evenin'!, at 7.45; Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
The Famous Romantic Drama, in 5 acts,
Tbs KiOg’S fiCiSkstssr.
By Henry Hamilton, founded on Dumas’ Great Romance,
“The Three Musketeers.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Tivoli tii bat he, sydn f, y.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST WEEKS OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL
PAUL CINQUEVALLi.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of PAUL PELHAM.
Bellman and Moore, Alma Gray, Bessie—Valdares-James
Virto and Irene, Little Fanny Powers, George C. Dean,
Florrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard Chambers, Neva
Carr Glynn, Jas. Mooney,
CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
■DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
Mr- E- H- Douglass- Manuel Woodson-
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, THE FARLEY TRIO,
SPRY and AUSTIN, THE THREE KEZIAHS,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Hamilton Hill, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, and all our
Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland How.
SPARKLING SUCCESS OF
THE CRISP AND CRACKLING DRAMA,
The ’War of Wealth.
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane andC. T. Dazey.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
INHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYOLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children—SIXPENCE.
RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musorovh.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
“ A Trip to CbiQatowp.”
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12,
The Latest and Best of the Typical American Comedies,
A STRANGER IN NEW YORK.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies*
rpOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
1/- Saturday, 12th August. JJ -
LAST NIGHT OF PRESENT SEASON.
THROUGH IRELAND on a JA UNTING CAR.
Irish Songs. Irish Dances.
m~ Mr. JOHN FULLER’S MYRIORAMA COMPANY.
Mr. John Fuller, the Popular English Tenor,
NEW PICTURES! .-. NEW PICTURES!
NEW ILLUSTRATED SONGS.
NEW ARTISTS. NEW ARTISTS.
Plan at Glen’s. Booking Fee, la.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Scb*rsk’S Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
J Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.


D.S.MAIR
gp
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring',2/6;Cleaning, 2 6; Hairspring, 2 6; Jewels, 2 6;
Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3 6. All work guaranteed 12 months.
D. S. Mair for Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels. Grand Timekeepers, L7/6. Guaranteed 3 years.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold Weddinsr Rings, 4 6. Extra
heavy, 9/6. Solid Gold Bar Brooches, 4/6. Hall-marked
D.' S. Mair for Ladies’ Solid Gold Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 3 years, 35/-.
Note address— 6B-3L George Street, Sydney.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phonograph
(Albert & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents) Co.
■pHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
dard. Best Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT [& SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs arid Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LAPIES.
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
OEAia & AITKEN,
680-682 Georoe St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Swmln House.
BISHOP'S
CITRATE OF
MAGNESIA
a
RE-MEMBER IN TAE
NURSERY IT IS A POSITIVE
NBCESSIVy. AS AU- CAILDISA
AILMENTS CIVE WAf TO A
DOSE OR TWO
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and.
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address — L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney,
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box ICG, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN,2IO Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Haarf a g e t
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the World.
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
HAARFAGER curls the hair naturally and permanently
in a few hours without curling tongs or pins. Will mail'
the straightest hair curl beautifully without trouble
HAARFAGER restores the hair and will prevent the ba :
fioni falling out. AH chemists. Price 3s. Gd., postage G 1
extra. Wholesale Agents, ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Ltd,
O’Connell-street, Sydney. If not obtainable at yii
chemist, send stamps or P. 0.0. to The Argyle Apothi'cm
Co., Old Canterbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W.
1
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorl
injr interest to every MAb
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Sene.
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Life of the System.
QUICKSILVER
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
John Hunter 5 Son’s (Ltd,)
SHOE STORES.
BARON
Baron Berzelius’ Report.
These Bitters I recommend in DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
NEOUS AFFECTIONS. The action of Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant; and it also assists persons suffer-
ing from Skin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
Head What Medical Men Say About Them .
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure., and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. : —BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
Tonic, being pure and strengthening ; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Digestion. I therefore
thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. : —lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar influence over the
Liver. ,
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY.
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs, and 40ZS.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
WILL
: ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS
111
m
PLAIN
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil's Own Wizard, Is; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (Plus.) post 10. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
Otjr List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL AlvniFt
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor •
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA ; ”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrlo
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIO
ERA and Price List (post
free), jrivinjr illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
G 3 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
How It Is.
In the streets of the town where I live I some-
times meet a poor fellow whois so bad]}’off that
his appeal for a penny or two is hardly to be re-
sisted. He has lost both his legs above the knees
and punts himself along the pavement with his
hands, like a loaded barge in shallow water.
Thank Mercy, one doesn’t often see human hulks
like him. Where' there is a single instance of a
man having lost both legs or both arms there are
a dozen where only one limb of the pair is missing.
And where there is a single case of the latter sort
there are a hundred cases of people who are lame,
or more or less disabled, by disease or minor in-
juries which are scarcely noticeable, yet in the
long run very serious to those so afflicted.
Consequently, when we sum up both classes, we
perceive that it isn’t the total wrecks and the in-
curables that are most expensive to society, but
the prodigious host which must work, and does
work, yet always under difficulties and against
hindrances. Men and women regularly em-
ployed, but who are continually breaking down in
a small way, thus losing fragments of time and
fractions of wages, are of the kind I mean. The
amount of income lost in this way in one year in
England is immense. And so far as the cause of
all this is disease, and not accident or born bodily
imperfection, it is almost always preventive and
generally curable. Look at this, for example, and
take heart.
“ In the spring of this year (1897),” the writer
says, “my health began to fail me. My appetite
was poor, and after meals I had pain and weight
at the chest. I could not sleep owing to the pain,
and I got weaker every day. I had so much pain
that I dared not eat, and rapidly lost flesh.
“ I was in agony night and day, and often sat
by the fire at night as I could not rest in bed. I
had a deal of muscular pain, particularly in the
i arms. I gradually got worse and worse, and in
i two months lost two score pounds wei'iht.
\ “ I saw a doctor who gave me medicines and in-
jected morphia to ease the pain; but I was no
better for it. Then I met with a friend who told
me of the great benefit he had derived from the use
of a medicine called Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I got
a bottle of it from Mr. S. Richardson, chemist,
Bridgman-street, and in a week I could eat well
and food no longer distressed me. Therefore, I
kept on with the medicine, and soon was strong
and well. I am now in the best of health, and
recommend this remedy to all I meet. You areat
liberty to publish this letter as you like.”—(Signed)
William Bridge, Grocer and Baker, 65, Bridg-
man-street, Bolton, October sth, 1897.
Here we have an illustration of the proposition
with which this article sets out. From Mr.
Bridge’s account of his own case we see that lie
lost a considerable time from his business. How
much that represents in money he dues not say ;
nor is it important to the argument. For two
months or more he lost from his business practi-
cally all lie was worth to it; and what that situa-
tion would have signified, had it been indefinitely
continued, any intelligent person can imagine.
Men frequently becoine stricken with poverty as
with illness in that way. However well any
business may be managed in an emergency by
others, it is not to be supposed that it gets on as
prosperously as when the proprietor is himself at
the helm. And he cannot be there while he is
suffering agonies from disease. This is true even
if we make no calculation of the direct expenses
created by illness, nor of the suffering experienced
the latter not computable in terms of money.
Now, please remark how quickly Mr. Bridge
was cured of his ailment—bad as it seemed and
really was. Dating from the time he began using
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, he says:— “ln a week I
could eat well, and the food no longer distressed
me.’’ His trouble was of the digestion only (acute
dyspepsia), for which this preparation long ago
proved itself a specific. Had he known of and
employed it when the attack began he would have
lost no time, felt no pain.
The lesson of the case is this:—As indigestion
is a common complaint, and dangerous also when
neglected, the remedy should be at hand for imme-
diate use when needed. The more valuable the
treasure the.more strict should be the guard over
it. And health is a jewel compared with which
rubies are as the glass beads of savages.
Catarrh ctir£d
CURE YOURSELF with our In-
strument ami Home Treatment.
Our MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Neuralgia, Hay Fever, La Grippe,
Asthma, Catarrhal Deafness, Coughs ,
and Colds (Diseases of Head, Throat'
and Lungs).
Free Treatment at Office. Complete cure
by mail, 10/-. (Postal Notes all Colonies
taken, except New Zealand, from where
Money Orders must be sent). Hundreds
in use, givimr perfect satisfaction. Write
for Booklet and Testimonials. No Agents.
Order direct from
Home Catarrh Cure Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET,
Mention “The Bulletin ’ vkn writing.
MEDICATOR


CEtciys
roii
Warmth and
Comfort
MIIIERR
IN WINTER
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses
etc, in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, Cotton, or Lisle Thread
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
£T CELLULAR
Thread, Merino, or
Pamphlets and
FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ go.
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMVSEM IS NX for OLD and LOUNG. W
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles
comprisin'.' One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjurim-
Tricks, Klond.vke Grub (which causes roars of lauchter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (fives the definition of vonr character, very superior
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed). Mafic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address In Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. (id.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716j4 and 718 Oeor-e-sueet, SYDNEY,
n. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
a
the
■ -
»
ram
R.AHERVEY.
171.• C LARENCE ST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
m Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
XJSB
FOR
Ip: BROWN LEATHER
I BOOTS & SHOES
HI OF ALL DESCRIP 1 lONS
piRECIIDNS FOR USE
[ifilOuiuiMUiiniiiiiiiiiinmilmS '
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), (id. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
THE
DEAF
HEAE
“Common Sense
* «s Ear Drums ”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible....
Comfortable
Efficient....
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A Pent,
CHALMERS, 229 Collins St Melbourne
THE ORUM
IN POSITION
(INVISIBLE)
Mention "The Bulletin” when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCStASTT,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be (riven in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Oolline-etreet, Melbourne.
new zealand_—
The Thermal Springs District.
THE
grand Hotel, ROTORUA.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
in New Zealand.
H. V. Gardner
(late of the P. & O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
A . j. ia. veiling I'UUUC or
Aimnilta tna.t he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
3. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and ether advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed "Manager 1
will receive prompt attention.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
mmm
TL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Aecoinmodntion-all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
"I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 4i«l.
Sole Agents:
\
ihe Result
Craig & Ait ken, 680-632 George-st„ Sydney
0 Revolution in Dentistry^
The patients who had their aching, decayed
teeth and roots painlessly extracted, and
teeth painlessly stopped, by the aid of Mr.
J. I. MARSHALL’S (of 28 Wynyard
Square, SYDNEY) Newly - Discovered
Local Specifics for one month numbered 500.
That is equal to GOOO a year. This is un-
doubtedly the largest register of painless
dental treatments in Australia. Letters of
thanks may be seen at the Parlors, 28
Wynyard Square (permission having
been given to show them), from doctors,
clergymen, literati, chemists, and many
leading ladies of society.
A Beautiful Fabric.
THE
‘[ouis*
VELVETEEN.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«♦♦♦♦♦
NOTE WELL !—Each yard of
Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L O UTS
and in no other way) and is
stamped with a guarantee of
wear.
DULL, GNAWING, REFLEX
LIVER PAINS*
HeThought itwas Sciatica
or Rheumatism.
He Took CLEMENTS TONIC.
They Went & Never Came
Back.
The Case of
Michael Cornwell.
( From the Windsor, N.S. W., “ Australian”)
(by our special reporter.)
Humours of the case of Mr. Cornwell, of
George-street, Windsor, New South Wales,
came to the ears of our reporter, who there-
upon visited Air. Cornwell, and ascertained
from him personally if the story of his cure
from a bad liver aGection was correct.
“Certainly it’s true,” replied Mr. Corn-
well, in answer to the reporter's questions.
“A Dull, Gnawing Pain
in my back made its appearance, together
with a sharp, pricking sensation between
tlie shoulders. My food disagreed witli me,
caused me pain after eating, and I was often
sick, and of course my appetite went off
considerably. I slept very badly, and,
naturally enough, I was
Always Drowsy and Dull
in the day time. If I walked a mile then I
should be as tired as if I walked a dozen
miles now. In the morning I always awoke
with a dull headache, and a coated tongue,
and a bitter taste in my mouth, with
heavy, aching limbs, as if I had done some
excessive labour the day previous.”
“ Did you take medicine ?”
“ Yes ; I went to a chemist and described
my sufferings ; he prescribed for me, and I
took several bottles of his physic ; but all
this stuff was not of the least service, nor
did it relieve the pain in my back one jot.
At length I got tired of taking it, and I gave
his medicine up as a bad job.”
“ What was your complaint?”
, “For a long time I thought I was suffer*
xng from
Sciatica or Rheumatism,
and I frequently used lotions and liniments
of different kinds for that ailment ; but, as
these had no effect, and as I began to lose
weight and get an unhealthy colour, I came
to the conclusion that
My Liver was Disordered.
Several of my friends recommended me to
take various remedies, which they thought
might do me some good. I followed their
advice in many instances, but obtained no
satisfactory results. The pains in my back,
especially those across the loins, increased
in severity till I could hardly stand them,
and I had decided to place myself under a
doctor s care, when my brother came upon
the scene, bringing a bottle of Clements
Tonic with him. He had been very ill him-
self, and that remedy
Had Pulled Him Through,
and he said why shouldn’t it cure me. r J I .
was his argument. I consented to try two
or three bottles before going to the doctor,
and thankful I am that I did do so.”
“ Clements Tonic cured you, then ?”
“Most perfectly. I think my liver must
have been congested—overcharged, as it
were—for I hadn’t been taking Clements
Tonic for long before the symptoms that
that organ was deranged disappeared. I
felt far lighter—no headaches, and that
heavy,
Drowsy, Languid Feeling
Vanished
like fog in the sunshine. The fits of sickness
which had attacked now troubled me no l
longer, and the pains in my back, both
between the shoulders and across the loins,
quickly decreased and disappeared alto-
gether.”
“ You were soon well, then ?’*
“ Yes, Clements Tonic braced me up liko
a powerful stimulant, and my complaint)
Never Came Back
again either. From the time Clements
Tonic cured me I have not had an hour’s
illness.”
“ We shall publish what you say ?”
“ You can, I have only told you facts, and
you have my full consent.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T. Mtctjael Cornwell, of George-street, Windsor
jn the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of five folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to five, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way ;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
An Act tor the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
ments of the Government of New South Wales, and to
substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oatiis anc.
Atli davits."
Declared at Windsor, this 28th day of July, 189 S,
Before me.
WiLinAM MOSES, J.?«
CHRONIC
DYSPEPSIA,
PERSISTENT PAIN
And OPPRESSION.
A CUMBROUS
LOAD LIFTED.
The Case of
Mrs. Elizabeth Lambert
(by our special reporter. )
Onr reporter was detailed to visit Mrs.
Elizabeth Lambert and ask her concerning
the complaint from which she was once a
sufferer, and also to ascertain if the report
which had come to hand of her cure was
accurate. Mrs. Lambert besides in Station-
street, Penrith, N.S.W.
“Certainly it is Correct,**
replied Mrs. Lambert, when questioned.
“ I was cured of severe and chronic indi-
gestion in quite a remarkable manner. I
found that I began to get a very uncomfort-
able feeling after eating. To avoid this
distress I paid the most careful attention to
my diet; but the oppression was still to be
felt after each meal. Slowiy my ailment
ripened till I could feel a hard lump at the
bottom of my chest. Time would pass, and
still the lump remained there undigested.
Hours afterwards it would appear to digest,
and then wind would begin to collect, which
distended my body very much in the region
of my heart and lungs.”
“ Was there much pain?’*
“Very great pain, I can assure you. I
never completely got rid of the pain,
although I waited
Hours without Daring to Eat.
Of course, I was obliged to eat something to
keep alive, and although I only ate a little bit
of bread, perhaps no bigger than the end of
my thumb, even that would bring on intense
pain immediately. The wind generated
owing to bad digestion, and would seem to
move about from place to place, and I only
got a little ease from the pain caused by
this flatulence by pressing my hands hard
against my side. A
Sour and Bitter Fluid
often came up into my mouth, causing me
to have a feeling of sickness. Night time
was the worst. 1 could hardly get a minute’s
sleep owing to the
Persistent Pain and Oppression
on the chest, and in the morning I was
so weary, worn and fagged that I could
scarcely get out of bed, and when up I was
too drowsy to get through my housework.
“ Did you take nothing for it ?”
“ Yes; I took several things, but I
couldn’t find anything that gave me ease.
Indigestion troubled me so much, and its
long continuance weakened me very much.
I always
Felt Heavy and Languid,
and dispirited, and tired of everything. I
thought I should never get relief, but at
last I heard of Clements Tonic, and it was
so well recommended that I bought some,
and in less than 'a week’s time I began to
get the benefit. By that time I could eat
without half the pain ami inconvenienco
that a light meal used to inflict, and the
flatulence all went within the first week,
too. When lying in bed at night .(and I
always took a dose of Clements Tonic just
before bedtime) I felt as though a cum-
brous weight had been
Lifted from my Chest.
My sleep was then grateful, and as light aa
a child’s, and when morning came I rose
with a decided appetite, and could get
about all day without being oppressed l>y
that heavy feeling of weariness and lassi-
tude, The last symptom to go was the
feeling like a lump in the chest after eating,
but by taking my Clements Tonic regu-
larly this was finally removed, and I could
claim to be in perfect health.” .
“ May we make use of your testimony ?
“With pleasure. I owe my return to
health to Clements Tonic, and I don t mind
anyone knowing it, and I hope that any
information I may have given may prove of
benefit to other sufferers.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Emzabkth Lambert, of Station-street, Penrith,
e Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
•rely declare that I have earefullyread the annexed
ment, consisting of five folios and consecutively
bered from one to five, and that, it contains and
;rue and faithful account of my illness and cure
Elements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
ion to publish the same in any way, and 1
e this solemn declaration conscientiously oelier-
the same to be true, and by virtue of Uie
isions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
i Act for the more effectual abolition of Dal ns
Affirmations taken and made in (he various
irtnicnts of the Government of New South ''ales,
to substitute Declarations in lieu theieof, and
lie suppression of voluntary and extra judicia*
>s and Affidavits.”
ani
Declared at Penrith this ninth day of August
ont thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight
fceior* rus,
' W, tfUUTON, J.P.
The Ways of Many Waters.
By E. J. BBABY.
A collection of Ballade and of Sailor-men's and Wharf-men’s Lite. s*. post free.


THE OWL
CUT RATE
Consulting and
K
i
o
DRUG GO
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, .£1; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Db. CLAEKSON’S
EEINVIGOEATOE.
A Concentrated, VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT : a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonic for the NERV ES
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
READ THESE FACTS.—Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REINVIGORATOU is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
viiror.
WATER ON THE BRATN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON’S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLACY.—PeopIe run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR.
£loo.— 'Ve still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea.
Strengthens the "Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Electric Belts. No more COLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFICALLY MADE.—This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanic current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent maimer.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH ANT) LIVER.-—The remedy most re-
quired to afford speedy and effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Electro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BELTS.—Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Postpone old age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Pr. HUGHES’S FITSEPIL6P.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPTLEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the aere.
fin successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PYRAMID PILE CURE.
This is the latest speciflo for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The i
10 or OUT WA ltD PTLES readily yield to this improved mode of
boxes for 10s. Postage Cd. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
The most chronic and obstinate character of
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and, Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADYICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE.
On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathnrst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORP€R RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
Broken China.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“How beautiful your hair is, Chalice ! ”
He had often said it before, but whenever he
saw his wife’s rich brown hair hanging down, his
artistic soul demanded the bestowal of praise
upon it.
“ I do believe that is the tenth time this week
you have said that,” she replied, laughing up at
him. “ Yes, I have lovely hair, but you should
have seen my mother’s. Hers almost swept the
ground."
He walked nearer to her.
“ What a lonely life you have had, my dear !
Your father killed, your mother dead, and your
brother how old did you say your brother was
when he was drowned, Chalice?”
She bent to tie her shoe. He didn’t see her
face whiten. “He was just twenty,” she said
faintly, from her stooping position.
“And you have been alone, except for two old
servants, ever since—till now ? ”
“ Yes,” came more faintly.
She made an effort.
“Yes, I was very lonely. But I don’t think of
those days now. They have gone. All my best
days are "before me. O, Ted,” with the fervour of
truth in her voice, “I thank God every night for
my happiness- for having met you. I love you
so. I would die for you ! ”
She put her arms round his neck. “I don’t
believe any woman ever loved a man as I do you.”
He laughed and kissed her.
“It was well, too, for me that I stumbled
across your home, Chalice.”
She dropped her arms and spoke hurriedly.
“Ted, when shall we go and see the Gap? You
promised me a week ago, and the wet weather
may set in any time.”
“ We can go to-day if you like.”
“To-day? This morning?” He nodded. “Oh,
that will be splendid.”
She clapped her hands, and her face flushed
with pleasure at the thought of the happy day
before her. She was all eagerness to start.
“I will run and put on my dress now. And
you won’t be long with the horses, will you? I
will ride Lightning to-day.”
A horse galloped up the path. Chalice couldn’t
sec, but she knew who it was. It was Tom
O’Connor from Tawonga station with the mails.
Her husband went to meet him ; she heard a few
murmuring words, and, as was the usual custom,
heard Tom dismount and walk into the dining-
room with Ted. She knew she needn’t hurry in
dressing now, for Tom was such a talker. She
played lovingly with her wedding-ring. Three
months married ! How the time had passed ! It
seemed only yesterday that—God ! she musn’fc
commence to think, else —she began humming to
drown her thoughts. How beautiful the wattle
looked ! There was a branch bending down to
the verandah laden with blossoms. The yellow
would look pretty against her dress.
She finished dressing, and stepped out and
picked a bunch.
A slight, stifled B cream escaped her as she
looked towards the horse. This wasn’t Tom’s
sturdy little chestnut this great, black,
sweating horse ! It turned its head. She stag-
Sered against the wall. What a fool she was ?
lore men than one had a black horse with a
white mark on its forehead. It must be a station-
hand’s. She would go and pat it. She went up
closer. Her hand extended, but swiftly drew
back again. Her eyes dilated with fright and
fear. The stitches / The stitches in the saddle-
cloth that she had sewn in six months ago stared
her in the face !
Blindly groping her way to her window, she
wondered, dully, what they were saying in the
dining-room. She must hear. She must know.
She would go along the verandah. No, they would
see her, they would hear her—she would go
through the bath-room, and steal quietly along
till she came to the door.
As she crept along the hall, a deep, mellow
voice was speaking. She clenched her teeth.
Edward Murray stood with his back to the
speaker, and played with his watch-chain.
“ Chalice isn't even her name. She adopted it
as a tribute to her own beauty. She would have
liked every man to have drunk of her. Many
men have. Even I; and even ’’—with a savage
glance at the obstinately-turned back—“ you.”
The woman crouched outside like a beaten cur.
“She drove her old mother to the grave. She
has played with men as with flowers, tossing them
aside when tired of their fragrance. She would
have been another man’s mistress, if I had not come
along—so she chose me. The house you took her
from three months ago was my house. And if
you had looked you would have found a little
grave— ”
The door-handle made a rasping noise—the man
gasped ; it turned, and before he could rise from
his chair the slash of a riding-whip had come
across his face.
Furious and blinded with pain, he sprang
forward, but recoiled as he saw Chalice.
All her anguish and terror seemed to have
frozen into her frame. Her arm was held high
up, the whip grasped in her tense fingers.
The man turned his eyes away from her white
face.
There was a few minutes’ silence.
She felt she was going mad. She should not
have come in so soon. She should have waited
till her husband had spoken, then 0 God I
why didn’t he speak? Why didn’t he move?
Even shuffle his feet—anything ! Anything was
better than his standing like an awful, silent Fate
behind her!
She caught the click of his chain, as he threw
it up and down.
He sauntered up to her.
“ A fine attitude, madam, a fine attitude —that
of outraged virtue —or furious vice, eh ? It has a
fine effect.”
Her body relaxed; the whip dropped to the
floor.
He put his hand on her shoulder and half-
whispered into her ear.
“So your lonely life had its compensations,
my little wife? The chirping of the cricket, the
trilling of the creek, the rustle of the gum-leaves,
the scent of eucalyptus—all these things you used
to so poetically tell me about, have not, then,
always satisfied your delicate womanly instincts ?”
He paused.
“ You do not speak. Why don’t you call this
man a liar? Perhaps,” taking her hands and
patting them, “ you are shy ! ”
She looked up at him, all her dumb agony in
her eyes.
“As shy, perhaps, as the day I knocked at
your door, down by the creek, and you opened it,
and I looked at you; your head drooped with
shyness—my little innocent one ! ”
She shivered as he passed his hand caressingly
over her hair.
“As shy, perhaps, as the day you lent me your
—er— father’s horse—a black one,” smiling over
her head to the man opposite him, “ with er a
white mark on its forehead. And —do you re-
member?—we rode, and rode, and rode, and all
else was forgotten. And your hair came tum-
bling .”
“Edward! Edward!”
“Over your shoulders, and I—kissed—you.
And your sweet, maidenly blushes ! —ha —ha —
ha !”
She broke into sobs.
“Ah, we had merry limes down in that little
home. Every day brought forth a new pleasure.
Every day was colored with our joy—our happi-
ness.”
Jack Morton’s eyes glared at him.
“ How timidly your little hands used to seek
mine ! How your eyes used to sparkle as I ap-
proached ! ”
“ Don’t, don’t! That time is sacred to me.”
“How lovingly your arms twined round my
neck ! How soft your whispers 1 ”
“ Have pity .”
“ Ah, Chalice, forgive me ! I have done wrong.
This life I have brought you to is too rough—too
coarse a setting for such a jewel. You must obey
the cravings of your spotless purity, return to the
creek that calls you, to the home that waits for
you—to your own virtuous loneliness.”
llis hand slid down to hers.
Jack Morton anticipated him. He rushed for-
ward, snatched Chalice’s hand, wrenched the ling
off, and threw it with all his force into the other’s
face.
There was a moment of terrified silence. Mad
fury possessed both men. They looked at each
other, the white, quivering face of Murray con-
trasting strangely with the dark, distorted coun-
tenance of Morton.
A startled sob came between them. Ted
recovered himself. He flicked some dust off his
coat. How foolish, and what a waste of energy
to lose his temper over these two wretches !
He spoke, in a smart, business-like way. “I
thank you, my man. You have performed that
little duty more forcibly than ever I would have
done. You had both better go now. The
woman’s belongings will bo sent on to the
station.”
He went towards the door. She ran after him,
hardly understanding.
“ Ted, Ted !—what do you mean ? You are not
leaving me?” Her voice grew shrill with fear.
“You will not go from me? No, no, you will
have pity ; you —Ted ! don’t go, don’t go ! ” She
caught iiis sleeve, in a vain effort to stop him.
He pushed her back. “ Oh, have mercy ! I love
you so. I—Oh, God ! don’t leave me.” Her sobs
choked her. “Let me stay with you. I will not
speak to you, nor touch you; only let me see you
sometimes. Edward,” pleadingly, “I will be
your servant.”
“ I always insist on my servants being clean / ”
She gave a little moan. “Yes, -yes; but you
are lifting me. You have shown me Heaven.
No, no, don’t go !—you have shown Trie ” He
found it a difficulty to pass through the door with
her clinging to him. “ God ! For the sake— ”
His foot advanced and tripped hers. “For the
sake—— Ted ! don’t leave me 1”
She fell down.
“ You brute!” roared Jack Morton to the
closed door.
He ran to pick her up; but she was shrieking
and beating her hands against the door, and
callingon her husband.- Hedropped his head in his
hands. He had. never seen grief like this before ;
and something like rernor.se and repentance for
what he had done was coining to him.
After a little while her cries grew fainter; her
breath came in exhausted gasps.
He raised her up.
“ Chalice, my poor Chalice ! ” he said, brokenly,
“don’t cry, dear. You must come and live with
me again. It shall be as if this man had never
lived. Hush! And —God forgive me !—I will pub
a ring on your finger this time. My ring will bo
more sacred, more binding, in my sorrow, than his
was, in his weak ignorance. Come, Chalice, come
back with me.”
“ Yes, yes, I will come. I don’t care, now,” she
said, wildly. “Nothing matters now. Every-
thing is over. Only take me away ; a long way
from here. ”
Jack swore, under his breath, at the hollow
misery in her eyes.
He drew her on to the verandah and swung her
into the saddle. He sprang up behind her. The
horse’s head was turned, and they galloped down
the path.
They had not gone very far when she cried out
to stop the horse.
“Stop, stop !—pull up !—” dragging fiercely at
the reins. “ Jack, pull up ! I must see him again.
I can’t go away yet. Loose your hands ! He may
have called me, and I not have heard him. Ho
may’’—with a wild hope—“have relented. Let
me go—let me go !”
She dropped to the ground, and ran back, the
thought of his Calling her uppermost in her mind.
“ Come back, Chalice, come back ! ”
“ No, no ; I must see him.”
“ Well, there he is—curse the fellow ! —look !”
“ W here— where ? ”
“ There, by that window ” —pointing with his
whip.
She looked, and dropped her head.
Ted was standing, delicately waving his hand
to them.
Site was very quiet as Jack lifted her up again,
and her head was hid in his sleeve as they gal-
loped away.
HOITA
The nonagenarian Robert Russell, Melb.’s
original surveyor, set up the pioneer Victorian
cricket-club about 1840. It is pointed out that
the only alterations made in Russell’s original
plan ,of Melb. city were interpolations of small
streets, Lit. Collins, Lit. Bourke, etc., “ to enable
citizens to get their cows into their back yards.”
“ Warning to travellers ” which meets the
eye in Westralian post-offices as one moves north-
ward :
The Government having recently been askefl to assist
destitute travellers at some of the Telegraph Stations in
the northern portion of the Colony, notice is hereby given
that persons making long journeys must do so at iheir
own risks, and must not expect relief at the various Tele-
graph Stations en route
Besides, they don’t like the casual traveller to go
too far north. He isn’t needed there, for one
thing—the bruised and whacked aboriginal slave
does what work there is to do. And he is apt to
tell things when he gets back.


To the administrators of the antiquated,
unscientific, British prison system, the report of
the warden of the biggest U.S. penitentiary must
read like a strange fiction. The object of his up-
to-date regime is to send every prisoner forth a
better man than when he came in, by encouraging
him in any study he may wish to take up.
Lectures and classes covering a wide range of
subjects form a regular part of the regimen, and a
prison newspaper is run (called the “ Star OF
Hope”), “to amuse and elevate” the prisoners.
Fancy the British system doing anything to
“ amuse and elevate,” instead of brutalising and
degrading 1
In the Australian Brewers’ Journal for
July :
With every tick of the clock £6 15s. worth of beer
vanishes down the world’s throat; every minute £4lO
worth disappears ; every hour the world pays £24,851 for
its beer ; and every day it swallows the yearly income of
3000 middle-class families in nearly 1600,000 worth of the
“ brown beverage.” Stupendous as these figures are,
especially when we consider that the world’s beer-bill for
a year amounts to £216,000,000 sterling, the figures which
represent the quantity consumed are almost incredible.
The beer which is consumed throughout the world in a
single year would make a lake six feet deep, three and
three-quarter miles long, and one mile wide, of 2319 acres
in area. In this vast lake of beer (asserts the writer) we
could easily drown all the English-speaking people, to the
number of 120,000.000, throughout the entire world; or
we could give a beer-bath to every man, woman, and
child at the same time in the entire continent of America;
while all the people of England, Scotland, Ireland, and
France could find standing-room on its bed.
New Fashions for Gentlemen are invented
daily. Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street, Sydney, are in
touch with the inventors, consequently keep “ up to
date.” Wr cater for all classics. If you are passing
along Pitt-street., have a walk around our Men’s Depart-
ment. No one is pressed to buy. Sporting Men’s
Supplies in Clothing and Mercery are except ionally well
assorted and Reasonable. We solicit your comparisons,
gentlemen. Hordern Brothers, Federal Clothiers, Ac.,
Ac., 203, 205, 207, SO9, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney. (N.B.—
Please write or call in for our Fashion
Book.)*
Women whose Backs Aehe
k
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Thousands of Women suffer miseries with Aching Backs that
really should not ache, -
A woman’ back ought to be strong and
healthy—ready to help her bear the burdens
of life. It will if the kidneys are right.
But if the kidneys are diseased the back
must ache.
Backache is simply their cry for help.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help to re-
lieve the kidneys and heal them.
They are helping sick, over-worked women
(and men) every day in these colonies, making
them strong and healthy and vigorous.
And the evidence of this is always near at
hand—evidence from our neighbors and friends,
here at home—not evidence from Queensland
or South Australia. Is not that honest and
straightforward ? For instance, Mrs. N. Mul-
lins, of No. 49 Hunter-st., this city, says :
“ For about three years I suffered from kidney derangement. The worst
symptom was a constant backache, which became more painful when I
had to stoop down. I tried many remedies for this complaint, but the
effect was anything but beneficial. Doan's Backache Kidney Pills,
which I obtained at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street, have perma-
nently cured me. I say cured, as it is now almost a year ago since I
took the pills, and I have had no return of my old complaint.- I have
recommended Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to many people, some of
whom I know have tried them, and, like myself, derived great benefit
from them.”
THE KIDNEYS.
WHAT THEY ARE FOR.
The duty of the Kidneys is to take the poisonous
waste from the blood. Every drop of blood passes through,
the body several times a day. When healthy, the kidneys
remove about 500 grains of impure matter daily. When
unhealthy, some share of this is left to poison the blood/
The whole train of kidney diseases results from poison-
laden blood. Kidney complaints result from the over-
work of the kidneys. Kidney diseases show themselves
by backache, unusual desire to urinate, greasy froth in
water, red and white brick-dust in water, fluttering and
pains in the heart, tired feeling, abundance of pale or
scanty flow of dark-colored urine, waxy skin, puffed eye-
lids, dizziness, dropsical swellings, and soreness about the
small of back and over the kidneys.
The symptoms given above are the earlier ones. Most
kidney diseases will run into Bright’s disease if neglected.
All kidney diseases are dangerous, and call for immediate
caie. The earlier the warning is heeded, the most certain
the cure. There comes a time," if kidney disease is
neglected, when the tissues of the kidneys become dis-
eased.. That condition is beyond human remedy. It is
not within the province of medicine to replace the diseased
tissue. All that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills can do is
to relieve the kidneys before that condition comes, and set
them working right again.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may be had of Chemists and Storekeepers generally throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes
be posted on receipt of price by any of our branches, as follows Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (Main Office) ; 292 Flinders s reet, Melbourne
street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street, Perth, VY.A..; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers ; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fairthorne & Son.
for 15s. 3d., or will
; 54 King William-
What of the Breaker?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rivers that run in a ripple of glee
Kissing the pebbles and lapping the lea,
Rivers whose voice is the innocent, wild,
Musical laugh of a beautiful child ;
What can ye know of the infinite surge,
Blended of paean and battle and dirge?
What of the Sea and her Dead on the scar ?
What of the Breaker and what of the Bar ?
Vessels that lie “in a dream at the pier,”
Peaceful as boats on a mountainous mere ;
Vessels that drift on a tempestless tide,
Stately and fair in a vision of pride,
What can ye know of the Deep and its tale?
What of the greed of the infinite gale?
What of the Night that hath never a star ?
What of the Breaker and what of the Bar?
Souls that are calm in the ways of the Wise,
Robed in the flesh of a passionless guise,
How can ye stand in the place of the Strong,
Sifting the sheep and the goats in the throng?
Sweetly the blood of your vitals has ruu
Down through the ages from father to son ;
What can ye know of the passions that mar,
What of the Breaker and what of the Bar?
How shall ye judge of the bosoms that ride
Out on the heave of a death-dealing tide?
Ye who are lulled in the lap of the dale
How shall ye judge if they falter and fail?
How shall ye judge when the pitiful wave
Begs in the morn at the beach for a grave—
Grave for her Dead who come in on the spar—
Sport of the Breaker and Spoil of the Bar !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
The railway line to thirsty Winfcon was
finished, the other day, and it was beautiful to
read the pars, and articles in N.Q. papers on the
blessings that inevitably flow towards the bakblox
in the wake of the locomotive. The first cargo
landed in the little town was 21 hogsheads of beer !
The Revised Version of the New Testa-
ment has had to be “protected.” The R.V., it
seems, is the property of the Universities of Ox-
ford and Cambridge, and no attempt to secure
salvation without their consent can be permitted.
At all events, a misguided parson who published,
for the use of his Bible-class, some extracts in
catechismal form was promptly “injuncted” on
the ground that many learned men had been em-
ployed on the work for 10 years, at a cost of
<£20,000. Unto which the irreverent reverend re-
torted that the original work done wasn’t worth £5,
and that the same number of schoolboys could
have done it as well —an assertion which will sur-
prise nobody who has read Moon’s “The Re-
visors’ English ” (Sydney Public Library). The
Judge, however, ordered all existing copies of the
parson’s catechism to be destroyed The Dollar
God rules even the other deity 1
Hoyle’s Till.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bob Clayton was the only one waiting for the
train on the little platform that Easter Saturday
evening, and as it slowed-up in answer to the
signal, he ran his eye along the line of carriages,
looking for another signal. A white hand fluttered
from a second-class window almost in front of
him. Portmanteau in hand, he entered that
carriage, and the Western mail was again puff-
puffing Sydneywards.
“ Oh, Bob, I’m so glad ! I was afraid you
weren’t coming. ”
“Only got your note an hour ago, Ida, and
hadn’t the least intention of going down this
Easter till I knew you’d be on board.”
It wasn’t cold ; yet they snuggled up together
—the girl’s rug covering the knees of both.
Bob was teacher of the Half-Times at Stockyard
Flat and Gumtop. Ida Gray, the little governess
from Mclntyre’s, further up the line, was going to
spend the vacation with friends at Albury;
and Bob —well, Bob was going wherever Miss
Gray went.
“Red fern ! Red fern ! Cab, sir, cab?”
“Hold on, porter; when does the next train
leave for Albury ? “
“ None till nine o’clock to-night.”
“Oh, Bob, what shall I do? I don’t know a
soul in Sydney ! ”
“Do ! Why, come to the Central Coffee Palace
and sleep while you’re waiting. You can’t wait
here all day. Yes, porter, cab.”
“ No,” said the Central’s night-porter in answer
to Bob’s enquiry about rooms. “ Full-up—
smoking room full of ‘shake-downs.’ Don’t
know any place that isn’t full; except, perhaps,
Hoyle’s in King-street.”
Barely daylight; cab dismissed ; no chance of
another at that hour. Bob with a portmanteau in
each hand, and Ida with the hat-box, walked to
Hoyle’s, where, after much knocking (there was
no bell), a night-dressed servant-girl opened the
door.
“ Full-up here, too, I suppose ? ” from Bob.
“ Oh, no ; this way, please ; ” and she showed
them upstairs into a balcony-bedroom, and exit
hurriedly.
“She must mean this for both of us,” said Ida,
laughing, with a side-glance at the double bed.
Bob put the boxes down.
• * * «
Twelve hours’ railway-travelling does give one
an appetite for sleep. It seemed to Bob that he
had only just dozed off when a tapping at the door
awoke him. It was the girl who had admitted
them—wanting the loan of his key—couldn’t open
her room-door.
“What time do you have lunch here?” asked
Bob, passing the key round the edge of the door.
“ Lunch ? Why, it’s three o’clock ; an’ the
boss an’ missus an’ everyone’s gone to Manly.
There’s only me in the house.”
“I’ll pop down to Ellis’s, Ida; and if we can
get lunch there I’ll come back for you,” said
Bob. And a few minutes later, passing the bar
on his way out, he saw through the open door the
white, scared face of the girl behind the counter.
“What’ll you drink?” she asked, confusedly.
“ I’ll shout; but don’t let on. Tlie boss doesn’t
know I can got in here.”
“Wonder was she going through the till! ’*
thought Bob, as lie drank his whisky.
Finding that lunch could be bad at any hour at
Ellis’s, he was strolling slowly back, enjoying a
smoke, when, on the dummy of a passing cable-
tram, he saw the good Samaritan who had
“ shouted,” carrying what looked like a shallow
box enveloped in a cloak.
“ Holy Garrard ! —Hoyle’s till ! ” He hurried
now, and his knock was at once answered by Ida.
“ I’ve been at the window looking out for you,
Bob ; and do you know what ? That girl has
gone out ; I saw her take the tram at the corner.
But where are you going ? Can’t we get lunch?’
“ Yes, but come and sit down. This is begin-
ning to look serious. Tve an idea that girl has
made off with Hoyle’s till. If so, we’re in a fix.
Anyhow, if we both go out, we can’t get back—no
one to let us in. You go and have lunch ; I’ll let
you in. Look, there’s our key in the bar-door 1
Now, if the money’s gone (and I’m perfectly sure it
is), we’ll be suspected just as soon as they find
the same key fits both doors.”
“ Oh, Bob, let us go, and not come back at all
—take the tram, and go anywhere 1 ”
“ Won’t do, Ida. We'd be tracked; and
running away would only be taken as evidence of
guilt. Better be here when Hoyle returns.”
“But, my God ! if we have to give evidence,
and it’s published! We can’t give our right
names?”
“ We must—to clear ourselves. Besides, there
are the portmanteaux, with our names on them,
a,nd I have letters on me that I can't destroy. No,
little one, where’s your woman’s wit now? Think
of a way out. Sit down and think hard. It’s not
4 o’clock yet. Hoyles are not likely to bo back .
before 6. Two hours to think in.”
“ Bob, I can think of nothing but the disgrace
of it all. Oh, I wish I were dead ! ”
“ Ho slow, sweetheart! It can’t be so bad as
that.”
“It’s worse than that, Bob. I’d rather die
than face it.”
“Sheer bad luck!” mumbled Bob, savagely
chewing a mouthful of moustache. “ I suppose
this is the only pub. in all Sydney left in charge
of a thieving slavey to-day, and we must strike it.
This’ll about cost me my billet; but I wouldn’t
mind that if you were well out of it. Let’s think.”
Hand-in-hand they stared through the balcony
window, praying for a sight of the slavey, or even
Hoyle himself ; but nothing more cheering than a
passing policeman was to be seen.
“Perhaps she’s come back without us having
seen her,” said Ida, hopefully.
“Couldn’t get in,” croaked Bob. “There
might be a back entrance. Let’s see if we can
find anyone.”
Hand-in-hand still, they rapped at every door
in the house, and returned to the window, too
miserable to remember that they were still fasting.
Four o’clock. Half - past. The girl cried.
The man thought. “ We must give evidence,” he
said at last. “ We’re in no danger of being
arrested. The girl’s absence will condemn her.
But, occupying this room ! Now, if the newspaper
report could be made to read— ‘ Mr. and Mrs.
Clayton deposed,’ etc., why, we’d be all right.”
“ Then, Bob, make it read like that.”
“How? Tip all the pressmen?. A big order.”
Bob nearly smiled as he thought of his lean
cheque.
“ No, Bob, dear ; let us get married !”
“Married 1 How? Now? Before Hoyle comes
back? Let me think some more.”
But this time the girl acted. Tearing the address
from her portmanteau, putting on her hat any-
how, rushing Bob downstairs and out into the
street, took less than half a minute.
“Which way?” asked Bob helplessly.
She left him for a second, dived across the
street, and returning with an evening paper,
planted her finger on an advt. which ended,
“ Witnesses supplied free.”
* * * *
Mr. and Mrs. Clayton had tea at Ellis’s at 6.30,
and returned to Hoyle’s, quite anxious to give
evidence. Seeing a light inside, they knocked,
and were admitted —by the servant.
“ When ever did you come back? ” asked Mrs.
C., wide-eyed with wonder.
“ I ’aven’t been hout. I’ve been lying’ down on
me bed all the evenin’. I just ’ad one whisky,
an’ it set me to sleep ; an’ I’ve got a beastly ’ead-
aehe. . Me sister was cornin’ to spend the evenin’
with me, but I s’pose she come while yous was
out, an’ couldn’t make me ’ear.”
“ Would she have a box with her?”
“ Yes, a blue cardboard one. Did sheleaveit?”
• * * *
“It’ll teach you a lesson, Master Bob,” said
Mrs. C. ‘Conscience doth make cowards,’ etc.
What’s the moral ? ”
“The moral,” answered Bob, “is, ‘ Don’t rush
into matrimony because a servant-girl gets a
beastly’eadache.’”
BENDEE.


“Given up for Dead.
Restored to Perfect Health”
Only three bottles cure severe lameness from
rheumatism, flesh is regained, eyesight improved,
and natural health returns.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
n
VM
1
\Y.\Y YN, .
•5
m
m
w
\
I
i
V\N
“I have been a great sufferer from rheumatism and liver complaint, and
was very lame.
“My brother, who was very ill, was given up for dead by the doctors. But
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla put new life in him, and he and my father, hearing I was so
ill, recommended this medicine to me. 'Before I had taken three bottles I felt
improved. My lameness began to leave me and I began to feel like a new
woman. I also regained much flesh which I had lost. Strange though it may
seem, my eyesight, which had become weak, gradually became stronger, until it
was perfectly natural.”
This testimony from Mrs. Mary Bright (whose portrait is here given), of Cor-
nish Town, Cobar, New South Wales, must strongly impress all who read it.
It tells of the wonderful power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to drive disease out of
the system.
How could a testimonial tell more? How could a remedy do more? Put
your confidence in Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because other medicines have failed should not discourage you.' One great
medicine is left for you—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It acts directly on the blood,
takes out all impurities.
AYER'S SarsfeMa
It IVlakes the Blood Pure, Rich, and Red.
Ayer’s Pills are Gentle Laxatives, Produce Natural Action.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing-
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK EQK
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale, of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corYmaiiT.
CHER 6,000,000 BOXES SOLD yEfIM
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE as A B C.
Bcccnrm’s Pills
Have been Tried for Over 50 Years.
There is a reason for everything, and the reason for
the popularity of Beecham’s Pills is, that they fill all the
requirements of a general antidote in a more satisfactory
manner than any proprietary medicine ever placed before
the public. 44 You may lead a horse to the water , but you
cannot make it drink .” Beecham’s Pills are brought before
your notice, and, whether you require them or not —if not
to-day, you may to-morrow —when the necessity arises,
you should, in your own interest, take them. The reason
for their need is often best known to yourself, but be that
as it may, you will show good reason by taking them in
reasonable doses, and doing so is as simple as A B 0.
NICHOLSON $ CO.
Are the LARGEST IMPORTERS of PIANOS,
ORGANS, and MUSIC in Australia.
GERMAN PIANOS by the most celebrated makers
ENGLISH PIANOS b JL the best makers
AMERICAN PIANOS at surprisingly low prices
AMERICAN ORGANS £ great variety
ALL THE NEWEST AND MOST POPULAR MUSIC.
CATALOGUES FREE
ON APPLICATION.
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
%
P£RFUUE
m
m
m
Sen-Sen &
|FAuRINGt>ON AVENUE\
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
i SMGEBS & SPEAKERS
cK e
ve
the marvellous cure eor
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
INFLUENZA.


COX ON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY .
Campbell’s Gem. MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, Ss9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 2ls 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4 6
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W\ F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY,
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
The IDost Powerful Driving gelt in the QJorldT
extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES :
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
W.
Wfiolesale Depots:
Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St
BIRMINGHAM S 3 Albert St
NEWCASTLE-ON- TYNE 8 Neville St.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
HUPUTEIIT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable inoreaee
the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
oouth African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agentss
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide; *
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
BENNIE, TEABE & CO.
IMPORTERS OP EVERY DESCRIPTION OF
Milling & Engineering Material, Furnishings,
AND REPRESENTING IN AUSTRALIA
TA NO YES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
Pumping Plants a Speciality.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers of* oun^r y Trade; the Factory System
, of Butter-making’ (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Befrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)—92 KING ST]
ARCADE- for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
and 23 ROY.
may be made at either
r AL
» of
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD
THEY WILL RECEIVE
OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
PROMPT ATTENTION.
11. PATESON, Managss.
OTTUMWA WINDING ENGINE.
Catalogues Free on Application
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS
OF ALL KINDS OF
ININS MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
and
BOILERS.
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGIKTEBRS’ FITTINGS,
MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
fcfc
Tbe RtALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisk?.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Elarrison «Ss A.ttwood.. Sole Proprietors
JJ
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co„
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth'
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OP THE STOGIE : —l4 D. B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist !>ar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
i'B, reduced ■£2 17s Od each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut, stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 1 10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading-Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £6 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can he supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at Os 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must b#
made payable to YVEADON, THOMAS & CO.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fail Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 cross), Nipple’s, 2 9gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross),.Rim Washers. (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perrv’a
8 3 gross. *3r SEND FOR TRADE 11,LUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply '25
percent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, 4 8, £9, £lO. £l2. guaranteed 12 months.
Be » TRADE SUPPLIED—-GUARANTEED 25 PEIt CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER 110 l
.P.A. IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Engine Co.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pomps
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
