

McEWAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY,
LAMB’S RUM.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
MALT.
R. G. WATKIWS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
__. . —FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
aliSsS
m
wm
M
is
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
JJJOTICE TO MELBOUS.XE VISITORS.
POLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. L'tCLfTSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m ntt SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co. T.<a
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
gccEKri'FMC T7ja:^A.sia:iixr g- maohiktbs, s.a.'w Btßixrcxxss, &c.,
&c.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT
Kilminster's Clarendon Hotel,
The favorite seaside resort, Overlooking’ the Pacific Ocean at
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last __
Twenty (20) Years. manly beach.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
L
2
fir*
HOBART.
leg s Orient Rotel.
SECOND-HAND
W AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
*" (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. EL3DBIDGE Sc GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, S STDNEST
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
O ountry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
a/jt
CO
9
860,1X3 Bottles Sold in One Mouth—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELT IMG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the Syitem.
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO LEAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
» THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
COX ON & CO.'S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4-6,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
AXSIHiW. .MVaHO
SOLE AGENTS]-
J
I*lummer Love & Co.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Yol 20.—N0. 1021. J
[Saturday, September 9, 1899.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* This has led a bewildered Athenceum critic to say
that he could be “ trivial.”
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is 6d each.
For
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
m
Wm
iHt-WoVf
lip
\QJ£
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Or from the PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland,
for Postage Stamps of any Province.
SYDNEY AGENT: S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
t@r They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA. "E&
UNDER THE
GUMTREE
T\ EARLY - BELOVED
1 1 BRETHREN,—The
1 / text upon which lam to
preach to you this morn-
ing will be found in the Second
Book of Samuel, the sixth chap-
ter, portions of the 20th and 21st
verses—
And Michal . . . said, How
glorious was the king to day, who
uncovered himself to day in the
eyes of the handmaids of his ser-
vants, as one of the vain fellows
shamelessly uncovered himself! And David said
unto Michal, It was before the Lord, which chose
me before thy father, and before all his house, to
' appoint me ruler . . . therefore will I Plat
BEFORE THE LORD,
You may be aware, dear brethren, that many
have declared that it is inconsonant with
the profession and dignity of a minister of the
gospel to interchange the sacred gown of his office
with the costume of a footballer. I therefore
propose to show you that the game of football
makes for righteousness no less than any other
pursuit in which it is lawful for men to engage,
and that it is many times warranted and defended
in the Sacred Writ.
I will divide my discourse under six heads
and a conclusion, to wit-
Firstly, op Football Generally.
Football is a bodily exercise, and though bodily
exercise profiteth little, godliness profiteth much
(I. Tim. iv., 8). Yet surely we can rightly com-
bine little and much, endeavouring to keep the
unity of the Spirit (Eph. iv., 3). Indeed, the vir-
tue of combination cannot be praised too highly ;
and it is woe to him who is alone when he falleth
(Eccl. iv., 10) and loseth (Matt, x., 39). Wherefore
it is nothing inconsistent with a minister’s
caUing to lead to you a team of footballers,
seeing that we are told if thou bring for-
wardfs) on their journey after a godly
sort, thou shalt do well (111. John, 6). And
in divers places we are assured that the sport of
football, when righteously conducted, is accounted
no evil. For when Abner said to Joab, Let the
young men now arise and play before us, Joab
said, Let them arise (11. Sam. ii., 14), and Joab
was a lieutenant of David, who was a man after
God’s own heart. And the attempt of some to
say that football is kin with the worship of Baal,
who was a false god, has no warranty. So it is
a pattern worthy of imitation, forgetting those
things which are behind,, and reaching forth Unto
those things which are before, to press toward the
mark for the prize (Philip, iii., 13, 14).
Secondly, op Running and Kicking.
We are exhorted to - “so run that ye may ob-
tain ” (I. Cor. ix, 24) the goal; to be sober, be
vigilant, because your adversary is the devil, and
as a roaring lion walketh about (I. Pet. v, 8); for
the race is not necessarily ,to the swift or the battle
to the strong ; but time and chance happeneth to
them all (Eccles. ix, 11); wherefore let him that
thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall (I. Cor.
x, 12). As for me, I will walk in mine
integrity, and- when my foot standeth in
an even place, in the congregations will I bless
the L*ord (Ps. xxvi., 12). And remembering that
Abram only armed his trained servants (Gen.
xiv,, 14) let us avoid the pernicious example of
Jeshurun, who waxed fat and kicked (Deut. xxxii.,
15), for I doubt not that falling headlong he
burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels
gushed out (Acts i., 18). But when you kick, re-
member that it is said I will make the place of
my feet glorious (Is. lx., 13), and when David
prepared a place (I. Chron. xv., 1) we
are sure that it was fulfilled as it was
spoken by the prophet, saying, Behold, I
will raise them—to wit, goals—out of the place
(Joel iii. 7). It is a redeeming feature in an evil
character that Judas knew the place (John xviii.
2), and possibly his comrades said of him as we of
brother Adamson, “Thy foot for the place”
(Josh. v. 15).
Thirdly, of Passing.
Here I may truly declare to my adversaries that
yourselves know how ye ought to follow us, for we
behaved not ourselves disorderly among you (I.
Thess. iii., 7). But I-justly say it is woe to those
who cry Pass, Pass, when there is no pass, and,
being our enemies, shout, Pass to us (Luke, xvi.,
26), saying to one another Mehe, mene, tekel
upharsin (Dan., v., 2*5), which in the vulgar
tongue may be rendered, Men, men, tackle
your parson, and whispering “As the Lord
live'th, I will run after him and take
somewhat of him ” (11. Kings, v., 20), For it is
impious for an opponent to act like those of whom
it is said, Now the young men did diligently
observe whether any thing would come from him,
and did hastily catch’it, and they said thy brother
Ben-hadad (I. Kings, xx., 32) seeing that I have
been deceived and passed the ball, and my brother
Ben' had not that, nor any of my side. For God
requireth that which is passed (Eccl. iii., 15) and
who is on the Lord’s side let him come to me
(Exod, xxxii., 26). Apd for this cause we do not
cease to praY for you (Col. i., 9).
Fourthly, op the‘Scrum and Other Matters.
It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks
(Acts ix. s),‘for 1 give thee charge in the sight of
God, who quiokeneth'all .-things (I Tim. vi. 13).
And to those of'mine I say “Vos estis scrutam
terrre ’’ —which, being .interpreted, means “You
are the scr-um of the earth.’” f Hast thou marked
the"'old way ? '(Job xxii. '15); mark the perfect
man '(ll. Sam. ii. 14). When thou passes* ....
I will be with thee ’ (Is. xliii. 2); foot for
foot (Deut. xix. 21); but there was no
place for the beast that was under me
to pass (Neh. ii., 14). And I poured out
my complaint (Ps. cxlii., 2), saying “ He breaketh
me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me
like a giant.” Yet let enemies know of me, while
they reel .to and fro and stagger like a drunken man,
and are at their witY end (Ps. cvii., 27), that
‘He will surely violently turn and toss thee like
A ball into a iarge country ”,(Exod. xxxiii., 19).
For to their power I bear record, yea and beyond
their power they were willing (11. Cor. viii., 3).
They parted my raiment among them (John, xix.,
24), they came upon me as a wide breaking in of
waters . . . my skin is black upon me (Job, xxx.,
14, 31); lam escaped by the skin of my teeth
(Job, xix., 20). Wherefore I pray, Make the
heart of this people heavy . . . and shut their
eyes . . . lest they convert (Is., vi., 10). For I
am the flower of the field (Cant., ii., 1) ; and the
pi-iest’s lips should keep knowledge, and they
should seek the. law at his mouth (Mai. ii., 7).
Fifthly, of Costume.
We are told that “ they shall have linen bonnets
upon their heads, and shall have linen breeches
upon their loins; they shall not gird themselves
with anything that causeth sweat ” (Ezek. xliv.
18). Let it not be said that “thy tacklings are
loosed ” (Is. xxxiii. 23); and hold fast that which
thou hast (Rev. iii. 11).
Sixthly, of Barrackers.
These are persons I would gladly condemn, were
it not that we read an implied approval of their
habit in the holy writings, for when Barak pur-
sued Sisera (Judges iv. 22) Sisera was discomfited,
and the loss of him was an occasion of rejoicing.
In Conclusion.
In conclusion, dearly beloved brethren, I say
unto you whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or
whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God
(I Cor. x, 31). Be not forgetful to entertain
strangers : for thereby some have entertained
angels unawares (Heb. xiii, 2). Though Ibe rude
in speech, yet not in knowledge; but have been
thoroughly made manifest among you in all
things (II Cor. xi, 6). Wherefore, my beloved, as
ye have always obeyed, not in my presence only,
but now much more in my absence, work out your
own salvation in fear and trembling (Philip, ii, 12).
Amen.
The Pious Footballer.
A Sermon •not by the' Rev. M.
Mullineux, captain of the
English football team visit-
ing Australia, not delivered
at St. James’s Church,
Sydney, on Sunday, August
, 13, 1399.
Mookfellow’s Competitions.
YI—WANTED—A TEXT.
, “ All the circumstances. philosophically con-
sidered, ” the text from which the Rev. M. Mulli-
neux should have preached is that which heads
the sermon in another column. To the sender,
Mr. J. M. Davis, 269 George-st., Sydney, 10s. 6d.
has been forwarded. List of competitors held oyer.
♦
VII.—WANTED—A TRIOLET.
Closes Sept. 9. Results in issue of Sept. 23.
Vin.—WANTED—A SPRING POEM.
Closes Sept. 19. Results in issue of Sept. 30.
Conditions : Poem to consist of 24 lines or less ;
any metre and arrangement of verses. Prize,
-£1 Is; payment at space rates for all verses used.
The subject is Spring in Australia or Australasia
or any aspect of it; there must be a distinct local
reference or colouring. The prize will be awarded
to the verses.judged to contain on the whole the
most stimulating and satisfying poetic utterance.
Eloreat wattle ! and The Bookfellow expects that
every poet will do sis duty.
Newer French Poetry.
VI.-STEPHANE MALLARME (1842-1898).
outer life of Rimbaud and Verlaine is
| picturesque and adventurous :of Stephane
JL Mallarme there is nothing to record be-
yond his devotion to poetry, an absolute
devotion undisturbed even by the human
and excusable desire for contemporary fame, a
heroic devotion that even imperilled his posthu-
mous glory. To his lot fell the heavy duty of
thinking out afresh the whole poetic problem, of
envisaging the poet’s task in its rarest form, of re-
fining the poet’s medium till it should be adequate
to that task. His was the exceptional destiny to
conceive the perfect work, to labour at it for more
than 20 years in the intervals of ungrateful drud-
gery, and to die, exhausted by the tension of those
years, when freedom at last had come. Thus the
work of his life, unfinished, yet even so surely
more precious to humanity than any iEneid, was
burnt, as he had the r courage to order : and he has
left us but a few fragments in verse, a few disser-
tations in pro?e, -the conquered borders at least of
a new domain.
Mallarme himself would have been the first to
remind us that each human destiny must be
judged strictly by what it has achieved. There is
a unity in his. It is good that we should have
poetry, and it is therefore good that the poet
should live by a compromise between his ideal and
his practical limitations. But it. is also right and
good that a poet should occasionally anse who
stakes himself on accomplishing, or at least bring-
ing nearer, the impossible. Mallarme did not
achieve what was probably not possible to him or
tp any other man. But there is a curious accord
between his theory that style is more valuable for
what it suggests than for what it states and the
fact that his ideal work remains a hint. Hinted
at least it is, and that in every line of his writings,
an ineluctable presence, brought definitely nearer
to human vision, and nothing that he has left can
be understood witho'ut reference to it.
The poems, for instance, are, up to a certain
date, a prelude to this work, after that date, when
his labour on it had begun, footnotes to it.
In the eleven poems contributed to the Parnasse
of 1866 we find him already meditating on the
destinies of that human instinct whereof it is the
poet’s glory to be the living symbol; we find the
Parnassian form lending impersonal breath to an
intense lyric aspiration towards the anterior and
paradisal beauty, to an exasperated sense of
the sufferings imposed by the world on the
captured spirit. Eor these were the days
when Mallarme had not yet found his place
in a life that was in truth a grinding between the
upper and nether millstone, between the “ cruel
Ideal ” and stepmother Circumstance; the days
when Manet painted him, as Rodenbach describes
the picture, with his tragic face “livid as with
the lightnings of an inner tempest.” The crisis of
this struggle is marked by the Herodiadc of the
second Parnasss, a variant of the Narcissus myth,
a mysterious expression o*f the solitary anguish of
the soul that has retired from life to dwell in the
house of its contemplation, too often a crypt chill
with despair of
That /,/ lory for whose sake of old she fled
Adorable youth of roses glowing red
Under the native blue.
The beginnings of serenity are, seen in the piece
herewith translated, the Funeral Toast to ThAophile
Gautier. The poet has now reached the secret of
the spirit’s destiny: to give the earth a sense,
creating of it an Eden; then to vanish in the
universal Idea, of which it is a fiction. This
Platonist strain has come into English with
Adonais. Mallarme continues it in the famous
A fternoon of a Faun, rejected by the Parnasse in
1875,‘ itself the first note of the new universal poem
that now’arose before him.
The leading idea of all Mallarm4’a poetry,
written or unwritten, the ground-idea of all poetry,
was humorously expressed by him in conversation,
thus: “You can’t get along without Eden.”
Eden must be realised in art, apart from life ;
a possession not for one, since the individual
here is marred and broken, but for all :
a promised land into which only the type
may enter. Poetry realises for us this type, this
Eden-life, by its fusion of natural and spiritual
fact, by the union of all the divers faculties of
man, intellectual, passional, and sensual, in the
one imaginative act. For the imaginative act is
not, as vulgarly held, the irresponsible creation of
unrealities : imagination is a faeulty that perceives,
outside of the dusty life of outer weariness, the
adequacy of our spirit to those only perfect things,
the things of beauty; that unites all hints thereof
into a perfect life, the only real one because alone
worth being real. For Mallarme the guide
to this free and adequately beautiful life was
an unparalleled insight into the very stuff of
poetry, the analogies that obtain between things
outside their dreary mechanism. He saw in the
movement of an eddy, the dance of waterflies, the
sweep of a planet, and the movements of thought,
one rhythmical idea; ‘ a soul, ’he said, ‘is the inner
aspect of a form.’ The universe is one vast rhythm
and language exists to give it a soul. The perfect
work would be the notation of just that rhythmic
quality, that ‘ musicality ’ of all things, the hier-
archic manifestation of all analogies. But this
implies a revision of poetic form.
The early poems, that drew from Gautier the
remark ‘somewhat wilful extravagance,’ are
marked already by an extraordinary fusion of
music and developing logic. The verse is
dense with richness; every syllable is in its
right place as regards significance and as
regards sonority; and none goes by without
yielding its due tribute (it is noted of Mallarme
that, in his talk, he seemed to dwell on every
syllable). The later poetry, from H6rodiade
onward, holds in every word a complexity of
super-posed signification, in every line a com-
plexity of concerted melodies. Mallarme had
begun to obey the law that for the poet no thought
exists except as an image, an inseparable unity of
significance and material beauty; and that the
image should be directly expressed, without intro-
duction of unnecessary matter, Of course, if you
adopt a scientific procedure, you can, of two har-
monious elements, take each separately, state the
fact that there is a harmony between them, and
lay bare the process by which they are harmon-
ized. A great many—l will not say how many
—poets put all this into their poetry, the
passages that have really passed through the
crucible of imagination being borne up on a dense
stratum of explanatory affidavit. This certainly
conciliates the reader who wants to run. Mal-
larme conceived that verse should present only
the completed work of the imagination. How he
acted up to this belief the accompanying transla-
tion, if it is what it was meant to be, will show.
There is no separate enunciation of the idea, no
separate description of the object, and then sud-
den fusion of the two. The logic of the poem is
that of the image : the handling is similar to that
of music, the art most closely akin to poetry. Sets
of images are chosen, containing their own signi-
ficance, and harmonious among themselves, like
the chords of music : instead of description, suc-
cessive aspects of the image are presented. As
the chords of a musical piece progress in relation
to a certain melody, so are these image-complexes
led by the emotion, which determines the sonority
of the words: as the music chords wax and wane
in complexity so the images : counterpoint being
paralleled by the manner in which an analogy will
summon up distant and kindred analogies, by the
manner in which the significations lie within each
other, progressively more general.
The result of all this, we are told, is obscurity.
Who is it that tells us so ? The Parisian jour-
nalist, promoted critic, pontificating in the name
of “ national clarity.”
’Tis a fable which we should be wary in accept-
ing. Itecent events have shown that the French
mind in general enjoys no special prerogative of
clearness in the formation and association of
ideas : it can confound an ideal abstraction with
certain individuals not to be named here and
attribute to these the respect supposed to be due
to that. Examination of its literature shows that
“clarity ” is just a convention enabling the reader
to run ; the demand of an easily fatigued mind
that dislikes being stirred anywhere but on its
rhetorical surface, that hates being shown any
other than the immediate, professional, official
aspect of the world. “Social” in its essence,
French literature, as Brunetiere confesses, has
been obliged to forego the higher lyrism. The
Frenchman loves a formula and his “clarity” is
generally just neat expression of the obvious and
inessential. Mallarme refused the inessential. —
Parallel with this, one may observe how his poetry,
synthetic and concentrated, has been charged
with “distance from life,” “cryptic chill,” etc.,
by those who, accustomed to verse which prepares
its poetic moments not merely by gratuitous ex-
planation but also by exciting a generous wealth
of extra-poetic emotion, moral or sensual, simply
cannot assimilate the unadulterate ecstasy of
song.—Yet the poet, working a rarer life out
of what we choose to call “ life, ” cannot remain
on our fatigued level of intelligence or sensitivity.
Transposition is the prime necessity of his art.
All that his people have a right to demand of him
is that he respect their language; not that he
adopt their diurnal or journalistic defilement of it.
He will, on the one hand, reach backward to its
historic genius, on the other forward, to new and
natural developments.
Now a large part of Mallarme’s effort was
directed to a reform of French syntax. Hitherto,
he remarked, the language had been at its best cn
ner/lu/d, in memoirs or correspondence. New deep-
going methods of imagination demanded new
methods of expression, deep-going change. If you
reject all but the refined analogy, not merely must
the word reveal underlying harmonious senses,
not merely must the rhythm be a complex
of melody, the movement of the sense must also
be determined by the image, and your syntactical
forms jtmist be sought in the repertory of nature.
Thus in the Afternoon of a Faun the design of the
sense, suddenly flashing here, there veiled, is the
very play of the afternoon light amid the forest
that, in all its leaves, sings with the faun. Again,
he who tracks beauty to its lair finds mystery, and
he who will sing essential beauty must sing mys-
teriously. Of course the analytic-scientific method
is open to him if he choose ; he can, like Hugo
himself, tack on an occasional 0 mystere! Mal-
larme, who, since Hugo covered the whole poetic
field in a horizontal fashion, was compelled, like
Baudelaire, to drive his shafts deep, preferred to
make mystery an aura exhaled from the verse.
People are apt to confound this with obscurity.
But the word has nothing to do with Mallarme, a
spirit of exceptional lucidity, an artist heroically
bent on absolute unity between his poetic thought
and his poetic form.
The poetry of Mallarme, extremely quintes-
sentialized, always presents the sublime ex-
quisitely: it was possible for him to- write most
imaginative verse on a fan.* In this respect, as
in many others, he was the man of his poetry.
Those who knew'him bear witness to the complex
impression he produced, that at once of the “ com-
plete man, ” the intelligence vaster than his work,
and the friend of subtle, more than feminine,
charm. Yet, for all his potent attraction, he
seemed always “to remain with himself alone for
witness ”: his conversation, from which so many
learned so much, seemed to be but the continua-
tion of a monologue which he never ceased to
carry on with himself. Physically even, he im-
pressed one as being beyond his really small
stature. His eyes were strange, filled with golden
points of light, so that more than one personality
seemed to gaze at you. And he bore a strange re-
semblance to his own faun: just as he was,
above all, a sylvan poet, “like Pan listening to
the murmurs of the forest.” Year after year his
one delight was to escape to his beloved Valvins,
where the Seine spreads broad as a lake in the
forest-amphitheatre of Fontainebleau ; and, now
that he is gone, one is glad to think that he lies
there, like Merlin,
Wrapped round with deep soft spells in dim Brace-
liande.
C.B.
FUNERAL TOAST
from the Gautier Memorial Volume
1873.
O emblem of our hap, whom fate design'd /
Think not that towards some magic hope divined
In the dim corridor distraught I hold
Wreath’d with a monster’s suffering in gold
My empty cup, libation of white fear l
Nor deem me answer’d if thy shade appear.
Whom in a place of porphyry I hears’d
And crush’d the torch-flame piously revers’d
Where the dense gates with iron clangour daunt.
We know, whom this our festival, to chaunt
Simply the poet’s absence, chose, not fond,
That all of thee lies there pavilion’d:
Save that the dome of art, thy tended trust
Unto the base and common hour of dust,
Now thro ’ this pane the west is proud to imblaze
Is mingled with the passing godhead’s rays.
Magnificent, in lone totality,
Exhaled as thine, their pride were plain a lie,
Yon haggard crowd’s ! by its own din betray’d
Dim wretchedness that death will thin to shade.
But, the toalls’ blankness thro’ their draping clear,
I scorn’d the lucid horror of a tear
Did one of these that pass unvocal, proud
Of blind immurement in a wandering shroud,
Unanguish’d by my sacred verse, assume
The hero-maid that fronts his after doom.
Hark, in the gathering mirk vindictive, pour'd
On eager ivind of words that he ignored
The void to him that teas a man of old
Boars like some fear o’ the dark ; “ Tell, if thou
hold :
Remembrance of horizons, what is Earth ? ”
Then rings from hall to hall of space its mirth
Echoing the dwindling cry : “I cannot tell 1”
But he, our Master, with clear gaze could quell
Along his path the troubled Eden-lures
Whose swooning thrill in his sole voice conjures,
Mysterious named, the Lily and the Rose.
Shall nought of him be left that haunts our shows ?
All ye, forget that rude and dark belief.
No ghost of genius lingers, begging grief.
I, heedful of your pious care, would see
Surviving him, that y ester a tranquilly
Evanish'd in that sacerdotal tire
The gardens of our tarrying-place inspire,
A sacramental stir upon the air
Of words, rant parole and great chalice bare
Which the pellucid gaze dispers’d in shower
Of diamond yet on each unfading flower
High-isolates amid the dying ray !
For there, in sooth, all our true boskets stay
And each true-poet, humble, with wide-hung arm
Forbids them when the rash dream threatens harm:
That on the morning of his great repose
When ancient death bids him like Gautier close
Eternally the sacred eyes nor sing
Some vista's term may tributary bring
The sepulchre seal’d fast on mortal blight,
Tenacious silence built, and massive night.
STEPHANE MALLARME.
Trad. de C.B.


KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
By using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/6 and 21/- per Bottle ; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wkea6e6.
s9leid Wkeotiery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CUBE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AETER YEARS
OE SUEEERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Oastlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it..—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says :
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.0.5., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM N€NRYMALYOM,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7s. e«3L_ Eaoli.
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney •
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
Cures Without Medicine.
A RE you Nervous, Weak,
xx Despondent, 111? Have
you tried drugging- the
stomach until almost ready
|to give up in despair? If so,
why not try Electricity?
Hundreds have been perma-
nently cured by this wonder-
ful remedy as applied by the
great American Invention—
_ “Dr. Pierce’s Galvanic
Chain Belt. Scores of grateful letters like the fol-
lowing are constantly being received :—-
From Africa,: “Somerset East, Cape Colony, South
Africa, Aug. 15,1898. I am much pleased to say that Dr.
Pierce s Galvanic Chain Belt acted like a charm with me.
I am now cured and strong.—Yours truly, T. E. Wise.”
From England : “ I am extremely pleased to be enabled
to say that your Belt has had a wonderful effect in curing
me of varicocele.—Thos. Bannister, 13 Richmond Roacf,
Montpelier, Bristol.” From Australia : “ I am now a
new man, after taking tons of medicine which did me no
good. I was hardly able to walk before I got your Belt.—-
D. Cameron, 1 Stewart Place, Paddington, Sydney N S
Wales.” From America : “Co. H, 18th Infantry, U.S.
Army, Camp Merritt, San Francisco, June 9, 1898. Last
October, while in garrison at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas,
I sent for one of your famous Dr. Pierce’s Electric Belts
for Rheumatism, &c., and after wearing it only about two
months my complaints entirely disappeared, and I have
not been troubled with any pain or discomfort since.—
Yours gratefully, John P. Anderson.”
MA)
Call at Sydney Agency, or send 2d. in stamps for
our New “ Booklet No. 2.” It gives price-list (in English
and American money) and full information. Address—
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market-St., San Francisco, U.S.A., or Washington
H. Soul & Co., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.w!
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €ri)brocatioo-
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED,
Offices : - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney*
Stores -Centkal Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE-3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Icstraliai UJidouis’ find pfe Insurance Society pd.
Established 1871.
rPHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting' all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.]
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
s>'
r£
an
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers—in. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
ASK FOR
D.C
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
THE BRAND
OF MERIT.
ASK FOR
O.C-U^'N
THE PUREST SPIRIT HADE
D.C.L. ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST!ALWAYS THE -SAME
m
oPPOjJXf
fWM
Intending Travellers by Sea or Lane
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 Georg-e-street, SYDNEY
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
ASP The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for ou
Goods areLONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE.
BRUSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 33 30
£6 6a £6 15s £7 7s
BRUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 18 20 22 24
Lined jean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
~ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH’S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
leather.
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 55s
DRUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT CASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size 20in. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d each. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
BRUSH’S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., 1 fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER GOAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, ;the other collap-
sible, a splendid bag' for hard usage and rough
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Brices from
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH’S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value a
55s up. Cash with order, or allow .5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to b
added to country cheques for exchange,
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.
MANUFACTURERS an
IMPORTERS . . ,
403-405 George-street, SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 81-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. O olf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Beady-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 '-, trimmings included.
vSSSfi
(‘F-ritiz
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis>
ld ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs.
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Egvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
Our Specialities are- Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basket ware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3A) eacK
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lone, f/G. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBING!
worlted up, peroz.
\Ve ore the clieapeStin An*>
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.wig Z *ll.
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price
Prompt attention given to Country Ordtn,
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. aobnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BITS., Ltd,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. M AUNG'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
.Completely overcome Deafnfsr
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ear', as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A, I*l. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY;
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE }
H ICH-dRADE FA R M I IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.
(alep’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from. £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Rud. Brelimer
PI AN S
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on *• very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents-
W. H. 6LEN & CO.,
359 Georgfe Street, Sydney.
2*72 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne -


TATTERSALL’S
Address! Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Metropolitau S. September 12.
25,000 Subscribers at S.
Address
£ t *
Demonstration H. October 2.
00,000 Subaorllbera at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
dB It
CAULFIELD C. October 21.
Please allot me shares in the
Address
£ * i
MELBOURNE C. November 7. .
100,000 Subscribers at 5b
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ • s
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above
Address
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Metropolitan S. ... 25,000 at 5
Caulfield C. ... ... 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C. ... ... 100,000 at 5
TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me Shares
the Sped aL
Name ,
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
)
Address “ Tatter sail,” care G-eo. Adams, Hobart.


Anthony
Hordern’s
FOR EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get . .
the BEST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in . . > ■ •
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
THY US! AND TASTE OUR
SEND FOR —.
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney.
SVoU.VJ.IW/
Jo 3^VMsg]
fold) Sv/50<0
Ja «xW
WIJO V
ptvv^g
V «I. > #
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
r
\
\\
V \
Sand saw mills. circular saw mills.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
6 DOW RIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL..
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.. %
[haupenhy
iwwwy
GO TO KCFIT.T.-
17 IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCI ETY is prepared to LEND in any amounts,
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES ; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of lona fides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3T Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
n
U
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINB
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO QYf;
-
■
■
§B5
mm
I
'mS,
mmm
wm
■
mm
m
1
m
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
OS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says :
44 1 have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only st pped
the falling out,
whit h had been
exccss-ive after a
severe illness,but
Ihavean entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 am not a
young woman;
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC. \Y"^S
koko maricopas coy., 16,.
BEVIS MARHSi LONDON, ENGLAND.]
Cures While
A
You 51eep
Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup, Catarrh, Colds.
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Har
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
CHB
Plum
Pm
3F*JLU.IM.’
a \ ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated PI inn Razor a
\ trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, ' e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this r'azor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
__ . t Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
Price Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* - in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any -part o the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNUY
Sole
Agents
w .S.W. Carriage & Saddlery filanf.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pav 1,3 a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ot
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Brice List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, 17 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S iRULER Y of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station)-
OUU SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
XS.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ella: “Do you know, I thought last
night that there was a man in the house.” Stella:
44 Cheer up, dear ; we all have our disappoint-
ments.”—Town Topics.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman ; is also a
buyer of all other Australian seems.*
Moule, M.L.A., objects to Woman Suffrage
for Vic. on the ground that it will expose his
‘ wife, sister and daughter ” to the danger of being
canvassed by male politicians. Moule lodged his
protest quite solemnly. When the House guf-
fawed, the humorless legal gentleman said, “ It is
very easy to laugh, but it will be a very serious
thing to have male canvassers asking women for
their votes, and specifying certain classes of legis-
lation for which a particular candidate would
vote.” What, in the name of Social Purity, is the
alarmed Moule thinking about ?
Francesco.
A low sweet light of sunset on his face,
Francesco lay upon his dying bed,
Beauty in dust, last of his ancient race,
And, as he neared the dead,
Before his eyes,
So faded now, he saw the past arise.
O fleeting past! Within his antique cell
And fragrant cloister, full of sacred thought,
Dream gave to dream from dawn till evening bell,
By tranquil beauty wrought
And old repose
Made fine by scent of violet and rose.
No Gothic blossoming on beam or door,
But all is simple, white, save for a stain
From saintly robe of long-forgotten lore,
Painted with loving pain
On sweet old glass
With graver hues of wind-swept sky and grass.
And, as he gazed, faint undertones were near
Of yellow afternoon, when time delays
How tenderly ! and solitude is dear,
And on the old dream-ways
In subtle fairy dew
The heart fares forth to find Romance come true.
He wandered through the corridors again,
And, sighing, passed from sunlight into gloom
Of old monastic church, where, pale with pain,
Retiring to the tomb,
The brethren stood
Beneath their canopies of rich dim wood.
Ah, what a pang of sadness took the heart
As colour died to penitential grey
On foliaged roof and choir, save where, apart,
The tapers’ golden day
Made misty light
On bronze and marble tombs of priest and knight.
And when with delicate preluding strain
That shivered in the soul, the soul of youth,
The violins began their yearning pain
And sang of ancient ruth ;
How sad, how deep,
The Latin words that seemed to sob and weep 1
But, oh ! the music of that heavenly dawn,
Blue as the Virgin’s robe, when straying far
Beyond his cell, he saw on fair green lawn
A girl—and found his star !
Star sweet and white,
And his true self with love leapt into sight.
They drew a-near with all the sense of tears
Unshed that goes with first wild love, and cries
Out on the fate that gives a few dark years,
Short joys, and many sighs,
To flesh—alas !
Infinity allied with fading grass !
His day of choice came round ; he chose the world
And left the cloister ; in the lofty hall
His household gathered with his flag unfurled,
In armour, stately, tall;
But, sad and grey,
The time-worn monks went on their ancient way.
Rich clad in white and gold, with sword at belt,
He went a-roaming through the climbing town,
With all the joy of life first seen, first felt,
No longer pensive, brown,
The lights were gold,
His blood was singing, ardent, gay, and bold.
The Springtime odors streaming down the street
Grew keener in the sunset’s dusky fire—
He heard a cry and rush of hurrying feet,
And with his trusty squire
Dashed in the fray,
And saved his love, but lost his life in May.
Ah, to be dying with so vast a love
CJntold, unspent—the key of life just found—
« Ah, Death,” he cried, “ give me but time above
The green and sunlit ground
To tell her part
Of all the love that swells within my heart ! ”
■So young, so pure, so beautiful were they,
The watchers wept as on his lips she prest
Her kiss, the first and last, and knelt to pray
For his eternal rest
With anguished breath
To Him behind the shadowy veil of death.
Tas.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE.


Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions ot
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNE Y MA BKET :
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
-t=T MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LUX
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. 0. YOUNG & CO.
83T- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
rpurions
THE FINEST TONIC
PER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“Jf fca* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WOULD OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPYNE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c.j bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWHC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
The Bulletin has received from the
i S£ th <> r » Mr - Curle > " The Gold Mines of the
j World, ' containing a large fund of valuable infer-
: ma,tion re the auriferous deposits of the Transvaal,
India, Westralia, Queensland, Maoriland, British
Columbia, and Rhodesia. “ The Gold Mines of the
British Empire ” would have been a more suitable
name. To anyone in quest of an up-to-date know-
ledge of gold-mining in the countries named, the
book, largely illustrated and neatly got up, should
be invaluable.
This is the most wonderful whisky that ever
.°,V i fc J le skeleton from the feasts or painted landscapes
in the brain of man. It is the mingled souls of wheat and
corn. In it you will find the sunshine and shadow that
chased each other over billowy fields, the breath of June
the carol of the lark, the dews of night, the wealth of
summer and autumn's rich delight, all golden with im-
prisoned light. Drink it, and you hear the voices of men
and maidens singing the “ Harvest Home," mingled with
the laughter of children. Drink it, and you feel within
your blood the startled dawns, the dreamy, tawny dusks
ni^ an wn® rf fu2 ays ' For man y years this liquid joy has
been within the happy staves of oak, longing to touch the
t®”' • A n , d this gem of Scotch whisky is the well-
s' 0 ;™ F l“P, ld Dew distilled by E. Thorne and Sons Ltd.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers, and called by the heaven-sent
name of A 1 Liqueur.*
Von Kotze ” : Read “ Scotty’s ” opinion
on modern Army training, and did not find it
easy to fish the true inwardness out of the
characteristically-weird rigmarole. If I under-
stand him aright, he discourses in a very mediaeval
strain indeed. Apart from the little guerilla
border wars in which England habitually indulges
and where “ Scotty ” apparently got his “ colonial
experience,” the very life and breath and spine of
the modern army is this same uniformity which
gentleman from the backblocks derides.
Modern armaments have annihilated the indi-
viduality of the soldier. The best proof of the
.French army’s efficiency is the fact that they can
shift Private X from the 112th infantry garrisoned
m Algiers into the 13th regt. somewhere in Nor-
mandy with less trouble and fuss than it takes to
start the English Derby. War has become a
mechanical science, and the only independent
genius who can affect the issue is the chief of the
commissariat. All of which recalls the yarn about
a Russian officer, who in his exam, had to write a
paper on how to exchange two regiments stationed
in Moscow and Samarkand respectively. “ Cut
off the numbered epaulets and swap ’em by parcel-
post,” the youthful genius answered. And he
wasn’t far wrong, either.
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations..*
Some weeks ago the Office Crank spread
himself on the subject of “Liquid Air,” and
another exceedingly cock-sure crank replies, and
the Office Crank replies again. “ D.H.S.” howls
first:—
Bulletin, 22/7/’99, has a par. re “Liquid Air,” and . . .
has repeated Mr. O. E. Tripler’s statements, which are
both misleading and incorrect. Misleading because,
while capable of doing many of the deeds claimed for it,
liquid air cannot do away with the steam-engine and
boilers, or even lessen them, as they would have to be
used to liquefy it; and incorrect because it would be
cheaper to use the engine direct than the liquefied air.
Mr. T. has also publicly stated that he can make three
volumes of liquid air produce 10 vols. of ditto, and we
will presently hear that he can raise himself off the
ground by tightening his braces. Let it alone, “ B." ;
the subject, as treated by the non-technical press, is full
of difficulties, and only whets the appetite of ignorant
novelty-mongers, who like to see the sparks and smell
the smells of science, and air their dulnesS before the
initiated. Take a day off and consult the engineering
Prof, at the University, who has been making L.A. for
the last month, and you may, but probably will not, give
us a decent par. on the subject.
The Office Crank howls second :
The fact that steam-driven machinery has to be used in
its production does not in any way destroy the value of
liquid air as a power-generator. In Sydney N.S.W. Govt,
is erecting enormous boilers and a great mass of
machinery to produce electricity with which to drive the
city tram. Isn’t it beastly absurd-considering that,
according to “D.H.S.’ “it would be cheaper to use the
engine direct.” Also, there are hundreds of people in
Sydney using gas-engines to drive their machinery. Coal
and fire, and water, and a lot of machinery are used to
make the gas, and according to the argument of the
“initiated” “D.H.S.” all these people are drivelling
idiots because they do not use steam direct instead of
going to the increased cost of buying gas from people
who have had to use steam machinery to produce it.
Tripler’s statement that with 3gals. liquid air he can pro-
duce 10 gals, more is not on a par. with the affirmation
of the engineer who said he could lift himself by tighten-
ing his braces. Tripler says that with 3 gals, liquid air
he can keep his machinery going till it has condensed 10
gals, more from the atmosphere; which is no more
absurd than if “ D.H.S.” declared that with 3d. worth of
coal he could keep a machine going till it earned enough
to buy lod. worth of coal. He doesn’t get his lOd. from
his 3d. The rest about “Let it alone, 8.,” and “the
ignorant novelty-mongers ” is merely frill.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet soap was obtained by
ft!
n:
FiIPWIOI
fKfiBgAIS
.8; F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES "• Best ovh * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
O’
o
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYOKTEY.
SMELTERS.
• • • •
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
mmm
‘
SdMtaaJwa
.
.-* : :
MAKERS OF
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BUllTnw
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food f ° r
Infants
9
Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Souses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


LAND SELECTION under New Act (Vic-
toria). The undersigned, 25 years Gipps-
land, is prepared to show areas of Ist and 2nd
class country in various portions of Gippsland,
convenient to railway, and abundantly watered
rich onion and potato soils, and prune open grass
lands. Terms on application, enclosing stamps
for reply, to JAMES MCDONALD, agent,
showing Crown Lands, Laongatha, South Gipps-
land, Victoria.
A Beautiful Fabric,
THE
‘[ouis*
VELVETEEN.
NOTE WELL !—Each yard of
Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L O UTS
and in no other way) and is
stamped with a guarantee of
wear.
5
ANCHOVY PASTE.
In Tins about 2 02s.
Manufacturers I
JOHN MOIE SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
John Hunter $ Son’s (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
l Cramps,
V Colic,
\ Colds,
V'&aA
\ Tooth- \
i \ ache,'
Cuts,
l Burns,
V Bruises
\
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"PofmKiUev
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR.
( CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catar rhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?* Catarrh COrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE*.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OPP THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearn e.—-
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. i’nat was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
ofi the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
' TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficac3’ of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I user! your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
©
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; hut I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. I). SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.’’
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
plelely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
«
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Biugegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—o. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ©
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, hut yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few .years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchir-is Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony.
PROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 86
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, OHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Gbklono Advertise*. ’’
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HEARSE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
kemp’s Patent Sbwp-Brai)dii)g LiqCiid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heatj Not Injure the Wool: to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade & Go-,
MELBOURNE.
amnts-E. RICH &00. LTD-
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
;la.ol£, Red, and Blue. 3a 6d Per Sail, ixx Melb and Sydney; 3a 8d per gall. In Brlabane.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
~ CABLE ADDRESS: 222 CANNON ST. HOUSE^^sMHA
Donned,” London. London, e.c.
Established as a connecting' link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FRA.MIC JARVIS
(who has had 20 years* experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
ana who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bliah-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria-JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia —C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
Where to stay in Sydney ?
. . 9s
AT
Imran*
HOTELS
PITT STREET.
TERMS MODERATE.
W. J. Adams, Manager,
Jr'ain.leaa Dentistry.
THE .. ..
[ondon Qental
Institute.
DR. 8. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. T). ASHER, Dentists.
Modem Dentistry in all its {tranches
Deyitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Ilollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN——
EDWARD STREET, , BlTSDaiie.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from «/- per Day. D. Swiss-Davibs, Prop.
Tel'" hoi e 784. (Member Com. Trav. Club.)
STieK TO >1
\ eame© \
\ eiGHRETTES
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
JefG>
mm
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FOSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALUSTITC.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
*>y
MOISTURE.
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLI^ii. TjG won over .£6OO at Gun Club, Notting Hill, in November
and December, 1898 ; or more than all other powders combined- —Vide Field, 14th Jan., *99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: “Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time , heat , or damp
AGENTS: IV.S. W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Jlessrs. Brabant & Co.
<C° V
NN
N?
s§*
4*
$
V*
*£*
&
• *
* *
iW
GET THE BEST
S'
❖
&
s'*
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
EXCLUSIVE PROVIDERS. OF SQUATTERS SUPPLIES.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
Fair Girls
Cray Dorses.”
OVE R
On€ Million Lbs. Tobacco
450
TONS
Is the OUTPUT of
PIXSON & SONS’ Sydney
Factory for year ending 30th June,
being 90| tons more than any other
manufacturer ....
DIXSON’S Great Leading Brand is
Yankee Doodle
Yankee 3300c116, dark, is mild smoking and the richest
flavor.
Yankee Doodle, bright or gold leaf plug and cut is increasing
by gieat strides with those who formerly smoked only the
well-known American and English brands.
(Dixson s leaf purchases in America this season reached £25,000).
CHAEffiDlOlNr—the choicest gold leaf plug or cut.
CONQUEHOig, the working man’s great favorite for
smoking or chewing; rich and good, always the same.
BONANZA CIGARS —a marvel of cheapness—retailed
4 for 6d, yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco,
Sumatra covered, made with the latest machinery.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1021.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1899.
Pbicb 6d.
fif I "
/ 7
f.fffwtj) a hooe.nl''
Waterspout
ris.es- "
—Ni&tct s poetical
b/ui'kj
preaching the other evening at a. special service
at St. Thomas’ Church of England, North Syd-
ney, the Rev. W. I. Carrrpnjith said that aurhiß
the recent period of wet weather the chiirches bmh
been pretty nearly empty) • Under ordinary cir-j
cumetances, he waa sorry to observe, the bulk of
Congregations consisted of ladies, the men being
for .'the most part conspicuous by their absence.
Eut when the rain fell ladles did not care to risk
theit wood dresses and hats, and as they would
not be' seen at church in anything else, they
stayed away. He was afraid, indeed, that many
attended only in order to show their nicest appa-.
. tef. ’That, in hlB opinion, was the esplanation
of the sparsdness of the cbngrcgatlOßs'dnring' the
last few Veeks.
THf D-L (sirvcjsJ That's
1 The time ty catch etn, That'S
L tfjg. titae- *
<§& oftfypNsyfiyißpor
Or 7fce proposed ' Prrdife jF/iterftftse "sTr/dge Joerse/n/ted,
'DEARTH IN COUGH LOZENGES.
I) would eeem that many of our citizens hava
been courting death by poison.
Throughout the recent wet winter a popular and
effective remedy for coughs and throat affections
IWas what are known as liquorice, linseed, and
; chlorodyne lozonges. r
At the Control Summons Court yesterday tho
Inspector of the Pharmacy Board proceeded!
against two city confectioners for breaches of the
Solspos Act, the defendants not being licensed to
MW v t>oi*bn. The information stated that these
lozenges contained poison—to wit, <ihloro-
lornL. . Dr. ‘William Hamlet, Government
Analyst . gave evidence that the lozenges con-
tained. jSg&it two-elevenths of a grain of chloro-
'ipumf-of-about three.:minims. The maximum
a«se .of chloroform woiild be five, minims.-' He
considered them to be dangerous, and, in his
opinion, half-a-dozen of them might kill a
child. Mr. Wllshite, 8.M., fined each of tho
defendants £l, with costs. So in future it may
be assumed, that confectioners’ stocks will not
fcaclhde these -tasty articles.
J foP paf
Cou^V.
IoT-C/ys -
[1 little fmktul ce tuckin-Q Copeck,
■Z- hJs-nt fy {Kg, fatty store,
rind bought q. hoy. of- foie-nyit?
"find tiavJ M Cauakic tt-o mote
/V
\hr
\ '0
lint's Con te of ofd DiUr ?
* .Cjane up Kiny-Street. . (/
‘ Wot ! 'fian&rnp’cjj Court?. Poof ft-'ll&V:
" On Vie. Contrary. ntattta'Avis fortune hand oifejr
fjf'-s selUn' Wioletj on Hue fiifpaw!"
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
Th 9 National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... ... 0z " ’
Quarterly... ... ... U b o
NOTICE.
Bu sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal JSote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
weelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea «. F.
AnCHIBALD.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and. acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, .Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Blade and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and mterest, and adapted.for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 I Vonl Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordonand Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. -11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape 'Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia.,
West.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ’ N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/ The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
77m> zDvrfleiz/ji.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1899.
The 41 Municipalities of Sydney.
Ttte scheme for uniting the 41 toy munici-
palities in and around Sydney into one large,
solvent, respectable city has led to a good
deal of tired conversation within the last
few weeks, but nothing has been really done
up to date. The proposal that a conference
should meet to deal with the subject forced
even the tiredest and most local of aldermen
to be more or less aware that the subject
was in existence, but he wasn’t aware in any
very large or violent sense. A few of him
definitely approved, and the rest were
divided into four classes as follows : (1) The
class which required further time to con-
sider the matter—length of time not indi-
cated ; (2) The one which thought that the
scheme was premature and the “time was
not yet ripe ” —when the time would be ripe
not indicated either ; (3) The one which
regarded the idea as a base and horrible con-
spiracy on the part of the big municipality
of Sydney to extinguish the independence of
the small suburban boroughs, and seize their
assets, and make them pay its debts, and a
scheme to bury their bright and brilliant
young butcher-aldermen in obscurity ; aud
(4) the class which started to express its
views on the subject, and got far enough to
state that it had views of some kind, and
then fell asleep in the middle of them, so
that they remain unexpressed to this day.
• • * *
The matter has already progressed far
enough to show that there is little hope and
less enthusiasm and no velocity at all in
conferences of aldermen. The alderman is
troubled, in the first place, about the “in-
dependence of our parish ” which shouldn’t
enter into the question at all. It affects
nobody except the Mayor and the aider-
men, the town-clerk, and a few other muni-
cipal functionaries whose billets may be lost
if Sydney gets a better and cheaper form of
government. As regards the people, if they
can get advantages worth even Jd. each per
annum by sacrificing the “independence”
of their parish they are quite willing that it
should go. There is neither joy nor money
in the knowledge that at a certain corner the
home-going citizen passes from the effete,
corrupt, and morally fetid political atmos-
phere of Sydney into the free and bounding
air of Paddington, and that if the tyrannous
ash-cart of the city oppressor comes one
step beyond that boundary it will be re-
pudiated with scorn as the symbol of an
alien power. The alderman who brings the
“independence of our municipality” into
the discussion is wholly irrelevant and should
be suppressed as a man who is only consider-
ing his own billet.
* * * *
The rest of the reasons advanced by in-
furiated suburban aldermen are, in the main,
even worse. It is claimed, in the first place,
that the idea of making the 41 ragged
municipalities into a Greater Sydney is a
deep conspiracy on the part of the city
to annex the suburbs for some ne-
farious purpose. But the -city of .Syd-
ney has only 97,000 population, while
the suburbs have about 320,000, and the
suburbs would have such a vast prepond-
erance of voting power in Greater Sydney
that it is really a case of them annexing the
city, instead of being annexed to it. On an
equal rating system the city would supply
one-half of the rates, and have perhaps one-
third of the collective voice in the disposal
of the money, and if the suburban alderman
isn’t satisfied with that arrangement it would
be hard to devise any arrangement that
would satisfy him. As regards the plea that
Sydney has managed its own affairs too badly
to be trusted with those of others, it can be
safely alleged that there is very little to
choose among the 41 boroughs. Besides, it
isn’t so much a question of extending the
awful municipal management of Sydney to
the suburbs as of conferring the blessing
and illumination of the suburban alderman
on the city. As for the theory that unifica-
tion would lead to oppressive taxation of the
allegedly solvent suburban districts for the
benefit of the tottering city government,
there is no visible ground for it either.
Among the 41 municipalities in the metro-
politan area one has a rate of 9d. in the £ ;
two are rated at Is. in the £ ; one at Is. Id. ;
10 at Is. 3d. in the £ ; two at Is. 3Jd. ; six-
teen, including Sydney, at Is. 4d. ; four at
Is. sd. ; four at Is. 6d. ; and one at
Is. 7d. The last nine would probably
get their rates reduced in the saving
of interest effected by a general con-
solidation and conversion of debts ; the
great bulk of the boroughs—the one-and-
threepenny and one-and-fourpenny crowd—
would probably remain just about where
they are ; and as for the four low-rated dis-
tricts, which would be the only losers, it is
possible that some special terms might be
devised for their benefit.
• • • *
On paper, the city of Sydney has £2,000,000
worth of assets and £1,400,000 of liabilities,
so, in case of unification, it would have
£600,000 worth of net assets to put in the
pool. The 40 suburban municipalities have,
also on paper, £419,000 worth of assets and
£768,000 of liabilities, so, taking them in a
lump, they have nothing to put in the pool
except a net debt of £349,000. According
to Coghlan’s latest figures in the Statistical
Register of N.S. W., there are only seven
out of the 40 suburban municipalities (Ash-
field, North Botany, Darlington, Hurstville,
Kogarah, Manly and Vaucluse) whose assets
are greater than their liabilities ; all the rest
are more or less insolvent. If all the 41
municipalities combined the saving in in-
terest on the various debts would be so great
under any decent system of finance that it is
probable they would all be gainers, but the
suburbs would be the greatest gainers. And
the embittered suburban alderman who
talks of unification as a scheme whereby the
insolvent city seeks to cast its burden on the
solvent suburban municipalities is mainly a
fool, and a gross misrepresenter of facts,
and an inflated butcher-man or ill-directed
greengrocer to boot.
* * * •
Outside of the low-rated municipalities of
Darlington, Concord, Marsfield and Lane
Cove, which might find their rates increased
a little by unification, the only sound objec-
tion which can be raised to the creation
of a Greater Sydney is that some aider-
men and a few municipal functionaries
will probably lose their billets. There-
fore it is a dead sure thing that unifi-
cation will never have a fair show while
it is left to aldermen. The public wants it
because the consolidation of debts would
make a very large saving in interest and
there would be another very large saving in
mayors, town clerks, and other officials.
Also, because the money thus saved might
serve as the beginning of a fund with which
to start reconstructing and beautifying the
most shapeless, ungainly and ill-planned city
that has grown up in this world within the
last 150 years, aud because unification would
create for the first time a central authority
that could undertake big works for the
good of the New South Wales metropolis
in general. Further, it wants unification in
the hope that it may kill off the whole race of
aldermen. In London, Glasgow, Birming-
ham and other model cities the alderman is
practically extinct and a perfectly new
creation, the municipal statesman, has
arisen in his stead. In Greater Syd-
ney there would also be room for munici-
pal statesmen, whereas the 41 separate
boroughs only offer enough space for
the small and unprofitable alder manic
Bumble. But any person who expects the
alderman to help on the period of his own
extinction, or the small mayor to hasten the
end of his little dignity and his allowance, or
the small council clerk or inspector of
nuisances to put his shoulder to the wheel
for the purpose of making himself super-
fluous in the public interest, is over-san-
guine. If the N.S.W. Government wants to
do some good to the muddled city that lies at
its doors, the shortest way is for it to set to
work and construct an ideal municipal con-
stitution for Greater Sydney, and then submit
it to the people of each municipality for
acceptance or rejection. Or if it feels the
responsibility too great it mightauthorise each
of the 41 munieip'alities to send two popu-
larly-elected delegates to a municipal con-
vention, and let it draw up the ideal consti-
tution. That would at least put some life
into the movement. So long as the breath
of life has to be breathed through the thick,
gross medium of the alderman the movement
is never likely to be more than half-alive at
the best.
Braddon’s Opportunity.
Tasmanian Parliament has just succeeded in
tying itself in a tangle that is most interesting
to look at. The present Electoral Act of the
island expires on Sept. 30, and owing to the
Leg. Council having fired out the Constitution
Amendment Bill —which contained certain pro-
visions without which the new Electoral Bill,
now before the Assembly, is mere waste paper
—there is actually no method by which the
Tas. people can legally elect anybody to either
House after that date. In the ordinary course
of things next February is the earliest possible
date by which the Royal assent can be received
for any Electoral Act that can now be passed
in the Land of Sleep, so at the best Tasmania
will have no electoral system for five months.
The House of Refuse is, of course, directly
to blame for this, but the Braddon Ministry
has also been guilty of flagrant contributory
negligence—or else has done one of the finest
strokes of policy on record. It has a big work-
ing majority, and is allegedly desirous of pass-
ing a decent electoral law, yet it took five solid
months to get the first half of the measure as
far as the Upper Chamber ! Land of Sleep-a-
Lot, indeed ! It could hardly go slower if it
was dead. The Constitution Bill, as thrown
downstairs by the Fossils, contained provisions
for manhood suffrage, women ditto, reduction
of property-vote for Leg. Council, reducing the
number of Ms.P. to meet Federal needs, disso-
lution of the Leg. Council, and the prolongation
of the life of present Parliament till Federation
gets started. It was certainly loaded with
reform-clauses which no self-respecting House
of Sloth and Fat could be expected to swallow
without a grimace, but that it would swallow
none of the pills any Premier should con-
sider an insult too terrible to be over-
looked. It is an open secret that many
Government supporters desire Braddon to
gird on his armour and smite the Leg.
Council hip and thigh, but at time of writing
that weary statesman doesn’t seem inclined to
smite. At the same time, The Bulletin can
conscientiously say that in Braddon’s place it
wouldn’t smite either—not yet that is, till the
Council was tangled up beyond repair.
» * m jp
The Assembly doesn’t legally die until
January 28, 1900, but unless a new Assembly
is elected before the 30th of this month it can’t
be elected under the old law, and no new law
can be passed unless the two Houses come to
some agreement. What will become of the
blessed Constitution under these circumstances
not even Adye Douglas knows, and he is old
enough to know pretty well everything. Of
course one alternative would be to re-enact the
present iniquitous and ridiculously inadequate
Electoral Act, but the necessity for obtaining
the Royal assent to even that abortion
would leave the province without electoral
machinery for some months at the least. The
Bulletin’s advice to Tasmania is “ settle it if
you can ; but fighting is the best,” and if this
paper doesn’t hear the noise of a battle between
Tas. Toryism and the Tas. people in a few
weeks it will either begin to make enquiry
into the cause of Premier Braddon’s inex-
plicable funk, or begin to admire Braddon as
the finest tactician in Australasian politics.
There is one Premier in Australia who
would be bold enough and prompt enough to
grasp the present opportunity by the hair,
and that is Kingston. It is really a
magnificent chance to secure sweeping reforms
—only it needs an iron-handed Democrat to
seize that chance. The way out is to draft
another Bill containing all the democratic ideas
that were in the old one and some new ones,
including a most sweeping reform of the Upper
House ; to pass it through the House of Assem-
bly by the force of the Braddon majority, and
then send it to the Council with a practical
statement of the case as follows : “ This is the
House of Assembly’s ultimatum. It will pass
no electoral law save this one. If you reject it
the present Parliament will end in January
leaving no electoral law behind it. The old
electoral law will have expired, and there will
be no Parliament to pass a new one. There
will, therefore, be no elections. There will be
no new Parliament. The government will go
to pieces. No more taxes will be collected.
The police will probably retire for want of their
wages, and everybody will defend himself and
his property as best he can with an axe. The
unpaid judges will probably cease to administer
the law. The interest onthe publicdebt will stop,
property values will go to chaos in the general
stoppage, and ruined Fat Men will fall like
the brown leaves of autumn. The whole
machine of Government will leave off, and re-
main that way indefinitely—or till the British
Government gives us a new Constitution and
starts things afresh. Everything in the mean-
time will dissolve into its original elements,
and nobody will be put in gaol for anything
through want of the necessary vote to feed him
while he is there. We will go back to the
primitive ways of our ancestors, and reside up
a tree pending the next development. And
the responsibility for all this will be at youi
door. If you want a responsibility of this size
we can’t help it.”
* * * *
By insisting on a most democratic new elec-
toral law or none at all, Braddon can put the
Fat Men of the Council into this stupendous
cul-de-sac, or something very like it—if he
will only do it. He can get any reforms he
likes if he will only stand like a rock.
It is a glorious chance—if only Scotch-
Portuguese fighting-man Kingston had it.
If Braddon will seize this occasion, as
Kingston would. almost certainly do, he
can pose as the strongest political! in
Australasia and the boss Democrat of the
Seven Provinces. Such an opportunity, used
for all it was worth by a strong man who knew
how to advertise, might raise the tired, pic-
turesque, crows-footed Premier of the smallest
of the Australias to be first boss of the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. If Braddon lingered
so long over his electoral-reform scheme out of
mere Tasmanian weariness, then Braddon is
only a tired nothing "hr-particular. Hut if he
lingered because he saw ahead of. him his one
and only opportunity to get the awful Leg.
Council into a cleft stick—because he saw that
by waiting he could make that exasperating
body pass the biggest and most sudden Reform
Act in Australasia, then there is the brain of a
genius behind the old knight’s hollow eyes, and
he deserves all the honor that Australia can
pay him. If Kingston had loafed over his Re-
form Bill through these past five months, the
chances are ten to one that he saw his oppor-
tunity and was making the best of it. But
Braddon doesn’t look so hopeful. If only the
chance had come to a man who was 20 years
younger and 25 years less exhausted !
N.S.W.’s Alleged Third Party.
Dear Bulletin.— The decision of the N.S.W.
Labor-party to once more support Premier Reid
suggests that that party has outlived its energy,
and its courage, and its conscience, and every
other good quality it ever possessed. In theory
its mission in Parliament is to secure the pass-
ing of much-needed democratic measures, and
to respect no one who stands in the way. It is
in a position to secure many democratic
measures, and it has been there for a long time,
and it does nothing. It holds the balance of
power in N.S.W. Assembly, and no Ministry
can exist without its permission, therefore if it
cared to seriously demand its price it would
almost certainly get it, or a good portion of it,
from some one. It might not get it from Reid
nor from Lyne, though it is more than probable
it would get it from either of them if it asked
in real earnest; but so long as it holds the
balance of power it can go on unmaking
Ministries till it gets its price from someone.
But, as Premier Reid has long since abandoned
any serious pretence of democratic legislation,
and the Labor-party has abandoned any serious
pretence of urging him on in that direction, the
only possible inference is that it doesn’t care
much about the alleged programme nowadays.
It got one of its members into the Ministry,
and it has, at different times, had more than
its share of representation on the profitable
Public Works Committee; also, it has got
sundry life-nominations to the Upper House.
And it consistently supports the Premier who
gave it these good things. His predecessor,
Dibbs, who gave N.S. W. One-Man-One-Vote,
did at least as good service to the democratic
cause as George Reid has done, but he didn’t
offer the Labor-party any portfolio, nor did he
put its members on the Public Works Commit-
tee. And his career was comparatively brief.
* * * *
Almost every democratic measure which
Premier Reid promised away back in 1894 is
still being waited for, and the chance that it
will arrive appears just about as poor now as it
did in 1894. If the Labor-party is ever to do
any good, it must, some day or other, pass
sentence of political death on the fatted
deceiver who promises everything and gives
practically nothing. The plea has always been
that to put Reid out of office was to put the
equally hopeless Lyne into office, but, at the
worst, that could only mean that Lyne would
get his chance to do some good democratic
work, and if he failed he would have the same
sentence of death passed on him in his turn.
Unless the Labor-party either tries to secure
office itself, or else uses its power to dethrone,
as a warning to his successors, every Premier
who, after a fair trial, shows himself an utter
failure from a democratic point of view, then
nobody will fear it, and it will get nothing for
the people, however many billets it may get for
its own members. It is no good holding the axe
over the head of a Tory Government if there
isn’t the least dread of the axe falling. There
is nothing in the knowledge that the Labor-
party can eject Reid from office if he doesn’t
progress in the right direction, when Reid
doesn’t progress at all, and the Labor-party’s
power is onfy used to keep him in office longer
than any other Premier in N.S.W.’s history—
and to get billets for its own members. The
power of execution amounts to nothing when
it is clearly understood that it won’t be used
and that the possible victim will be allowed to
die of old age.
» * * *
George Reid, as an inveterate office-lover
and office-seeker, would almost certainly climb
out of his old Tory rut and set some at least of
his long-promised reforms in active motion if lie
was given distinctly to understand that his
position depended on his doing so. He fails to
do it because he isn’t given to understand any-
thing of the kind. The Labor-party lias
settled down in a rut —settled down to
enjoy whatever good things come in
its way, and to make the best of
them. It has settled down so comfortably
that it wouldn’t even ask a fair hearing for its
shamefully-treated fellow-worker, Suffused,
lest it should thereby make Reid feel unsettled
in his mind. Its apparent excuse is that if
Reid is bad Lyne would probably be worse,
which is no excuse at all. It should offer its
support to the best man—not the second worst
one. Its business, as a democratic third party
holding the balance of power, is to show that


neither Reid nor Lyne, nor the man who
comes after both of them, nor that? man’s suc-
cessor, nor the person who succeeds him, nor
the next man, nor the Premier who comes after
the next man, nor any other man, shall keep
office in peace if, after a fair trial, he proves a
failure from the democratic point of view. So
long as the balance of power remains in its
hands it should maintain that attitude. Its
first object should be to secure power itself
and carry out its own reforms, but while it is
too weak to do that its aim should be to make
the N’.S.W. Premiership an impossible billet
for every man who doesn’t keep moving
steadily in the right direction. While it fol-
lows the policy of supporting a hopelessly
bad man in office on the ground that
another man may possibly be as bad or worse
there is nothing to be expected from it. In
adopting that policy it deliberately shuts its
eyes to the fact that if the other man proved
as bad or worse it could shift him also, and
that its business, as an advocate of purity and
progress, is to give all the bad men notice to
quit office in succession. If there was any
reason to suppose that Lyne, once in office,
would be an irremoveable Tory and quite in-
dependent of the Labor-party, and in a position
to refuse all reform and yet defy any possible
combination of forces to shift him from his
billet, then there would be some excuse for
putting up with many things—even with
George Reid —to keep him out. But there is
no such reason. Lyne would come in with the
intimation that the old office-holder had been
deposed because he only talked reform, but
didn’t act it; that he was himself on trial and
was expected to take warning by the fate of his
predecessor, and that if he didn’t improve
greatly on his predecessor his fate would be
similar, only much more sudden.
• » • •
At present the chief use of the N.S.W.
Labor-party is to pass George Reid’s big Loan
Bills; to aid and countenance him in his policy
of faking the accounts, and charging ordinary
expenditure to loans ; to connivd at his shame-
less political dishonesty in a general sort of
way; and to say nothing about his failure to
carry out its alleged policy of reform. And
the sinister aspect of the case lies in the fact
that, out of three Governments, all more or
less bad from a Democratic standpoint, which
have held office in N.S.W. during the term of
the Labor-party’s existence, the only one which
it has supported through thick and thin is the
one which treated it handsomely in the way of
salaried billets. Perhaps, after all, it is a mis-
take to say that the Labor-party could get its
price if it liked to insist on it. Perhaps it has
already got its price.—T.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Queensland Victory.
Last Saturday Queensland gave a majority of
several thousands for Federation. The cave-
dwellers of Brisbane voted for Parochialism by
9000 against 5000, but South Queensland out-
side of Brisbane was practically a dead heat;
Central Queensland gave a four to three
majority for Federation ; and the north—
all good things come from the north—went
for the good cause by about five to one. So
the result is that outside Brisbane two-thirds
of Queensland is strongly Federal and the
other third is equally divided. The Brisbane
parochial push is already calling its weighty
defeat “a great moral victory,” and is rising to
allege that the “rights of the minority must
be respected ” —in the bright lexicon of anti-
Bill the majority never has any rights—
and that “ South Queensland will never
consent to be dragged into Federation by
the North,” and similar maunderings. But
South Queensland, outside Brisbane, isn’t
dragging perceptibly either way—in fact, it is
neutral ; and the great North and Centre are
not at all likely to allow themselves to be
dragged out of Federation by Brisbane alone.
The Brisbane parochialists try to discount their
great defeat by pointing out that Federation
was “ only carried by the Northern vote,” just
as the Sydney cave-dwellers claimed that in
their province the Federal majority should be
disregarded because Federation was “ only
carried by the southern and western vote.”
But a Northern vote is as good for all practical
purposes as a Southern one, and a Northern
majority counts for quite as much as a Southern
one. When the North and Centre asked for
separation Brisbane refused it, and declared
that these districts must remain part of
solid Queensland, and vote as such—and
having thus declared the Northerners and the
people of the Centre to be good and sufficient
Queenslanders Brisbane can’t go back on its
word now. However much it may try to find
consolation in the fact that Federation was
only carried by the vote of some places which
overruled the vote of some other places, and
that if three or four places were left out the
result would be very different, these three facts
positively refuse to shift: Queensland in
general has given a strong Federal majority.
The Government is responsible to Queensland
in general; and it is only authorised to take
cognisance of the voice of Queensland in
general. And, however awful it may be that
(say) 27,000 voters are dragged into Federation
against their will, the Dickson Government has
to keep its eye fixed on the fact that it would be
much more awful if 32,000 voters were dragged
out of Federation against their will. The
“rights of the minority” must be respected
without doubt, but though the minority has a
great many rights, that of coercing the
majority isn’t one of them. Moreover, it is
the majority that keeps the Dickson Ministry
in office. No Ministry could afford to alienate
the whole North and Centre and a full half of
the South outside of Brisbane for the sake of
gratifying Brisbane alone. If it did, it would
be in the glad situation of the gentleman who
lost sixpence and found two coppers.
+ :
The Bootmaker’s Lamentation.
The Westralian Federal committee is wearily
examining local jam-makers, bootmakers, fur-
niture men and the like, who say monotonously
that “Federation and iuterprovincial Freetrade
will destroy our industries.” Of course, these
scared bootmakers and sofa-builders don’t
really know that Federation and interprovincial
freetrade will damage their industries. They
never tried it. It is the same position as that
of a bygone English Parliamentary committee
which sat to consider the idea of building rail-
ways, and heard expert evidence that the loco-
motive was contrary to the will of the
Almighty, and would drive cows mad. Every-
thing depends on how a completely new set of
political conditions works out, and the most
experienced man who ever put a brown-paper
sole on a boot doesn’t necessarily know any-
thing about the way new political conditions
will work out. But the attitude of the small
bootmaker everywhere is one of abject scare,
and everywhere that strange superstition
about what the wonderful and almost omni-
potent people in Melbourne will do if they
get a show seems to be in the tradesman’s
bones. Westralia pays no higher wages than
some other provinces ; it can get as good
machinery as any of them ; its manufacturers
are not supposed to be all incompetent - and
idiotic ; and Melbourne goods will always be
burdened in the W.A. markets by freight on a
2000 miles voyage, which will give W. A. a
very good measure of Protection even when
interprovincial Freetrade is the order of the
day. But its small traders are eaten up with
the pitiable cowardice of men who have
mouldered in their own parish all their lives
and believe that the next parish is a strange
land full of devils. One amazing individual
even turned up to allege that interprovincial
Freetrade would ruin the W.A. coal industry—
which is under Freetrade now, and always has
been, though apparently this strange coal
crank isn’t aware of the fact. And while the
committee is hunting up small bootmakers to
swear that Federation and interprovincial
Freetrade will ruin their industries, Big John
Forrest is explaining that he rather likes the
idea of Federation and interprovincial Free-
trade, provided a transcontinental railway to
bring in the competing boots of the other pro-
vinces with all possible velocity is guaranteed.
♦
Some Figures that Smell High.
When Premier John Forrest resolved to turn
his massive tail-coat inside-out, arid go back on
all his Federal pledges, and trail his word of
honor in the mud, and run Westralia in the
anti-Federal interest, the local State actuary
was turned on—like Coghlan last year in
N.S.W.—to show in figures the “disastrous
effects of the Bill.” And that functionary
prostituted about two bushels of numerals in
the bad cause, and produced a document so
tangled that it was practically impossible for
any ordinary individual to follow its meander-
ings and deviations. But it ended with the
moral, supposed to be deduced from the
figures, that Federation would leave Wes-
tralia with a great deal less revenue
than it has now. Then the Forrest
Government appointed a commission to
find reasons why the Federation Bill shouldn’t
be sent to the people, and to save appearances
it put one or two Federalists—notably Mathe-
SON, M.L.C.— on it, with sufficient Disunionists
to vote them down twice over. And things
would have been all right if these people
hadn’t started asking the Government Actuary
awkward questions about his figures. It was
discovered, for one thing, that when he
reckoned up the loss Westralia would suffer
through the abolition of duty on goods im-
ported from the other provinces, he reckoned on
goods imported from Maoriland coming in free
—which they won’t do, seeing that Maoriland
isn’t in the Commonwealth movement, and
thereby he made the loss look larger than it
really is. Then it was extracted from this
public official that he had made another weird
hash of his figures to the extent of £21,000
per annum. The Federal Government, it is
assumed, will have to pay the W.A. Govern-
ment £688,000 for buildings, dfcc., taken over
(it will, presumably, hand the State Govern-
ment bonds to that amount), and the interest
on this (£21,000 a year) will have to be paid by
the people to the Federal Government. Then
the Federal Government will have to pay it to
the Westralian State Government—so things
will be as broad as they are long. Matheson,
M.L.C., dragged it out of the public function-
ary in the witness-box that he had made no
mention of the fact that the money would come
back to the Westralian Treasury, and by this
dodge he had made, Westralia’s share of the
cost of Federation £33,500 instead of £12,500.
It is further alleged by wire that the actuary
admits having included one item of £233,000
federal expenditure five times over, and thereby
vastly increased the apparent cost of the
Federal Government and also the apparent cost
of Federation to Westralia. Big John Forrest
grew angry in the course of the proceedings,
and declared the cross examination which
brought out these dreadful mistakes to be mere
waste of time, and departed with offended
dignity. Considering that Forrest is against
union, and that the actuary’s figures were pre-
pared by his instructions, and that all the
actuary’s blunders tend to create an utterly
false impression about the excessive cost of
Federation to Westralia, there is a strong odor
of decayed emu-egg about the whole business.
No smaller egg could smell so strongly.
♦
Two Bridges.
Apropos of the demand that has been raging
any time the last 25 years for a high - level
bridge between Sydney and North Sydney, The
Bulletin sometimes wonders why the two
municipalities don’t simply get an Act of Parlia-
ment authorising them to build the bridge
themselves, and build it, and thereby end the
tiredest political subject in N.S.W. Then they
could lay a tram-line across, and get the
Government to run its electric-tram right
through on the shares system. In all proba-
bility the bridge would cost nearly a million,
and that would represent an interest bill of
£30,000 a year—£ls,ooo a year for each muni-
cipality if the account was equally divided.
A penny toll on foot passengers and the
profits of the tramway business would almost
certainly yield £12,000 a year to begin with—the
ferry business produces much more than that—
which would leave each municipality with
£9OOO a year to provide. In course of time
the receipts would probably increase sufficiently
to cover this and a great deal more. In the
meantime the estimated value of property at
North Sydney is £3,736,000, and if the bridge
raised it to £4,000,000, which it would probably
do without turning a hair, the extra rentals
would pay the additional rate levied to
cover interest, and still leave some £4200
a year profit for the bloated landlord.
Probably it would start such a boom that in a
year or two the extra rentals would pay interest
on the cost of the bridge, and leave an- extra
£30,000 a year for the bloated landlord. It is
a practical certainty that, between the direct
receipts from the bridge, and the indirect
ones through increase of property values
created by it, the municipalities would
get their bridge for nothing from the
very beginning, and have a big profit
as well. And as population increased—which
it would do rapidly when you could get into a
tram-car at Redfern and make a straight run to
St. Leonards—the profit would get bigger and
bigger every year. A bridge from
valory Hill to Balmain would probably be an
equally good spec, for the local landlord ; when
the electric-tram took a bee-line into that
suburb instead of the inhabitant having to pick
his way on foot down a dirty back-street to a
slow and dilapidated green boat, property in
that hitherto cheap suburb would go up 50 per
cent, in one act. If the local Fat Person would
only realise how' many hundred thousand
pounds of good rent he had lost in the years
that the locust has eaten—the years in which
he has been vainly moaning to the Government
to give him his bridge instead of getting it him-
self, and becoming vastly rich right off—he
would go and hang himself in disgust on the
rail of his own office desk.
*
Neild’s Bill.
Considering the size of the recent trouble in
N.S. W. Assembly and the smallness and mean-
ness of the small, mean job which brought it all
.about, Premier Reid’s strategy appears to be
getting very loose. Some time ago burlesque-
Major Neild— he of the bear’s-greased mou-
stache—was understood to be going to Europe,
and he offered, either with or without re-
muneration, bo collect information about Euro-
pean charities, and other more or less useless
knowledge. He brought back a mass of
written erudition, and in the concluding por-
tion of it he set forth that he had done all this
work without hope of reward and for love of
his bleeding country—so either the Premier’s
statement that the bear’s-greased one intended
doing the work absolutely gratis was quite
true, or else it was considered advisable to
pretend that he intended it to be gratis,
and that the payment was only a sudden
afterthought. Anyhow, Neild was paid £350
without the authority of Parliament, for the
work which Parliament had been assured was
being done gratis, and, as Majah Neild had, to
some extent, appointed himself to the position of
charitable inquirer in Europe, this sudden and
violent presentation of his bill made the House
angry. Why Premier Reid paid that money
will probably never be explained. The single
vote of the man with the amazing moustache
could be hardly worth buying at such risk.
Parliament winks at a lot of unauthorised ex-
penditure, but when Reid gave it his solemn
oath that Neild wouldn’t be paid, and then
paid Neild, even a tame Parliament
that would feed out of the hand was
bound to grow angry. Unless Neild
hung on to Reid’s door-bell in the middle of the
night and wouldn’t go away without the
money, and Reid came down attired in his
night-shirt and carrying a candle, and paid him
before he was sufficiently awake to know what
he was doing, and Neild had got round the
corner with the cash before Reid was fully
aware that he had wrecked the sacred Consti-
toosh’n, there is no publishable theory that ap-
pears to fit the case. The most charitable
theory is that Reid had to pay the money else
Neild would have wakened the baby.
♦
The Australian Illegitimate.
“ Hermes,” to The Bulletin
The recent remarks of a certain medico, to the
effect that foundlings should be allowed to perish on
the casual doorstep, because foundlings do generally
perish, in the long run, of indigestion, born of artificial
food, make one regret that some statesman did not insert
a clause in the Federal Constitution to the effect that all
foundlings should be adopted and declared the legal
children of the Nation, and that the Nation would be
responsible for their upbringing. No medical savage has
got the effrontery to stand up and advocate that legiti-
mate children who are deprived of their natural food
should be sent swiftly and painlessly out of the world, but
this humorist advocates the practical murder of the poor
friendless illegitimate. Some medical authorities have
declared that love-children are more virile and intel-
lectual than those of respectability, yet, according to
statistics, they die off three times as fast. The offspring
of romance has a lot of difficulties to contend with,
chief of which are the careless preparation of arti-
ficial food (the unfortunate mite is generally fed
on artificial food), and the ghastly fact that it is to the
individual interest of everybody connected with him that
he should die. But it is to the interest of Australia that
he should live and grow’ up to be a good and well-
equipped citizen. Few’ people realise what an addition
to the population it w’ould be if the foundlings could be
reared. Between 1877 and 1896 there w’ere born in
N.S.W. alone 35,114 illegitimate children. A huge pro-
portion of them perished before reaching the age of 15,
but if the death-rate could have been reduced to that of
the ordinary infantile mortality they would have formed
a large addition to the population. Marriage is
on the decrease, and the legitimate birth-rate is also on
the decrease, as the following table from Coghlan’s
“Seven Colonies” for 1897-8 (page 118) will show :
1871—1685 illeg. births; 74,217 total births ; illeg. p.c., 3T9
1881—3524 ~ „ 98,721 „ „ ~ 4'24
1891—6001 „ „ 128,445 „ ~ „ 4‘74
1896—6597 ~ „ 118,746 „ „ „ 5.56
Which shows that in 1896 there were actually 10,295 less
legitimate children born than in 1891, but, in spite of the
decreasing birth-rate, 596 more illegitimates were brought
into the w’orld without benefit of clergy than in 1891.
Australia’s interest in the matter is just this : Some day
this continent will find that human beings are of more
value than all its alleged great resources put together.
At present, Australia would be a poor place indeed but
for the distant oversea market of Britain. In 1896 Aus-
tralia exported in all £40,141,435, of Which £29,172,801
went to the United Kingdom, and £2,065,103 to British
possessions, or a total of £31,237,904 to the British Um-
pire, w’hile all the rest of the world took only a miserable
£8,903,531. This ought to make it plain that without
Britain this continent would be in a very bad way com-
mercially. It is just possible that in 20 years’ time the
development of South Africa, Uganda, the grain-growing
highlands of Unyoro, Argentina, Canada, and the almost
certain “ civilising ” of Morocco, all of whioh are some
thousands of miles nearer Britain than Australia, will have
in or eased their output sufficiently to cope with the
demands of the British market, while their closer proxi-
mitv will enable them to undersell Australian products.
When that day conies population to absorb our own pro-
ductions will be the salvation of this continent. The
trouble won’t come suddenly, like the thief in the night,
but gradually, with many signs and warnings of decreas-
ing exports, and if the population grows as the exports
dwindle we shall escape the economic shock. For this
reason alone it is advisable that the medico referred to
be promptly executed and the nation take steps to care
for the foundling, and see that it gets a fair show to
grow up a useful man or woman. When the legitimate
child is fast becoming too tired to be born it is neces-
sary to make the best of any kind of child we can get. If
artificial feeding kills the foundling, let the State provide
a wet-nurse. The mothers, if relieved of the responsi-
bility of attempting to do what is mostly beyond their
power, would generally be available, and where it could
be done safely it might be possible to make an unmarried
mother an allowance for the maintenance of her child
past the suckling age. There are other reasons why the
poor, wronged love-child should be cared for and dealt
with tenderly, and to those who have the sap of human
affection within them one glance at the helpless
mites with their deep, wondering eyes, dimpled hands
and chubby feet, is more powerful than the arguments of
many sages. Bui I started these remarks from a piirely
economic standpoint, and humane or mere Christian
drivel is out of place.
A simple, true and melancholy letter from
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
The present friction between the heads of the R.C. and
Protestant Churches in N.S.W. has its lesson for laymen,
although perhaps not the lesson which the disputants
would in their calm moments read to their respective
flocks. Were no clerical pressure brought to bear, a
Protestant and a Roman Catholic could live most peace-
ably and agreeably side-by-side, with all the mutual
respect and good-fellowship of citizens. The folks next
door are Roman Catholics, let me say, and I a Protestant.
The exchange of neighborly- offices and obligations pro-
ceeds, and some degree of Christian Catholicity is present
with us. Nothing is further from the inclination of either
of us than to hurt the feelings or insult the belief of the
other. What is the motive, and whence, that has
induced the princes of our Churches to supplant this
goodwill with distrust and religious rancour ? These fol-
lowers of the Prophet of peace on earth and goodwill
towards men expound weekly the victim of long-suffering
charity and humility. We believe they could not possibly
preach a nobler religion. But, alas I what an example of
charity ! What an exhibition of brothedy love ! How
lovingly could Christ greet these ministers and ex-
pounders of His Gospel ! Daily', before their flocks, they
read and tear and malign each other in the press and in
the pulpit. The moral sense of the laity is shocked and
cries shame alike on the Cardinal and his opponents, yet
the un-Christian strife goes on kindling and nourishing
the spark of religious hatred and war. Already my
neighbor holds aloof from me ; I avoid his company—and
this is the work of these men of peace and followers of
Christ ! !
Dr. Maund’s expressed ideal when he in-
augurated the Melb. Women’s Hospital was
the founding of an institution where women in
distress might be succoured by women. The
subscribers to that Hospital have now a chance
for the first time in its history of giving effect
to the praiseworthy wish of its founder. Dr.
Helen Sexton is the first woman candidate
for the position of honorary out-door surgeon,
and at the coming annual election on the Btli
inst., subscribers can hardly go wrong if they
cast one of the twelve votes to which they are
entitled in favor of this distinguished and pro-
fessionally-experienced alumnus of Melbourne
University. With the present resident woman
doctor (Miss Plummer), and one honorary out-
door surgeon (Miss Sexton), the Women’s
Hospital would begin to throw off the reproach
which necessarily attaches to an institution
intended solely for women, being officered
entirely by men.
—__
A letter from Adelaide ;*
Editor Bulletin. — Re the “Adelaide striking doctors.”
I appear for the other side. It is too late to go into the
genesis and history of the painful Adelaide Hospital, dis-
pute. Therefore Ido not wish to controvert anything in
particular that has appeared in The Bulletin. This is
merely- a mild and respectful appeal for Australian’ fair
play. “We” (the “strikers,” for I “struck" with the
North Terrace men, and so did 99 per cent, of the country
G.Ps, in S.A.) have had our real grievance : we have
fought our fight. We have backed up our leaders at
much loss of time and trouble and, in some cases,
money. We have had a whole Government and half a
cityful of people against us. We made a drawn battle of
it and each side retired (a little way) with the honors of
war. Here let me say that all non-paying patients whom
I have sent on to the ex-honoraries of North Terrace
have received as prompt and thorough attention as
when they had the same men’s services in the Hospital
aforetime. Also I (to whom this aspect of the ease “is
equal”) have good reason to know that, this gratuitous
work was not to “spite Napier” or “keep their hands in,”
or for any such low-down motive, but in response to a
direct appeal from the poor patients themselves. I wish
to be brief. With all due respect for your Adelaide cor-
respondent, (I am ignorant of his identity) it may he
noticed by any of your readers that his’ pars re the
whole “strike” episode from first to last have been
absolutely one-sided. This is so unlike the normal
Bulletin matter, that I have been sorely tempted to
furnish you with the whole history- of the “strike,”
whereby to judge. But it has become like the smellful
Dreyfus case, in so much that half the “ evidence ”
available at this date would be the “bloke” calling
the “cove” a blanky liar;, and that would be .about
all. Now for my points in summary
I. There are two sides to the question.
11. You have only heard (and therefore printed) one
side.
111. If this side is not unfair intrinsically, it certainly is
in the absence of the other version.
IV. Those who had any local axes to grind have no
doubt got them quite sharp enough by now.
V. Let up.
Because—(a.) It can’t be so interesting to the general
public.
(b.) It is a little hurtful to a class of men who are per-
haps more in sympathy with pain, with shame, with
poverty-, and with Australia than most classes.
And, (c.) Nuff sed.
Nil.
+.
Australian legislators persist in their slavish
habit of swallowing English legislation “ with
all faults.” Wrixon and Sargood are intro-
ducing Chamberlain’s Workmen’s Compensa-
tion Act into Vic. Parliament just as it passed
the Lords in ’97, despite the fact that every
law-report reaching Australia is full to reple-
tion of cases revealing flaws of draftsmanship,
cumbrous provisions, and general slip-sloppi-
ness in that Act. Apart from its limited
application to a few tradejs, an inherent
defect of the English Act is untouched. The
contracting-out provisions, which were only
left in the English Act on account of the fact
that there were already in existence large well-
subsidised benefit societies connected with
some of the railway co.’s, are also, and quite
unnecessarily, retained in the Vie. Bill. Even
as it stands, the Bill is well worth accepting,
but why disfigure the proffered orange with
quite-unnecessary bites?
The interest with which the medical
fraternity lately watched the case of a man who
lay fh Sydney Hospital totally unconscious for 40
days before dying moves this paper to marvel at
the spectacle of that influential Sealyland politic-
ian, Hugh Nelson, who has been unconscious of
politics for about 40 years and isn’t dead yet.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.CL j
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, E.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole A gents :
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L ! “
SUNDRY SHOWS.
▼
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's. “Secret Service.’’
Royal “ The Gay Lord Quex.”
Lyceum “ When London Sleeps.”
Criterion “ The Indian Mutiny.”
Twoli. Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Geisha.”
Theatre Royal “ For England.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Atiienv.um Hall German-Reed Entertainer.
Town Hall Trebelli Song Recitals.
(Saturday Afternoon)' Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
The “ Indian Mutiny,” with which Rig-
nold re-opened Sydney Criterion last Saturday,
doesn’t come up to the promise of its name. It
deals with a very small, outlying fringe of the
mutiny at the best, and, besides, there is hardly
any mutiny at all. The characters, too, are
mostly sketchy and unsatisfactory. Through five
long acts Glover, as the big brown man, irrigates
the play with a slow rain of conversation to the
effect that the time will shortly arrive when he
will give the signal on a big bell, and then the
terrific upheaval will start with a whoosh, and
the white man’s hat will only be seen for half a
second above the torrent as it sweeps him away.
And near the end of the fifth act the slow brown
man grasps the bell-rope at last, but a sword cuts
it short above his head, and there is no signal—
only a futile, brown Augustus talking himself to
death with a bit of rope in his hand and a silent bell
above his head. The audience doesn’t sympathise
with brown Augustus, for though he is supposed to
be the leader of the rebellion, and he talks more
than any other three, he always departs at a heavy,
camel-like run when a white man comes round the
corner, dropping his artillery out of his pockets as
he goes. Abul Khan, who is a strong, concise,
brown rebel and doesn’t run when a white man
comes round the corner (unless he runs furiously
after the white man), is killed in a most unsatis-
faetoryfashionhalf-waythrough the play. Diver, as
the white Major in command of about six Britons,
has hardly anything to do except form Private
Sweeney into a hollow square now and then. The
very light-brown girl who is supposed to be Abul
Khan’s daughter, proves to be really the daughter
of the Major, but the circumstance can hardly be
heard above the ceaseless talking of brown Augus-
tus and his incessant statement that he is going
to give the signal when he is fully rested, and
then all perdition will break loose, and that in the
meantime he sees a small white boy in the dis-
tance and proposes to go and conceal himself
under the bed.
* * * *
Miss Lilian Wheeler, as the Major’s lost
daughter, has the best part in the play. She
slews the big cannon round all by herself, and
fires it point blank at Augustus, who seems quite
well after it, only rather tired. She raises a
Brahmin from the dead, and she swings herself
across a bottomless abyss by the aid of the Union
Jack ; and it is she who cuts the bell-rope when
the brown conversationalist is almost going to do
something at last. The next best character is the
Major’s wife, by Miss Watts-Phillips, a crisp,
definite little woman who knows exactly whom
she is going to hit with her ’brella, and nits him
right there. Among the great haze of talking
niggers, she is a distinct relief. There is much
military evolution in the play, and it leads to very
little. The British force is generally advancing
in great haste to a place where nothing happens,
and marching in great, haste back again ; and
Johnson Weir either arrives covered with blood to
tell it to return at once, or else arrives covered
with dust to say that it is returning. Also two
very fine scenes by Vaughan manage to rise above
the wash of the brown man’s conversation, and the
cannon which is fired at Augustus is a very effec-
tive “prop.” indeed. In fact, it is the best stage
cannon this writer remembers.
** * *
The other Holloway Co. has come back
to Sydney Lyceum, and revived that vigorous
melodrama, “When London Sleeps.” Said melo-
drama, if it is taken in a large, general sort of
fashion—the way one takes a terrace that doesn’t
belong to him —is rather an interesting pageant,
but if it is dried and inspected through a micro-
scope the logic of it goes to pieces. The heroine
is a circus-girl—a pure and lovely saint who used
to bound in rationals on the slack wire-—and she
inherits a huge fortune and a wicked captain.
There is no legacy duty to pay on the captain.
He sets fire to the house in order to persuade the
girl to marry him, and she has to fly on the tele-
graph wires over the house roofs while London
sleeps. Also, he breaks into her bed-room
when she has her beautifully-frilled night-
dress and her bare feet on, and wants to
offer her his hand informally on the spot.
Also, he beguiles her into a house of ill-
fame where he proposes to win her affections
by introducing her to some of the worst Totties
and Flossies in London, and urges her to come to
the midnight banquet and join in the revel, and
the wine-cup, and the high kick. It is only in
dramas that a lady with enormous wealth can be
thus pawed and mauled by a poor relation of bad
character, or that a gentleman can call and set
fire to the house and go away again; also, it is
only in dramas that a huge policeman on night
duty warms his soul by talking about his beloved
Queen and about the greatness of the empire. The
only excuse is that the average drama is a trifle
off its head, and not fully responsible for its
actions. There are some few changes in the cast
as compared with that of last January. Laurence
Dunbar is the wicked “capting,” vice Charles
Holloway, and Dunbar sets fire to his best girl,
and tries to drop his daughter into the river,
with considerable success. On the other hand,
the substitution of Miss Ada Guildford for pretty
and clever Amy Gourlay is not an improvement.
Miss Gourlay’s part was that of a red-hatted siren
who called out to men at street corners late at
night, and her intentions were thirsty but not
honorable, yet she made this risky character the
brightest feature of the piece. And spidery
William Gourlay—the gentleman who seems to
have eight legs and to be fully accountable for
none of them—is also gone, therefore another man
disguises himself in a skirt and hat, and assures
the policeman that he was once a good girl and
went to Sunday-school regularly. But to a great
extent the cast is the same as before, and it isn’t a
very bad cast on the whole.
* * * *
The Brough season is near its end at Syd-
ney Royal, and ‘ ‘ Lord Quex ” will probably fill
in most of the remnant. The Bulletin has come
to the conclusion that it gets nearer to absolutely
disliking Mrs. Brough in the present production
than it ever did before. This painful fact is not
wholly her fault; the exceedingly tough nature
of her part is largely responsible. A tall, hot, flushed
lady who is locked up in a bed-room and weeping
in a yellow dressing-gown has certain disadvan-
tages to contend with. And when the gentleman
who has her locked up explains candidly that he
intends to call the household next morning, and
exhibit her in her dishabille as the person who has
been in his room all night, and when one reflects
that by then she will have wept in the dressing-
gown for four hours, and that her face will be
swollen to twice its natural size, and that she will
probably be a damp, crushed, disarranged heap on
the floor, the character has its drawbacks. Even
after only an hour of confinement the prisoner
goes badly at the knees, and it is quite obvious
that, if Lord Quex keeps his purpose, by the time
the exhu.ition comes off the lady will be a quadru-
ped feebly retiring (after her character has been
blighted) on all-fours. Or else she will be too
weak to retire at all, and the justly-outraged
housemaid will carry her away under her arm.
This horrible event doesn’t really happen, but it
looks for quite a while as if it was going to happen.
* * *
“Secret Service” pursues its deserving
career of bombardment at Her Majesty’s, but
Sydney takes less interest in the scrum between
the men in blue and the inen in grey than this
paper expected. Some day, when Sydney has
had a bombardment of its own, and the invader
has shot all the pugilists in the Golden Gate
Athletic Club, and sacked Kiama, and wantonly
dynamited the “ blow-hole, ” and insisted on his
horse winning the Melbourne Cup, and has made
his prisoners stand in a row and disparage “the
harbor, ” this country may take more kindly to
military drama than it does. But, at present, it
is a remote kind of thing. Yet there is a lot of
clever realism about “ Secret Service ” ; the far-off
pounding of the cannon at Petersburg is a good
effect, and so is the tramping of the grey-coated
regiments as they go past with their cannon in the
darkness. And the author knew his book when
he made his two girls so short of clothes—one has
two dresses left, and the other has none and wears
her grandmother’s frock. The South, not being a
manufacturing country, grew woefully short of
clothes in the latter days of the war ; the proudest
Southern girl was happy if she had one turned
skirt left, and if her best boy had time to lead her
to the altar she was glad, in the dark days of ’64,
if she had two stockings to go there in. Very
often she had to trot there with short steps, to dis-
guise the fact that she had no stockings at all.
* * * *
At Sydney Tivoli there is overwhelming
evidence of a widespread determination to work
to death James Mooney, the man who bounces
like an india-rubber ball, turns somersaults back-
wards and forwards off his head and his feet, and
uses his legs as a liver-pad while he walks around
on his hands. An inconsiderate audience simply
won’t lie down till he does it all over again three
times. Rayston and Rayford are in their last
week, and Rayston concludes the turn with a neat
speech thanking the audience for its toleration of
himself and wife—he mentions that the lady is his
wife in case some one should go away under the
impression that she is his mother—and he thanks
it for sitting there and applauding, because he
knows it wouldn’t have done it had it been sober—
just here his maligned little wife hauls him off into
outer oblivion by pre-arrangement. The void left by
Oinquevalli is partly allayed by twenty damsels in
brief brown dresses, brown gaiters, black shoes,
white collars, cuffs and belts; who march round
with fixed bayonets and give a whistling chorus.
The Farley Trio do some clever balancing, which
culminates in the man with the large pink nose
standing on his head on the thin end of a big viol
and playing a fiddle with his hands while in that
weird position. George Spry and Florrie Austin
give a more or less comic sketch. Paul Pelham’s
“Klondyke” is responsible for the only senti-
mental tears this writer ever saw shed in the
Tivoli. It shows the sturdy miner in a London
street listening to an invisible chorus singing,
“ On to Klondyke, Land of Gold ? ” The London
street vanishes aloft, and snow-clad mountains
heap their peaks against the Yukon sky, while in
the chilly moonlight the exhausted miner who
listened to that chorus raves of home and wife
and child. The mountain splits and shows a
vision of the far-off home, with the old familiar
picture on the wall, the lamp with the red shade
over it, the wife, and the little bright-haired girl
praying for the absent dada; and the Tivolians,
who mostly describe the absent wife as the “old
woman ” and the little bright-haired child as “ the
kid, ” break down. It is rather cheap and shoddy
pathos, but it goes every time.
* * * *
The Trebelli song-recitals at Melbourne
Town Hall seem like a protest against recent
worshipping of wooden idols. Mile. Antoinette
Trebelli exhibits all that culture can do for a born
vocalist and a gifted woman. She sings many
song's in divers tongues with unaffected gracious-
ness, devoutness, archness or merry humor, as
the case may require. Her platform manner is
more impressive than the theatrical style of
Albani, and her voice is at its prime. The “star ”
contributed a dozen numbers last Tuesday
night between 8 o’clock and 9.50 p.m. (play-
ing her own accompaniment to some of them)
without showing the least sign of fatigue. She
sang as though she shared in the pleasure she
was giving to her hearers. There was no
pretence of trying to escape the inevitable encore.
A Trebelli recital is an up-to-date entertainment
—all prizes and no blanks —calculated to make
everybody come again next time, and tell their
friends not to miss it. John Prouse, the resonant
baritone, from Maoriland, who took part in the
first Trebelli concert-tour, is the only co. engaged
this time. Prouse lifts up his voice what time the
lady is resting hers, save during a five minutes’
interval, when they are both off. Perhaps it is
more correct to say that the baritone throws his
voice, as a rule. He is a vigorous, spirited artist,
with a black beard, and no nonsense about him.
The first bar of his opening song —a savage Hun-
garian ditty, entitled “ Had a Horse ” —went bang
up against the far wall of the building, and re-
bounded back to the tuneful singer. Whereupon
th ' audiev.-e decided that Prouse was the right
man for the billet. The second recital was to
happen on Tuesday of this week, the night pre-
vious to Amy Castles’ farewell, which will be
followed on Thursday by some more starring of
damsels from Bendigo. Antoinette Trebelli, con-
sidered in contrast with Amy Castles (at higher
prices of admission) was the cruellest reflection
that will ever be cast on the little girl’s run of
luck.
* Hf # *
Among the audience who heard Trebelli
give the laughing song (Auber) at Melb. Town
Hall the other night there may have been a few
grey-headed applauders who had tried to encore
Madame Fanny Simonsen’s performance of the
same old song in the same building long years ago.
The occasion was a benefit to the late William
Saurin Lyster, and owing to the length of the pro-
gramme encores were prohibited. Fanny Simon-
sen’s laughing-song so “knocked” the audience
that it rose in insurrection against the rule, and
yelled for a repeat. Lyster’s wife, Georgia Hod-
son, was the next on the programme. She came
forward to sing, but the house wouldn’t listen to
her. Then Lyster took the platform, angrily re-
buked the noisy ones (his patrons of the night) and
told them in effect that he would see them hanged
before he would let Madame Simonsen give the
encore. Whereupon the bulk of the audience
walked out of the hall, leaving the concert to its
gloomy fate.
m# * *
“For England,” the huge, red-coated
melodrama which is filling up the final fortnight
of Bland Holt’s season at Melb. Royal, turns out
to be a more Boerlike revival than was stated in
The Bulletin last week. A weary scribe does
his best to forget the plots of these awful Sutton
Yane narratives as time rolls on, otherwise they
would settle on his mind and break it beyond
repair. The present scribe, on renewing his long-
lost acquaintance with the show aforesaid, found
that President Kruger and General Joubert of the
Transvaal were introduced into Act 3, and he got
a severe shook in his foreign intelligence when he
saw that Oom Paul stood only five feet high, and
wore a black bell-topper, likewise mild uneventful
trousers and plain, ordinary boots. Onelikestothink
of the real Kruger as a wickeder oppressor than
that, but no matter. “For England” is the
drama wherein Bland Holt lends all his money to
the British Army, and converts himself into a
Zulu on business principles. Roughly speaking,
“ For England ” is a dramatic outrage of the most
desperate character. It contains nothing worth
believing in except scenery, and horses, and the
indignation of an aged father whose penitent
daughter looks very nice when she comes home to
be forgiven. The horses distinguish themselves at
the outset by cantering down a forest glade in
pursuit of an alleged fox. Later on they carry
warriors to the rescue of Walter Baker, Bland
Holt, Arthur Styan, and the principal ladies of
the co. in the darkest hour of Albert Norman’s
treachery. The horses deserve all the corn they
will get during the run of this well-dressed spec-
tacle. Likewise, gallant Baker earns special
praise for sticking to the dear old Union Jack
with more emphasis than usual, and the incidental
gunpowder explosions shed a profound perfume
throughout the house. “For England ” has the
sort of influence which can be smelt by all classes.
* * *
“ Trip to Chinatown ” was staged again at
Melb. Princess’s last Saturday, out of respect for
popular opinion re “A Stranger in New York,”
which had been advertised to carry the ’Murkan
co. ’s season through to its bitter end. Said season
terminates to-night (Thursday), and on Friday or
Saturday the cheerful music of “The Geisha”
will be heard again.
** # *
At Melbourne Alexandra the struggle
with “ Faust ” is being prolonged over a second
week. Rebottaro, as Valentine (the one really
satisfactory feature of the show), likewise Mephi-
stopheles, and the agreeable young man in the
name-part, have improved with practice, but on
the other hand Marguerite seems a more hopeless
case than ever, and the alternate Siebel is a mere
apology for a she-male. Touching the weird
mezzo-falsetto of Martha, The Bulletin would
say much, if that susceptible widow were not a
pleasing amateur in her silent moments. Criticism
is withheld for the sake of the time when she
doesn’t sing.
Mr. alld Miss Valdares, on their joint and
several bikes, were added to the Bijou programme
last Saturday, and the acrobatic skill of those two
whirling wheelers vyill help to bloat the Rickards
exchequer for the next few weeks. Short of turn-
ing a double somersault on one spoke the Val-
dareses can do everything imaginable in trick
wheelwork, and with Cinquevalli out of the way
they would seem quite marvellous. Meanwhile
the sublime juggler is playing billiards in his
sweet old way, and catching plates as they never
were caught before, and Melbourne has very little
amazement left for any other artist.
* * -& *
At St. George’s Hall the last nights of
M‘Adoo’s minstrels are announced, and it is
stated, as a melancholy fact, that the cake-walkers
will walk elsewhere after the 11th inst.
** * *
Scherek’s 15th Orchestral Concert will
happen at the Town Hall next Saturday after-
noon. The two previous gatherings were at the
Bijou ; therefore this intimation is addressed to
all customers who don’t wish to look for their
Scherek in the wrong shop.
** * *
Last week’s promise to say something com-
plimentary about the German-Reed entertainment
at the Athenaeum hall, was rather a rash promise,
and it is hereby cancelled. The artistic success
of any soft and gentle show with recitations and
small salads in it is a matter depending almost
entirely upon the audience. If a large audience
comes along and laughs, the entertainment bucks
up and is cheerful. But when a very small audi-
ence trickles into the tomb-like building, and
gives itself up to despair, the people on the stage
lose all power to raise even a laugh among them-
selves. That’s what the matter at the Athenaeum
hall.
** * *
The policy of the Amy Castles manage-
ment in holding back her lucky last concert until
the very night before she was to start to be sea-
sick is discussed from two different points of view.
Most people assume that the “ future _ Melba ”
voice was so sore that Father Robinson didn’t like
to “ give it away ” earlier lest disappointed enthu-
siasts might make some more nasty remarks. We
must assume that A - selection of Sept. 6th as the
date of Amy’s farewell was a diplomatic stroke
intended to keep things as pleasant as pos-
sible for the departing warbler. The other theory
is altogether too uncharitable. It assumes that
because Mrs. Doubleday had booked Melb. Town
Hall for Sept. 7th for a Lili Sharp and Lfansen-
Knarhoi concert, the Castles party came along a
fortnight later and decided to “queer the pitch ”
by producing their Farewell Amy on the preceding
night. But, admitting that the assumption of
rivalry in the matter is probably foolish, it is
difficult to understand why Amy Castles, who
owes her “discovery” to Mrs. Doubleday, has
been allowed to appear ungrateful to that lady.
** * *
In a weak moment the Brasseys promised
to spend an evening with “Faust” at the Alex-
andra, on behalf of musical culchaw for the masses,
perhaps. The exalted pair, with a gilt-buttoned
martyr in attendance, tried hard to carry out their
contract. Silent and unmoved they sat staring
sadly at the stage or averting their gaze from the
awful Alexandra drop-curtain during the intervals,
until the end of the Garden Scene. Then they
gathered up their belongings and filed forth into
the outer world of woe. Their Nibbses’ patience
was exhausted. Lady 8., who took away
a souvenir of the melancholy occasion in the form
of a bouquet provided by the management, looked
ready to die as she made her escape along the back
of the d.c. Two hours earlier the weary woman
thought herself ready for the worst that could
happen, but the vice-regal imagination had never
pictured such a “Faust ” as this.
* * *
The poor little performance of “Faust”
at Melb. Alexandra revives memories of the last
time Gounod’s opera was properly treated in
Australia. The plump little Cutticas were Faust
and Marguerite, and when the Signor’s uncertain
tenor happened to be in good order they gave the
public a musical treat. Signora Cuttica, an ex-
cellent actress as operatic artists go, was always a
delightful singer.
»* * *
Dante must have done big business in
Westralia, for manager Louis Lohr still persists
in the opinion that the West is going to boom
again shortly. He declares, indeed, that the
second boom is already an accomplished fact,
although sundry other recent showmen have seen
no signs of it. Dante just now is flourishing in
S.A. and from there he will tour the Victorian
provinces.
Premier Dickson’s statement that, if the
Federal Constitution was accepted, he would
proceed to introduce a One-man-one-vote Bill for
Queensland State elections, but not otherwise,
raised a deafening curse in anti-Federal circles,
and was called bribery, corruption, coercion, and
pretty nearly everything that was bad—barring
elephantiasis and bigamy. Yet there was nothing
very remarkable in Oily James’s attitude. He
simply said in effect: “If you accept this Bill
establishing a One-man-one-vote system through-
out Australia I will understand that you want
One-man-one-vote badly enough to make it advis-
able that I should move. If you don’t, I will
gladly assume, as a restful, tired man who dis-
likes changes, that the present order of things will
hang out a while longer.”


The Insurance Post . and Remembrancer
(London) writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society's latest report“ This is truly a remarkable
record of successful achievement, and it bears eloquent
testimony to the administrative ability and indefatigable
industry of all concerned in the management.”*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big: prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
MVphan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc,,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, lias just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S- lIOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’*
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply.
S. ZOLLNKR,
30-36 Druitfc-st., Sydney.
<3 Smoke the Latesto
RUTTY’S
VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR I/-
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/3 0 «
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
.93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markv/ald y " Melbourne ;
HPitt-st., Sydney ; 63 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lamhton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
CHILLAGOE UP-TO-DATE
Read the Special Series in “ The
Critic” every Friday.
These articles are from the pen of a Special Mining
Commissioner NOW doing the N.Q. fields.
AtL AGENTS, SIXPENCE,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Five of the Seven Provinces supply their
revenue returns for August, 1899, as follows :
Revenue for Increase as eom-
August, 1899. pared with revenue
for August, 1898.
Queensland ~ £337,930 £49,266
Victoria ~ 656,566 22,332
Westralia .. .. 236,273 17,897
Tasmania .. .. 80,006 8,907
New South Wales .. 701,243 4,086
And, so far as the financial year has gone in each pro-
vince, the situation is as follows:
Increase as com-
pared with corres-
Revenue. ponding period of
1898.
Queensland (2 months) £674,234 £90,460
Victoria ( „ ) 1,145,954 47,870
Tasmania (8 months) 621,871 38,378
Westralia (2 months) 407,014 31,093
Decrease as com-
pared with corres-
ponding period of
1898.
N.S. Wales (2 months) 1,504,735 £30,172
The spectacle of New South Wales, as the only province
which isn’t keeping pace with the general improvement,
makes that old jibe of N.S.W. anti-Federal politicians
about the “necessitous States” look a very foolish jibe
indeed.
In proportion to population Westralia has the
biggest increase, with Queensland very close up. Assum-
ing that things go on as they are doing for the whole of
the financial year the results will be about this :
Increase per
inhabitant
per annum.
Westralia ..£l2O
Queensland ... .. 118
Tasmania .. .. .. .. 0 6 8
Victoria 0 5 0
N.S. Wales Decrease
Westralia’s revenue (partly through increased
taxation) is the largest month’s return in the last 1J
years. For July', the first month of the present financial
year, the expenditure was £382 less than the revenue,
and, for August, it is hoped that the expenditure will be
£40,000 less than the revenue, though the complete re-
turns are not yet available. At this rate, Premier Forrest
should soon make a large reduction in his accumulated
deficit.
N.S.W. spent <£180,324 of loan-money during
August. If this rate keeps up, 1899-1900 will show still
another increase in the ever-expanding loan-expenditure
of N.S.W.
The following are the estimates in five provinces
for the new financial year :
Estimated Estimated Estimated
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
Maoriland .. £5,300,000 £5,059,729 £240,271
Tasmania .. 965,410 866,617 98,793
Victoria .. 7,156,225 7,136,755 19,470
S.A 2,711,335 2,711,140 195
Estimated
Deficit.
N.S. Wales .. 9,782,643 9,909,371 £126,728
Seddon, of Maoriland, and Braddon, of Tasmania, are the
only' two Treasurers whose figures show any reasonable
attempt to keep things solvent. The estimates for
Queensland and Westralia were not available at time of
writing.
¥ ¥ * *
It is alleged that, for the year ended 30th. June,
1899, the N.S.W. railways made a clear profit of £71,912.
But very similar statements have been made in previous
years, and every time the Auditor-General proved them to
be a fake and a sham, and showed that the deficit was
there just as usual. The N.S.W. railway department has
a curious way of burying its head in the sand, and refus-
ing to recognise things as they are, in order to produce
bogus surpluses that do no good to itself or anybody else.
Many of the old railway loans were floated at a discount.
When a £1,009,000 railway loan only realised £930,0u0
actual cash, the interest has still to be paid on the full
million ; but the railway department claims that it should
pay interest only on £930,000, and that the interest oti
the other £70,000 should be charged to the general
revenue. This device makes the total interest bill no
smaller, and all it does is to enable the depart-
ment to stick its breast-bone out further, and talk more
loudly about the results it has produced. Yet, if the
department were a private co., and it floated a one-million
construction loan for £930,000, it would have to debit
itself with the full million and with interest thereon ; and
seeing that it is supposed to be run on commercial prin-
ciples, the same rule applies.
* * ' * *
The profits of the Union Bank of Australia
again move down a little, the net earnings for the half-
year ended 28th February, 1899, being £42,071. Some
previous profits compare as follows :
August, 1593 ...£60,295 August, 1896 ...£58,837
Februarv, 1834 ... 44,132 February, 1897 ... 37,578
August, 1894 ... 44,676 August, 1897 ... 37,436
February, 1895 ... 37,172 February, 1898 ... 47,696
August, 1895 ... 36,063 August, 1898 ... 42,578
February, 1896 ... 37,996 February, 1899 ... 42,071
The earnings are. equal to £3 7s. 4d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital £1,50(1,000,
reserves £750,000, contingency fund £250,000). The
dividend, which has been stationary at 5 per
cent. for four years, is now raised to 6
per cent., which absorbs £4s,ooo—nearly £3OOO more
than the earnings, thus reducing the old profit-balance
from £29,778 to £26,849. Considering that the Union
Bank has only twice in the last eleven half-years earned
6 per cent., and further considering that the profits have
again been tending downwards in the past tWo half-
years, it is difficult to imagine why the management
decided to make this remarkable splash, or what it saw,
or thought it saw, ahead to justify such a thing. There
is no change of any great importance in the busi-
ness, though the figures show a pretty general increase.
Some three years ago the Union Bank decided that there
were heavy losses, or possible losses, to be provided for,
and transferred £250,000 from reserve to contingent
account for that purpose. Since then, however, there
has been no attempt at a definite cleaning up ; the losses
alluded to haven't been written off, and the old values
still remain in the balance-sheet with the £250,000 as a
provision against them on the other side of the account.
This is only a minor point, however. The really interest-
ing feature in the present statement of accounts is the
action of the directors in increasing the dividend in the
face of a falling revenue.
• * * *
The United Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. issues a balance-sheet for the 18 months ended 30th
June, 1899, and shows a loss of £997. Also, there are
serious doubts as to whether the loss isn’t really a good
deal larger. The doings of the United Australian Mutual
for some time past have been as follows :
Net profit. Dividends.
1891 .. £2873 6 per cent. = £lBB4
1892 .. 2275 „ „ = 1884
1893 .. 1922 „ „ = 1884
1894 .. 1349 „ „ = 1884
1895 .. 2191 „ „ = 1884
1896 .. 2064 „ „ = 1884
Loss.
1897 .. 1508 Nil.
1899 (1J years) 907 Nil.
Profit : £10,259 Dividends : £11,304
During these 8)4 years the United Australian Mutual has
written off £3185 to cover depreciation of securities. It
now gets itself out of a very tight place by
adding on £3672 as increased value of securities.
But for this item, which is put in as revenue,
the visible loss for the 18 months would have been £4579.
The co. never, in all the 20 years of its existence, made
any serious attempt to create a reserve-fund, or reinsur-
ance-fund, or contingency-fund, or to make any other
provision for the future. At the beginning of 1898 it had
a credi t balance of £9OB, and as its losses and expenses were
£3671 more than its revenue and its former credit balance
put together, the situation was awkward. And at this
crisis the property considerately came to the rescue by
increasing in value by £3672 —which just filled the gap
and left £1 to carry forward. The thoughtfulness shown by
the property in increasing by just the exact amount that
was wanted, and doing it just at the right time, can’t be
too much praised. Yet it would have been probably a great
deal better if the co. had simply closed the year with
a debit balance of £3671, and decided to practise strict
economy till it was wiped off, and had not resorted to the
doubtful practice of writing up the property, however
willing the property might be to come to the rescue by
increasing in value to the precise extent required just
when its assistance was so much wanted.
The gross premium income for 18 months was
£28,475 —about £19,000 a year—so the U.A.M. isn’t by
any means a large affair. It has a paid-up capital of
£39,966 ; and as its Sydney and Melbourne properties are
put down at £50,709 (there is a £22,000 mortgage on
them) its capital appears to be, to all intents and pur-
poses, wholly buried in office property. According to the
balance-sheet this asset cost £47,037, so it is put down
at a good deal more than cost—yet the Melbourne pro-
perty, at all events, was bought in the comparatively
glorious days of 1892, when the great slump had only
commenced, and it might almost be expected to be worth
less than its cost instead of more. The United Australian
Mutual is an expensively-managed office, and the policy
which it has pursued of paying away practically all its
profits in dividends is about as bad as could be imagined.
It is now starting afresh with a nominal credit balance of
£l3s. lid. to show as the result of 20 years’ work (though
there seems reason to suppose it possible that a cast-iron
overhaul would reveal instead a considerable deficit), and
with that nominal £1 3s. lid. only arrived at by writing
up property values in a very dubious fashion ; and with
practically all its paid-up capital invested in offices. As
it has £207,000 of callable capital, it is undoubtedly a
safer concern than many for insurers, but so far as share-
holders are concerned it appears to require a kind of
management very different from what it has had in the
past. ■
* » * »
“Shaw”: The office in question, we have no
doubt, will pay your policy all right when it falls due.
At the same time, the other one you mention might give
you larger profits at the end of the term.
• ¥ * •
The National Bank (Melbourne) has repaid
another £410,000 of its 4J per cent, reconstructed de-
posits, leaving only another £410,000 outstanding. The
Bank of Victoria repays £525,000 of its old expensive de-
posits this month, leaving £525,000 still owing. The
Commercial Bank of Australia also repays £350,000 of its
reconstructed debts on 30th September.
* * * *
The Australian Star’s balance-sheet for the
year is a melancholy document, containing very little
detail ; perhaps on the principle that the less said about
the matter the better. The year’s profit is only £922,
and even the miserable little 4 per cent, dividend absorbs
£160(1, so the co. goes £678 to the bad, and its profit bal-
ance is reduced from £B2B to £l5O. The - actual earnings
were only about £2 6s. per cent per annum. And the
Star paid 6 per cent, in 1896, and 8 per cent, in 1897 and
1898. The co. has no reserve fund whatever, and even
then it balances its accounts by including “ goodwill ”
(amount not specified) among its assets. What is the
goodwill of a concern which earns £2 6s. per cent, on its
capital worth? The long-established daily newspaper
which, in these days of printing-paper at, apennv a lb., lino-
types and “ ring” cables, can’t pay a decent profit ought
to die—or, as an alternative, its conductors ought to give
place to a new set. The Star management can’t plead
that it has been spending its funds in the improvement
of the paper, for you never see any expensive special
matter in the Star—which, absurd to relate, is now
(despite that good old story about the man who condi-
tionally sold his soul to the devil) both managed and
edited by the same man. The curse of the Star is that
so many personal and personal-political axes have been
sharpened at its grindstone. It has never been abso-
lutely-bossed by newspaper-enthusiasts and experts, but
has, year after year, been under the heel of one dull,
prosy self-seeker or another. It has been brought into
contempt bv, for one thing, the disgracefully devious
course it took regarding Federation.
* * * *
The London syndicate now nibbling at Adelaide
tramways will probably have to fight the municipal bodies,
as well as the Govt, and Laborites. For some time it has
been proposed to organise a municipal trust to take over
the existing wretched system, an I Kingston favors Govt,
control as the only other alternative. In any case, the
London syndicators will —thank Heaven ! —find it very
hard to get their suggested monopoly through Parlia-
ment.
Earl Kilmorey is making another attempt to
get his Outer-harbor scheme through S.A. Parliament.
Stated by him that a powerful syndicate has been already
floated privately. S.A. Govt, rather frowns on lhe pro-
ject, as an Outer-harbor is part of its policy this session.
* * * *
In Westralia the three-ball Israelite usually
charges 3d. in the £ per week interest —about 66 per
shent. per annum. A Bill was recently introduced to
make the interest Id. in the H per week, but member
after member rose up to point out that the local “spout”
was a most respectable philanthropist, and the measure
was thrown out with enthusiasm.
B. H. Junction North has gone still further up
Queer-street. Two years ago it issued a balance-sheet
showing that it had paid in the 12 months £25,090 odd in
dividends—the first it had distributed. It wound up
that year with a surplus of nearly £15,000. Then its
workings were upset by the Junction “creep,” it had to
provide new machinery', and it had to fill up its old stopes,
so it ended the next 12 months with no divs. paid and a
surplus reduced to just under £5OOO. No divs. again this
last 12 months : and the surplus is . now back to £2635.
The directors once more try to cheer up shareholders ;
they remark that really there would have been a
profit if it hadn’t cost so much to work the mine.
Soulless banks will not let shareholders draw
against that kind of dividend, though. Setting down the
rugged truth without frills, the mine is poorer on the
year’s work by 49,000 tons of ore and the shareholders
are poorer by £9OO of capital. Prospects are not brilliant,
either. Certainly development work ought to cost less
for a while ; the main shaft is about finished ; the filling-
in of worked-out ground (which ought to have been con-
tinuously attended to) has been completed ; the ore, the
manager says, is getting a little freer from the plant-
racking rhodonite and sandstone—stuff harder than ordi-
nary steel, some of it—and so a profit ought to be made
in the year just beg-un. But the stuff is all too poor to
allow more than a trifle. Moreover, the zinc contents are
comparatively small, so that the solving of the zinc-ex-
traction problem will not mean so much to it as it will to
most of them.
Rhodonite, which stands between Junction
North shareholders and divs., has, like a good many
other cruel things, more than moderate good looks. It
is a silicate of manganese, always ruddy, sometimes dark
rose-red ; the dump wherein it is piled after it is crushed
and washed out of the ore is like a huge pile of rouge— in
fact, it is impure rouge. As encountered underground it
is brutally hard and tough ; and after wearing out drills
and patience there it wears out the hardest steel rolls
when it gets to the mills. Block 10 is also a sufferer
from it.
• • • •
Developments in the deepest ground of the
Central (Sulphide Corporation) have kept pace with excel-
lent work at the mill and the Cookie Creek works. The
co.’s profits are second only to the B.H. Prop.’s ; and the
first distribution announcement is nearly due. Ashcroft,
by the way, is quite adrift from the co. now, but has got
other backing and is still sulphide-experimenting in
London.
* * * *
“Constant”: (1) B.H. Prop, shares return
about 9 per cent. Until zinc can be profitably extracted,
the divs. are not likely to be larger. The chances are
that the extraction processes will be imperfect at first ; so
a large increase of profits is not to be reasonably looked
for even with zinc-operations in full blast. As to ore-bodies
there is no room for anxiety ; but the uncertainty of the
metal market makes even the B.H. Prop, something of a
gamble. Just as well to observe that divs. have been
kept up to present pitch only by an increase in price of
lead from £9 10s. a ton in ’94 to about £l4 10s. lately.
(2) There is so little likelihood of the B.H. Water Supply
being taken over by council or Govt, that it is not worth
talking about. The Govt, will take it over without any
payment at all in less than 20 years.
• ¥ * *
The biggest diamond yet found in N.S.W. was
unearthed the other day at the Star of the South mine,
Boggy Camp, Inverell. It is straw-colored, brilliant,
apparently flawless, and weighs between 6 and 7 carats.
* * * *
The Overflow Co. is doing the right thing by
issuing 20,000 preference shares to provide £5OOO, which
will be used solely in developing the property at the
lower levels. At present the Overflow people don't know
exactly what they have got—they are only sure that they
have most alluring prospects. The blast furnace to treat
available sulphides will, it is stated, soon be at work, and
the directors’report says that the profit from cyaniding
gossan, though insufficient to provide funds for develop-
ment, makes the mine self-supporting so far as it goes.
* m * *
Great things are predicted by N.S.W. Mines-
department officials for the Grassy Gully copper-show.
* * * *
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assay's alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin' correspondents
will not only give a statement of metallic contents, but
owners also will be advised by an experienced, practical
metallurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in
bulk, whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation,
smelting, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should
not be less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin.— ln this week’s issue it is
stated that carbolite is likely to supersede carbide of
calcium, and that it can be manufactured at one-tenth of
the cost, also that large works are being erected at Neu-
hausen. Evidently someone has been pulling your leg.
In the first place, carbolite cannot be made at anything
like the price that carbide of calcium can be turned out;
secondly, there are no works going up at Neuhausen on
Rhine—or anywhere else—to manufacture carbolite. Car-
bolite at present exists only on paper, and is never likely
to get any further. The carbolite wheeze has been going
the round of the colonial newspapers for the last two
years. Whenever it has been proposed to put up carbide-
works, the vested-interest men trot forth carbolite, simply
with a view of stopping the carbide-works being erected,
by frightening timid capitalists. If you live till the first
carbolite-works are in operation, you will be able to take
the belt from Methuselah. I enclose extract from a recent
lecture of Prof. Lewes’, and would like to point out at the
same time that, since carbolite was first boomed, 12
millions of money have been put into new carbide-works.
Yours truly, the Acetylene Gas Company of Australasia,
Ltd., W. Tyree, Managing Director. Sept. 3.
* * * *
Worturpa (S.A.) field threatens to survive the
shock caused by the announcement that its telluride is
telluride of nickel and not telluride of gold. The forma-
tion (writes a correspondent) is a good dioritic ore, but
there is not enough free gold to make a mine of it. As,
however, copper begins to make in the shaft as depth is
attained, and as the copper is rich in gold, it is not im-
probable that a gold-copper mine may eventuate. Inde-
pendently of this formation, there passes through, or
rather on the eastern side of the proclaimed goldfield, a
rich, ahnost-untested belt of copper country, in many
places auriferous. On it has lately been found an enor-
mous cupiferous ironstone body, which is nothing more
nor less than a quarry of copper-ore of high percentage.
A big gang of men is now being put on. Mr. Chaffey
Baker has ten or a dozen men on another new show
known as the Worturpa copper-mine.
¥ » ¥ *
Operations have re-commenced at the old
Kapunda copper-mine, which, it is hoped, will, at copper’s
present price, pay handsomely. Diamond-drilling opera-
tions still proceed at the old “ Burra,” but nothing sensa-
tional has yet occurred. Govt, continues diamond-dril-
ling at Ediacara old silver-lead mine. At least 30 mines
are being worked profitably by small parties in Leigh
Creek district. The Lorna Doone (late Mottram’s) has
been floated into a £50,000 co.—about ten times the v
capital the proposition warrants, when it is considered
that no lode occurs, and that it is practically only pick-
and-shovel work at which the two Mottram brothers
struggled hard and ineffectually for years.. The old
Reedy Creek (S.A.) mine, now renamed “ Kitticoola Gold-
Copper Mine,” is producing magnificent ore, averaging on
the whole only about 3 to 4 per cent, of copper, but con-
taining from 10 to 15dwt. gold. £BOOO has lately been
spent on this show, which is held by three private indi-
viduals. Smelting has been more or less in progress
during the past two months, but so far only some few tons
of high-percentage matte has been produced, as the selec-
tion of material for the furnace was most unhappy.
Judanamutana mine has changed hands and is to be
worked.
Sample of S.A. copper-boom statements : “The
ore body is 600 ft. long and 400 ft. wide The ore
here, which is in veins throughout the entire block, will
average from 8 to 10 per cent, copper.”
* * * *
Mr. David Marks has taken up some leases at)
Kiandra, and just made a contract with the Austral Otis
Engineering Co. Ltd., of South Melbourne, to supply and
build on the leases a complete Bucket Gold Dredge' with
a capacity of 120 tons per hour, and to dredge to a depth
of 30ft. This plant will be one of the most complete
dredges yet built, embodying all the latest improvements
and patents of Messrs. Cutten Bros., the well-known
dredge engineers of Dunedin and Sydney. The contract
requires the dredge to be in full work the first week in
January next. The time is very short, but no doubt the
Austral Otis Co. will be equal to the task.
* * * v
The leading incident of the week in the W.A.
mining market is the rise in Great Boulders consequent
on the news told by the diamond-drill at 800 ft. There are
people who reckon on Boulders going to £3 shortly.
* * • •
Westralian Govt. Gazette the other day pub-
lished a list of leases to be cancelled on Sept. 1 unless
overdue rents and incurred fines are paid before that
date. There are no less than 198 Coolgardie leases in
the list, besides others.
Dr. Laver, cricketer Frank’s brother, couldn’t
wait to see the ’Stralians do much playing in England—
he is back again in the West looking after the Mt. Mar-
garet shows which he and English partners own. The
most remarkable thing about these shows so far is
that it is not proposed to hand them over to companies
to work. The infant township thereabout, by the way, is
Laverton.
* * f ♦
Of Bendigo mines the Moon group is likely to
make the most noticeable headway for a while. The New
Moon is on good stone, and is div.-paying ; the South
N.M. is putting its profits into a new battery ; and the
Suffolk Tribute is getting into the good country.
* * * •
Sohlapp’s report on the Hampden mines Is hut
a repetition of previous experiences out Cloncurry way.
Enormously rich outcrops and a surface literally strewn
with (often cwt.) slugs of native copper—and nothing to
speak' of below. Apparently no true fissure lodes, as
former co.’s found to their sorrow and expense (beer is a
shilling a glass in Cloncurry) ; and Govt, should think
twice ere building a railway into that howling wilderness
of hairy men and artesian bores. Why not prove the
finds and then construct the line ? Writer knows an old
fossicker who washed a dwt. prospect out of a certain
creek, and in the gladness of his heart put in three
months building a solid humpy and fence, and laying out
a vegetable-garden, to last him to the end of his days.
But when he got to work, that prospect, alas, was about
the only gold to be found for many miles around.
* * * *
Rev. Joseph Campbell’s thermo-hyperpborio
process is dished up once more in the papers. In-
ventor said to be runnimr it on very low-grade refrac-
tory ore in Maoriland, and making a weekly trip of 120
miles so as not to neglect his duty as acting-vicar of the
Church of the Holy Sepulchre. Writer wishes the method
a bigger success than followed the Campbell-Chapple-
Lockwood water-gas process.
¥ • * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Se., mining engineer, or" 434
Collins-street, Melb., is about to visit Western Australia
to report on a newly-discovered copper property. While
there he is open to investigate other properties.*
* * * *
One Otago dredge, the Hoitley and Riley Co.’s,
has secured no less than 2802 oz. gold within six
weeks. Otago gold is very fine ; £4 an oz. is a fair sample
price. 2802 oz. at £4, equals t'll,2oS. Expenses of
dredging- for six weeks cannot possibly exceed £250,
leaving close on £ll,OOO to pay divs. on £6,500 capital.
Divs. amounting to 255. per share have been paid the last
month, and directors are thinking of paying another 20s
per share. And they are still scooping it up.
¥ ¥ * *
In shipping circles, at least, the coming season is
not too bright. Catering for the anticipated light wool-
clip there are the new 12,000-ton White Star liners, new
Aberdeen liners, 10,000-ton Norddeutscher-Lloyds, besides
the P. and 0., Orient, and French boats, and the huge
fleet Of odds and ends that come out mostly in ballast,
grabbing cargo here with both hands. Soon procuring a
full hold will-be a worse job than writing new life-assur-
ance. The'large shipowners conferred recently as to
standard cargo rates, result as yet indefinite.
The proof of the existence of a Broken Hill
mines’ black-list, which has been a good deal talked about
in Melbourne lately, got into Trades Hall possession
through the carelessness of the manager to whom the
circular “ notice of dismissal ” was sent. Picked up in
the public street leading to this “ Captain’s ” mine, it was
promptly photographed—the local unions had a pre-
vious experience of having to give up a similar tell-tale
uC"ument before it had been even copied. The man
mentioned and minutely described in the paper has since
been provided by the Lahor party, at a moment when it
was dominant in the local Council, with a municipal
billet. But it had got a declaration from him before-hand
that he knew of no reason why he should be refused
employment on the mines.
Concerning!, the black-listing of broken Hill
miners, some of the co’s. directors disclaim responsibility.
If, they say, anything at all is done it is simply a friendly
arrangement among the managers. The system was,
however, carried out under a resolution of the Mine
Managers’ Association, though hardly any men were
“ listed” except from the B.H. Prop. mine. Thepre ent
General Manager of that mammoth concern has a way,
though, of disregarding the Association, and the man-
ager of the next-biggest concern also detests the practice,
and has even given work to good men who have been
repeatedly refused it in the past.


>
>
d
A NEW DEPARTURE
In Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to ,
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of '
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the '
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do <
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR |
ORDER TRADE.
£2T We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea- t
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted. |
DAVID JONES & COMPANY, i
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
/ Opposite \
V g.p.o. ;
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
nestores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
Mayor M‘Eacliarn, as chairman at a
Melb. Try Excelsior meeting, hearing of boys
going out “on their own ” at 13 and 14 and get-
ting a living: “If mere boys can do this, why
have I heard so much about the unemployed ?
Surely if boys can maintain themselves persons of
mature age can do the same.” This is a useful
utterance. It enables people to plumb the depths
of the M‘Eacharn intellect. M'Eacharn as a
supply-and-demand philosopher can not understand
what happens when the supply is of married men
and' the demand is for unmarried boys.
* » * *
The latest in the craze for sending musical
prodigies to Europe for education is the idea of a
Perth (W.A.)’man who is running a distribution
of his local property for the purpose of sending
his daughter, aged 13, “ who is a composer of
music, to Europe, being desirous of giving her a
thorough education in that particular profession,
and not having the means at his command.’’
Subscribers taking five tickets receive (additional
to chance of prize) a copy of the lady’s “Federal
Waltz ” ; subscribers for ten tickets a copy also of
her “ grand triumphal march in commemoration
of the glorious victory of America over Spain.”
* * » »
The Salvation Army at Perth (W.A.) lately
celebrated the opening of its new “citadel” with
the wedding of a male captain and a lady adjutant,
when the blood-and-fire warriors yelled and banged
the drum and shouted hallelujah, and laughed at
the officiating commandant’s jokes for two hours,
IT GENERALLY DOES, TOO.
SHE: “ How dare you, sir, kiss me without my
permission? ”
HE: “Well, I’ve known you ever since you were
ten, and I thought that — that —that ”
SHE: “ That familiarity breeds consent!”
before a crowded audience which paid 6d. a head
to see the show. The marriage ceremony lasted
two hours, and everyone voted it a splendid six-
penn”orth. But next day the morning papers
gravely announced that the real marriage had
taken place in accordance with Westralian law
before six the preceding evening. Consequently
the gorgeous ceremony was merely a coin-collect-
ing device. Now what organisation but the Army
would have thought of a dodge like that? ’
* , # ’
A Hobart gaol rule, that no prisoner shall
wear his own clothes, was responsible, the other
day, for a little awkwardness. A fresh lodger
(sent up for three months) rejoicing in the name
of Hastings Throckmorton Cholmondeley, or
something like that, and to whom all the warders
touched their caps in awe, thinking at first that lie
was a British Imperial Commissioner come to
inspect the gaol, was found to be of such huge
dimensions that he had to stop in bed whilst they
manufactured a rig-out for him.
* * * *
A gorgeous idea is suggested by N.S.W.
Judge G. B. Simpson’s recent punctuation of the
necessity for an official stenographic record of
divorce-evidence. Why should not Governments,
in providing this needful short hand assistance,
turn at the same time an honest, if malodorous,
penny by the publication of (say) the Matri-
monial News and Divorce Court Gazette?
Such a sheet need never be “ gravelled for lack of
matter,” since, under Federation, when there
would be no local “ rortiness ” to be served-np,
the divorce-proceedings of the other provinces
would come in handy. There would be no
material reason, for that matter, why the primest
matrimonial smellfulnesa of the world at large
should not be rehashed to contribute to the attrac-
tions of a sheet that would sell enormously amongst
the servant-girl class, and, by consequence,
amongst women in every position. And when,
to the scullery-wench, and the fat cook, and
the frosty maiden - aunt, and the matron
of terrific virtue, we add the white-
vested right-thinking person, and the monkey-
bearded Holy Joe, and the sainted young man
who teaches Sunday-school—and, in a word, every
soul who pretends to superior Respectability and
Piety—why, The Bulletin is almost sorry it
didn’t keep such magnificent possibilities a secret
of its own ingenuous bosom.
* * * *
N.S. Wales Justice Department should
try to get a firm grip on the train of circumstances
that led to the return, marked “unserved,” of a
writ of attachment for costs issued against a
policeman doing daily duty in a Northern river
township.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Do you think there is
any hope that the public-houses will keep open
half-an-hour later after we get Federation ?—T.S.
* * * *
A late disappearance case in Maoriland (if
the disappearer hasn’t returned before this gets
into print) furnishes a curious detective problem.
He was an ordinary plain ratepayer, reason-
ably prosperous, and just as unromantic and
stodgy as any other ratepayer. Nobody
suspected him of having a Past—nor much
of a future; he was just a dull, flat citizen
leading a brownish-grey existence in which
he got up, and washed, and went to bed
again. But one day he had been reading
the Auckland daily paper, and he rose up
suddenly, dropped the journal, put a
few clothes in a travelling-bag, and
rushed out of the door. It has been
assumed that he saw, looking at him out
of the paper, the ghost of a horrid Past,
and in the absence of any other clue the
paper has been overhauled in search of
the news which gave him such sudden
notice to quit, but no item in it seems to
fit. And the local ’tec., whose idea in
such cases is to tramp heavily down to
the wharf and ask if an excited-looking
person with a brown bag was seen getting
on board the boat for Hokitika or Hoki-
anga, or Hokanui, can’t make much of
such delicate investigations.
* * *
.Re the unsafe-boiler question. Is any
provision made for the inspection of the
boilers on the numerous steam-lighters
which knock about Sydney wharves? Pre-
sent writer is assured by an employe on one
of them that the condemned boiler of a river-
steamer was over a year ago placed on a
lighter. Of course, the men daren’t speak
for fear of the sack.
* » * *
Yass (N.S.W.) Borough Council
valorously determined to collect with one
frasp an outstanding rates-aecount of ,£l7.
)ebtor offered to pay =£lo on demand and
balance in three months. Offer scouted. In
due course a writ was issued, judgment got,
and a bailiff sent in. At this stage an
interpleader intervened. The council has since
been fighting that and its outcome, and now
finds lying on its table a law-costs bill to date for
£B6O. The Yass councillors now argue as to
which of them first scouted the offer of ,£lO down
and £7 in three months.
Apropos the present Sabbath - obser-
V f/ ,GG , how £ V T j d , a , Tas - R - C - clergyman, the
< . ,tt l er day: I don t believe God sees any harm
in J 0 °tb all or cricket, or any other such game on
j Sunday, provided you attend Mass and you
don t be too much taken up with your prayers to
£°~ ce tke P late - ’ One never hears of either
K . or G-E. clergymen discountenancing rational
fu' , °M- menfc ? n S ff nda y- the “Sawbath” of
F onoonformist conscience that goes in for the
miserables,*’ and the Evangelical view prevails
e” i7e,r Ply beC “” S9 °' ‘ he its
OVERHEARD AT A RACE MEETING.
GOOD OLD SORT (to his friend): “Come and
have a taste, Bill. Eve got a stitch in my
side. ”
“All right, old man; but you’d be better off if you
had the stitch in your mouth !”
How absurd are some of the Transvaal
cablegrams! “The Bulawayo forces, under Baden-
Powell, are drilling daily.” At the present junc-
ture, if the local regulars were not drilling daily,
the cableman might step in and tell the. world,
otherwise it is all palpable padding. But hold !
Probably it is a puff for Baden - Powell. The
Baden-Powell gang are big self-advertisers, and
are great in London “colonial ” circles.
* * * *
Gov. Brassey's intention as to his return
to England has been changed, and he now says he
is consulting the Colonial Office as to whether he
should wait till the arrival of the Governor-
General, or depart ere that personage comes. The
answer is almost certain to be that he should wait;
but he will be out of Victoria within the twelve
months.
* * * *
Joe Wollinski’s “ Interior ” at N.S. W. Art
Society’s Show proves that High Art and sign-
painting are not incompatible. Strange also that
this work (the only one purchased in that quarter
by th(p National Gallery) should bear the same
catalogue-number (67) as Lambert’s “Across the
Black Soil Plains,” certainly the pick of the other
lot’s show.
* * * *
At last annual meeting of East Melbourne
Hebrew Congregation it was stated that of recent
years 25 per cent, of Jewish marriages have been
mixed. Apparently the Gentiles are absorbing
the Jews as the Saxons in England absorbed the
Normans.
* * * *
One development of the mixed marriage.
They point to a couple in Sydney who have fre j
quent differences of opinion, leading often to
physical violence. In extremes the Protestant
husband fetches the R.C. priest to talk the R.O.
wife to reason, and as often the wife fetches the
parson to reduce the husband in like manner.
* * * *
Down South a distinguished military offi-
cer of long service was transferred to a responsible
civil post, on the understanding that his army and
his civilian service should be reckoned on the same
scale in fixing his pension. This arrangement
does not seem to have been properly registered,
for on reaching the end of his service the official
finds himself shunted both by the army and civil
departments. Which difficulty is almost as bad as
that of the lady who got married in two churches,
and doesn’t know which marriage to get a divorce
from.
When a certain Melb. suburban Mayor
was elected, at the beginning of this year he
w 6 «tdow„ on h,, bike »
on t e bench. He dropped into the
watch -house, where there was a
new watch-house-keeper, who
greeted him with, “ Well,
what do ye waant?”
Only to leave my bike
™>’ said the Mayor.
Ah', thin, ye won’t, me.
mahn,” said the copper;
‘clear out, you an’ yer
bike, or mebbe Oi’d keep
both o’ yez here longer
than yez’d care.” “o’n, 1
didn t mean any offence,”
said his Worship; “if
it s any inconvenience,
I won’t leave it here.”
“Any incon vaynience!
Bad luck to you,” re-
plied the trap. “ Per-
haps, if I put it in the
yard, it’ll be looked
after,” suggested his
Worship. This was too
much for the gaoler, who
reddened up to the roots
. j j., indignation, and or-
dered the wheelman off the premises.
Ordered to leave the gaol, the Mayor
went and carried his bike up to the
magistrates -room. A quarter of an
• ° U A r n^? r ’ w ! len the First Magistrate
i Blankville was in the chair on
the bench, watch-house-keeper Hooligan
got into the box to give evidence, and
nearly fainted when he found who it
was he had nearly run in. It took two
j « eers to make him himself again,
and ‘ever since then” he stands at the
toot of the court-steps on Mondays and
Ihursdays, and, when the Mayor arrives
and dismounts, leads his bike into the
watch-house for a feed.
* * * *
For ways that are dark and tricks that are
vain the garden Chinee is not in it by the side of
the woman who has graduated in matrimony. A
lady has turned up, in a Vic. maintenance case,
whose husband guarded his pockets so sedulously
that, to get at them, she was constrained to knock
him up in the small hours of morning, with
her elbow in his ribs, declaring, in a hoarse
and horrified whisper, that there was a
burglar downstairs. When hubbv
arose and stole below to pro-
tect his hearth and home,
his wife went hastily through
his pockets, and cleaned him
out so thoroughly that he
nearly died of loneliness next
day. The husband deserted her,
but the law tells him to return
or else stump up.
• * «
The demise of Lady Denison revives two
or three Gov. Denison references. First, Fort
Denison, in Sydney, was built under his super-
vision and after plans approved by him. It was
not through a Russian or Chinese scare, as is
commonly believed, that the structure was put up,
but owing to a strongly-entertained opinion of
the Governor’s that the Americans meditated an
attack. Second, Gov. Denison was an engineer
by profession, and one of his hobbies in that line
was to construct railway lines with hard Austra-
lian timber. Third, trawling, of which so much
has been lately heard in consequence of Frank
Farnell’s sea picnics, was a big subject with
Denison in 1859. He, Daniel Cooper, and a few
others hired a schooner and trawled Botany Bay.
Denison promised treats of fish to a host of people,
but all the day’s trawling produced was 1 john
dory, 2 flounders, and 1 sole—whereat Sydney
laughed.
* * * *
The secretary of the committee of the
North Shore (Sydney) friendly societies’ demon-
stration has resigned rather than ask the Governor
for a subscription to the fete. He explains that he
objects to asking money from one who might not
care to refuse, and who will be merely consenting
to be “ bled.” If His Excellency gave anything,
argues this downright official, it would not be
because he had any particular interest in North
Sydney or its friendly societies, but just because
he happens to be Governor. Good.
* * * *
“ Gavendo tutus": Madden, C.J., talks too
much, and glows more garrulous as he ages. The
suppression of reports of the J. B. Gregory case
by the Courts and the Press is national dishonor
and a treason to the public. Gregory has argued
for his liberty with sanity and sagacity, and
whether he is inad or not, it should be impossible
in Victoria to compile a secret dossier and practi-
cally judge the man in camera. Gregory has
three brothers-in-law, one an Ahgus sub editor,
another permanent head of the department con-
trolling lunatic asylums, and the third bar-leader.
* * * *
What music-teaching has come to in
Sydney. Clip from the local D.T.
It is somewhat startling to find you can receive a
pianoforte lesson for sixpence. The writer read a notice
to this effect lately, and made an enquiry,
“ Have you many pupils?”
“No, sir; I’ve only got threepupils so far ; but I should
like to have ten, because I wane to earn enough money to
get a bathing suit. Of course, I can’t teach grown-up
people ; I don’t know enough.”
* * * *
Australian-educated C.E. parsons who go
to England are not accepted by Bishops there
unless they undergo an examination. A recipro-
cation of this indignity would be about the best
weapon Queensland could employ against the par-
son-importing tactics of Bishop Webber.


“ You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
CQNDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Condy’s Fluid’ > can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
gunjjght Qi| (Jake
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throng boat
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
In order to introduce our GOLD-WIRE JEWELLERY
to the Australian public, we have decided to OFFER one
of the greatest BARGAINS ever seen in the jewellery
trade viz., the above handsome BROOCH (any name or
3 initials), made of extra quality gold-fiiled wire, with
bell or heart pendant; guaranteed 9 carat solid gold.
Complete, sent post free on receipt P. 0.0. or M. 0., 5/-.
Agents wanted to take orders. Illustrated catalogue
s ent free. R. SIMS, Manufacturing Gold-wire Jeweller,
Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
HALF-SICK Just sick, enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what yon eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
Senior’s
Famous Pharmacy
All Business Communications to be
Addressed
FRANK SENIOR,
Ohemist, 246 George Stveet, Sydney.
Booth’s latest : “ I regard the people o f
Australia as a thoroughly religious people—a
people with whom religion is a great force ! ” This
criticism has at least the flavour of novelty. Pre-
vious oritical sky-pilots were all agreed that the
Australian was about the most godless animal in
the civilised world. But Booth ought to know—
for he judges by the Army’s one infallible cri-
terion—the pile of dollars on the collection plate.
* * * *
The Salvation Army boasts much of its
undenominational philanthropy ; but when it has
■wages to scatter it is a bit more exclusive. At
the opening of the “ Citadel ” in Perth, the other
day—whereat, by the way, Bigjohn, under the
guidance of the holy Throssel, offered up a little
prayer—the Commandant crowed that every bit
of the job, from the designing to the hod-carrying,
had been done by Army men.
• * * *
The Queensland Police Commission now
sitting in Brisbane is finding out a few curious
facts. Re the famous Gatton tragedy it turns out
that a telegram was received in the office of a
prominent police official on Dec. 27 at 11.16 a.m.,
announcing the triple murder. This same tele-
gram was never opened till the morning of Dec.
28, by which time the murderer or murderers had
gained an invaluable 24 hours’ start. The head of
the force—it is alleged—is mainly occupied with
office work ; consequently inspection and visitation
of outside stations are largely neglected. Dis-
content and inefficiency appear to be rampant.
At present Queensland, judging by its own
statistics, appears to be about the safest place to
commit murder in south of the line. It is also
about the unsafest of all places to insult the police
in.
* * * *
The other day, at Wilcannia, Judge Gib-
son sitting, an undefended whaler was sentenced
to a long term for breaking into a bush hut and
idiotically humping off most of the contents.
The gaol doctor gave evidence that the man was
pretty sane—“might be wrong on some points,”
but was right on others. In spite of this remark-
able evidence no other inquiry was made, and the
man was found guilty. The Judge said that he
passed the long sentence in the interests of
society; but if the prisoner behaved himself he
would probably get out in 12 months, if he was
properly sane. Tbe farce (or tragedy) of trying
and sentencing a man like that!
* * * *
“ Doko ” : Heard this in an Australian
capital. “ Hullo—lookin’ pretty glum ! What’s
wrong? ” “ Oh, badly ‘ had ’ over that last mob
of cattle. Not a sound beast in the lot. A cow I
killed this morning was nearly eaten away with
cancer. Had to feed her to the pigs ! ” Apropos ,
it is a fact that cancerous and pleuritic cattle are
bought up wholesale by a ham-and-bacon curing
firm in the vicinity of said capital.
* » • *
A Melb. young man, aged 21, swallowed a
dose of arsenic the other day, all along of a 17-year-
old damsel who had won his heart at churcb choir
practice. He didn’t die, and when he was tried
for attempted suicide the damsel gave evidence
calculated to make her adorer feel very sorry for
the pains he had suffered in his innards. “ She
believed that defendant had tried to take his life
because she had refused to marry him,” said the
heroine of the romance. Apparently she was al-
ways solid on the point that she didn’t want to
marry him, anyhow. “On 23rd inst., accused
came to wish her good-bye, and said he had taken
poison. He had a bottle in his hand, but witness
did not really know if he had taken poison or not.”
This picture of the arsenieised swain hurling bis
sentimental adieux at an idol who didn’t worry
herself as to whether he would soon be dead or
otherwise is rich in serio-comic effect. It is a pic-
ture to study in the light of the young lady’s fur-
ther evidence : “About three months ago, accused
told her that if she gave him up he would first
shoot her and them himself. This frightened her
for a- time, but afterwards she dismissed the mat-
ter from her mind.”
* * * *
Sydney advt. :
A.TATRXMONY.—GentIeman with business worth
few thousand wants Partner for life ; must put
something into business for her own security and
benefit. Reply Business, G.P.O.
Quite a new way of stating it. It would be in-
teresting to hear “Business” explaining to one of
the ladies bow “putting something into the busi-
ness;”, would be “ for her own security.”
* • * *
Queensland is the happy hunting-ground
of the adulterator. Publicans were fined at Croy-
don recently for selling “ whisky ” that proved
to be mostly compounded of an aniline pre-
paration and sulphuric acid. Brisbane grocers
are,being daily fined for selling vinegar manufac-
tured of more or less deleterious materials “on
the premises” or raspberry jam, compounded of
pumpkin, chemical flavorings, and colored with
aniline. As to milk and bread sophistication,
it is too common a matter to excite notice.
However, that’s nothing. When a province has
adulterated its population with the scum and
scourings of Asia, it doesn’t matter much if the
tucker is also a little doctored.
» * * •
The fire-alarms attached to the water-
sprinklers of Melb. warehouses have an unac-
countable way of starting off at every change of
pressure, and in one big hotel situated next door
to a softgoods firm, the boarders are continually
being scared by the booming of the alarm-bell in
the small hours of the a.m. Persons of assorted
sexes flock down the corridors in extreme disha-
bille, and are with great difficulty restrained from
bolting down street; while on one occasion things
were complicated by a wild, shrieking figure in
nothing but a singlet bounding into the midst of the
assembled guests. This proved to be a parson,
who had been suddenly aroused, fleeing for his life.
* * * *
The wise criminal shuns a Court as the
Devil shuns holy water ; but wise criminals are
few, and the other day a southern couple fell in
badly. A mate with whom they had been con-
victed in Sydney five years back was in the dock,
and, as it was known he intended denying the
Sydney conviction if found guilty, the Crown was
in a quandary. It wasn’t worth adjourning pend-
ing the arrival of a Sydney policeman, and it had
just been decided to let the prisoner go as a first
offender when a d. spotted the two mates. In
five minutes a couple of subpoenas were served on
them and they stood in the humiliating position of
being about to be called to testify to the convic-
tion of their pal. Happily for their peace of mind
the prisoner was “ turned up.”
* • * *
One rule of a recently-formed Westralian
Wharf-Laborers’Union provides that “immoral
conduct” shall disqualify. Funny to think of
•“ immorality ”as a reason why a man shouldn’t
truck the sacred wool-bale or hump the holy spud.
* * * *
Noteworthy that none of the
coffins being turned up at the western end of the
Yic. markets, Melbourne, have name-plates on
them. The Evening Herald supposes they were
“ planted ”30 years ago, but 30 years ago none
but corpses possessed of freehold rights and
vaults were buried in the old cemetery. The
section in which the nameless coffins have been
found was chiefly patronised in the 40’s and 50’s
by people who didn’t care to pay more than they
oould help for their last beds. It is likely that
the coffins and bones recently disinterred were the
property of people who “ went out ” long before
the fuss and fury of the gold discoveries, and
when Melbourne was as yet in the egg.
* * ■* *
That unlucky “T ” again. The Maori -
land steamer, Tekoa, wrecked at Tierra del
Fuego.
* * * *
Joseph of Melbourne, is a bur-
glar of parts. In gaol he was “ put on to a good
crib to crack ”by a fellow-sufferer. .The “crib”
was in a country town, and Mr. Kitchen when
liberated was a penniless but impenitent thief.
How to get to Kerang on nothing was the problem
that beset him, and he solved it by interviewing
the Charity Organisation Society with a woeful
story of sorrow, suffering and want nobly borne,
of hunger, and worry, and Christian fortitude.
The C.O.S. provided Joseph with a free pass to
Kerang, “ where a job was waiting him,” and in
less than 24 hours Joseph had cracked his crib,
and was backin Melb. again with the spoil. Joe
undertook to return the railway-fare out of his
first earnings, but here his sense of humor failed
him, and the C.O.S. was spared the risk of pro-
secution as a receiver of stolen goods.
Editor Bulletin. —Allow me to contra-
dict the statement (8., 26/8/’99) that the “ Bat-
man plate” has been removed from the wall of
the A.M.P. Society’s Melbourne building. The
plate is still in situ. —Richard Teece.
* * * *
“ J.W.S.” : Sable “King” Tommy lately
called into our local P.O. and announced that
“Mine want it sen ’em paper yabba longa Mr.
” (M.P. for district), “tell him stop-em
people ringbarkem tree, killein all ’possum an’
goanna—mine eat-em ! Blackpfeller no vote put
him longa Parliamen’ nex’ time. Noplurry fear!”
♦ * m *
E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.
There was a queer scene on a
Sydney wharf t’other day. A couple of
burly fellows were waiting on a steamer
evidently for someone to come aboard,
but up to casting-off time the wished-
for person did not appear. As soon,
however, as the watchers were
ashore, and the boat well clear of
the 'wharf, the wanted one appeared
from below, and began playing on
a cornet “ You’ll remember me,” ac-
companied by a volley of language
from the disappointed ones.
* * *
The most lurid portion of
Thursday Island is called Yoko-
hama. In Yokohama are 77
“women” of many races, and
with not a moral to divide among
them, and when the pearling-sea-
son is over, and 1200 pearling-boats
have congregated at the little isle,
Yokohama becomes too dreadful for
language. The great anxiety of the
pearlers, divers and crews seems to
be to spend all their cash and have
an incandescent time before work
starts again. One out-of-the-
way member of the painfully
cosmopolitan population of
Thursday Island is an Esqui-
maux, who became a Christian
at Uppernavik, in Greenland.
Why anyone should be so
careful |to report that any-
body in the red - painted,
sun-blasted island is a Christian
passes understanding, but some
papers are so conscientious that,
whenever a man cuts his mother’s
head off, they will move heaven
and earth to find out what church
he habitually attended.
A mature and straight-laced maiden, who
owned and manag> d a farm in the days of old
Van Diemen, was in the habit of overseeing her
employes from the house-top by means of a tele-
scope. This unpleasant behavior was at length
resented, and a plot arranged. morning the
slavey heard awful screams from the roof, and,
ascending, found her mistress performing a rat-
tatoo on the shingles with her heels. The tech-
nique of the plot was never discovered (disclosure
spelt “cat” in those days), but it worked. One
had merely to mention “telescope,” and the
ancient virgin would close up like the article
itself, and no robin’s corset blushed redder than
she.
* * * *
*How does what Dickens wrote about the
oid Bow-street runners hit off the Australian
detective of to-day?—
They never lost a public occasion of jobbing and trading
in mystery, and making the most of themselves. Con-
tinually puffed, besides, by incompetent magistrates,
anxious to conceal their own deficiencies, and hand-in-
glove with the penny-a-liner of that time, they became a
sort of superstition.
Straight on the mark !
* • * *
By order of Gov. Hunter, in 1806, free
people found guilty of illicit distillation were
expelled from N.S. Wales. Despite this drastic
ordinance illicit distillation con-
tinued to be as vigorously pursued
as among the free people of
the present day. The illicit
distillers were them-
selves a fairly sober
lot, but they sold
the stuff at high
prices to the con-
victs and grew
wealthy by de-
basing them,
for many of the
convicts, men
and women,
were born drunk-
ards and would
commit any
crime to obtain
liquor. Hunter
drank and was
tolerant of drink,
and his ukase
against the rum and
whisky makers of his
day was in the inte-
rests of the morally
helpless class whom
they fleeced of money
and labor, and tempted,
if they did not coerce,
to crime. These illicit
distillers, as many of them
were not found out, and
those who aided and abetted
them in getting their products into
consumption, became either in their
own persons or in their immediate
descendants the first aristocracy of
Botany Bay.
a. man and his wife were on their veran-
dah in S. Melb. one recent evening when a man
arrived at their front gate breathless and excited :
“ Your little boy,” he gasped, “run over—round
corner!” The husband did not wait for more,
but dashed up the street, and the wife merely
paused to utter a cry of agony before making off
in the same direction. They spent ten minutes
hunting for an accident and inquiring in vain for
the mangled remains, and then returned home,
convinced that a mistake had been made. Mean-
while their informant had been through the house
and gleaned about £4O worth of portable valu-
ables. The police are “making inquiries.”
m * * <r
Dear Bulletin. —At Watson’s Bay, the
other day, came on a stonemason re-cutting the
inscription on the monument markiner end of Old
South Head Road, and found that in the super
iority of his education he was about to re-spel-
AT THE BAZAAR.
MISS: “ Buy a box of ciyars, sir? ”
SIR: “ Thanks; but I don't smoke! ”
M ISS: “ Well, a bottle of scent for the lady! ”
LADY: “ No, thank you ; I don't smell! ”
some half-dozen words to which the original in-
scriber had given a more or less phonetic render-
ing. Succeeded in persuading the well-meaning
vandal to perpetuate the quaintnesses.—Fab.
* * * *
“ Puyakka ” returns to the charge :
But a few truisms, and the Hairy Man arises in his
might to devastate the intruder upon his tree-top. How-
ever, his cocoa-nuts have missed their mark. To
“Speculum” (5/8 ’99) I beg to point out that it is not
the average man or woman who is under consideration,
but the hairy man and the hairy-loving female, a pair
who diverge widely from the norm. The average healthy
woman possesses a rooted dislike to the sight of abnorm-
ally hairy limbs or chest, a fact well-known to “ beauty
men,” who regularly shave these parts if cursed
with a redundancy of fell. With regard to strength,
I take it that the potential of healthy develop-
ment gives the indication to a man’s physical capa-
city— i.e., development unaccompanied by an over-
taxed heart or other evidence of excessive strain.
The so-called “natural athlete” usually pays for his
feats with an unsound part, but the properly-built-up
physique enables the machine to be driven to its highest
speed without injury, owing to perfection of balancing of
parts. And this I take it is the end to be attained in
growing a race of perfect physique. “Speculum” may
take a “physiological interest in athletics,” but the
writer goes further—he makes part of his living from this
very source. The hirsute norm, so ingeniously manufac-
tured by “Speculum,” is logical! v denied by his creator
in the next breath by the admission of my former argu-
ment —that he is capable of less development in strength
and endurance than his smoother brother. In other
words, the hirsute pupil is at the end of his tether when
the smooth man is just commencing. Regarding the
progeny of “manufactured athletes” (a side issue, but
worth considering) “Speculum” forgets that the trans-
mission of marked acquired physical characteristics is not
a matter of one generation, but of many. And, anyhow,
the assertion that such children are “probably ... in-
significant both physically as well as intellectually ” is
useless as an argument, practical experience and observa
tion proving the direct opposite. To “Ben Sun”
(5/8 ’99) I beg to point out that there was no attempt to
prove that the smoother skin denoted the stronger con-
stitution, but merely the fact that hair—as hair —is no in-
dication of physical strength, despite a widely-spread
popular idea to the contrary upon which the worship of
the Hair-Loving Female is based. Nor, on the other
hand, is a smooth skin “ remarkable as a concomitant of
physical weakness.” The writer closely examines several
hundreds of adul s per annum, and his experience is dia-
metrically opposite. “Ben Sun’s’ racial theory, if carried to
its end, lands one in strange places, wherein the Hairy Aino
is classed above the Jap, and the African Pigmy stands
out as superior to the Yankee. As for the Montenegrin,
anybody who has knocked about in the Levant will not
hesitate to place him, despite his moustache, far below
the Northern Chinaman, both in intellect and physique.
Finally, for the question of the relative frequency of the
hirsute homo, let me refer “Ben Sun” to Darwin’s
Descent of Man, and similar evolutionary text-books.
“The politician looks in a kaleidoscope,
the statesman in a telescope.”
War or no war, Zetz Spa Water is boom-
ing ; and even the Boers admit it is superior to
any imported to the Transvaal. See that you
get Zetz. w
Roderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers.
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
—“ Margaret ” —will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number.
- “ Aba ” : Was shocked, the other night, to
hear a Muscovite sailor smelling of fish-and oil and
knout deliver the following to a crowd of lumpers :
“ You Engleesh will nevar bilt in Petersburgh or
Kronsdadt. You will nevar coom to us, nevar;
but we shall coom to you Oh, yes, bur’r’r’
ha, ha. Your London is a fat cow, bur’r’r, a fat
cow that we shall milk to-morrow, bur’r’r or de
day after.” Writer is now looking forward to the
time when the Don Cossack will be seen “knockin’
’em on the Old Kent Road.”
UP THE HARBOUR?
Sail Saucy Verse from over sea,
The editorial Heads between,
Nor lie despairing in the lee
Of editorial Quarantine.
The Sow and Pigs securely pass
Of editorial caprice,
Nor founder on the Bottle and Glass
Of editorial sprees.
The hungry Pinchgut shallows shun
Of editorial stint;
Up Darling Harbour quickly run
To anchorage in print.
D.O’R.
INSUFFICIENT CAPITAL
£jtv';> you foi4. pcr ( c£ ? jojt for'" broad ?
"ftjat yarrj ofu:y =>Cabed 1
lap a 107051 £ertai7 instead
You’d get- intoxicated 1
’Boozed 017 Fourpeuce n7unj? fje cried
117 ta-irt, disdainful ;
’lt vvould'nt darr7p a iyside !
Yer igi7orai7Ce k paQFzjl!"
[?]


Spring BOdS baVe BfirSt
MARK FOY’S!
A Riot of LoVlipeSS.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
ig Sartos
VllH®
Write lor our illustrated
PRICE U3T (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post 4d
i'g
.' .i.rti.v.u L'i;-.w7
iapjjl:'
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
Should Amy Castles obtain an entree into
the “ naicest ” social and artistic sets when she
gets to Europe, she will behold the same willowy
grace in the feminine form divine as sunny Aus-
tralia’s fair daughters are celebrated for. Wher-
ever beauty and grace are paramount, there do
P.D.s abouud. The P.D. is the world’s corset.*
“ The Light of Asia,” which, as is well known,
was one of the principal books of its year, was an un-
doubted success, and without doubt so is the new light of
Australasia, the “ Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires
no trimming,” emits no odour, uses less oil, prevents
smoky chimneys, and is far safer than the ordinary wiok.*
RenHipbcr!
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & Geortfe Streets, SYDNEY.
GtSBE TCHS
have
NO
Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 5, 1809.
Mr Dear Myee,—
We have i-t on their own authority that all the
Nicest people in Sydney haven’t been invited to
the Govt.-House race-week revels. Also, on the
same unsupported authority, equally many will
be the guests who won’t know their way from the
door to the ball-room.
For the fatal cards are cut, with a vengeance.
That is to say, with a footnote that never fails to
hit Potts Point right in the centre of its oldest
wound, to the effect that “ You are requested to
show tickets at the gate.”
Another peculiarity of the new invitations is
that the Aide-de-camp invites, not the Governor.
This is something new to Sydney, which misses
the cordial brotherliness of “The Governor re-
quests the honor,” and can’t sun itself in a way to
make up for the sad bereavement in the Aide-de-
camp in waiting.
I hear that every man at the garden-party who
is not a parson will be an artist. Ever since he
came, Lord Beauchamp has been systematically
kind and friendly to our artists. He has had them
up alone to an evening-party, as you know, and
enjoyed them all to himself. Now he is going to
share them with Society. They are invited in a
body—two bodies, I should say—to the garden-
Kty on the 11th. At last there will be some-
y to admire the view in a whole-hearted
manner that has nothing tb do with strawberries
and cream. By the way, the Govt.-House people
themselves are never tired of rapturing over the
outlook.
Just at present I don’t know any clergymen, so
am unable to solve a delicate question that crops
up here—whether the cloth will have to show its
ticket at the gate along with the rest. A
Heavenly pew-opener might reasonably, from his
point of view, resent having to show tickets for
Govt. House. Which reminds me that a Wool-
lahra clergyman mixed himself up in a trouble-
some earthly problem the other Sunday—ran on
his prayers and prayed, “ God bless the Governor,
his wife and family,” before the agitated rustle of
the congregation brought him to his senses. I
haven’t heard if he has been asked to the straw-
berry struggle.
Apropos of artists just ncJW, the Art Society’s
conversazione went off smoothly on Thursday
night, speeded by some good music and singing,
and a supper that was taxed to the uttermost by
the large, hungry crush. Harry Leston recited ;
Henry Weir, Reg. Davis and Herr Staedtgen
warbled; a man made music out of jam-tins ; and
a sensible dog was satisfied to do his performance
in dead silence. Percy Spence’s three pictures
that have just been sent out were on view—horsey
subjects, all of them, and small. During the
evening Frank V .Sony’s top-hat was the subject
of an aniinateu argument. The new instructor,
who is very popular with the classes, can’t be
brought to confess to that chimney-pot despite
several single-visioned people’s belief that they
gazed hard on it in the nap.
The Society of Artists’ Ball went off pleasantly
at Need’s rooms last Thursday, worked up by Mr.
Goring Thomas and Mr. Leo Dobbin. The
frocking was neither fancy nor outre; in fact,
everyone looked quite normal. Colonel and Mrs.
Savage were among the guests. Mrs. Learoyd
wore the frock of the evening, a black net sparkling
in a dull, subtle way with steel paillettes. Miss
Thea Proctor struck one of her poster effects in a
red blouse and black skirt. Mrs. Julian Ashton
was in black, and Julian also—who, by the way,
was looking happier than usual because a certain
red paper had-invited him to take a bite out of the
critics who bite pictures. Did you hear the story
of the old lady who once entertained Julian Ash-
ton ? He tells it himself, delightfully. She gave
him a copy of the interview, and looked on proudly
while he read : “Mr. Ashton is a little man, with
red hair, long yellow teeth, and frayed cuffs ! ”
On Monday afternoon Mrs. Brough played
hostess at the Society of Artist -' rooms charm-
ingly, spontaneously. She looked wonderfully
fresh and unjaded after all her heavy work in
“Quex” —fresher, in fact, than she looks on the
stage. She stood at the doorway and received a
great crowd of guests with a white bouquet in one
hand, an elegant frock of black lace over white
satin, and a big black hat with black and white
feathers. Her “at-home” was a distinct success,
touched up as it was with the theatrical
element that always tells. Miss Temple was in a
simple black frock with a fit to it, a sailor
collar of tucked black silk, and a little mauve and
black toque. Miss Bessie Thompson (Mrs. Reg.
Dartrey) wore a grey boa over a grey and white
frock. Mr. Dartrey, whose old Governor in Quex
is such a telling bit of characterisation, from his
dyed butterfly moustache to his brown spats,
emerged from behind his elderly disguises as a
good-looking young man with an eye-glass. The
beautiful Joseph Carne fulfilled all expectations
by not being there. That sort of thing is part of
the fascination. Mr. Brough, Mr. Lovell, Mr.
Leslie Victor, commonly known as “Freddy,”
after his henpecked part in the “Liars,” Miss
Grace Noble in a dark blue and white foulard and
white wings in her little hat, were also in evidence.
One feature of the afternoon was the number of
madly-in-love little girls who hugged Mrs.
Brough’s arm and leaned rapturously against her
shoulder.
A second visit to “Lord Quex ” found crowds of
people pouring in, and everything going as usual,
with one exception. Mrs. Brough has given up
that much-discussed action of hers at the end of
the first act. She no longer publicly pulls up her
stockings. Everyone has an opinion about the
matter. Some people like it. Some people don’t.
All people say they don’t. For five nights Mrs.
Brough valiantly plunged at it, though you could
see through the glasses a forced smile, as though
she was not taking kindly to the deed. Then she
gave it up altogether. The house was keenly
disappointed—l wish I could write, “especially
those who had not seen it,” but that doesn’t seem'
to be the case, judging from an elderly gentleman
in tbe d.c. with another elderly gent. He was
heard whispering in a loud voice, “Now, she—
watch,” then “My heavens she doesn't 1 What’s
the meaning of that?” P.S.—Since I wrote the
above I learn that Mrs. Brough has resumed the
hose business. The act went as flat as a pancake
without it, and the disappointment of the house
couldn’t be misunderstood. The night she put it
in again, the play took on its sparkle.
The public are taking kindly to Quecks —that’s
the pronunciation. Surprise is the leading feature
of the play. The papers should be asked not to
tell the story, for all the excitement lies in not
knowing what is coming. As a matter of fact,
nothing happens. Everything goes flat or smooth.
But while the play is unfolding, the house is ex-
citedly using up all its imagination for a private
view of the finish.
Last week I had no time to allude to Miss
Bessie Thompson’s frocks—she sports a rose-pink
satin polonaise that would be better if it were not
so heavily up-braided in black, over some pink
chiffon flounces, for a dinner dress, and adds that
dashing air that characterises all her dressing.
Nor had I space to mention Mrs. D’Arcy
Read’s sweet old Lady Owbridge, the only
being in the play who gets into one’s
sympathies. Mrs. Brough plays the famous third
act in a night-dress, covered with an utterly
hideous red and gamboge Japanese wrapper that
would kill the complexion of a wax doll. But
Mrs. Brough doesn’t mind, and one cannot help
admiring her indifference to looks when she has
something big to do. She always cries real tears,
lets her cheeks go all over the place, and sports
redeyes with a truly heroic foititude that comes
as a great relief after the actresses who cry “dry,”
and carefully adjust their hair when their grief
has finished carrying them away.
In describing frocks, it is becoming more and
more difficult to give all materials their right
names. Particularly stage-frocks. Often a voile
can’t be distinguished from a cashmere, or a silk
from a muslin. Consequently, a Melbourne
paper gave Bessie Thompson a weird frock,
the other day—“ a muslin covered with
spangles.” Your feminine mind will know
that “net” was the thing. But in case an un-
enlightened man reads this, I must explain that a
muslin covered with spangles is about as melan-
choly, sartorially, as a dress-suit crewel-worked
with forget-me-nots.
A poor little man who used to know all about
embroideries and decorations died last week.
Everyone knew “ Freddy Wyatt.” A brain-
disease was the cause of his death. The first inti-
mation of it was in finding his room all draped
with ties —ties all over the floor and furniture ;
hundreds of ties about everywhere. His head had
been turned by. ties. Sydney people will very
much miss his able platform decorations.
Rignold’s newplay, “The Indian Mutiny,’’gives
the ladies of the cast no dressing to speak of.
Lilian Wheeler contrives to look fascinating in
Indian draperies, gracefully arranged, with a lot
of Oriental embroidery worth looking at. Two
striking English frocks are worn by Miss Roland
Watt-Phillips and Miss Roxy Barton. Miss
Phillips wears a ’57 costume of gas green, flounced
to the waist, and - topped with a poke bonnet.
Miss Barton’s flounces are pink, and her hat is a
little flat thing with strings and a wreath of rose-
buds.
Sydney Hoben’s concert is a fixture for Septem-
ber 26, at the Y.M.C.A. Hall, when the pro-
gramme will be all of Mr. Hoben’s composing.
The hunted flower-sellers are getting up a
petition to the Mayor and Aldermen, praying to
be allowed to continue their business as other
business men are allowed to continue. And why
not ? Everyone would miss the only picturesque
thing in our city streets, and women would deeply
regret their best chance of getting flowers for the
home in a cheap and convenient way. The flower-
sellers expect to get 20,000 signatures from the
general public. Let us hope they will. It looks
like one of those cases when it’s a good thing to be
able to write your name.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Melbourne people can scarcely believe it pos-
sible that Gov. Beauchamp’s women - folk are
going ’Ome without having once seen the Mel-
bourne Cup. In fact, the general discussion seems
to show that social Melbourne is : narked ’ about
it, especially as this year’s Cup is expected to be
the most brilliant since the Boom. Turner’s rosy
Budget is reflected in things fashionable. The
windows of the swagger milliners are gorgeous,
and a leading jeweller avers that old times have
come again.
“ Young Tom Brassey is expected in Melbourne
next month. He is just now in Capetown, no
doubt lending his counsel to Sir Alfred Milner.
His ponderous pa has a great opinion of young
Tom’s political abilities, though so far English
constituencies have not been induced to take the
same view. Tom will stay for some weeks at
Government House.
“The Findon Harriers Hunt Club meeting, an
annual dream of fair women, gee-gee, and after-
noon tea, takes place at Moonee Valley on 23rd,
and the Messrs. Miller have begun to boom the
toney function with businesslike ardor. All the
'Naicest will have nominations for the Lady’s
Bracelet, not to mention smaller races which are
just as convenient for any prudent pun tress who
only wants ‘a dozen of gloves to nothing.’ The
attendance of Gov. Brassey and spouse is included
in the Findon Bill, it goes without saying.
Seemingly the club has ‘supporters’ as well as
members. The latter are three-guinea personages
entitled to put two ladies through the gates, but a
supporter is a mere guinea item, who gets a double
ticket the same as though he were a charity ball
subscriber.
“Still that Hunt Ball fizz sizzles. For the
youths whose legs rebelled against the surfeit of
sweets there has been a kind of court-martial en-
quiry. Two of the iniquitous imbibers faced the
music and defied the Censor to prove that they had
swallowed too much. ‘I was disgraced,’ said
one brow-beaten Nimrod, ‘by having my name on
the committee, when such things occurred.’ But
his less severe colleagues sympathised and saw the
youth out of the inquisitorial chamber in an
au-revoir- chappie style. So there is an end to the
matter.
“ Extract from a recent number of Woman at
Home re Lady Hopetoun:—
“ ‘ Lady Hopetoun is so full of fun,’ was heard on every
side in Melbourne. Ever eager for youthful enjoyment,
Lord and Lady Hopetoun gathered round them a jocund
throng, and their ‘surprise’ entertainments are now
talked of by the Melbourneites—those delightful dinners,
when servants in native costume waited on their guests,
and the table decorations were a dream of beauty. Then
came the after-dinner visits ‘ to see the animals,’ for Lord
Hopetoun kept a menagerie at Government House, in
which his wife took an almost greater interest than he.
“ The intense jollity of Lord Hopetoun’s round-
eyed colleen is historical, of course. Two distin-
guished Melbourne potentates will never forget
her genial ‘Take away that plate ! ’ —tbe plate with
the ‘filipina’ nut on it, and her merry way of
drawing the line of familiarity at ‘ Lord Hope, if
you please.’ But the suggestion that she kept a
staff of black servants in beads and feathers, and
used to flutter around after dinner feeding her pet
lions and kangaroos with lumps of sugar, is quite
new to Melbourne. Fuller particulars are in-
vited from any member of the jocund throng who
took part in those wild doings.
“Widow Clarke is having a giddy time in Eng-
land, and makes no sign ot returning to Mel-
bourne. All her doings are faithfully para-
graphed by the penwoman who erstwhile wrote a
novel ci-uelly gibbeting good-natured old Swil-
liam’s wife, and then obtained the aid of the un-
willing victim for the publication of the screed.
The Argus, after every mail-day, duly chronicles
where Janet, Lady Clarke was, according to the
most recent information, where she was going
next, and how she was enjoying her well-adver-
tised self. She is now in Scotland.
“At a Hawthorn woman’s franchise meeting,
the other night. Major Reay, the chairman, was
going to ‘ put the motion ’ when an objector arose
and said he had travelled all the way from Ascot
Vale to ‘enter his protest against this foolish and
delusive movement.’ But, as the protestor was
only about 16 years of age, the women present —
all old enough to be his mother—refused to
take him seriously, and he was fain to depart,
plaintively murmuring that ‘if they got the fran-
chise Society would be ruined ! ’
“At the cosy Bijou, last Saturday afternoon,
Benno Scherek repeated his quaint ‘Talk about
the Orchestra,’ for the benefit of those gothic
‘outsiders’ who want to get a notion of how a
large, all-round musical effect is created. Herr
Bcnno’s lecturette is a neat way of spreading the
gospel among the heathen, and it makes the
cynical wisdom of a Marshall-Hall look very sel-
fish. Poet Hall doesn’t try to be in sympathy
with the poor, ignorant world that has never
studied the construction of harmonies, but the
broader-minded expert cries, ‘ Come unto me to get
the hang of the proceedings.’ He takes the
orchestra to pieces, desires each piece to stand up
in turn and give an illustration of its own parti-
cular sound ; then he refixes the complicated
machine a bit at a time until it is in full melody
again. The lecturer’s one fault is a good one. He
errs on the side of simplicity, not even forgetting
to mention that the big drum parchment can be
tightened to sharpen its tone.
“ After the conductor had talked for about 20
minutes, Elsie Hall and the orchestra gave a
beautiful performance of the languorous Chopin
concerto in E Minor. Nobody who heard fragile,
spectacled, spinster Elsie in this work will believe
that the pianoforte part was ever more tenderly
treated, or more artistically supported by an
orchestra. A German or French audience would
have stood upon its boots to applaud when
Scherek was shaking hands with the meek spirit
at the conclusion of her task. The Australians
merely sat where they were and took a lot
of credit to themselves for giving sister Elsie a
double re-call. Later on she soloed in Liszt’s
arrangement of the Mendelssohnian Wedding
March, and put a jewelled coronet on her previous
success. If Miss Hall were a Potteresque siren
with a come-kiss-me cast of countenance what a
rapidly-triuinphant pianist she would be ! Her
academic saintliness has a charm, it is true, and a
charm that grows on the thoughtful public. But,
alas ! the average public doesn’t think.
“ Marshall-Hall’s tribute to the memory of bis
late secretary, Ernest Moffitt, is a splendid ex-
ample of artistic reproduction, and contains some
convincing specimens of Moffitt’s cleverness and
versatility in black-and-white. There are some
striking woodcuts on the cover and title-page, by
Lionel and Norman Lindsay, and the printing is
perfect. Unfortunately, Marshall-Hall has ren-
dered the thing rather ridiculous by some charac-
teristic blither over the drawings. Anyone would
think Hall was criticising Michael Angelo, C. D.
Gibson, and Phil May all rolled into one. Mofiitt
could draw, but the Prof.’s soulful gush over the
‘graceful arabesques’ of leafy foliage and ‘the
silver iridescence ’ of a very commonplace sketch
tempts critics to go to the other extreme. By the
way, Moffitt’s really best work has no place in the
book. He was one of those artists who shine
most when they take the least care. Sitting in a
cafe with an ink-bottle within reach Moffitt would
throw (iff caricatures of all within eyeshot—first-
class, biting portraits, exaggerated scarcely at all,
but hitting off all the character of the original in
a few dashing strokes. In those sketches—mostly
on the margins of newspapers or backs of bills-of-
fare—Moffitt showed marvellous originality.
“ All the world over, it seems, identical manner-
isms draw attention to the hayseed in the curls of
country cousins. An illustration is the way in
which Harry Conor’s ‘Stranger in New York’
nudged the society belle to whom he had just been
introduced. Not a century ago, scfme N.S.W.
landed heiresses were sometimes invaded in their
way-back parental home by visiting Sydney beaux,
with an eye to profitable matrimonial invest-
ment. But the boldest wooer quailed when he
found that not one of the tall, taciturn sisters was
ever accessible ‘on her own.’ They always sat
in a row of four and when the would-be suitor
ventured a remark about the weather, his hearers
en masse turned aside their heads, tittered self-
consciously and elbowed one another in throes of
bitter-sweet bashfulness.
“ Local prodigies are, apparently, not especially
called upon to rise up and call their parents
blessed. One fond father impetuously threw up
his billet in his joy at the revelation of his
chee-ild’s gift. Another budding genius is closely
connected with a title—made in Germany. Natur-
ally, an aristocrat, foreign or otherwise, is high-
handed in her ways. And when such a one comes
in contact with the prodigy’s committee (mostly
petticoated)—Heaven help the prodigy !
“Of old, ‘Dick’ was thought an ill-omened
name, while ‘William’ always turned out well.
Nowadays, the virtue seems to have gone out of
the surname, ‘ Williams.’ Lately, within a few
days of one another, a youth of that clan suicided
(Melb.), and a namesake was shot dead in Sydney.
Not long ago, the death of a well-known Dr.
Williams (Melb.) from excessive injections in-
volved a chemist in a charge of manslaughter.
Also, ‘ Williams ’ proved an unlucky alias for
Deeming, who as ‘ Baron Williams ’ committed
the crime which led to his detection.
“ Lady Brassey, it is interesting to know, is a
stickler for ‘ form ’in the ball-room. ‘ She favors
the low Queen Anne curtsey, and a correct version
of the Quadrille. ’ They fell into the ways of
error since Earl Hopetoun’s kitchen style, and
now sassiety mesdames are trying to make up for
lost time, by engaging a fashionable trainer to put
them through their paces. Private classes are in
vogue at all the ‘ best ’ houses. At the recent
Hunt ball the gorgeously-attired teacher stood
mid-way between two of the first sets, and gave
sotto-voce directions at critical points.
“ A dare-devil sport, who has been more court-
plastered, splinted, and re-ribbed than any wretch
ever taken into our special Sawbones’ establish-
ment for repair, is wooing the first huntress of
Melbourne, the niece of a bygone Diana. Every-
one anxiously awaits the crisis. ‘He has nine
lives, like a cat,’ said the eminent surgeon Fitz-
gerald. He has had a love for each, from all
accounts, but the present one is understood to be
the only serious engagement he has ever tackled
with anything like apprehension.
“ The late Mrs. Fitz Gibbon, whose sad death
(the result of a burning accident) called forth much
Melb. sympathy for poor old Fitz.in his bereave-
ment, was reputed to be a wealthy woman. Long
before the White Knight had divided his name
into two vvords, he was known as the husband of
Mickey Dawson’s daughter. Like Henry VVrixon,
who married into the Money Miller family, Mr.
Fitzgibbon had studied for the Bar—but, in the
words of Major Pendennis, “ a wife with a good
income is a doosid sight easier profession than the
Law.”
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£208,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
o
w ■
\~ LU
z couj
OfiQhlL
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The Gay Lord Quex— grand success. So
is Zetz. “Mind, no tales, Sophy,” speak the
truth and drink Zetz Spa Water. Try it.*
Will Ogilvie’s book of verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray Horses,” continues to sell splendidly. It
is unquestionably the most generally-attractive
poetry-book yet issued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.,
post-free from Bo lletin office.
HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely-
blended whisky of excellent flavour, which, while
maintaining all the due stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been mellowed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
■CDOnBB
A pute Carbolic Disinfectant,
FOR GENERAL USE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
As a romancer Premier Reid is now hall-
marked : he has taken office as President of Bur-
wood fishing-club.
Since 1794 St. John’s 0.E., Parramatta
(N.S.W.) has had but four incumbents. Marsden
held the post 44 years. Gunther (still going) has
been there since 1868.
A somewhat notable coincidence was the
admission to Queensland Bar on a recent day of
Edwin Hobbs and E. H. Mason, nephews respect-
ively of Edmund Barton and Premier Reid.
He the attack on Edmund Barton in Bris-
bane. Barton is quite used to it. He keeps in
stock a surtout which he calls “my ova-eoat.”
It is the one he uses as ardour against eggs at
political meetings.
Lady Forrest’s book on Westralian Abori-
gines is now under last polish, and will find its
way to England immediately. A Sydney pub-
lisher offered to bring it out, but the author pre-
ferred going farther.
GREAT SCOTT
SILVERSTEIN : “ Veil, I never I Vhere on earth
are you going in them togs!”
GOLDSTEIN : “To a fancy-dress hall.”
S.: Vot! going as a Scotchman with a nose like
that?”
G.: “ V’y, that nose is part of the character. I’m
going as Roderick Jew!”
Gov. Lamington squeezes in among the
possibles as Gov.-General of the Australian Com-
monwealth. The lever in Lamington’s case is
that lie was five years private secretary to
Prime Minister Salisbury.
Graham Berry entered his 78th year, the
other day. It is now 39 years since he entered
Vic. Parliament, and 29 since he became Treasurer
in Macpherson’s 6-months Ministry. He was 30
years of age when he arrived in Australia.
Norton’s pamphleteer, Gilbert Probyn
Smith, is a nephew of Sir Dighton MacNaughton
Probyn, V.C., Comptroller to the coming K.’s
household. He it was who raised the famous
*’ Probyn’s Horse ” company, to suppress the
Sepoys.
Still doing Adelaide Block—Samuel Daven-
port, Works Minister in the first S.A. Ministry
under responsible Govt., formed by Finniss, in
1856. In those days, Davenport, now a successful
vigneron, used to ride 25 mile 3 to-and-fro every
day to attend the meetiugs of Parliament.
Speaking of Brown-Potter in London, says
Melbourne Paunch : “ Her latest proteg& is
Mortimer Menpes, a South Australian artist. ” A
South Australian artist! Ye gods ! what a fate
for a man who has (lone things and made a name
in the world—protege of a gown-trotter !
In a recent celebrated N.S.W. prosecution
the accused obviously had not drawn upon his
laundry-bag. “What! Still wearing the same
shirt i asked an unceremonious friend. “Well,
you see,” explained the accused, “I am so busy
washing the other fellow’s dirty linen that I’ve no
time to attend to my own.”
Frank Ward, the S.A. colt-breaker who
had a habit of falling off things on to his head,
and who, a few months ago, was only saved from
hanging for murder by the persistence of his
counsel, has been already passed on from gaol to a
lunatic asylum. And yet the chief Govt, medical
expert was certain the man wasn’t mad !
Way, Chief Justice of S.A. and member
of the P.C. judicial committee, is not alone paid
at a lower rate than most other Australian Chief
Justices, but is paid less than most of Aus-
tralia’s puisne Judges. He receives ,£2000;
C.J s in Q., N.S.W., and Vic., .£>3500; puisne
Judges in N.S.W., £2,600 ; in Vic., £3OOO.
Arthur L. Windsor, who, to use his own
words at the recent opening of the Age office, is
“as unknown to the general public as the Llama
of Thibet is to his subjects,” has sat in the
editorial chair of that wily newspaper for close on
30 years. Recognising his long and valuable ser-
vices David Syme has increased the endowment of
the said chair.
Chief Justice Way and other leading local
greasers—that is the only word—made a tre-
mendous fuss the other day over Gov. Tennyson’s
“munificent” gift of original MSS. of the late
laureate to Adelaide Public Library, but these
turn out to be only a portion of a mediocre set of
verses in adulation of Queen Victoria—Tennyson’s
first effort as Poet Laureate.
They have just renovated the monument
erected in ’7B, at Mansfield, Vic., to the three
police—Sergeant Kennedy, and oonstables Scan-
lan and Lonegan—killed there by the Kelly gang.
MTntyre, a fourth policeman, whom the gang
held as a prisoner and who was unarmed, jumped
on Kennedy’s horse when the owner fell off, and
escaped. He was so much scared, however, that
he did little work afterwards.
Many Southern acquaintances of his firmly
believe that Harry Ricketson, now under arrest in
Queensland for shooting a kanaka, would never have
used a pistol had he not been overwhelmingly
beset. He ever showed himself a man of iron
nerve and strong as a horse ; also he was one of
the very foremost amateur boxers of Australia, a
pupil of black Mollineaux in Melbourne, and,
writer fancies, also of Larry Foley.
Robert Walsh, Q.C., Crown Prosecutor at
Melbourne, who died the other day, was son of a
Dublin button-and-trimmings merchant, and in
the early fifties was co-partner with the late J. H.
(Judge) Dunne in Ballarat Times. Walsh and
Dunne were also partners as lawyers and made
loads of money in the goldfields, and lost it all.
Walsh first went to Melbourne to become Attor-
ney-General in C. G. Duffy’s Ministry, 1871.
Ex-Judge Windeyer is not alive to soothe
his soul over the present tribulations of Premier
Reid. G.H.R., when struggling with the Abigail
case before Windeyer J., received a gratuitously
gross reminder from the bench. “I am not likely
to forget your Honor’s remarks. I repeat, lam
not likely to forget them.” Then in his topmost
key : “ I am not likely to forget the quarter from
which they come ! ” It was an Australian Star
reporter, and no other scribe, who recorded the
incident. Not long afterwards Reid (no doubt to
the Judge’s great astonishment) became political
king of N.S.W., and Judge Windeyer was
deluged with Dean. The Judge, who urgently
wanted a long holiday, only got six months leave
of absence, and even that only on the understand-
ing that his resignation would date from the end
of it. When the term was up the resignation was
duly cabled to avoid a test vote in Parliament.
Anthony Bennett Robinson, the Melb.
Age commercial editor, who is going to see Lon-
don after 40 years’absence, began newspaper work
on the Times. In ’7O, when John Curtain, F. C.
(now Speaker) Mason, Carlton Brewery Milne,
Brewer P. J. Martin and Michael O’Grady
bought Melbourne Herald from poor old stone-
mason Win. Forsyth, Robinson was brought in as
general manager. Queerly enough he succeeded
another Robinson, an old Radical politician, but
no relative. A. B. Robinson (who had been elec-
tion-agent for John Curtain at Carlton election)
made sweeping alterations in the Herald office.
The stonemason had nearly pulled the paper to
the ground ; Robinson built it up. His first act
was to raise the screws of all the literary staff, and
before a year every man who was worth it had
got two or three “ rises ” without asking for them.
Robinson was a newspaper office Czar. How
David Syme and the Age will manage to rub
along without him can only be surmised.
Archibald Michie, Q.C., who died the
other day, used to tell this story about Melbourne
Herald, when it was a morning paper and he was
proprietor, in the early fifties. The ponderous
Dr. Evans was editor, but Michie himself used to
write the Monday’s leader. He lived out at
St. Kilda, and a messenger was sent for it
every Sunday night. The messenger was a
well-known character, and very fond of beer.
He was allowed half a-crown ’bus-fare, but it
was suspected that he walked one or both
ways, and “melted” the silver in wayside
pubs. Well, one Sunday night, it was get-
ting late, and the leader hadn’t arrived, and, •
to make things worse, the editor had gone
home, relying on Michie’s stuff turning up as
usual. The overseer was in a succession of fits
when, at midnight, a policeman in uniform
walked in, and said the editor was locked up in
Swanston-st. watch-house, for drunkenness.
But the overseer didn’t worry over that —it was
theleading article he was troubled about. “ Ob, as
far as that goes,” sez Constable Fogarty, “ Oi’ve
got that right enough—Oi found it on him whin Oi
sarched him. Here’s the layder,” sez he, “ an’ it’s a
pretty hot one, too, aboutKerrand the corporation.”
The overseer snatched the parcel from the trap,
ran his eye down the first few slips, cut it up,
bawled out “ Copy on the file ! ” and the paper
“ went down ”in time, with the leader in it. The
messenger had got drunk on his ’bus-money after
leaving Michie’s, and was “run in.”
He had brains enough left to try to bluff
the police by telling them he was editor
of the paper, and that he was going to
the office with his leader, but the thing
didn’t quite work out.
John Bellew Graves (brother of
Graves, M.L.A., Vic.) killed lately cycling
in England at the age of 77, arrived in Sydney
in 1836, and was one of the little band that opened
up Port Phillip in 1839.
The Vic. public libraries (“mechanics’
institutes ”) have just received their periodic in-
stalment of Gov. Brassey’s contributions. It con-
sists of a handsomely-printed vol. of the Governor’s
speeches and a reprint of H.E.’s articles on naval
matters. A quaint feature of the first-named is
the vigorous sub-editing to which it has been sub-
jected after printing. More than half the pages
—sometimes as many as half-a-dozen in one place—
have been cut out, while there is hardly a page
without a thick ink-splash through some redun-
dant remark. Most of the excised speeches were
those made at —er country shows, and the
probability is that the book was primarily intended
for private circulation. The precious parcel was,
it may be added, franked through the post.
The illustrious name of an official who left
his employers to lament his loss, still adorns an
East Melb. public building. In fact, Melbourne
fairly bristles with foundation-stones recording the
names of various ephemeral notorieties who
flourished in the boom-times. Amongst them
appear the names of a lot of ex-millionaires, busted
land boomers, cronk secretaries, men who are still
wanted, and some who have got off, with others
who have done their little bit of time. It would
be good if a stonemason would go round with a
chisel and erase unpleasant records that merely
provoke nasty remarks. Almost the only name
that recalls any pleasant memories is that of
Justice Redmond Barry, at Vic. Public Library.
Vic. Clerk of Leg. Assembly, W. V. Robin-
son, lecturing at Hawthorn (Melb.), recently,
pithily sketched some of the departed politicians.
Of Higinbotham, he “doubted whether his com-
peer was to be found even in the Imperial Parlia-
ment,” He usually began in a low tone of voice,
but, as he warmed with his subject, his voice
became like the magic that “surged the blood of
him who heard,” and “ stirred hearers to valorous
action and mighty deed.” Of Graham Berry, the
lecturer said, “If Berry was on the scaffold, with
the vvhite cap on his head, he could persuade a
mass meeting that the executioner was the
criminal.” The late J. G. Francis once remarked,
turning over the pages of a former Hansard,
“ that he could not speak like that now.” “ But,”
caustically observed Clerk Robinson, “he never
had, for the reporter’s duty was to put the
speaker’s remarks into consecutive English ; in
short, to preserve the idiom but destroy the
idiot ”
At David Syme’s jamboree over the open-
ing of the new Age office, Editor Windsor came
out of his shell to announce his hatred of notoriety
—not assumed in his case, for few people who fre-
quent the office have ever seen the brilliant jour-
nalist, and nine out of ten of those usually take
him for the janitor. A few years ago, a new
reporter finished three months in the office with-
out coming into contact with the editor. One
night he was marked for a Trades Hall meeting,
and returning about ten was writing his stuff up
when a quiet-looking shabby old man sauntered in
and observed, “I want you to report that state-
ment about the railway workshops in full. Kindly
give the speeches of each of the delegates in the
first person, and make the boy-labor question
prominent.” The scribe looked up, tried hard to
remember the speaker at the meeting he had just
left, and finally concluding he was some over-
looked notoriety-hunter with an axe to grind, re-
torted, “ Thanks, very much. When I want
your advice, I’ll ask for it.” Then the old man
chuckled and left the room, while the reporter
went on, determined to leave out the boy-labor
aspect altogether. Then the sub-editor grinned
through the little communicating window and ex-
plained matters. Windsor enjoyed the joke
largely, reassured the now apologising reporter,
and returned to his room prouder than ever of
his obscurity.
THE URCHIN (to his mate) : “ ’Ere, Billy, ’e won’t
buy a pyper—sez ’e can’t read. Try an’ sell
’im a picture-book.”
George Lansell, the Bendigonian deep-
sinker, had his 76th birthday the other day. The
old warrior still takes the most active part in
managing his mines, and bustles about the Stock
Exchange. What he has done for the district is
naturally admired, but his personal popularity has
not bounded up. He married in his old age, and
has now six young children. On his 76th birth-
day he bought for each of them a life governorship
of the Bendigo Benevolent Asylum.
One of the relics of the old Irish Parlia-
ment found its way to Sydney. A despatch-box
of Speaker Foster’s, which used to lie before nim
on the table of the House at College Green, was
sent out by the family to
his grandson, ex-Jus-
tice W. J. Foster, of
Sydney, who still has
it in his possession.
DURING THE HEAT-WAVE.
WIDOW CASEY : “ Father, poor man... is
jist as well off dead. He never could sthand
the hot weather.”
Re the par. in a recent Bulletin (on the
authority of J. W. Mackail) that Tennyson once
contemplated emigration to Australia, it is in-
teresting to recall the fact that the Pre-Raphaelite
painter, Holman Hunt, at one time had similar in-
tentions. Here the authority is undoubted.
Ruskin says (“Modern Painters,” Vol. V., p.
380): “ For sheer want of bread we brought the
question to the balance of a hair whether the
most earnest of our young painters should give
up his art and go to Australia, or fight his way
through neglect and obloquy to the painting of
the Christ in the Temple.” Some industrious
person might compile a list of the eminent men
who nearly emigrated to Australia. Note, in this
case, Ruskin’s taking for granted that Holman
Hunt’s emigration necessarily involved giving
up his art altogether.
Lady Denison, whose death in England
was reported a few days ago, was present at the
opening of the first N.S.W. Parliament under
Responsible Government. She was a bright, chatty
woman at that date, given to mild satire on
colonial sooiety, but tactful to a degree. Her
husband and her young family held most of her
thoughts, and she often privately complained of
the romping of visitors to Government House as
a disturbing intrusion. Denison himself was a
heavy-witted man, with much of Brassey’s por-
tentous gravity, who loved his wife and family
better than all Australia, and whose chief recrea-
tion was writing yard-long despatches to one or
another member of the British Cabinet. No
occupants of Govt. House led a more domestic
and happy family life than did Denison and his
wife, and when Denison got into trouble with
Ministers—as he frequently did —Lady Denison
and he put their heads together and planned a
way out.
Wragge’s weather forecasts, as they appear
in the southern provinces, are reasonably' business-
like affairs, but this is how the great man spreads
himself in his own country when mentioning a
change of weather : .
General Remarks.—ln accordance with that law by
which nature is against exclusiveness, it being a plan of
the Eternal that everywhere shall there be mutual giving
and taking, so do we to-day especially find this exempib
fied in the isobaric lines. For yonder over south-western
Australia a new anticyclonic or high pressure system
from the Indian Ocean is “feeding” the south-western
side of the depression “Vinitius," the south-eastern
edge of which in its turn is connected with the south-
western quadrant of the anticyclone at present existing
over the Tasman Sea. The centre of the depression is
about 1,100 miles south from Streaky Bay, and there the
leaden billows will be rolling, ships labouring and alba-
tross and whale-birds all in their glory. The winds along
our own coast will still be fresh from south-east, but will
moderate ere long, and a spell of that soft genial
weather thereafter obtain which is so character-
istic of the Queensland coast during the winter and
spring months. Even at this season some disrepute
appears to attach to our balmy climate in the southern
colonies among those who are ignorant of climatological
facts. The heat is supposed to be enervating, and the
climate depressing. Just as famous politicians and
obscure individuals acquire a shaded reputation which
year in and year out clings Io them in the minds of the
shallow without the slightest right or justification, so is
our climate belittled by people who do not know. We
are glad to inform the Australasian public that climato-
logical synopses of this northern colony, thoroughly
typical of all districts, and embracing the last 12 years,
are in course of preparation for publication, supplement-
ing the monthly statistics already issued, and containing
full information as to temperature, humidity, and other
elements. Then should unjust stigmas be removed, and
the truth be better known, than which there is no higher
religion.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FE.EE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SPECIAL
CORN
SOLVENT
NEVER FAILS TO CURE^
Made only by
Newman, Chemist,
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
“6LENPOUR”
FiQ€st Old
Nigblafyd Whisky.
JOHN SOMERVILLE & CO. Ltd., Distillers,
SWIFT & COMPANY, Agents,
7 Spring-street, Sydney.
LEITH, SCOTLAND.
SOLD AT ALL
FIRST-CLASS HOTELS
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
TOURISTS
from all parts of the
world are unanimous in saying
that “ The Australia ” Hotel
is the best thing in Austra-
lasia.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
A cocky little N.S.W. country professional
man, whose boast it has ever been that he’d like
to see the joker who could take him down, was
recently taken out in a buggy by a designing
“ friend,” who managed to get him “glorious” at a
wayside pub. As soon as the beery one was dead to
the world his friend called in the doctor, who band-
aged-up Buggins’ head, and put a leg and an arm
in splints. When B. awoke from his drunken
sleep the friend who owned the buggy was ready
with “Don’t speak, old man; the doctor says
you’re to keep perfectly quiet; you’ve smashed up
the horse and buggy, and yourself into the bar-
gain. Not a word, now, while I send for the
doctor.” B. begged hard for a drink, but was
sternly refused on the ground of danger of inflam-
mation, and had to lie and suffer while half the
town was brought to laugh in its sleeve at him.
He can wear a smaller hat, now !
• * * *
Complaints had reached Sydney of the
booziness of the man in charge of a small Northern
P. and T. office, and an inspector, new to the
locality, arrived at the place on a Saturday after-
noon, found no one in the office, and asked a man
who came staggering out of the adjacent pub.
where he could find the Postmaster. The beery
one replied that he was that official, and incon-
tinently challenged the stranger to mortal combat;
whereupon the scared inspector mounted his bike
and fled with the p.m. in hot pursuit, flourishing
a knife and yelling that he. wanted to cut the
fugitive’s throttle ! The inspector, however,
soon pedalled himself out of sight, and now
there’s an ex-p.m. the more.
* * * •
Not so long ago the shearer used to turn
up at his shed with a couple of horses—his hack
and his “pack.” Now it is only a rare one, in
N.S.W. anyhow, who has a horse at all. Of 18 at
a western shed recently, three “footed ” it, eight
came by coach, and the rest had bikes. One S.A.
denomination which sends four “missionaries ” to
the shearing-sheds and stations in the north of
that province and in the West Darling has given
up horseflesh altogether ; henceforward the Word
is to travel per wheel. Also, most A.W.A.
organisers are to travel that way, too—they found
last season that the experiment answered splen-
didly. Poynton, the shearers’ man, who landed
an easy first in the fight for the Parliamentary
seat for the huge Flinders district, looked up the
scattered voters on the whirling wheel—and has
given the bike-agent a testimonial accordingly.
* ft * *
“R.”: Bulle-
tin lately laughed
at Melb. Tocsin for
describing The
Bookfellow bears
as ’possums. But
how many of us
Australians (remem-
ber, we mostly live
in cities) could pass
an exam, on “ our ”
fauna and flora ? I
don’t know what a
paddymelon is I
expect it isn’t a
vegetable. I don’t
know what a bandi-
coot is. I could not
differentiate a wal-
laby from a kan-
garoo. I read the
“ Aboriginalities ”
pages with consum-
ing interest—and a
sneaking fear that I
laugh at the true
stories and swallow
the hoaxes and ex-
travagances. What
is The Bulletin
going to do for me
and my brothers in
ignorance? How
about an alphabet
compiled by M'Coo-
ey and illustrated
byMahony? “A”
for Apertyx, “B”
for Bandicoot, “C”
for Cod (Murray
Ood, I suppose), “D ” for Dingo, “E ” for
Echidna.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —“ Nell Cook’s” state-
ment about emus starving through not being able
to get through rabbit-proof fence doesn’t square
with fact that the Cobar district squatters have
petitioned Govt, to have emus put under the
Noxious Animals Act, as they are rapidly in-
creasing in numbers and breaking down all the
rabbit-proof fences in the place.
* * * *
“ Shaker ” : Anybody know anything
about the “standards” (for want of a better
name) writer, when a lad, used to see carried
by the Maranoa (Q.) blacks in travelling to and
from their great periodical gatherings ? Said
standards were two in number, one being exactly
like a barber’s pole without the stripe, the other
like a 501 b. bag of flour, painted dull yellow and
transfixed lengthwise by a spear. When the
blacks were in temporary camp these insignia
were always stuck upright in the ground just out-
side camp, and about 30ft. apart. Have
never seen anything similar in other parts of Aus-
tralia.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin, — As to the dimensions of
carpet snakes (8., 22/5/’99). In ’B5 I bought in
Cooktown the skin of a carpet (or diamond) snake
which measured (dried) 23ft. Bin. The vandal
who shot it (at “ the Normanby,” second section
Maytown railway) had cut the head off. In reply
to enquiries from me, Prof. M‘Coy, of Melb.,
said: “We have no record of so large a snake
having been killed in Australia before. As a
specimen it would probably be worth 10s. a foot
if complete, but without the head it is scientifi-
cally valueless.” I was foolishly persuaded to
lend the skin for exhibition at the Indo-Colonial
Exhibition, and upon applying for its return was
curtly informed that “the skin had been de-
stroyed by ants.” Now, as I had cured it
thoroughly with arsenic and kerosene, I knew this
was untrue, but what I feel most sore about is
that if I am ever rash enough to mention my big
snake, people look at each other and grin.— Geo.
H. Brewster, White Cliffs.
* * * *
The N.S.W. supply of ironbark timber, it
is stated, is running-out so rapidly that unless
export thereof is prohibited there will in a few
years be none left. The railway department has
already been forced to use other and inferior
woods for sleepers.
“Kirriwina”: The best fishing-
grounds in Papua are in the Trobriand
Islands, 120 miles or so north of Samarai,
B N.G. (Note. —B.N.G. usually denotes
to the layman British New Guinea ; but
its correct translation is : Blooming Nude
Gins and Blessed Nice Girls). The Tro-
briands are termed by Samaraites as the
New Japan or Jack Want group. Why
the latter appellation I don’t know.
Mam bare River, 26th June, ’99.
* * * *
They were discussing the bank-
manager who had just left a far N.W.
township, and when everybody had
spoken but the old Scotch squatter in the
corner, somebody said, “Well, lergu-
son, how did you like Johnson ? ” “ Weel,
mon,” was the reply, “I didna see
muckle o’ him. When he cam oot to the
station I was generally away, an’ I
dinna ken how the boys likit him ; but
the gins speak verra highly o’ him, at
onyrate.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. The following
may throw some light on the vexed
butcher-bird question : “Of the 1 butcher-
bird ’ there are 11 varieties: Magpie,
black magpie, hill crow shrike, grey mag-
pie, blaok butcher-bird, brown do.,
butcher-bird proper, black-chinned do.,
collared do., gray do., white-winged do.”
This list, it will be observed, includes
the so-called “ magpies,” which are
ornithologically “ shrikes.” —W.H.E.
• * * *
“ G. 8.” : Recently passing a selec-
tor’s place near Jundah, I was told by one
of the daughters that the old man and ma
were away on a three months’ spell. The
two girls (15 and 17) ride the fences, bring
the sheep into water, and see travelling
stock through the run. I gave them a
hand to pull about a dozen bogged sheep
out of a square well (they called it a tank).
Two of these were badly cancered, so the
elder girl shore and then killed them.
“ Billyram ” : Re Women Workers: As
there was plenty of timber on the N.S.W. selection
fib for “short-length sawn stuff,” the old man got
an ancient portable engine, and started a saw-mill.
“ Dad” handled the sawn-stuff as it came from the
mill and carted it to the railway; “ Billy ” felled
and carted the logs to the mill, and the three
girls did the rest. They were up at daylight to
get breakfast, and to fire and water the boiler. One
drove the engine and stoked, and the other two
handled the logs on the saw-bench, and between
times wheeled away the saw-dust.
* * * *
“ Alia ” : Re ’roo-fights. Years ago, in
New England, I once saw a pitched battle between
two 6ft. “old men.” They were surrounded by
about 50 other ’roos, apparently not much inte-
rested in the proceedings, and these made off on
my approach. The combatants, however, allowed
me to get within 20 paces of them, and, for 20
minutes or so, I watched a better “ scrap ’’ than
many a man has paid a guinea to see. They
dodged and ducked, struck flat-handed blows you
could hear rods away, and developed great agility
in keeping clear of the dangerous hind-foot. Not
till they had to pull up for wind did they become
aware of my presence and make off.
* * » *
“ Treb ” : In connection with the “ wip-
ing-out ” of the Mt. Margaret tribe of blacks by
the Hawk’s Nest diggers about five years ago, the
AT A BAGKBLOX “DARNCE”
HE: “Is yer programme full, miss?”
S HE: “ Oh, yes, quite full, thank you; I just had
two long lemon-squashes!”
following incident is not generally known. Two
of the exterminators, thinking the blacks were all
shot, were making back to the Nest, when they
caught sight of an old nigger and a boy going
across a flat. The old chap had been shot through
the flank, and the little fellow was helping him to
escape, and when the miners commenced taking
pot-shots at the pair the lad would not desert his
charge, and was butchered along with him. What
price “ white ” men ?
* * * *
“ J. J. 8.” : T’other day two horses belong-
ing to two local Chinamen named Ah Fat and Ah
Ling were impounded for straying on the railway-
line. Ah Fat, blaming Ah Ling’s horse for
leading his into temptation, went to the pound,
got hold of Ah Ling’s horse by the mane, and
THE PHARISEE.
(Overheard at N.S. W. Art Gallery.)
“ Don’t yer twig, stupid—’e was just goin ’ to ’ave a shy
at the bloomin’ Chow when ’e spots the cop
cornin’ round the eorner !”
addressed the animal thus: “My cli ! you come,
you knockem slip-lail down ; you letem my hoss
out, and takem lailway and getem lock up. Wha’
fo’, you plully logue ?—wha’ fo’? ”—and with
clenched fist he landed Ah Ling’s horse one
on the nose.
• • » *
“ Bendee ” : “ G.iVL” (8., 29/7/’99) doubts
whether the native bear ever drinks. Saw one at
a water-hole once, but he didn’t seein to be used
to the business—drank like a fowl, throwing the
head up to swallow each mouthful, which he
appeared to chew vigorously. Looked very funny.
Puff your cheeks well out, and try to smile and
chew at the same time, and you’ll get a fair idea
of the koala’s expression during the swallowing
process. “G.M.” pronounces it “k0.01a,” but
“ koola ” in a great many N.S.W. and Q. tribes
means “anger” or “angry.”
* * * »
Up North, the other day, when the re-
mains of a three-years-defunet Chow were ex-
humed for the usual transmission to China it was
found that the new clothes and boots with which
the corpse had been rigged-out were in wonderful
preservation, but the bottle of best brandy which
had been placed in the coffin had vanished. A
local undertaker has since been very eloquent
about the destructive effects of noxious gases on
glass.
* * • *
At Black Hill, Ballarat, the other day,
while a number of workmen were taking down
the poppet-legs of the Old North
Queen, one of the huge pulley-
wheels started down the declivity
“ on its own,” and continued its
wild career until it struck a house,
into which it cut with the facility
of a buzz-saw ripping into a
cheese. The wheel went slap
through an out-house and two
rooms, and fetched up in the
drawing-room, where it was found
reclining against the ruins of the
piano. Several people were in the
house, and there were interesting
escapes of the narrowest kind.
Which recalls to writer a sight seen
in his youth at Mt. Cole (Vic.)
when a jinker-wheel chased an old
man down a track, and when within
a few feet of him, and apparently
about to split him like an apple,
jumped him as' clean as a dispensa-
tion of Providence, and went
scooting merrily down the mount.
“ A.D.8.” : How is it that the big, easy-
going Esau generally marries a little spitfire of a
woman, who rules him with a broomstick, while
the under-sized, smooth-faced Jacob takes unto
himself a voluminous but tender-eyed Leah who
adores, yet with good reason, fears him ? Thus,
of two Q. brothers, Esau, the giant, with his arm
McNULTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What McNulty ? Strike me purple 1 He was ohampion
of the West,
Where the gentle art of cursing has achieved it’s very
best.
You can talk about Maginnis and O’Hara and the rest—
But they couldn’t hold a candle to McNulty 1
Now The Bulletin may have a hide as tough as e’er a
mule’s,
But it couldn’t print his language ’cause it wouldn’t have
the tools ;
It would use up all the brackets, “startlers,” stars and
melal-rules
For to punctuate the language of McNulty 1
When McNulty caine up country he went out to Seven-
wire
Where he got a job at hauling logs from hungry Mclntyre
(Him as wouldn’t work on Sunday if his homestead was
a-fire!).
He could drive a team of bullocks, could McNulty.
But Mclntyre’s old bullocks they were hungry as was he ;
Like them lean and lanky cattle in the Bible yarn, may
be.
Anyway, they couldn’t pull a log and ’twas a sight to see
How they shivered at the language of McNulty?
“ Why the (blank dashed parenthesis) and (starred ellip-
sis) hell
Don’t you pull ? You sons of (asterisks) 1 ” And here his
accents fell.
WITH MRS. HOOLEY’S COMPLIMENTS.
“ Tirince I gwan over the hill and give me compliments to Mrs. O'Toole, and
ask how she is this morning—and if she’s dead, ask when the funeral
will be? ”
“ Call yerselves a team of bullooks? Workin’ bullocks,
do yer? Well,
You’re a mob of (blanky) oows! ” exclaimed M'Nulty.
At this gross and brutal insult every bullock gave a heave,
And they hauled that blessed log out just as Mao. had
turned to leave.
“ I’m a champion ox-persuader, with some notions up my
sleeve,
And I knows the power o’ language 1 ” said M'Nulty.
But M'Nulty went to Sydney, where he drove a parcels
van,
And the suburbs got to know him just like Coonabara-
bran.
Took a load of apples over to a North Shore grocer man :
’Twas the only time that language failed M'Nulty 1
You must know “ the Shore,” how steep it is; you’ve
climbed the hills, no doubt ?
Well, M'Nulty led his horse up ; there were plenty folks
about;
And the blessed tail-board came unfixed, and let them
apples out—
A catastrophe unnoticed by M'Nulty 1
But a crowd was there a-waiting on the summit of the
hill „ , ,
In the hope of hearing language that would make em
fairly thrill.
When McNulty found what happened for a second he
stood still: .
“Please exouse me, gents and ladies, said McNulty,
'«l’m the famed McNulty, of the Oastlereagh, no less ;
And l am a champion swearer —but I candidly confess
That I can find NO language as would properly express
What my feelin’s is this minute 1 ” said McNulty.
W. T. GOODGE.


SOLID SILVER, 2/-.
The “Fx and R”
Popular Pencil
Is Solid Silver English Hall-marked. It carries an indelible lead that lasts for years, and
can be replenished in any part of the world. There is nothing to break or get out of gear.
They are a marvel of value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY,
23 Hunter Street (only).
Dear Bulletin. —Re foundering of Union
Co.’s s.s. Ohau (B. 19/8/’99). In a lumber-loaded
ship once, from Vancouver to Callao, we had deck-
load on main-deck and for’ard half of poop, with
passage left in midships of latter to get to saloon
and cabins. Got a snorting hurricane near the
Line, and, in heaving-to, shipped a terrific sea
that filled her fore and aft, lifted the main-deck
load, washed the chocks from under, blocked the
scuppers, ripped off the cleats and uprights in
passage of poop-loading, so that the whole caboodle
went over to starboard with a heavy lurch. Made
sure it was a case of “ turning turtle,” but, with
luck and hard graft, we pulled through, and at
the subsequent official inquiry, unanimously
blamed the deck-load.—C. Potteb.
One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
(his success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney —who own the Willson patents for
.Australasia —are getting ready to give the Aus-
: ralian pirates a surprise. Thisco. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
WATSON'S WHISKY
in a sling, accounted for the broken limb by
drawling, “ Oh, had a bit of an altercation with
the ole woman.” Jacob, on the other hand, broke
his Leah’s leg with a bullock-bow, and ever since
—“ most unkindest out of all ” —calls her a
“ hoppin’ Jenny.”
* * • •
The city bushman swears by saltbush, of
course; a good many of him seems to think there
isn’t much other worth considering in the vast
way-back. But the way-baok man is not so cock-
sure about it. Some of it is good, he admits ;
but in other big districts -in nearly all the Dar-
ling country, for instance—it is going, and he is
not half so cut-up about it as the city/bushman
would think he ought to be. The fact is that the
saltbush of the far-inlands will keep sheep alive
and little more; the old hand who has studied
the business scorns the idea that it is either fat-
tening or good for fleece-making.
* * * *
“Old Soldier ” on the missionary busi-
ness :
Re the Moran missionary-shindy. The secular person
who, caring nothing for dogma, has had opportunity for
observing the results of mission-work, never t liink's much
of it. To begin with, a dead-set is made at. polygamy,
which, to the noble savage, makes all the difference be-
tween want and plenty. He hunts : ajid;fights ; his wives
cultivate and housekeep. And, the more wives there are,
the lighter is the work for each. The missionaries want
the man to do the hoeing, but he dare not, even if he:
would. The women would drive hitn out of the village.
Then, when the young man begins to know his Bible, he
mostly wants to know why the patriarchs could have
such a lot of wives while he is only to have one, arid I
never heard of a missionary who could do more than
shuffle with that question. The children at mission-
schools learn a few useful, and a great many usele'ssif
things, and, when they leave school, the sharp* pupils get
billets of some sort, and the dull become practically
savages again—ptas a greater knavery and unreHableness.
And, all the time, Islam, working without organised
agencies, is quietly making 1-00 converts to Christianity’s
one ; the Mahometan proselytes, moreover, giving evi-
dence in their lives that their conversion is more than
nominal. The bulk of the missionaries are doubtless sin-
cere and earnest enough, but their whole system is
rotten.
* *, • »
“ Basalt ” : Be quality of bore-water
(“6x8,” B. 22/7/’99). The Richmond (M.L.) Govt,
bore gives splendid water ; while in some other
places the water is hardly drinkable. In summer
at early morning you can see a full stream of water
in the drain, but at evening you will see the stream
an inch lower with a white deposit on the margin
from which the water has fallen.
* * * V
Maoris now play golf in the North Island.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin : Re leaky boats. The
owner of a ferry-boat up my way (Queensland)
finding that his boiler was beginning to leak, at-
tempted to repair it with a piece of wood. Some-
time later, a certificated mariner awoke in the
hospital and enquired who hit him. And that
boat in its time had carried thousands of passen-
gers.—Aramac.
“Snell’': The
pig may have
been a success as
a domestic pet in
the “ould sod,”
but it is unpopu-
lar in Australia.
I only know of
one family that
tried to make a
porker live up to
the traditions of
Erin, and it
fa e l . The pig
took kindly to
the treatment,
and had the run
of the kitchen,
and the privilege
of sharing the
comforts of the
hearth and home
on cold nights ;
but one morning
he greatly pre-
sumed upon the
family’s gene-
rosity. Piggy
was discovered
running out of
the kitchen-door
with the baby in
his mouth. His
intentions ma y
have been honorable, but the family had fresh
pork for d nner next day. '
* * * *
C.H.F. : Re Sea-horses (B. 24/6/’99) there
was a live snecitnen in Brisbane Museum some
was a live specimen in .Brisbane Museum some
time smoe-and dead ones are sometimes found at
Southport (Q.) during heavy weather.
~——
t-> • , m t ur-u , ,
Printer b. E. Lees, of Clarence-street,
Sydney, has just completed the printing of a book
in the Kiriwina language—a dialect of New
Guinea—the first time that language has been re-
duced to print. The book is a Life of Christ,
i ,;n i . j i •. ■'
and will be used for missionary purposes.
The U.S. President lately approved of an
Act of Congress abolishing the penalty of death
~ r i • & 1 . ‘I. c
in all federal convictions except those of
treason and under the articles of war and
treason, ana under tne articles .01 war, ana
for the crimes of murder and rape. In cases
of murder or rape it allows the jury to qualify
their verdict by adding “ without capital punish-
ment,” when the convicted is to be sentenced to
life imprisonment.
n/r . , T ,
Miss Mane Narelle, who gives a concert of
her own at the Town Hall, Sep. 19th, is a true
dramatic soprano with a fine voice, a bright plat-
form manner, and a good deal of dramatic ability.
c,. ’ i i ii
She proposes to go home for the essential hall-
mark if ber concert is the success it deserves to be.
Mi ss Eva Mylote and Miss Narelle are cousins,
and lately made good use of their contrasting
voices by running a series of concerts through the
bi K N.S W. country towns in a highly cuoJasfnl
wav. I hey are both country girls who have
studied their art in Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
D.G. : Don’t see what you are driving at. Do
you want to make out that the man’s wife induced him
to falsely criminate himself? ... Carew : “Pukaki” (cor-
ruption of Pukeko : thfe red-legged moor hen) is used by
M.L. settlers as a descriptive nickname for a ‘gawky’ gitl,
and “Gaw-gaw” (corrupted from Ka Ka, the monster
parrot) is synonymous with a lout ... M‘G. : One of these
days Australia will suddenly awaken to a sense of the
real value of things and get a sober, industrious Governor
byadvt. at 6s. 6d. a day, and when he yells for a musical
instrument it will tell him to go and buy a jew’s-harp but
of his screw like any other man Mum : Thanks, but
better let it alone. Under the circumstances it was in
most execrable taste to publicly congratu’ate the gentle-
man on the event. Such felicitations could only emanate
from a; very greasy quarter indeed .. M. : So far as we
know, the P. and'O. Go. will -not ship live animals of any
sort. It certainly won’t ship dogs. The “reason"
no doubt lies in its anxiety for the comfort of pas-
sengers A.D.E.L. : “ The ' Bulletin doesn’t pay the
newspaper-postage into Queensland.” Doesn’t it 1 In
the bulk, it just does, for it has to allow agents a margin
in order that they may sell it at sixpence. If more than
6d. is charged in Queensland, the balance goes into the
agent’s pocket, not into The Bulletin’s .... F. : Can
point, in Sydney, anyhow, to half-a-dozen R.C. girls \vho
have married Jews. The Irish-Hebre.w, by the way, is
a most excellent cross. Furthermore; the really intellec-
tual people of the world never seek quarrels with their
neighbors on matters of dogma. The average statesman
personally regards dogmatic rows with pitying contempt...
Polwarth : Whole 10 wickets for a collective “duck” is
a record, as far as we know. Have put the question.
A.C.W. : Bulletin doesn’t propose to start a formal
“Religious Column.’’ Most of The Bulletin’s choicest
religious items are already to be found under its “ Busi-
ness, Robbery, &c,” heading .. Mac. : Incorrect. Each
candidate got support from both English and “ foreign ”
Jews... .G.VV.P.: : That is not the alleged reason.
The real cause, it is said, is that nurses don’t
work as well with their own sex as with the man
doctor .... H.O.G. : The mother-plover’s broken-wing
dodge to lead away from nest is a commonplace of
zoology .. C.K. : “Steele Rudd’s” book will be out next
month. We’ll let you know when to send your cash
in:. . Wilga : You misquote the liturgical phrase, and in
any case the thing smells very chestnuttj r .. Etum : The
man who gets into a woman’s bedroom at the hotel by
mistake is the second oldest joke on earth. The oldest is
about the dog with a tin tied to his tail . T. H. Dobbin :
The hand counts 12 Billite : Your two Mount Morgan
anti-Federalists are past answering. When a man says
that Federation will produce boils, delirium, tough
meat, sandy-blight and caterpillars, and gives reasons,
you can knock his reasons endways. When he says
it without any reasons except his own hairless bray
and assertion it is better to let him assert
Robbo : That boozer-yarn was a favorite with the Cartha-
ginians, and the sciatica item isn’t nearly as good as the
original—told of Tietjens, the singer. Also, if that
“maid ’’-story isn’t an unholy invention, it’s a dangerous
libel James Brown : Matter for five lines only; you
send four pages C.F. : “ Folly of B.” well-written, but
we are trying to give the murderous a rest ..D.8.G.: Why
write so microscopically ? We are all nearly blind. En-
quirer : What are you giving us ? E.P. (Ad.): Very
Miss MARIE NARELLE, the Sydney Soprano,
Photo, by Grouzellg.
trumpery No. 6: Thanks; but we don’t propose to
catalogue the whole misfortunes of a family James S. :
Will print Joe Brown—mainly as a tribute to the in-
genuity of its rhyming. ... The Pipe: “A Foot” too
crude Bur idee :“ His Dinner” unamusingly blas-
phemous Vindi: Quite right—it was Antonio Woollier,
an Italian youth, then in the service of the Sydney
jewellery firm of Flavelle, who descended the cliffs,
in a coal-basket at the end of a rope, to the rescue
of the only survivor of the wrecked Dunbar
J.G.B. (Boggy O.j : Chestnut ! A.S.G. : Coals to New-
castle. “My Mate Bill” originally appeared in Bulle-
tin Uloola : The dreadful Hogan, M.P., isn’t worth
taking so seriously .. Censor Red : Idea not good
enough Frank : Will wrestle with the question again.
Narranghi Boori : Verse bumps like a cow with a
wooden leg Gyp. : Bumps like a cow With four wooden
legs H.F.S. : Many thanks “The Blithering Aus-
tralian at Home” : Well, let him blither. It is probably
the only thing he can do well, so why shouldn’t he do it ?
Christopher Crisp : A great deal of not much said at
considerable length Miss T. : Too weak a rhyme
v . : ap-wo: Have you ever studied the sweet uses of a
cork? T.S.N. : Doggerel .. V.I.P. : Can’t use
Maddy : May use Miram : Too long and loose
W.R.S. : Thanks; but it doesn’t matter anyway Tim
B. : Verse not quite up. Meagher “of the Sword ” fought
for the Federals in the U.S. civil war .. Emily B. :
Blowed .. R.J.W.: Returned Rosebery: Not very
bright or novel . Myamyn : Heavy-footed as the Zoo.
hippopotamus. (2) Ask a policeman M.J.F. : Good
point; bad yarns M.W. : Leave the scissors to us ;
the pen is your weapon Weeloo : Ail that space to say
so little! you’d take a mile to run a yard J.W.D.
(Fiji): Some sincerity ; but long and flat G.G. : Can’t
ring in photo. of Dusty Bill’s grave anywhere ... A.P. :
The Leg. Councillors of two Australian provinces are
nominated : those of the other four are elected on pro-
perty qualifications D.C.N. : Yes, it was a clean steal.
j.E.: Church-repair bill a battered chestnut Tim
B. : “Arcades” very “steep,” but will consider.
THE WELSHER'S LITTLE JOKE.
PUNTER (who backed the second horse): “ Well, anyhow, I had a good run for my money."
IKEY (significantly): “ You might have had a better one if the second horse had icon. ”
“ M.L.C.”-gag hardly more than 100 years old Bushy :
No good, the way you tell it Philos: No merit
R.A.T. : Fair enough verse, but fact of previous publica-
tion is fatal Hoiya : Hardly good enough this time
Orion: Its quaintness may carry it .... E.S.G. : We
felt an unholy joy when we came to where “ bill pegd
out.” One “Bill” the less, anyhow 1 David G. :
“Woman’s Reason,” insufferably prosy. “Moon-
lighters ” trite and clumsy Bro. : You’d be surprised
to find how foolish you’d look in cold print G.M.D. :
Very spirited ; may use . Mup : Strong fragment; will
consider W.A.T. : Two of your verses—
E.P.: Oh, yes—Chamberlain evidently knew all about
the Jamieson raid... Dabton : So a young Hebrew has
been successfully mashing the girl who formerly beamed
on you. “ Woman, thy name is frailty,” as you sadly
remark Poyson : Pugilist Sellars used to “ fool about”
with men in the street, and one day he got a pummelling
for his pains. The same yarn could be told of every fat-
headed pug. who ever lived H.G. (Bris.): Will print
“Retribution." Tim B. : But we daren't publish it.
Fayre: Will print “Coup.” Tim Barry: Yes, the
letters are sorted en route in the Sydney-Brisbane
mail-train Hoi. M.: Well, we have no opinion of
the gentleman Long-Un : “ I.M. ” for print.
“ Slip " : Answered in Bulletin (26th). This is the first
Australian team in England to repulse the attacking
force. Previous teams have been more or less easily
beaten in three days, as a rule Steff C. : “ Brain way ”
doesn’t sound plausible or reasonable Chance : A dull,
grey, lifeless kind of tragedy M.C.B. : Still consider-
ing “ Flynn’s Dawg.” H.C. : “Tolerably” is the vague
sort of thing which may mean something, nothing or any-
thing Kooka: Jackass-snake subject is now completely
“off,” so far as Bulletin is concerned D.M. : You
want an “A” in the middle ! D.M. (No. 2): Thanks ;
item already to hand Alone 11. : Good point, clumsily
introduced.* John A. H. :“I am dubious about men-
tioning names.” Well, we’re not dubious about not men-
tioning them. Red-hot libel! Prosum: Not much in
those sent, tut you might hit it another time H.S.T. :
More promise than performance, but has decided touches
of quality W.V. : Some power of characterisation, but
story too slight Cudgenbil : “Got ’em-again,” or
what? W.H.D. : Idea good, but treatment lacks point.
Lurcher : Well-conceived, but n»t weight or interest
enough Julian M.: Verse ; such a well-worn text
would need a more rousing sermon. Prose sketch, will
consider Gobung : Verse-writing mere waste of time
on your part F.E.G. : Interesting, but would need
virtual re-writing Fred W. D. : Will make par. only.
The advantages of employing the cheap
and nasty alien were strikingly illustrated recently
at Bundaberg. A cane-planter of local invention
was tested the other day and pitted to work
against 16 “boys.” The heathen were beaten
easily. Machine (cost <£2o) requires a man to
drive and a boy to stack rattoons. Strange to say,
the contrivance was the invention of the white
man, not of a Malayta cannibal.
Both Argus and Age managed to mis-
quote the passage from Longfellow’s “ The Build-
ing of the Ship ” with which Deakin perorated in
his speech at the Eederation banquet given in his
honor. Argus made the poet bid the ship itself
to “sail on to union strong and great ! ” whereas
the poet wrote, “Sail on U union, strong and
great! ” Also that paper made the first line,
“mighty ship of State,” whereas there is no
adjective in Longfellow. The Age turned the
line, “ Sail on nor fear to breast the sea,” into a
repetition of “ Sail on, O ship of State.” Curiously
enough, neither paper detected the quotation in
Gov. Brassey’s speech at all. The old man,
speaking of Deakin’s eloquence, exclaimed :
Bright is the ring of words
When the right man rings them.
The Argus printed “Right is the ring of words,”
but neither paper put in quotation-marks. The
lines are the beginning of R. L. Stevenson's 14th
poem in the volume of “ Songs of Travel.”
Miss REGINA NAGEL , the Australian
Contralto, up to date.
Photo., A. Liebert.
Slang telegram to his friends from a
Sydney spieler just “going up ” for a stretch and
wanting tobacco worked-in to him :
Booby-hatch ; one moon. Send snout to Rattler.
An interesting and sweetly-printed little
document sent along by Regina Nagel to a Mel-
bourne friend is a programme of the last concert
at Marchesi’s school, punctuated with the sender’s
candid criticisms. Regina’s notes of admiration
and otherwise are about equally distributed
between the first and second year’s pupils, for
among the novices Mile. Elizabeth Parkinson
(from Kansas city) is summed up as “glorious, a
secotid Melba,” and a German soprano gets credit
for “grand dramatic voice.” Three of the more
matured Marehesians are either “ beautiful voice ”
or “ lovely artist,” but another appears to be
“ absolutely cruel.” As for the Nagel’s opinion of
her own pair of contributions it is “ better left
unsaid.” According to Paris press criticisms on
Marchesi’s concert, the rich contralto that used
sometimes to let itself go in “ Ben Bolt ” will stir
tiie feelings of the musical world presently^
The Plimsol mark is now erased —
A most inhuman deed ;
The Board of Trade has it effaced;
No Plimsol now to plead.
Below the bearings loaded down,
More profit yet to gain—
What matters if all hands they drown,
Insurances remain !


M r.~D E XKIN.—VV e mast recoftnise the
Very serious fact that tor some years past
the population of the colony had been
practically stationary Also, we nul \ t
admit that, broadly speaking, the agri-
cultural settlement; the rural industries,
and rural settlement generally--were not in-
creasing as we should like to see them.
()ur rural pursuits were not employing as
large a proportion of our population, nor
’wore the areas of theiv operations advanc*
jiig as we desired they should. l«hm was
a verv serious difficulty, especially con-
side red with the fact of our having burdens >
of public indebtedness/L'he position ot the
v colony, in the matter of its public debt.
X since 1893, was not one of encouragement
\ or hope. - _ >
TOE COMING A US fKALIAN
TARIFF.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE AJRGU9.
Sir _We do not dispute the right of
“The’ Argus" to place before the country
cuV policy which it may deem'desirable m
the national interest. But ipasmuch as, on
account of the services winch Ihe Argus
has rendered to the free-trade cause in the
past, it has been considered the exponentot
' the views of the free-trade party, we feel
in our duty to express our dissent from
I die federal fiscal policy advocated in your
icolumns on the 19th and 21st fust. i
i We, as representing the freetraders of
I Victoria, unhesitatingly reject any corapro-
Iroise with the policy of protection
We * re - p j^' s ' T m URRA y SMITH,
Pr f{j d ail R. REm e trade Leaene
N President of the Free-trade Democratic As-
\ -sociation of Victoria.
THE SHEEP BREEDERS’ SHOW.
Lord Brassey, in responding to the toast of hit
health, regretted that owing to a prior engage,
ment at Bendigo he had not been able to attend
and open the show that- morning. If it were
within his power to tel! them anything new in
«heep breeding he knew they would listen to him
with inexhaustible patience
MZ&~
n%'/^
ameSf P £AK ""
l'w Hi>J'sTp-Y a
QooM-
-lis* \e /
'^WASt^
yrv
fruiailu*'
xo«' : 'y
XT
<W> . >/
li K® /'
tyy
Jolly ly fcVfeiyeSS *»**
"
JC& <L- of>
~ -a® ** x s>y
v
„
VC
>
1
Da v eK r f
4i |i
(AW v uYn 7“' I ''
\ V eec l eY S ) v/C
\ GmU slWt?€Y
\ SoY \jOUXS
\ ] \
Tli? sixth annual free-trade dinner will
he held at the Vienna Cafe od Thursday
September 7. Mr. R. Wood, M.H A. ot
South Australia, will speak to the toast ot
“The Australian Commonwealth, and Mi
' B. R. Wise, M.Ljk., of New South 'Vales,
has promised to attend if he can posslb y
ileave his duties in Sydney. Several well-
-1 known Victorian speakers have consented
..to be present. The gathering will be pre-
sided over by Mr. R. Murray Smith
M.L.A. Tickets may be secured from Mr
W H. Renwiek, “Beacon office, JJd voi-
lins-street, or any members of the counc Is
of the Free-trade League or 1 ree-trade
Democratic Association
-fS dri»< ''» i'l®7 ce auX
fei UK* V^’ 4
~\-fa j«W l 7 e "’ ”
' j\ V**
/ Afp y>
bs*!.4 lc .
° fl e «c2 a oQ arf „ ®®v«g „ e c<^o
- oCQ^»°^msg v^‘
I' u»j
V <
M
'I
\ it
if
L>^\
" (jooA l>ye \ A™/, youre
Vcvjf welcome wl}<r
bw-'T
-fo Ttuo' our
Jb*\
Q jn-'We \
%ku x
|J, \7' %M
Vr\vS
% %
\ A (K,- C M /
\lron, ,J?V V ,
\ Vc v ’ e {W<
\ 6,-f|V' uj
\ _Jfe^«folUs)
fy
MELBOURNIANA.


THE LATEST ADDITION TO THE FAMILY.


A leading shipping-authority spoke thus to
a Bulletin man : —Messrs. Ismay, Imrie & Co.,
the shipping firm so long famous for its splendid
transatlantic steam service, will shortly establish
direct steamship communication betvven Australia
and Liverpool, with their White Star fleet of mag-
nificent new steamers. The Medic, Runic, Afric,
Persic, and Suevic will each be of 12,000 tons, and
have accommodation for 80,000 carcases of mutton,
24,000 bales of wool, and 270 passengers. Punctu-
ality will be the constant rule ; and the trip from
Albany to Liverpool, calling at Capetown, a con-
tinental port, and London, will take 38 days.
This service will be invaluable to Australia, both
for produce and passenger trade. For, to the
Australian exporter it means that beef, mutton,
hares, rabbits, poultry, fruit, butter, &c., will be
carried promptly, at low cost, to the favorable
market proffered by the teeming populations of
the English Western Counties; whilst the perfec-
tion of the refrigerating chambers and cargo
accommodation generally, will ensure the landing
of the produce in proper condition, thereby
enabling the Australian producer to suc-
cessfully compete with the producers of
Europe and America. Great benefit, too, comes
to the wool trade of Australia by this innovation,
as the White Star transatlantic service can receive
the wool at Liverpool from the Australian service,
and ship it direct across the Atlantic for New
York, Boston, and Philadelphia. But it is in the
passenger trade that the White Star fleet inaugu-
rates the newest order. The business manage-
ment holds that the great mass of the Australian
people should be catered for; and therefore all the
passengers will be of one class, and the charge of
this Anthony Hordern of the sea will be according
to berths from £26 10s. to £34 return from
Sydney to London. The accommodation will be
on the middle deck, with large, airy berths, up-to-
date baths, smoking-room, reading-room, and
piano; and the long experience of the White Star
line in the Atlantic trade will be employed to
make the voyage as enjoyable as possible. The
bill of fare will be liberal and diversified, and
certain to make the democrat with a sea-appetite
happy inside during meals, and amiable during
intermissions,*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
ver's, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Roderic Quinn’s charming selection of
verses, “The Hidden Tide,” has been warmly
welcomed everywhere. The price is Is. 9d., post-
free from The Bulletin office.
THE! CITIZENS’ LIFE,
W
1
i '
•~r
1
£»«K3
a
The Read Offices of the Company at the corner of Castjcreagh and Moore-streets, Sydney .
New Head Offices.
“ One of the finest buildings in. the city of
Sydney.” This undoubtedly- IST..a just de-
scription of the new Head Offices of the
Citizens’ Life, recently erected at the corner
of Castlereagh and Moore streets, and now
occupied by the Company. Of the purest
style of French Renaissance (so conspicuous
a feature of modern Paris) it is worthy of
the architect—Mr. Warded—to whose credit
stand two Australian Cathedrals. Erected
with a view to utility and convenience rather
than show, no stucco work or meretricious
effect offends the eye. Six stories high (ex-
clusive of basement and mezzanine floor) the
total floor space measures about 34,000 square
feet. Fifteen strong rooms are distributed
over the building. Within a stone’s throw of
the General Post Office, the position is a splen-
did one, and available space has let readily.
The Company requires the ground floor as a
public office, the major part of the firstfloor for
Board Room and general management offices,
also the fourth’knd fifth floors; the Head Office
clerical staff numbering upwards of sixty.
The Home of a Big Business.
Commencing business on the first day of
January, 1887, the Citizens’ claims in the
short space of 12 years to have accomplished
results without a parallel in the history of
Life Assurance the wide world over. Its
Policy-holders to-day exceed in number
200,000, and at the present time not far
short of two thousand policies are issued
weekly. Its invested funds, totalling almost
half-a-million, are being added to at the rate
of £lOO,OOO annually. Progress so wonder-
ful means that before very many years the
whole of the present buildings will be re-
quired by the Company for its own use.
“Look on this Picture and on
that,”
To exemplify the giant strides made, we
publish the salient figures of the Company’s
annual statements for the years 1887 and
1898 :
New Assurances
Premiums
Interests and Rents...
Claims (Death and
Endowments ma-
tured)
Funds
No. of Policies in force
Here surely we have an exhibit of wonderful
vitality and progress. The great Prudential
of London, the largest Life Office in the
British Empire, took 15 years to build up a
premium income of £lOO,OOO as compared
with the £236,000 of the Citizens’ (working
in a sparsely-populated territory) in twelve
years.
The Mission of the “ Citizens’.”
Until the advent of the “ Citizens’,” Life
Assurance was beyond the reach of all but
the wealthier sections of the Australian
Commonwealth.
To establish a society with a charter wide
enough to admit alike the humblest wage-
earner and the merchant prince was the life
work of the Founder of the Company—thelate
James P. Garvan—and in the “ Citizens’ ”
he has left an enduring monument to his
titanic labors. Over 10 years ago, in his
Chairman’s address, the Founder stated :
“ The good effects of Life Assurance on the
community at large consists more in the fact
of taking out a life policy than in the amount
of that policy.”
The “Citizens’” Lst year transacted a
larger purely Ordinary Business than any
Life Office in Australasia with but one ex-
ception, but the propagation of the prin-
ciples of Industrial Assurance has ever been,
and will continue to be, its chief care.
The Founder of the Company.
The Founder of the Company, as already
stated, was the late James P. Garvan, at one
time Colonial Treasurer, and at another
Minister for Justice for New South Wales.
For ten years (until his death in 1896) he
managed its affairs with consummate ability
and magnificent success, and it is pleasing to
note that the older officers of the Company
have decided to perpetuate his memory by
the erection of costly stained-glass windows
over the main entrance to the stately new
Head Offices. Mr. John J. Garvan has suc-
ceeded his father as Managing Director.
Prompt Payment Always.
Over 30,000 Claims Paid.
Over 30,000 claims by death of Assured or
maturity of Policies liav'e been paid by the
Citizens’. To pay its claims promptly is the
special pride of the Company and in thou-
sands of cases the Policy-moneys have been
actually handed over to claimants the same
day that intimation of death was given. The
Policies are practically free from all restric-
tions. Suicide or mis-statement of age does
not vitiate them. Members may, after assur-
ing, reside in any part of the habitable globe
without extra premiums being imposed.
During the current year claims have been
paid under policies on the lives of members
whose deaths took place in India, America,
South Africa, Great Britain, and “at ser ''
respectively.
Undoubted Security.
In 1895 the actuarial valuation of the Ordi-
nary Branch was conducted on a 3| per cent,
net premium basis, and that high standard
has been preserved ever since. The Citi-
zens’ was the first Australian Life to adopt
so stringent a valuation. In the Industria
Branch, no British office transacting similai
business has essayed, at an equally early
period in its career, to make so stringent »
valuation as does the Citizens’.
Annual Bonuses.
Annual actuarial valuations are made and
annual bonuses allotted to Ordinary Branch
with profit-policies. For the year 1898, the
reversionary bonuses declared on whole of
of life-policies were :
Policies ten years and upwards in force,
£2 10s. per cent. ; policies of five years and
under ten years’ standing £2 per cent., and
policies under five years in force £llls. per
cent, on the sum assured.
Purely Australian.
The Company transacts no business
outside of Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand, but has branch offices in each
capital city, and superintendencies and agen-
cies in every town of importance within the
sphere of its influence. Some years ago it
was found on investigation that 87 per cent,
of the lives assured were natives of the
colonies, and the Company claimed to have
a larger number of native-born policy-holders
on its books than any other office. At 31st
December, 1898, the risks in force were
distributed as follows :
Colony.
New South Wales
Victoria
South Australia
Queensland
New Zealand
Tasmania
West Australia
No. Policies.
... 00,210
... 50,351
... 30,298
... 26,035
... 14,706
7,049
7,015
... 195,664
Total
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Albert Trott’s 200 wickets and 1000 runs in a
Single season of first-class cricket, combined with his ac-
knowledged front-rank fielding, stamp the ex-Australian
as the finest all-round cricketer in England. Trundlers
have often taken 100 wickets for 1000 runs, but none good
enough to account for 200 wickets could tot up four
figures in runs. W.G. is credited with 100 wickets and
2000 runs.
* • * *
Cricket: Re “ A.W.” (19/8/’99) and three-day test
matches : “The English system serves to make the game
more lively than we get it in Australia.” This is ques-
tionable so far as test matches are concerned. In the
three-day matches, if one side makes a big score, the
other only tries to keep its wickets up and make a draw ;
with an additional day’s play that move would be useless.
Barring wet weather, or an unusual collapse, no test-
match can be finished in three days.
* » * *
Polwarth: In a cricket-match played some
time ago between two Victorian country teams the score
of one side was—nil 1 Record?
* * •
At a N.S.W. country race-meeting a certain
jockey was suspected of intending to prevent the favorite
from winning, and one of the stewards was accordingly
deputed to post himself at the most likely spot to make
observations ; but by the time the race came off said
steward hil got slightly fuddled. The expected inter-
ference with the favorite took place, a protest was lodged,
and, when the steward was examined as to how far the
offending jockey was ahead when he crossed the favorite,
he gravely answered, “ Twenty minutes 1 ” —and stuck to
it, too 1
» • ♦ •
Poor old Newman, once first favorite for Melb.
Cup, is now battling for £5 prizes at unregistered subur-
ban meetings near Brisbane.
• • * •
Died lately at Auckland (M.L.), James
Kean, jockey, trainer, and horse-owner. Kean rode for
“ Honest John ” Tait and Edward Lee on Sydney side 30
years ago, and in ’7B went to M.L., where he was for a
time trainer to Governor Hercules Robinson. Amongst
many famous horses that have been through bis hands
may be mentioned Lady Emma, Pearl-Shell, Cuirassier,
Lottie, and that steeplechasing wonder, Silvio.
• • • •
The latest riding crank at ’Ome is the South
’Murkan jock, Malerba, who disdains saddles, and abso-
lutely scoffs at stirrups. The autocratic Jockey Club
lately ordered him to not only use a saddle but have
stirrup-leathers and irons attached thereto. Malerba,
without putting his feet in the irons, landed a 100 to 8
chance at Newmarket, and the natural consequence is
that “ fashionables ” at ’Ome will follow the cowboy till
they are broke.
* * ♦ •
The punters who follow Tod Sloan seem to be
getting hard knocks lately. Awhile back an American
E lunger made a start by winning £14,000 on one race,
ut “did it in,” and ended up the day £24,000 to the
bad.
* * * *
Australians in England unanimously agree that
in sport the old country is a hundred years behind the
times. Accommodation at most English cricket grounds
is not only far below that of Sydney and Melbourne, but
prices are three times as high. The same applies to
racing clubs. The starting-machine is still frowned at,
and on every course are to be seen delays at the starting
post of probably half-an-hour.
Memo, for the N.S.W. Treasurer. Victoria
thusly rakes in revenue and supplies a public want. The
result of every important racing, cycling, footballing,
and cricketing event is immediately sent to all telegraph
stations, and, by previously leaving his address and six-
pence, anyone can have the news delivered promptly at
his door within a mile of any telegraph office. The
revenue profits £7OO per annum by this device.
• * * *
At a fashionable Perth caravanserai it has been
the custom to fine anyone using slang at table a penny
for each word so used. The fund totalled 10s. at last, and
it was decided to invest it in a sweep on the G.N.
Hurdle. The winner was drawn and £45 divided among
the slangy.
* * • *
Re the Melbourne lady “ pony-gun.” When the
late Torn Challoner died in England his wife took charge
of his big training-stable, and trained horses with great
success for years. Writer knows of a lady member of a
Tas. racing family who habitually “ rides work,” and
who is always entrusted with the job of backing the
young ’uns ; clad in “ rationals,” right well she does it.
Bv the way, not a few Melb. racing ponies are owned by
“Flossies,” of course financed by “ mugs.”
* • * •
At A.J.C. annual meeting a motion to raise
minimum weight in flat racing to 7st.. was properly nega-
tived. To secure good jockeyship lads must serve a long
and rigid apprenticeship under thoroughly competent
trainers. Curious to note that the best of our jocks who
go ’Ome are failures, and never get good mounts,
whereas American cracks like Martin, Simms, and Tod
Sloan are “put up” by some of the cleverest cliques—a
pretty clear proof that Australian horsemanship at least
Is not reckoned much account in England.
* * * *
Writer always flattered himself that he could
pretty closely judge a man’s weight by his appearance,
especially when in the buff, but Sydney novice boxing
tourneys have flattened that notion out. One
with an 8.7 limit is a case in point. If at least a
dozen of the 27 entrants don’t tip the beam at over9st.
and some well up to 10st., then there’s nothing in height
and build as a medium for guessing weight. Promoters
don’t let such a trifling matter as half-a-stone or so stand
in the way of a big entry-list. An extra-clever little 'un,
giving away a lot of weight, often makes a fairly open
fight of it; this draws, and the draw’s the thing with
speculative boxing-promoters.
Middle-weight champion ’rastler of N.S.W..
Lorenz, now in Brisbane, talks of fighting' any light-weighs
in the flve provinces, if latter ean find a fair stake,
Lorenz may be a good fighter (and he’ll have to be to get
back any money he puts up), but, should it turn out 60,
it will be the first instance of a successful ’rastler suc-
ceeding under M.Q. boxing rules. Besides, Lorenz is a
German, and Germany has never been known to develop
a champion pug. No matter whom Lorenz fights, writer’*
money is on the boxer. Paste this tip in your hat.
-•. * • •
John L. Sullivan, Peter Jackson, Jim Corbett,
and Griffo are past examples of how brief the champion
pug’s “hour” is, and how soon “ the pace ” kills. The
whilom grizzly, oyclonio, man-eating Australian, Joe
Goddard, provides the latest instance. Going from bad
to worse for years, he capped everything in Chicago
recently by letting a comparatively unknown nigger
punch him into quitting under cloak of a palpably inten-
tional foul.
* * • *
Pev. Alexis Jeffries, the venerable father of the
champion pug., received his son with open arms on liis
return to ’Frisco. “I do not uphold pugilism,” said
Parson Jeffries, “but I would rather see Jim the straight
hopetit fighter he is than a hypocritical preacher.” Tee-
totaller Jim, by the way, is announced to have lately
modified his principles as to wine-bibbing. “ I don’t
think,” he says, “ a man can fight without drinking in
moderation.” The dawn of a new ohampion 1
* A < * ; * • ,
“ X ” : Know of two country football teams who
played a match over three times because either one side or
the other couldn’t fall in with the decisions of the referee.
Third.tinje they imported a referee, but as the game was
comparatively quiet- they didn’t scalp him when he
declared the result. But during play a giant forward
had careered with his head full-butt into the ref’s, bread-
basket. The latter landed 10ft. away, and during his
flight the whistle, still between, his teeth, was kept on a
continuous toot by the forced draught.
* * • »
“Robbo”: What comes of having a parson at
the wheel ? A Sydney football referee was heard t'other
: day to caution a player for one small and solitary
“ Damn ! ” No wonder our champions are retiring !
* • • *
“Piripi” : These are the days of sport-loving
parsons. Rev. Mullineux is not 'unique. At, Auck-
land (M.L.) last month, Rev. Beatty, of the swagger St.
Mark’s (Anglican) church, won. the bowls championship
of Remuera Club, and Rev. Scott-West (Presbyterian)
secured Auckland Olub championship. A few years back
Methodist-parson Hodson was great in Rugby football
councils in Maoriland ; and Rev. James Hill, another
athletic parson, who died a few years back whilst
Bishop of Nigeria, West Afrioa, introduced Association
football to Auckland players. “ Not nearly so rough as
Rugby,” chirruped Rev. James in an uphill canvass among
players bound body and soul to Rugby “ footer.” At
last he got a couple of teams, and the inaugural match
took place in the presence of thousands of spectators,
the parson captaining one side. But, unfortunately for
the reputation of the Association game as a mild,
bruiseless sort of pastime, the rev. gentleman appeared
in his pulpit next morning with two undisguisabie black
eyes! In the roll of athletic soul-savers'in the island
province is Parson Calder, of Ponsonby, whose 10 or li
stone, of whipcord muscle used always to be trained to the
hour, and who was said to possess' the “ dirtiest left ”
known between Cape Maria Van Dieman, and Lake
Taupo. It was Parson Calder who obtained a glass of
whisky for Bishop Cowie in a ferociously-teetotal town-
ship one Sunday morning. “ How ever did you get it,
Mr. Calder?” queried the astonished though delighted
prelate. “ Told the publican that it was for you, me
lud ! ” replied the unabashed Calder.
• * * *
In an alleged copy of old-time Tasmanian
explorer Kelly’s log, printed in a Launceston
paper, it is stated that a single spring made by a
frightened blackfellow measured 33ft. Well, the judges
at the ancient Olympian Gaines passed a record of 55ft?—
but that was a classic lie.
* • * •
“Good Luck”: Re your illustration of Mr.
Arch. Forsyth’s pedomanieycle (or whatever he calls it)
I am pleased to see my prophecy so soon realised, and
hereby implore the patentee to stick to his parchment.
About five years ago I hawked the invention round
Sydney on the hunt for a financier—but only found scorn.
Several very learned cycle authorities said that the t heory
for increased speed was mechanically wrong, and used
much bad logic in consequence, whereupon I went back
and “putin” the sixty acres. Mr. Forsyth, or whoever
holds the patent, has a very big thing on; Lhe machine is
not only a long-felt want medically but also mechanically
for increased speed, and, incidentally, greater ease. The
rider will work it in a running attitude (left foot and
right, hand and vice versa), will only occasionally use the
saddle, and by utilising resistance (see sliding-seated
wager-boat) will break records and things like a flash
squatter in a tin pub. But the steering-bar is unneces-
sary ; the cranks will do for that and stop the familiar
wobble, too.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE DARKIE IN THE TEAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When all were men of British breed
All Hingland held their own :
In Cricket’s cause they did not need
To raise a foreign loan.
They ne’er complained of “ awful luck,”
Nor did their batsmen seem
To suffer from a want of pluck
Till the darkie joined the Team.
Year Ninety-six the precious “ Prinoe”
■ First paralysed their game ;
He starred, they lost —and, ever since,
They’ve mostly done the same.
For though he often makes a score
Whilst bright his eyeballs gleam,
They fail, as ne’er they failed before,
Now the darkie’s in the Team.
In Ninety-seven—Ninety-eight
We put them to the test:
They raised excuses for their fate,
And then they gave us best.
Four times we licked ’em out of five —
Yea, licked. All Hinudand’s “cream.”
For, how could they expect to thrive
. With a darkie in the Team 1
AH Hinglaud’s “ draws” of Ninety-nine
* Have merely gone to show
They should have drawn the oolour-line
. At Ranji., doneherknow.
Play well or ill, they cannot win,
They can’t keep up their steam :
The White Man’s Burden is the skin
Of the darkie in the Team.
Then, why not let “ his Highness” slide?
Forsooth, he’d-be no loss :
He blights the fortunes of his side,
And skites when he is cross ;
He’s not a true All Hingland pick—
. He’s foreign to the scheme :
They’ll never take another trick
Till the darkie quits the Team.


Pn Yon Feel Languid?
at?e you tired and weary?
LACK ENERGY AMD PHYSICAL TONE V
IF YOU DO NOT NOW, YOU WILL WHEN SUMMER COMES,
UNLESS YOU FORTIFY YOUR SYSTEM TO WITHSTAND THE HOT WEATHER.
EAN
are what you need
TO DO THIS!
Three Years a Dyspeptic.
A South Melbourne lady
tells a Reoobd reporter what
Bile Beans did for her.
Sufferers of this most dis-
agreeable and painful com-
plaint when asked the nature
of their sickness are fre-
quently heard to remark :
“Oh, it's only dyspepsia,”
as though this form of ill-
ness was only a very trivial
matter. Though it may be very common, this does not reduce its
seriousness. It may lead to most dangerous complications if
neglected, and the most serious diseases have their origin in it.
Few know better than Miss May Graham, 99 York-street West,
South Melbourne, of the awful suffering that accompanies this
terrible complaint, and the following is an account of her illness
given to a reporter of the .Record : “ For three years I suffered from
dyspepsia. I had frequent and fearful attacks of neuralgia in the
face, which caused agony for weeks at a time. All food disagreed
with me. I grew listless and melancholy. I spent six months in
South Gippsland for a change, but I got no benefit from it. I re-
turned to Melbourne, and became pale and sallow. I gave up hope
of recovery. One day my brother brought me a box of Bile Beans.
I commenced to take them, and in short time felt decidedly better.
Continuing with the Beans I was restored to perfect health. I can-
not too strongly express my gratitude for the good done me.”
FURTHER TESTIMONIALS.
Miss C. Mills, Charlton, N.S.W., states:—“My people have
derived great benefit from the use of Bile Beans ; in fact we would
not be without them here in the country.”
Mrs. Gannon, .Tindabyne, N.S.W., writes as follows :—“Please
find enclosed Is. 7d. in stamps, and forward me two more boxes of
your Bile Beans ; they are really good.”
The Approaching Hot Weather,
How to Keep Cool.
The summer season in Australia has started
rather early and vigorously this year, and the pre-
sent hot weather, coming suddenly as it does, has
an exceedingly enervating effect on the most of
us. It is as well to remember that at this season
of all others the human system needs to be toned
up and put in thorough condition to withstand
the trying severity of an Australian summer.
Bile Beans for Biliousness are the very best medi-
cine that can be taken for this purpose, as they
cleanse and regulate the liver, an organ to which
may be traced nearly all the minor ailments so
many people suffer from. If the liver is not in
thorough working order, the blood is impure, the
the circulation sluggish, the digestion impaired,
the sleep disturbed, and the complexion sallow.
The consequence is that there is a lack of energy,
and the sufferer becomes a victim of “ that tired
feeling.” To be out of sorts this hot weather is
most trying, as many people know. Be warned
then in time; take Bile Beans for Biliousness
NOW, and they will put you in a condition that
will withstand the most severe heat of the coming
season. Bile Beans are sold by chemists and
storekeepers generally, or sent direct from the
Australian Depot, 39 Pitt-street,. Sydney, post
paid, on receipt of the price in stamps or post
order, Is. l£d. per Large box.
A Valuable Discovery.
The nineteenth century, which is drawing to a close, has given
to the world a great number of marvellous things; but, perhaps,
the most valuable has been the discovery by an American medical
man of a certain natural vegetable substance that has the peculiar
properties of acting the same way in the process of digestion as
Nature’s own animal bile. The discoverer, realising the great value
of this vegetable substance, and the boon it would be to the millions
of digestion sufferers (who, according to the regular medical science
to date, were martyrs to pepsin, bismuth, starving, and purging),
decided to spare no expense to perfect this remedy, and make it a
cure for all digestive troubles and their attendant ailments. The
result of this experimenting was the addition of some eight other
ingredients, the same being titled l£ Bile Beans, a name given to
express exactly what the preparation was—“ a Bean for the Bile.”
The expense and care in perfecting and compressing this prepara-
tion to the size of a small bean has been very great, but the result is
a small oval bean that the smallest child can take with ease, and a
medicine that last year the consumption of which reached some
thirty millions of doses in Australia alone, the rich arid poor alike
being the friends of this marvellous specific. The consumption to
date has nearly baffled the best efforts of the proprietors, their
laboratories working night and day at times to meet the demand.
Bile Beans have been proved an undoubted cure for headache,
biliousness, costiveness, piles, liver trouble, bad breath, rheumatism,
influenza, indigestion, dizziness, buzzing in the head, fullness after
eating, lack of ambition, debility, female ailments, pimples, and a
host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective Bile flow,
assimilation, and digestion. They will also be of great service m
nervous disorders, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, blotches on
the skin, insomnia, and troubled sleep. They act quickly in re-
storing females to health, and for a general aperient and tonic
remedy they are almost unequalled. These Beans are placed on the
market in a form that anyone can take them without medical super-
vision ; and, as the price is so very low, there are few homes that
cannot afford to always have a box on the shelf for emergency.
m
o A mmm
30
&
*5
u
**
A.SAUNDERS
PATENT FLY BAC
SPLIT SECONDS
LEVER
Si
&
o
*
w.
30
'M.
Split Second Fly-back Chronosrraph and Minute
Recorder, £3 10s ; not split, £2 2s. Special value.
J
<3
10
15c. Gold Heart and Bid, with Ruby and
Diamond, :i5s.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c: Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
6SSt
%
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s; 15c. Gold, £2.
Latest Style, Soliu t.old, Good Luck:
Brooch, 10s 6d; 15c. Gold, 21s.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s.; 15c. Gold’
£2. Diamonds, as shown, £2 10s. and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
9c. Solid Links and Opals, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s.
Links, 9c. Gold, ‘22s 6d.
15c. Gold, £2. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s6d, 15s,
20s. Silver, 2s t>d, 3s.
French Diamond, Pure Solid
Silver Hat Pin, 4s 6d. Any
Initial.
SgjiKHrjgsj;
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong: and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £i.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 203.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Gold Wish Bone Pearl Set Bee, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 35s.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
Registered.” 9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ,
16c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 35s.
18c. Gold, 5 first-class
Opals, £2 10s;
Larger, £3 10s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies, and
4 Diamonds, £3, f 3 10s
i‘4. Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, Band
Rings, pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A- Saunders.
18c. Gold, pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £10, £12 10s,
£15, 20.
i
18c. Gold, 2 'aIs and
3 pure Di nds, t'4.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
AH Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless O.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting- Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3 ;
Key, 25s, 30s, 35s.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £8, £10.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, I3s 6d ; 16o. Gold, 25s.
A. SAUNDERS’ New Gold Forget-me-not
Heart and Chain Brooch, lls 6d;
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d.
Repristert d
“Gold Sword "
and
Spray Brooch,
13 Pearls, Ruby,
or and
Diamond, 255;
without
Din mond,
•22s 6d.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
First-class Pure Diamonds, £10; Diamonds and Rubies, £7 10s.
SEND
FOR
Price List.
LATEST STYLE.
©
0
Handsome Gold Necklet and Pure White Pearls, £3 ss;
LATEST LONDON RAGE.
extra heavy, i 5.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
Solid Gold Band.
Opal, 17s 6d;
3 Opals, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 1 Opal, 30s ;
3 Opals, 35s.
815 6€oR6€ STR€€T
(nearly opposite Railway Station
CYPMEY.
9c. 2-Bar and Bell, 12s 6d ;
Amethyst, 13s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
First-class, Hand-made, Solid Gold Wedding
Ring and Keeper, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s. 15c.Gold,
16s; extra heavy, 25s. 18c. Gold, 20s, 30s,
358, £2. Send for our Size Card.


SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
G-rauuma and IT* o c3La.li.
Most popular TEAS of the ajfe.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDENIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow !
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW’S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMMENDADOK PORT WINE.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.’S SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc., Colonial and Imported.
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Millers,
Manufacturers and Importers,
DEANS iHiAQE, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
iH
KM
the: only pure in the world.
ASK
~ >»: ,n
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by tbe Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Are Your Kidneys Weak?
HAVE YOU URIC ACID TROUBLE?
Have you ever considered what neglecting your
kidneys means ?
Have you ever realised the terrible risk you are
taking ?
Do you not pass on the streets, every day, men
and women whose countenances show that the
final stake is up and the die being cast?
How may you know them ?
By their pale, sallow, sunken, or bloated coun-
tenances ; dull, lack-lustre eyes; slow, languid
movements ; blotched, pimpled, unhealthy com-
plexions ; and general appearance of weakness and
debility.
In addition to their outward appearance, how
do they feel themselves ?
Weak, worn-out, tired, languid, restless,
nervous, irritable, worried over trifles. Feverish,
chilly, short of breath, dizzy, rheumatic, with
pain or dull ache in the back, neuralgic, sleepless,
hysterical, generally debilitated and used up.
They are neglecting their kidneys.
By carelessness in exposure to cold or heat, by
over-work, over-worry, by over-eating or over-
drinking, they have risked the substance of their
kidneys., Risked it and lost, for over-work wears-
out kidneys faster than nature can repair them.
Your kidneys are the most important organs of
your body.
You can repair, build up, cure them by using
Warner’s Safe Cure. It can be purchased of any
medicine vendor, and carries recommendations
from the leading physicians, chemists, and scien-
tific men from all parts of the globe.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Atictioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by-
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Mooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale*
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. . KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Memo, for would-be-Premier Lyne :—A
party is known by the company it keeps.
The Constitution Act of the United States
was, at the start, accepted by three States only.
Australia improves on that.
Unless Democratic Australia “gets a hustle
on it ”it js almost certain that old, Tory, worn-
out Britain, will be. ahead of it in the Old Age
Pension business.
The gravamen of Premier Reid’s act in
granting money to Jawbone Neild, M.L. A., is not
the actual cash involved, but the pains taken to
conceal the payment from Parliament.
Premier Reid: “The situation really
comes down to this : that the present Opposition
thought it worth while to have a change of leader-
ship in order to gather in John Haynes.”
Sydney Telegraph continues to allude to
the “Secret Conference Bill.” When the Federa-
tion is in full blast, the D.T. will, no doubt, call
it the “ Secret Conference Commonwealth.”
The members of N.S.W. Labor-party,
fearful of a dissolution, always decide to support
the existing Govt, by a majority of one. Which
one ? Why, Number One. Our good .£3OO a year.
The other day, Arthur Griffith wrote (for
publication) to N.S.W. Premier-expectant Lyne :
“Dear Mr. Lyne.” Lyne prefaced his reply with
(for publication): “My dear Mr. Griffith.” That’s
right. Lyne’s got him.
Dear Bulletin.— Strange that nobody has
heretofore pointed out that the three-months’ resi-
dence-condition of N.S.W. Electoral Act practi-
cally disfranchises those thousands of miners and
navvies who are ever shifting from field to field
and camp to camp. Why should it be necessary
for a man who was born in the country and has
lived there, say, 30 years, to reside three months
in one place before being entitled to vote ?
Wouldn’t a week be sufficient ? Out of about 700
men employed on the big job I was working at
during last general election not more than 50
were entitled to vote. If we are to have “ One
Man One Vote”—let us have it !—C.K.
The S.A. Conservatives want the “Effec-
tive-Voting System,” but they object to the
arrangement of districts under it on a purely
population basis. In other words they want their
little provincial strongholds to be left "intact while
they split up parties in the big centres. Of 14
members returned to the Assembly by the Adelaide
constituencies 12 are Liberals and it is in regard to
them that the Tories want the “ Hare ” plan
employed as they stand to lose nothing.
About the finest specimen of political
inconsistency in Queensland is to be noted in
the discrepancy between the utterances of
Minister Chataway and those of his Mackay
organ, the Sugar Journal. Down south
Chataway supports Federation ; up in Mac-
kay his alleged organ barracks against it.
At the same time the kanaka journal above-
mentioned strikes a big hunk of truth now
and again. Just listen : “And though the
Federal Parliament has the power to move in
the matter of colored labor, it will undoubt-
edly be greatly influenced by the action of the
State Parliament. With a general feeling
that colored labor should be abolished, and
a State Parliament in Queensland asking
that action be taken in that direction by the
Federal Parliament, the labor for the Nor-
thern canefields is doomed.”
The Forrest Govt, is going it ! The
latest is the introduction of the S.A. home-
stead-blockers system, under which workmen
can get handy-sized allotments, big enough
to hold a garden and a cow, just outside the
larger towns. Perpetual leases were sug-
gested.; but Big John couldn’t stand that.
Still there is a fly even in this ointment; for
Adelaide Labor men say that blockers, get-
ting a trifle out of their gardens, are wil-
ling to cut-in for any jobs that are going for
less than regulation pay.
Maoriland Government submits a Bill,
fixing the minimum wage for beginners of both
sexes at 4s. a week. The nefarious system of
employing small girls' in millinery establishments
at nothing the first year, and the sack immediately
afterwards, has been growing of late years, and
Seddon’s honest democratic blucher has got on to
the swindle.
The Jawbone Neild job is utterly indefen-
sible, but it is curious to note that nearly every
N.StW. patriot who denounced it, anathematised
poor old “ Jim ” Toohey when that late lamented
brewer and guardian of the public purse girded at
G. Republican Dibbs, whose Govt, gilded.him, with
a thousand State sovereigns, on the occasion of
his unauthorised, and mostly pleasure, trip to Eng-
land in ’92.
When “ official ” Labor papers were first
barracked for in Australia the idea was to keep
them “ free from the enslavement of advertising
patronage.” Yet the S.A. Labor organ, which
has had a less troubled career than most of them,
received in its last half-year >£lB9 from the sale of
papers and <£s3s—just three times as much—from
advertisers.
The proposal to fit up a section of Mel-
bourne Exhibition Building for the first Federal
Parliament raises a question as to why the Federal
crowd couldn’t have the use of Parliament House,
leaving the local Legislature to shift into new
quarters. Melbourne’s finest building will look
much too expensive for its purpose when Federa-
tion comes along.
Gov. Brassey, speaking lately at Bendigo,
avowed himself a protectionist. He limits his
faith in the virtues of protection to the needs of
“growing countries,” meaning young countries,
thereby adopting the doctrine expounded by John
Stuart Mill, forty years ago—which exposition the
late Parkes alleged seduced him from freetradefor
a period of three years.
At latest advices the N.S. W. Government
is thinking of bringing the railway into Sydney—■
the new station to be built on a block bounded by
King, Elizabeth, Hunter and Phillip streets.
This presumably means the abandonment of any
railway connection with North Sydney, otherwise
the line would be on the west side of George-street
—somewhere about Wynyard-square.
N.S.W. Labor-party is of much greater
value to Premier Reid than the most subservient
of his direct followers. However abject ten
of his direct Freetrade followers may be they
are only ten votes ; but his ten followers in the
Labor caucus count 19 votes. There are 19 in the
Labor-party, and they always decide to support
Reid by a majority of one, the nine agreeing to
sink their conscience and go with the ten.
Bananaland has just been blessed with a
fresh Asiatio irruption. 72 Filipinos landed the
other day at Thursday Island, and 80 more are to
follow in a few days. Pearl-shelling is the little
game. Queensland Govt, is, as usual, “taking
steps ”; but the heathen have cast anchor, and
the weary Northern Democrat is mournfully ask-
ing %ohen United Australia is going to take in
hand the task of exclusion, in which Queensland
has so signally failed.
No sooner does a slight improvement show
itself in the public finances than the political
barnacles call out for more succour. Zeal, M.L.C.
president Yic. Leg. Council, has his screw put up
(as per Estimates) from .£750 to £lOOO, while
Mason, M.L.A., Speaker, gets £250 a year more
or £1250. Brown, M.L.C., Chairman of Com-
mittees, gets £5OO a year, while Beazley, Assem-
bly chairman, draws £740 ! ! And all this in sight
of Federation and an emasculated local Parlia-
ment!
AND HIS GOLDEN HAIR WAS HANGING
DOWN HIS BACK.
SHE: “No; my decision can never be altered! I
can never return your love! Not even if”
THE POET: " Ah! you say if.’ Then there is
some hope. Tell me, dearest, if what? ”
S HE: “If you got your hair cut!”
No doubt of the earnestness of Federalists
on the Westralian gold-fields. At a recent
Federal league meeting in Perth it was announced
that the fields’ executive was willing to subscribe
to the funds for carrying on the campaign in Perth.
And to unite fields and coastal Federalists, and
have representation in Parliament, the fields
acquiesced in the appointment of George Leake,
Q.C., of the Six Families, and leader of the bogus
Westralian Opposition, as leader of the Federal
party in the province.
The N.S.W. Labor-party, to Premier
Reid: “ Look here, old man, we’re very good
friends, you know, and you gave one of us a port-
folio, and put some of us on the Public Works
Committee where the salary was very regular and
comfortable, and sent some more of us into the
Upper House ; but we promised our constituents
we’d get certain measures passed, and you always
put them on your programme but never pass
them. And if this sort of thing goes on for
another 25 years we’ll really have to look as if we
were angry with you.”
Westralia’s R.C. priests are, for the
greater part, vigorous Federal fighters. One of
them, Father O'Gorman, from the gold-fields, has
gone down to the city, and there uses his bit av a
shtick with tremendous energy.
SHORT.
THE PARSON : “So you are going to college with
your big brother, eh?”
THE BOY: “ Yes, sir”
THE PARSON : “ And do they call you ' Anstruther
Secundus? ’”
THE BOY : “ Oh, no. Just plain Lousy.”
A member of the present Yic. Government
estimates that his billet as a Minister is not worth
more than <£4oo a year to him. He receives
•£lOOO per annum, of which about £lOO is deducted
for Cabinet expenses, including whip’s salary,
social affairs, and so on. He gives away £2OO a
year more than he would do were he a private
member, thus leaving £7OO. Subtract from that
the £3OO. a year he would receive as a private
member (if he were not in office), and £4OO net
remains.”
One clause in Premier Turner’s Old
Age Pensions Bill provides that the recipient
of £lB a year must be of “ good moral charac-
ter ” who “ has for five years been leading a sober
and reputable life.” Seeing that the pensioner
must also be not less than 65 years of age, or, if
younger, permanently disabled from work, there
should not be much scope for interference by the
social purity brigade. Giddiness and chronic
unsobriety come very difficult to the stone-broke
citizen of 65. Drink is expensive and Totties are
costly receptacles for the same.
“ S. le W.” on the N.S.W. Parliamentary
letter-franking business :
In India they have stamps with “ Service ” printed on
them, and when an officer or official “indents” for as
many as he wants the foot-clause runs:—“l certify on
my honor that the above are required for Her Majesty’s
Service only, and will not be otherwise employed.”
People may jeer at honor, but in this case, as in every
other, the demand creates the supply. We ought to
have a similar system here, and some such declaratory
clause also should be signed by all judges, magistrates,
commissioners, experts, &c., when applying for travelling
exes. Let them pay (or owe) and send in a “ contingent
bill,” with vouchers attached. And then John Norton
could have a war-dance over the first caught “ working
the oracle.”
Deakin’s present seat in Parliament—
never too safe—is as good as lost since his Sab-
batarian somersault over the education question,
and to extend it for Federal requirements means
the inclusion of Footscray, North Melbourne or
Brunswick—all districts solemnly democratic and
dead against Deakin. Under the circumstances
Vic. Government is arranging a nice little lot in
pious Geelong, so cut that the ungodly will have
small chance of scoring. The versatile Alfred
will be thus provided with a brand-new Federal
constituency, while at the same time Higgins will
be debarred from a Federal seat by the opposition
of such an ardent Federalist as Deakin.
Sydney Daily Telegraph complains that
Premier Turner’s proposal to levy extra taxation
towards a Victorian Old-Age Pension Fund is “ a
direct attempt to tax the provident and thrifty
for the sustenance of those who have failed, per-
haps through their own unworthiness, in the
battle of life.” Well, imagine any community
taxing the improvident and unthrifty for the sus-
tenance of those who had been'magnificently suc-
cessful in life ! It is a sad thing, but owing to
the short-sightedness of the Deity, who was un-
fortunately deprived of the Telegraph’s valuable
advice when ordering the state of things, all taxa-
tion is a penalty on thrift. The benighted person
who has absolutely no thrift pays nothing because
he has nothing with which to pay anything.
Major-General French’s published appeal
to Queenslanders to vote for the Federal Bill
turned white a crowd of Constitutionalists in both
-N.o.W. and Q. Some of these talk of referring"
the indiscretion ”to British authorities.
“ Honest Tom” Playford, formerly King-
ston’s partner in passing many valuable re-
forms, and now fast becoming a hard-shell
Tory, is one of the strongest opponents of
Suffrage. The other day
“ Honest Tom ” was inveighing against
the habit Australian Govts, have of imi-
tating one another. “Look at Australian
railway management,” he said. “ When
Victoria and N.S.W. went for one Com-
missioner, S.A. immediately followed.
Then when Victoria had three we im-
mediately did the same, and lost thou
sands of pounds inconsequence.” “ Why,
it was your Govt, that appointed the
three,” interjected a member. And it
was so.
When the Truck Bill (ordering
that wages should be paid in money in-
, stead of the workman being forced to take
them out in goods at exorbitant prices)
was before the Westralian Assembly,
Mitchell, M.L.A,, had an inspiration.
He proposed that money should include
drafts or orders drawn on “any incor-
porated co., firm, or individual trading or
carrying on business in Westralia,”
whereby John Smith, of Albany, could
pay his men’s wages by giving them
written orders on John Jones, who keeps
a small shop at Roebourne, 2,000 miles
away. The amendment was lost more by
accident than anything else, but the House
regarded it quite seriously, and debated it
quite seriously, and nobody said any-
thing about the injustice of making a
man walk 2000 miles over heavy country
to get the 30s. justly due to him.
Westralian telegram of 31st August.
Kalgoorlib, Thursday.—To escape the heavy rates
which are to be imposed on ore shipped to the coast from
to-morrow, the Lake View Consols has sent away a large
quantity of stone. Some of the stone contained so much
gold that, had it not been sent away before the new tariff
came into force, it would, under the absurd doubling-up
system adopted, have cost £ll per ton for carriage to
Fremantle. The much-talked-about Transvaal dynamite
monopoly is not worth considering alongside this imposi-
tion of £ll per ton for the carriage of ore. Sir John
Forrest’s effort in imposing this tariff, and, at the same
time, a dividend tax of 5 per cent., it is said, out-
distances anything that Oom Paul ever attempted.
A pathetic complaint now circulating in W.A. is
that the Federal Constitution gives the Inter-
State Commission (to be appointed by the Federal
Parliament) too much power to interfere with,
railway management. It looks as if Westralia
would soon be only too glad to get any intelligent
outsider to interfere with its railway management.
One of the most amusing and amazing of
the cries raised by the anti-Federal party in
Queensland was: “Queensland will be a black-
labor State under the Union.” One would imagine,
to listen to this cry, that Bananaland was pure
white instead of being very piebald ; that it feared
contamination from its mongrel neighbors, and
that it had always done its best to preserve Aus-
tralia from alien contagion. The people of Queens-
land have been tricked by their own provincial
legislators time and again on the black-labor
question ; hence it was argued that the best thing
that province could do was to go on trusting its
own untrustworthy Parliament. In Queensland
the black-labor interests are powerful; in the
southern provinces they are not so ; hence the
anti-Federal lunatics inferred that a Parliament
in which southern legislators predominate will be
more favorable to the Polynesian traffic than a Q.
Parliament in which the planting interest is-
remarkably strong.


PALING’S
STOCK
VioliQS
Coroets
AOtobarps
Accord^oos
CoQccrtioaS
The Celebrated
“ WASHBURN»
BaojoS
(SCiitarS
Maodolios
Strings and
Ratings for
ALL
INSTR UML NTS.
LOWCST
PRIC6S
PALING’S
SONGS
DANCE MUSIC
STUDIES
PIANOS
-
ORGANS
Have for nearly half a century held
first position, which is proof positive of
their excellence.
We have a thorough and practical
knowledge of the manufacture of Pianos
and Organs , which is a protection against
inferior goods being offered you.
Make a mental note of this for
future reference.
Call or Write for
- CRTRLO6UES—FREE.
PALING’S NEW 31ARCH ALBUM, X/-
PALING’S
SOLC
PIANO
A<S€NCI€S
STEINWAY
BEINSMEAD
EEUEICH
UEBEL
ECKE
GOES AND
KALLMANN
VICTOE
BELLING
€stcy
Orgai>S
Our
Prices
are the
LOWEST.
Our
Grade the
HIGHEST.
W. H. PALING
$
C°" L TP 338
GEOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
Brisbane
N^wcaStl
National Cash Registers.
HOTELKEEPERS*
~ ~ SPECiAL BAR MACHINE. ♦ '
47 E.B.
Saves
Time 9
Money,
Worry.
f AMOUNT
ifURCHA§>E
■ 'gum
€XP€RI€NTIA POC€T.
Prevents
Mistakes ,
Dishonesty
Bankruptcy.
“ I have used 23 of your NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS. Now I would not
conduct my business without them.
“J. J. POWER,
“ Hotel Victoria.
“ Sydney, N.S.W.”
“No hotelkeeper (even where his
own family are the only cash receivers)
should be without one.
“0. J. HUGHES,
“ Unicorn Hdtel.
“Ballarat, Yic.”
BNatiofyal Cash Register
COMPANY.
Full particulars, prices, etc., on application to
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE:
303 GtEORGrB STREEP, SYDKTEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Excessive
Prate
will tire a
Cyclist, and
ruin a machin e
quicker than
anything else.
Tbs Best
Pre^eotatsVe
is to have your machine fitted
with Miultifiex
b
9
Which, owing to their great Resiliency, will enable
you to ride further and faster over rough roads wilt
less fatigue than if any other tyres were ridden.
Roadster Tyres <S6araQtccd for 12 njootfjs.
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
The j)unlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Australasia [td.
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch. IST.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, dee.
MONEY LENT
... ON . . .
All Classes of Security.
f||ont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAG-H ST., 74
* SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
FBR MONTH.
UILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FU UNIT CUE, MEUCH ANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [if®
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( tacin « Brid & e - st -) Sydney.
Directors:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. i ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Public Risk Depart-
ments.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Acoident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. JMI. of Con don.
(Fidelity Guarantees. limp. JLiabiity.
Aceidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Mjlean, M.P., A. W. Mebks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide : 15. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
A Good Spec. 60s each.
Allotments, 50 x 150.
Adjoining Bishop Gibney’s Estate, Perth,
West Australia. Easy Terms. Torrens’
Title. A Genuine Investment.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st.. Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qonpg.
, (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loqclod & Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,260.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, 151)0,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Propertv of the Company) : 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.-
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where, not-represented.
The gank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Cuarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Inpilal Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
teserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000
£.700,000
£350,000
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbc TrCistccs, €x€cotors,
AND
Agfcocy Corppaoy Lirpitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000 0 O'
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; O. M. Officer, Esq,; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.G.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. £3.123,555 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. VV. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chiep Inspector: H. L. IJeron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hid.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. 0. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hi.shopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GHOItGE STHISET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. .Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
--THE-,
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765 -assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling'. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, -A. I. A.y General Manager.
THE
INTEBCOLONML^^
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
YSTILL PURCHASE approved- Minins' Properties and
vv Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
directors :
Messrs. D. B. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, M elbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIEE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 P|TT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds T 3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Sett ements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Business Announcements.
flrnoid’s galsiui of j|oreteiid
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Ho’arssness.
'M'OTIIING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
_ Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A singledose
quietens arid gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use; rapidlv re lieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION. —Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1 6 and 2 6. if not obtainable locally.
Doctors Take jt.
The Value of BitA G'S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &e. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of dll Chemists
and Stores.
and
LOZENGES.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LIN E.
(Ismay, Imrik & Co., Liverpool.)
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide a,nd Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Si dney as under, viz. :
MEDIC, 11,984 tons, October'
AFEIC; 11,916 tons, 'November
And will be followed by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIO.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, Bent Street, SYDNEY.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 9, 12 Noon.
-Buhinyorig, Tues., Sept. 12, 5 p.in.
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 16, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., October 3, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., October 3, 6 p.na.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE )
MARYBOROUGH V
ROCKHAMPTON 1
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 9, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Sept. 12, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., September 16,12 Noon.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Sac., Sept. 9, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., September 16,12 Noon.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CllltltENT FAKES' TO ALL FOISTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
j Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
| Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
1 Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Gape Horn.
The steamers of this fine are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their Journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the ovt rland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Ocanada and Europe'; also Round the World on
most favorable terms. *
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z.,<Ltd., Erjuitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; .Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W." Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
|li‘jMth,in‘Eacliarn&Ca.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'.lwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Hotels.
ml
'
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the . house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
- j. -A.. Qxrinxr, "/
LOWER DOMAIN.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
'(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MJiLBOOKLET
ADELAIDE
p ORT I'IRIE y
A.id GULF FORTS
ESFERANCE BAY )
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Sept. 9.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, Sept. 23.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to y
VASBE, DONGARRA,
BUNBIIRY, GERALDTON
Anri all North West Ports. J
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Sept. 9.
■
S.S. Marloo, Satuiday,
September 23.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Paroo, Friday,
September 8.
Best, <(• Cheapest Route to Gold/iehts.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
G. S. YU ILL and CO., J/J’D., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Roto] Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate I’orts.
With Permission to call at lirindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, ' 6ft to bill).
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Pares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRKLAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker § Do’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tlm
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to till
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everv assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET.
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S S. Co. Ltd.
The following- FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MEN MUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY."
lh y „
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS-
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons' cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PAKSRNG Lit IJNIS.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via - Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Islan t,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenf/er Aveo niuiodntion, Attend (nice and
Cuisine un rivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A Lot of Cures. More Cases. More to Follow.
GENUINE HONESTY REQUIRES NO PUFF.
Mr. W. S. Westneat, 29 King-street, Prahran, states: —“For many
years I suffered from Rheumatic Gout. Tried many supposed cures. No
avail. Friend advised ‘Dodd’s Kidney Pills.’ 1 tried them. Quickly
obtained wonderful relief. Am now in excellent health.”
Mrs. H. Wright, 349 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy, is glad to let others know
the fact. She states : —“ For years I suffered from pain in the hack. Was
incapacitated from doing my household duties. My husband brought
Dodd’s Kidney Pills, and within a few days pain left me. General health
then became excellent, and my cure is now complete and permanent.”
Thousands are daily suffering similar martyrdom. Listen to Mr. Wil-
liam Ryan, 10 Erskine street, North Melbourne“ For three years I have
been in bad health, getting worse instead of better. Pain continually ;
little sleep ; irritation, and almost unfit for work. Hearing of Dodd’s Kid-
ney Pills I have u ed three boxes, and health is being perfectly restored ! ”
Sufferer from Kidney Complaint. Doctors thought it was “ Diabetes.”
Hear what
Agnes <J. Clifford, 4 Percy-street, Fitzroy, says : —“ For several years I
suffered-greatly from kidney complaint. Doctor attended. Considered it
diabetes. I had aching pains ; could not rid them. I resolved to try
Dodd's Kidney Pills. I found them'pleasant to take. First box the pain
vanished. I now take them as a blood medicine. I have only taken three
boxes, and I feel in magnificent health.”
John Trevor, 101 York-street, South Melbourne, “LUMBAGO.”
Mrs. White, Pyalong-road, Kilmore, “CHRONIC RHEUMATISM.”
Mrs. Mary Jones, 5 Market-street, Fitzroy, “BRIGHT’S DISEASE.”
Frank White, Waratah Bay, “RHEUMATIC GOUT.”
Mrs. Sanders, 11 Marion-street, Fitzroy, “ KIDNEY DISEASE.”
Mrs. A. Simpson, 171 Alexandra-parade, “ BACKACHE.”
Michael Johnston, Coburg, “LUMBAGO.”
Miss Eva Stone, 351 Fitzroy-street, “NERVOUS RHEUMATISM.”
Alfred Baynes, Creswick-road, Ballarat, “DIABETES.”
John Maloney, 75 years, “A MASS OF DISEASE.”
Ernest G. Hall, Taggerty, “BRIGHT’S DISEASE.”
These are only a FEW of the CURES. There are many thousands.
WE MAKE A FAIR DEMAND, TRY THEM.
A Good Investment,
THUS SPEAKS MR. GEO. BROOKS, MONBULK,
Who States
“For the last six years I suffered from RHEUMATIC PAINS in
LEG and HIP, was never free from pain, had best medical advice, with-
out benefit, spent largely in advertised remedies, electric baths, &c.; but
only disappointment. After taking Dodd’s Kidney Pills, am pleased to
say my pains entirely disappeared ; the feeling of relief is more than I can
express. lam resident of the colony for 41 years.”
Another remarkable cure, which should give hope to the despairing :
Mr. E. HODGKINSON, Spencer-street Station, states:—“l have
» sufferer from SLEEPLESSNESS, PALPITATION, LASSI-
TUDE, and NUMBNESS IN THE LIMBS, have been confined to bed
with INCIPIENT PARALYSIS, gradually getting worse, was told re-
sulted from diseased kidneys. I took Dodd’s Kidney Pills with marked
benefit. I have recovered and realise am cured of a dangerous disease by
Dodd’s Kidney Pills.”
Sufferers, Study the honest Testimonials, be encouraged and get relief.
-M-•’. ALBERT JONES, Orange Gardens, Maryborough, states: —“I
had RHEUMATIC PAINS in BACK and LEGS, which grew worse,
on j 6 exploring mining ; caught cold, and also met with accident, fell
30 feet down shaft, narrowly escaped death, and severely injured back and
head. Ihis coming on my ill-health COMPLETELY PROSTRATED
me. At this time a friend brought me ‘ Dodd’s Kidney Pills,’ which I
continued. Wonderful change ; am now in the best of health and grateful.”
Here is another, who speaks for the good of others and out of thank-
fulness :
xr PAYTON, corner Queensberry and Lothian streets,
Plortli Melbourne, states:—“With gratitude I bear testimony to the
health restoring properties of ‘Dodd’s Kidney Pills,’ For several years
my health has been bad owing to KIDNEY TROUBLES, which caused
me to give up good position in the Railway department. In West Aus-
tralia 1 had to fight against the same handicap and got worsted. On the
ad vice of a friend I took the ‘Dodd’s Pills’; result surprised me and all
who knew me. I feel now as strong as ever I did in the old days, and my
recovery is due solely to ‘Dodd’s Kidney Pills.”’
I hese are only a few out of many. They should stimulate others to
try them.
It) tl>e NATION’S €y?
“Mark, Lgari) apd
Ipwardly Pige&t.”
KIDNEY
I
V
=y
Id tbe PUBLIC Eye
ID tl)€ EYE of tbe People
Tbe <sood Article
Becotpes Popular.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES over the
Colonies, 2s. 9d. a box, 6 for 15s. 6d.
Or post paid from
_Tbe Dodd’s f%diciDs Co.,
17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
A Medicine that Will Cure “Acute Kidney
Disorders ” and “ Sciatica.”
IS WORTHY OF CONSIDERATION.
Remarkable Benefit : Restored to Perfect Health.
25 Cremorne-street, Richmond, October 20, 1898.
Manager “ Dodd’s Medicine Coy.”
Sir,—l am pleased to afford my testimony to the wonderful curative
powers of “ Dodd’s Kidney Pills.” For the last year my health has been
very unsatisfactory. Four months ago I went to Mount Lyell, Tasmania,
and endured a great deal of hardship—“ Acute Kidney Disorders ”
resulted. Returning to Melbourne recently, I heard of “Dodd’s Kidney
Pills,” and took a course ; they thoroughly restored me, and I am now “in
perfect health.” You are at liberty to use this as you think best.
Yours faithfully, WM. LEAMAN.
Also, Mr. Albert Shinkel, Morea, Goroke, Victoria, 14th June, 1899,
writes:—
“ I have used with immense success your ‘ famous Kidney Pills ’ for
‘Sciatica,’ having used many reputed remedies, and have been almost
driven to desperation with agony.
“ I have found nothing like ‘Dodd’s Kidney Pills ’ for this terror to
the human race.”
There are thousands of genuine, trustworthy testimonials for diseases
of intense suffering.
“Dodd’s Kidney Pills ” is the only certain and decided and perman-
ent cure for “Bright’s Disease.” It has proved the truth of it all over the
world, and, as he stated, a medicine of that value ought to be known and
appreciated.
DODD’S PILLS CURE RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIA-
TICA, DIABETES, DROPSY, BACKACHE, GENERAL DE-
BILITY, NEURALGIA, HEART TROUBLE, CONSUMPTION,
GALL STONES, PARALYSIS, FEMALE WEAKNESS, and ALL
IMPURITIES of the BLOOD.
We do not ask you to use an untried remedy. Dodd’s Pills have been
tried and tested and proved all they claim.
Always look out for a Reliable Medicine; you cannot be too cautious
in your selection.
Dodd’s Pills are pure vegetable, and pill form precludes alcohol.
Extracts from Honest, Genuine, Voluntary
Testimonials.
Not one interested party among them, so that you may thoroughly
depend on the truthfulness of each, and their gratefulness speaks loudly.
Alfred Baynes, Creswiok-road, Ballarat. —Twelve months’ sufferer,
“ Diabetes,” and told me incurable. I dwindled away to a shadow, and
too weak to work. I owe my life to “Dodd’s Kidney Pills,” and cannot
too strongly recommend for such terrible diseases.
John Moloney, 75 years of age, for six years incapacitated : All my
earnings gone to doctors; they said I was a mass of diseases ; hopeless
case ; hospitals said the same. The trouble was au accident ; bent me
almost double. “Dodd’s Kidney Pills” worked wonders with me. When
I got the first box I was unable to walk ; but, thank goodness, I can now,
and can eat solid food.
Ernest G. Hall, Aekland River, Taggerty, states: I suffered from
“ Bright’s ’’ Disease ; was confined to bed, and the only remedy that gave
me relief was “Dodd’s Kidney Pills,” and am now without a trace of the
disease.
Mrs. Allbright, Little River, Victoria : Martyr to Rheumatism and
Diabetes. Friends thought I was rapidly dying. I began to use “ Dodd’s
Kidney Pills,” and a wonderful and blessed change came. The puffiness
and bloating grew steadily less ; my general health grew better daily ; am-
now well and sound, healthy and happy.
These are only a few out of thousands. We offer you a tried and
tested medicine, prepared from the original recipe, and known all over the
world.
CURED TENS OF THOUSANDS-WILL CURE YOU
Caution. — In buying Kidney Pills
GET DODD’S— THE ORIGINAL—THE BEST.
There are Worthless Imitations. Beware !
Is Obtainable Everywhere, ss. 6d. and 3s. 6d .
Head iQStitCite: 47 BoCirke Strtft, f%lboGroe.
Saved from a Consumptive's Grave.
Hemorrhage Set In. “ Vitadatio ” thoroughly Cures Her-
■
- . .. *
.
.V . - ‘
mlmm
m .
Mrs. F. A. CLARK.
Mr. W. Webber, Proprietor of “ Yitadatio” 74 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne, October 3rd, 1898.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure that I write you these few lines to tell you what your great remedy, “Yitadatio,” has done
for me. At the beginning of my illness I was living in America, and was attending a ball' to see the “ New Year in,” in 1897. On
my way home I took a very severe Cold, through going from a heated ballroom out into the cold air (the snow being two or three
feet deep). I was laid up for some considerable time, and treated by some of the most eminent physicians in America, but all to no
advantage. Hemorrhage of the lung set in, and my doctors' said that I had “ gone into Consumption,” and that there was no cure
for me, and advised me to return to my native land, Australia. So on the 4th June, 1897, I arrived back in Melbourne. I then
consulted many doctors, and tried all sorts of medicines, but got no relief, so naturally began to despair. My husband heard from
our friend, Mr. H. M‘Kenzie, sewer contractor, at South Yarra, how his son had been cured of Consumption bv the use of “ Vita-
datio.” Mr. M‘Kenzie urged my husband to give me a course of the remedy, which he did, and right glad lam that he did, as the
hemorrhages have ceased, and also the terrible racking cough that used to keep me awake all night. I can now attend to my duties,
and can truly say that “ Yitadatio” has cured me. Por the sake of other sufferers who may be in the same plight as I was, I <nve
you full permission to use this letter as you may think fit. We are well known in these colonies, as my husband was in the furrier
business for years. —I remain, yours truly, ' Mrs F. A. CLARK
4
e
B
Aod at Adelaide, Pertb, Brisbane ai>d Weflioztoo, N-Z
(Next Her Majesty’s
Theatre),


DO YOU want to ride with the Leaders or flock
with the Followers? Better
RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS and keep in front.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Boer scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sydney Sate Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable scrip either in office
safes or private residences, and there have been la me
numbers of visitors to view the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street (back of Paling and Co's), off George-street.*
* * * •
A new Australian competition 25 miles road
record was established by W. Wade, of Melbourne, the
other Saturday, during the running of the Coburg road
race. Wade (on Dunlop tyres) succeeded in covering the
distance in Ihr. 3min. 44see., some 2min. 14sec. better
than the previous record, held by W. Hickox, of Melb.*
» * * *
W. Martin is evidently regaining his old form,
for at the Brisbane carnival, the other Saturday, he suc-
ceeding in winning (on Dunlop tyres) a mile event in the
fast time of 2min., and a 3-mile race in 7min. 31 2-ssec.,
which goes to prove that “ William ” will be interesting
company to the top-notchers this season.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,’ by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the dep6t, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
)s£- . vr
t*
THAT CRIMSON BICYCLE IS EITHER A
R€D BIRI!
or else it is endeavoring' to sleigh-ride on RED
BIRD reputation. Don’t be deceived into buying a bicycle “as good as,” and
refuse any but the real thing. There are many who purchase the products of
repair shops and plough factories through the influence of a friend (?), who gets a
commission.
Experienced cyclists buy RED BIRDS, the wheels of known quality.
CALL AND LEARN ALL ABOUT THEM.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY LIMITED.
Australasian Branches
Factories—
Brantford, Canada.
{64 King-street, Sydney (Head Office)
261 Collms-street, Melbourne, Vic. ;
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.;
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
Raoing proper in ’Stralia begins to-day (Sat.) at
Randwick, where the A. J.C. opens the campaign that will
shortly be continued by V.A.T.C. at Caulfield, and V.K.C.
at Fleinington. Hurdles should be won by the Barber,
despite his recent bad track performance. Trial Stakes
looks a walk-over for Gauleon, whose only dangerous
opponent seems to be Gentle Hermit. The Derby may go
to Victoria by agency of nuggety Promontory (who is very
forward in condition), Cranberry and the better of Long’s
pair (Beaulieu and Parthian) perhaps hunting him home.
The Epsom seems very open, the favorites, Dandy,
Severity, and Superb, being marketable at 10 to 1. If
the fine weather lasts Maecenas should win, Continent
and Proudfoot also appearing to have good chances.
Given wet weather Chesterina might “ plough” through.
The Spring Stakes should be a match between Le Var and
Cocos, two horses that will anon prove themselves big
winners. The Metrop., run on Tuesday, might be raced
out by Cocos and Ace of Diamonds.
• • * •
Editor, BULLETIN : The writer of the para-
graph concerning my mare Cremona and a sweep on the
Spring Handicap, has either been misinformed or has
misconstrued his information. In justice to my reputa-
tion as a sportsman, I wish you to print the facts of the
case, which are as follow :—Cremona was engaged in the
Welter and Spring Handicaps at last Tattersall’s meeting.
Early in the day a well-known committee-man of Tatter-
sail's Club came to me and stated that the drawer of my
mare in the ordinary sweep wished to lay the owner a
share. Thinking the field would be large enough to give
a penalty for future events, I at once decided not to
accept any sweep money, and told the gentleman to in-
form the drawer accordingly'. At the last minute a num-
ber of horses were scratched, and the race did not give a
penalty. Now you can see how unfair your paragraph was,
as it is made to appear that I was waiting for sweep-
money, whereas 1 had been offered it and knew that the
result of the Special in which Cremona was drawn by
my partner would not be known until after the race. I
give you • for your own information the name of the
gentleman who offered me the sweep money. I may
mention that the first prize in said sweep was worth
4900.—Yours truly, J. M. McMastkr.
» • • •
Brighton Racing Club gave the Sydney trotting
men two trots last week. On Monday Prince Harold
won from 35sec. behind, the 2-miles being run in 5.45 J.
The second event was trotted on Saturday afternoon,
and was won easily by Vanera, a stallion by Era from
Miss Cleve. Vanera goes to the stud this season, and
should do well, as, in addition to showing pace, he com-
bines the blood of the two stallions which have done
most for trotting in Australia—Era being by Childe
Harold, and Miss Cleve by Van Cleve, the sire of Cham-
pion Fritz.
* • • *
Mr. “Johnny” Deeble’s new starting-barrier
was used in all the galloping races at Brighton (Sydney)
on Saturday afternoon, and acted throughout without a
hitch. The horses cannot break through. It is quite
impossible for it not to go off when the trigger is pulled ;
and, if time and experience prove that there is no danger
of the horses getting mixed up with the ropes ere it
reaches the ground, it stands a good show of being the
barrier of the future.
• • • •
Books report no dearth of betting and punters
at Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) races on Saturday. The noble
army of the guileless absolutely piled it on—this as a
result of besting Ikey at Canterbury on Tuesday week,
and at Rosehill the previous Saturday. For many a day
money hasn’t been sported, in or around Sydney, to such
an extent. Coal Queen, heav\ly backed by owner and
public, ran third to Whirlpool, but must not be dismissed
in consequence. Her chance in the Epsom looks rosy as
ever. She was interfered with three times, otherwise the
result would have been different.
* ’* * •
Peace has been declared between the Victorian
Club committee and the insurgent forces under Alf.
Joseph.
» * •
Not generally known that Alf Joseph is the real
lord and master of the Shamrock Hotel, Bendigo, the
birthplace of Alfred’s greatness. All the poetic aspira-
tions of his soul are expressed in the furniture and fittings
of the famous “honeymoon apartments” at the Sham-
rock.
• * * *
Apparently nothing will knock it into the thick
skull of the average jockey that there are other ways of
winning a race than by “ a run on the rails.’’ No matter
what state the course is in, or how the race is run, there
is always the ruffianly rush at the turn for “ position,”
said position being in front and close enough to the rails
to stop anything from getting up on the inside. It only
occasionally strikes a boy that there is room enough fora
regiment to pass on the outside. That most Sydney
jockeys have only this one idea of riding a race was par-
ticularly noticeable at Tattersall’s Club recent spring
meeting, when, after the first couple of races, the course
next the rail was like the Blacksoil Plain, and out in the
centre was firm and good going, yet all hands hugged the
rails as usual! Cranberry, who ran second in Hampden
Stakes, was interfered with during the race, and when
young Fielder brought him in with a white mark right
down his side it was remembered that it was he who lost
Wait-a-bit last Melb. Cup through trying to squeeze him
up on the inside—so it is apparently an absolute disease
with some jocks. If an average horseman, with enough
horse sense to run out a little at the home turn and miss
the jostling for position, as Alec. Robertson used to do,
were to come along he would soon find his way to the top
of the tree. In a straight run it doesn’t matter if a nag
is on the inside or the outside rails, as long as he didn’t
lose ground in getting there.
• • • *
The conviction of Charles Westbrook, book-
broker, on a charge of using his office in Melb. Stock Ex-
change building as a common gaming-house, ought to be
followed by a wholesale arrest of jobbing stock-makers
for betting on the pavement outside the Exchange.
• * * *
Melb. suburban police have become suddenly
alive to the accursed betting nuisance, and here and
there traps have been laid for the brutes who live by the
temptation, speculation, and degradation of young jug-
ginses. Down at St. Hilda, where scores of well-dressed
youths seem to be punting on the kerbstone six days a
week, and spitting disconsolately into the gutter when
Sunday comes round, two local “ metallicians ” were
fined £2O last week. The bulk of the money taken by
these suburban pests comes from “ led-astray ” lads, and
in many cases it was raised at the pawh-shop on jewellery
pilfered from the punter’s parents.
* • • •
“ G.B. ” : Your recent picture of V.R.C. starter
George Watson recalls the day's when he used to carry all
before him at the Midland Steeplechase at Campbelltown,
Tas. For 6or 7 years he took ’em down regularly, mostly
on the magnificent jumper Ivanhoe, which used to “ lep ”
with the disconcering side-twist peculiar to nags accus-
tomed to the Irish stone-walls. But Watson having
served his apprenticeship on the ould sod, was equal to
all that. Can only remember old George being beaten
once in Tas.—by Tom Tabbart on VVill-if-I-can. George
was a revelation to locals as to the value of “ hands” in
cross-country work.
* * * *
The psalm-singers think of organising a rival
show to Melbourne Cup this year. The Methodists have
started the idea, and all denominations are to be invited.
The local Methodist organ puts the case thus, with no
sense of the ridiculousness of the argument: “Only
70,0(10 people attend the races, and about 430,000 people
in the vicinity of the course keep awa.v.” The conditions,
therefore, “are all in our favor.” Atheist Symes might
as well argue that as only a few thousands of the popu-
lation go to church on Sundays, the rest are all in his
favor. Anyhow, the united churches might safely be
challenged to work up a gathering of a fifth, part of
70,000. They couldn’t do it—no, not even by promising
to post the results ot the raoes between the singing of the
hymns.
• • • •
Two of the winners at Caulfield last Saturday
are expected to be dangerous in the Cups. Egypt, a
4-year-old son of Eiridspord and Hatason, in the Miller
stable, has been running away from fields of commoners
lately, and with only the minimum weight (plus a small
penalty) for Caulfield Cup, the gelding should have a
chance, if they can keep him bright for the next six
weeks. Egypt may be a good thing this season. He ran
several times as a 2-year-old without a win ; as a 3-year-
old he didn't show in public.
Disfigured won a race on Saturday, the first
since her return from India, where the mare could do
nothing against the climate, and was not raced at all.
In giving the scarred mare 8.5 and 8.2 for the two Cups
the handicappers were treating her as a back-number,
but now that she has shown a glimpse of her eld form,
she will be worth watching. Two years ago Disfigured
won the Melbourne Stakes, beating Hopscotch. Not a
great performance—the time was slow—but highly
respectable.
* • • •
Provided they do not lose the final match
(against the South of England), the tenth Australian XI.
will come back with fewer defeats than any team sent
’Ome ; for though the famous ’B2 XI. had, in some
respects, a better record, they lost four matches.
• * • •
Darling is now well ahead of Murdoch’s aggre-
gate ot 1711, which previously ranked as the best for an
Australian’in England.
* * • •
M‘Leod runs Noble closely in the bowling-
averages. At present he is a fraction of a run ahead on
points, but is a wicket behind, having taken 81 to
Noble’s 82.
* * * •
Trumble has scored 16 double-figure scores in
his last 18 completed innings, and making top score in
each innings in the scratch match at Scarborough, he
displaced Gregory in the average table. Trumble can
now fairly claim the position of best all-round player in the
’99 team.
* * * *
A Sydney paper’s display-board : —“ Doings in
Divorce. Australians v. Lancashire.” The Australians
seem to be having a high old time.
* ' * * *
Printed all over England that Jones stays to
play with Sussex and Howell remains to join Middlesex.
Both plaj'ers have flatly denied the rumors. English
cricketers, by the way, are crying out at this importation
of “ colonials ”by wealthy county executives. Middlesex,
which is playing Trott and Roche, is credited with being
the most unpopular county, solely through the success of
these two Australians. To meet the difficulty, some talk
of making the qualification for Australians five years’
residence.
• • * •
The Australians complain, that the biggest bores
they meet in England are Australian tourists, who con-
tinually turn up to talk about cricket and invite theril to
drink. After a month or two of cricket the mere idea of
the game palls after the day is over, but the persistent
bore insists upon talking about how Darling hit and
Howell howled. Noble* it is sajd, is the only Australian
who can effectually deal with these gentry, and his
method is a summary snub. But even Noble has his little
weakness. He is never tired of explaining how he makes
the ball curve in the air.
* * • •
The recent narrow escape from poisoning by
Australian cricketers in England roundaboutly recalls the
loss of nine out of an 1890 Hongkong Eleven by the foun-
dering near the Pescadores of the P. and O. s.s. Bokhara,
in which they were returning from England.
* • » __ *
There is plenty of indirect evidence that the
All-England batting in the two first test matches was
much too bad to be true, and -that the Australians did
nothing remarkable in making good scores against the
English bowling. Take the Gentlemen v. Players’ match
played early in July. The amateur bowlers were Towns-
end, W. G. Grace, Bosanquet, A. O. Jones, Jephson and
H. K. Foster. Against that attack the Players made 647
runs in their one innings—a bigger score than Darling’s
eleven would be likely to make. On the other hand, the
prof, bowlers were Young, Lockwood, Mead, Brockwell,
Hayward and Storer, and against them the Gentlemen
scored 611 runs in their two innings—which was quite up
to the Australians’ batting form. A lot has been written
about the alleged luck of Hayward in test-matches, but it
seems that his average up to July 9 was 54'17 per innings.
In this Gentlemen v. Players match Hayward scored 134
not out, the last wicket (Young) assisting him to bring
the total from 512 to 647 in SOmiti. 1258 were scored in
the three days, the game being finished an hour before
closing time on the third day.'
* * • *
Rhodes’s average in the Scarborough match
fairly rivalled Billowell’s 10 for 28 against Surrey. After
VVainwright had bowled the first Austr lian (M‘Leod)for
a duck, the Yorkshire left-hander chipped in and took
the other 9 wickets for 24. Strange to say, only one of
them was clean bowled. ,
* * * *
English pros, get plenty of encouragement to
do their best against the Australians. At the conclusion
of the Surrey match, young Hayes (who made 130 runs in
150 min. for the county) was presented with £6O, the
result of a collection taken all round the Oval.
* * » *
Major Poore and Capt. Wynyard, batting for
Hampshire v. Somerset, scored at the rate of 100 runs an
hour for over four hours. The dashing Majah was doing
a good deal of this sort of thing in South Africa awhile
ago. He revels in hot weather, and would be just the
man to send with the next English team to Australia.
* * * * V
Vic. League football premiership seems practi-
cally a foregone conclusion for Fitzroy, but Footscray,
the Association crack club, i§ out with a challenge to
play off for the championship. No answer Iris yet been
received from the superiah_ League, which reckons its
component parts the cream’ of the game, and the possi-
bility is that the defi. will pass unheeded. Keen ob-
servers of the game consider League play a trifle too
good for the Association, though many would delight, to
see the former body discomfited for its unsportsmanlike
and mercenary action in seceding from the Association
three years ago.
* * *
As to the respective merits of the Rugby and
Australian games of football, Rugby would probably be
unknown on the mainland to-day but, for Omah, or
Gugga, or some of meteorologist YVragge’s friends which
came along to the assistance of dear old England’s game
and swamped Sydney Association Ground at the critical
moment. It was in ’BB, when Vic. football was in its
zenith and the two leading teams, S. Melb. and Carlton,
met in Sydney whilst returning.from trips to Queensland
and Tas. respectively. A match was hurriedly arranged,
the Association Ground was taken, and so excellently
was the show boomed that all Sydney was talking about
it. But six hours before ball-up the downpour began,
and so the match, which would have shown N.S.W. the
error of its football ways, was never played.
Speaking of the local game during his visit to
Melh., Rev. Mullineux admitted that it was more open
and breezy than Rugby, and the only fault he could pick
in it was that the place men stood a chance of catching
cold—a splendid recommendation from the Rugby Ranji
who finds fault with everything and everybody. YVhen de-
fending Rugby he was pointedly asked : “ if a number
of men who had never seen either played previously were
shown an Australian match and a Rugby match which
would they vote the better game?” His reverence hesi-
tated for a second, then smiled, and slung the towel
in favor of Australia.
* * * *
The finish for the Queen’s Prize at Bisley
(England) lately was >ne of the most exciting things ever
seen in rifle-shooting. YVhen Jones (YY’elsh), Anderson
(Scotch), and Priaulx (Guernseyman) had “tied” at 336
points, they were given three more shots each at 1000yds.,
when a second tie almost resulted between Guernsey and
Wales, but Jones's nervousness “let in” the Channel
Islander, who was as 000 l as a machine. The fact that
the winner uses neither alcohol nor tobacco will doubtless
be made the most of by the antibaccaboozealots.
» • * •
“Sport”: OnNarrabeen (N.S.W.)roadlatelysaw
amanoome outof the bush with double breech-loader, well-
filled cartridge-belt, big game-bag, and well-bred pointer,
said pointer proudly carrying in his mouth—a tomtit 1
Le sport with a vengeance.
* * * *
Worth mentioning, as evidence of the boom in
bowls, that two Sydney clubs (Waverley and Ashfield)
played a match last Saturday, wherein each side was re-
presented by 16 rinks, or 64 players, and of the 128 men
participating, the oldest did not exceed 60, while several
“boys” of 30 were engaged. As far as is known, the
match is a world’s record for numerical strength of
teams.
* * • •
Writing recently, Hunter River (N.S.W.)
sculler Geo. Towns, who is sculling champion of England,
and still “at’Ome,” said prospects were very bad as he
would be unable to row for months. On that account there
was little show’ of a match with his fellow-countryman,
Wray, and the probabilities of meeting world-champion
Gaudaur, even when Towns gets clear of the effects of
his accident, are most remote. The French-Canadian puts
so many obstacles in the w r ay that it is plain he has no
stomach for a further tussle. Towns’ communication also
conveys that professional sculling is as dead in America
as in Australia, and appears to be dying in England.
Dear Bulletin. —ln “Sporting Notions”
(29 7/’99) you say, “ Melb. University crew has on no
occasion been equal to the average maiden eight.” This
is going over the truth line. In '92 Melb. crew won in
Adelaide, and, all being maidens, some of them wished to
keep together and go for the maiden eight to prove the
truth or otherwise of just such a bald assertion as above.
However, their coac-h, Geo. Upward,-was not very sweet
on the pot-hunting proposal, and it fell through. Four
of the crew then went to Colac, and won both the
maiden and junior fours at local regatta, and performed
well in the Melb. (Upper Yarra) regatta. In ’92 and ’93*
Melb. crew was certainly well up to junior form, and I
don’t think those crews were above the average.—Pkrdu.
[As a matter of expert opinion, the 1892 and ’93 crews
were above the average, and although they (like other
above-the-averagers) would probably have been able to
win maiden-eight prizes on their ’Varsity race “ form,” it
is equally probable that many ’Varsity crews would have
failed.—El). B.]
* * • *
Otto Cribb, the cyclonic bruiser from M.L., got
away with another fight at Golden Gate Club (Sydney) on
Saturday night—his fifth successive win. Joe Dunn,
brother to burly Charlie of the perennial smile, opposed
the man-eating Maorilander, but had no show. Dunn’s
great sprinting capabilities stood him in good stead for a
while, especially as he was in capital trim, but Cribb
barred the way two or three times and ladled out the
gruel so hot and thick that Dunn, completely broken up,
cried ago midway through the fourth round. Two more
challenges were thrown out to the winner afterwards.
He accepted both, and, bar accidents, will get away with
each. Cribb’s methods and manner of going through his
men—sort of mowing them down—recalled Joe Goddard
when he was Joe Goddard.
* * * »
Editor Bulletin. —In a recent issue it is stated
that Tim Murphy defeated Albury Clifford in 3J rounds.
This statement is incorrect. Murphy and I never fought
in our lives, but simply boxed three exhibition rounds.—
Albury Clifford.
» • r • •
The irrepressible Larry Foley was asked in a
SydneycoUrt t’otherday if he was acquainted with a person
with whom he had a barney in the Criterion Hotel.
“ Why, I taught him to box,” was Larry’s reply, “and
that’s the reason he gets so cheeky.”
• * » •
“ Old Timer ” : Another old ’un gone ! Tom
Sparkes, whose ring-name half-a-century back was “the
Sprig o’ Myrtle,” died at Canterbury (Sydney) Friday
last. He saw a good “ main ” fought on George’s River
three weeks ago, went home, turned in, and never got
up until three days before death, when he discarded
his night-gear and donned a clean white shirt in accord-
ance with the custom of the Sparkes family—every one
of whom, as far as can be traced, has acted similarly a
day or two before the end. Tom was in his 77th year,
and when writer saw him last (a month ago) looked like
seeing the century out. Heart-failure was the trouble.
Remember Tom at his top, in ’47, fighting middle and
heavy weights, though only a 10-stoner (light-weight)
himself. Two years later he got into double harness,
and at a crowded farewell ben., which was to have taken
place at the “ Fives Court,” Brown Bear Lane, Lower
George-street (Sydney), but actually came off at
“The Shipman’s” Hotel, George and Goulburn-
streets, issued a defiance to all 11.4 men in Aus-
tralia. If memory series Dick Hunt (dead some
years now) was the only man who beat “the Sprig.”
Tom's quiet endurance and manly bearing brought troops
of friends round him, many of whom stuck to the last.
Some years ago the old fellow was giving evidence in
Sidney Supreme Court re the title to some land close by
the family home. Asked by counsel how long he had
known the site. Tom thought awhile, then said, “Well,
I can’t say exactly, but I’ve eaten 60 Christmas puddings
since I first saw the place.” Before my mind’s eye just
now is a “trial” go with the bare-uns prior to one of
Sparkes’s big battles. A well-known successful Sydney
tailor (still in business), who had just previously fought
75 rounds at Cremorne (Port Jackson), was Tom’s oppon-
ent. Things were excessively torrid while the bout
lasted. At the end ’twas found that Tom had put out
one of his knuckles, and it remained that way till the
day he died, but he went on with the fight and won.
“Tim ” Murphy, Victoria’s much-lauded middle-
weight pug., set-to the other night, and writer feels
satisfied “Jack” Conlon or “Mick” Dunn of N.S.W.
would settle his hash. He fights in the same wild style
as his erratic brother, “ Torpedo ” Billy, only more so,
and fills the wing-space with legs and wings as he rushes.
A Sydney sport wanted to back an unknown list, man
against “Tim ” for <£soo a-side, but Tim’s loud-mouthed
admirers, though swearing he is the best of his division
on earth, didn’t see their way clear to plank down a
“monkey” in cold cash. Which calls to mind that
Albury Clifford arrived from Tasmania on Saturday,
looking for fight with Murphy, but latter has a contract
on already with battle-worn Bill Jennings, and more to
follow—Tut Ryan, Jack Conlon, and one or two others
being anxious for the chance.
• • • •
’Rastlers Lorenz and Maximilian mauled,
tugged, choked, and tripped each other in Brisbane,
Thursday night, for the “Middleweight Championship of
Australasia.” Why? What claim has either to the
title? This was their second match within a couple of
months. A £3O purse and .4.50 a-side formed the induce-
ment. Lorenz won again after a tough tussle. Now
both express anxiety to meet Harry Dunn, and imme-
diately—a desire probably born of the fact that Harry
left Sydney for M.L. last week, arid will not be prepared
to make matches till January, 1900. “ Then let ’em all
come,” says Harry.
* » » *
Saturday’s Yankee mail tells that “Gentleman ”
Geo. Dawson, whilom lightweight champion of Australia,
who fought “Dummy” Mace, “ Shadow ” Maber, and
“ Ironbark ” Burge for the title, and has been in the
States doing well for years, now carries 13J4st. of tissue
about with him, and has a big bank credit.
* * • »
Re the recent death of old-time pug. Tom
Sparkes. He was a brother of Bill Sparkes, who, in ’47,
went all the way from Cook’s River (N.S.W.) to England
entirely “ on his own,” and fought Nat Langhatn 67
rounds, occupying 63min. Bill broke the bone of his
right forearm in the 62nd round, otherwise Langham’s
career as a champion would have ended then, thisdespite
the fact that he had height and reach in his favor. Even
with the heavy handicap of the smashed limb Sparkes
came up strong every round, and fought like a tiger.
His seconds had a big task dragging- him out of the ring
—he wanted another “shy.” The Englishman only sur-
vived through “ getting down ” whenever hotly pressed.
Langham afterwards beat Tom Sayers. Pugilistica says
of the Australian : “ A gamer or more fearless fighter
never entered the ring,” and Tom was of the same
kidney.
* * * *
The difference between the English and Aus-
tralian barracker is that the former throws off inferences,
the latter talks straight to the point. The whistling of
the “ Dead March ” and “ VVe won’t go home till morn-
ing ” is inference, but the Australian barracker’s polite
“Bowl the out” is direct instruction,
leaving no room for doubt as to the gentleman aimed at.
The irate person who called out to Noble in the fourth
test, “ Why don’t you hit ’em, you blanky dog?” was one
of those exceptions which go to prove the rule. A more
truly' Hinglish enquiry, under the circumstances, would
have been lodged in a tone of affected solicitude after
this style—“ Au-pws-tus, are you not afraid of over-
ex-ert-ing .yourself ? ”
'* * * *
The game of bluff. In a Sydney police-court
case, last week, in which a pony-owner and a bookmaker
were concerned, the latter was alleged to have threatened
to punch the former on the nose and give him a good
hiding generally. Under cross-examination, the “book”
said that the pony-owner was a good man with his fists,
and could have beaten him easily. “Then why'threaten
to punch him on the nose?” asked the surprised exami-
ner. “ Oh, just a bit of bluff,” was the reply, “ it’s half
the battle to get in first say.”
The Federation fight has had an extra-
ordinary effect on the different Sydney news-
papers. After washing her hands'of the Reid
Govt, in ’9BS.M. Herald has again taken the
portly Premier to her bosom. The Evening
News, too, has again espoused the Reid cause
after 12 months antagonism, while the Australian
Star has abandoned the Ereetrade Party and is
again attacking the Ministry. The Daily Tele-
graph, having seriously imperilled its soul by its
unscrupulous championship of the lies and schemes
of the Reid regime, has gyrated round to the
Lyne faction, after having made that politician
its butt for a decade.
Dead : Thomas Walsh, who, along with
“Jimmy” Taylor, reorganised Bendigo Stock
Exchange after the awful slump of the seventies.
But though he knew more about Bendigo stocks
and mines than almost any other man on ’Change,
he clung fatuously to three or four chronic call-
makers, which drained him and kept him poor.
The announcement of the death of the
centenarian, Mrs. Casey, at Collector, N.8.W.,
has brought out the names of two others still
living. These are Thos. Johns, of Comelroy
Road (Hawkesbury), who was born at Pennant
Hills in June, 1800. The other is Mrs. Mary Ann
Search, of Bosworth-st., Richmond, who has
passed the century, having been born at Corn-
wallis, Windsor, 26th Jan., 1799. She has a very
large number of grand, g.-grand and g.g.-grand-
children who are scattered over Australia. Her
eldest son is 80, and her youngest daughter (the
mother of 14 children), 56.


3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
The Aust. XI., on their return, will, no
doubt, make the same remark as every visitor
from Europe—“ How smart and prosperous-look-
ing the Melbourne men are.” This oft-noticed
fact is accounted for by the existence of the
London and American Supply Stores, Bourke-
street, which turns out so many well-built suits at
reasonable prices. Write for catalogue of all wear
to London and American Supply Stores, Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
RIDERS
> WHO PUT THEIR MONEY AND THEIR
FAITH in a “ PERFECT ” Bicycle
WILL NEVER BE BETRAYED.
Buyers of the “ DOMINION ”
MAY SAFELY REST IN
HOPE OF ENTIRE SATISFACTION, and devote
the £6 saved to that
CHARITY which begins at home, and stays there
The “PERFECT” and “DOMINION” Bicycles may be obtained through
any Dealer or Agent who is free to handle the best.
FRANK GRIMLEY {
263 &. 265 CLARENCE STREET,
• • SYDNEY • •
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
OF
Bicycle Goods, Carriageware, Saddlery and Harness.
11l a Blue Mountain (N.S.W.) cave was
lately found a still-loaded flint-lock musket,
some eating-utensils, tools, and remnants of cloth-
ing and portion of a Sydney newspaper of 1822, con-
taining offers of reward for re capture of four
escaped prisoners. A whiff of the grim old days !
We are asked to draw attention to the
advertisement of the Dodd’s Medicine Co. regard-
ing their “Dodd’s Kidney Pills,” which have
established a reputation in Canada, America, and
Great Britain, and now becoming popular in
Australasia. We are assured that they cannot
come under the “Poisons Amendment Act,”
being purely vegetable.*
Mr. A. Sinclair, who has had 34 years
experience of colonial wool-selling and sheep-
stations, is publishing a handy book entitled “A
Clip of Wool from Shearing Shed to Ship,” in
which is given, in minutest detail, an account of
what happens to wool in colonial sale rooms, and
the why and the wherefore of these happenings.
John Andrew and Co., of Bridge-street, Sydney,
are the publishers.*
Mr. W. H. Wigzell, hairdresser, hair-
worker, wigmaker and perfumer, of 110 William-
street, Sydney, has built up a very enviable
reputation in his business. He imports direct
from London, Germany and France, and makes a
speciality of hairworking. No lady need appear
in public without a good head of hair. If she has
one of her own Wigzell will show her how to dress
it; if she has not, then he will make her one that
will serve as well.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Missing Friends.
AF. D. G. New Zealand. Write Willie
• or Mother.
TF Mr. EDWARD O’GRADY, son of the late Mrs.
4 Johanna O’Grady, of Wahring, in the colony of
Victoria, widow, will communicate with the TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY CO. LTD., 412 Collins-
street, Melbourne, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
Business Announcements.
OLLIN S’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. YV. ELLIS.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LTGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
«/. F. McDermott),
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
The Breach of Promise Case f
Melbourne•
Ex-Capt. Edwards, S. A., formerly of Lismore and Wood-
burn, in N.S.W., against Adjutant Carpenter, of Head-
quarters Staff, S.A., Melbourne, came on for hearing on
Friday, 25th ult., but was settled privately in court. It
was a'tedious and weary settlement. Acting-Judge John-
son was very patient, and considered that the time lost
would probably be time gained. Such proved to be the
case.
The terms of settlement included the publication of
the following apology
“ I, George Lyndon Carpenter, hereby state that it is
not true that Miss Lily Edwards led me on, and, if at any
time I have said anything which might give that impres-
sion, 1 unreservedly withdraw it.
" Dated this 25th day of August, 1899.
(Signed) “GEO. L. CARPENTER.”
Witness—(Signed! J. U. Maddock. Solicitor. Melbourne
At Poverty Point.
Fritz Muller, the musical boy-prodigy, seems to have a
business side to his character. To his school mann he
said, “ Mv committee’s rotten,” and then went on to ex-
plain : “ You know what I mean. We gave three con-
certs in Geelong, and they gave me £27. That’s rotten.
Robert Brough has thought' better of it. He is not
goin«r to “cut Melbourne, ** because Melbourne had the
bad taste to treat him badly when he last played there.
He returns in September, when he will show ‘‘Trelawney
of the Wells,” the “Gay Lord Quex.” and other novelties.
Said that R. S. Smvthe, just now in London, is trying
to induce Rev. Chas. Clark to make another farewell lec-
turing tour through Australasia. If the handsome old
Baptist shepherd should visit us once again, Smythe will
probably run him on the Australian Talent ticket. It was
in Maoriland that Chas. Clark made his first appearance
as a lecturer, when he was still the nominal pastor of
Albert-street Church, Melbourne.
This is certainly a year of Great Discoveries, and Miss
Lili Sharpe, the second-best “phenomenal” soprano
from Bendigo, is a particular case in point. True, she
hasn’t come with a Castles rush, although she is a much
more intelligent artist than the younger damsel. Never-
theless, sinileful Miss Lili amounted to a discovery when
she got her double encores at Melb. Town Hall the other
week. Last year when she sang from the same platform,
under the name of Miss Lily St. Leonards, she wasn’t the
least bit discovered.
Somebody wites from Bendigo, on a postcard, to state
that The Bulletin erred in crediting Miss Lili Sharp with
25 years of age. The Bulletin, by the way, merely sur-
mised from the young lady’s appearance that she might
be not more than 23 to 25, and seeing that the postcard
authority gives her age as “ not 24 until February next,”
he need not have troubled to write. But whilst on the
subject of the Lili Sharp “ discovery,” The Bulletin may
mention that she was presented to Melbourne as a damsel
of “ under 20.”
“T.D.” : Was standing at piano when Amy Castles was
warbling, privately, the other night. Be her methods
ever so uncultured and inartistic, it is still a treat to note
the liquid ease with which she pours out her voice. She
has one essential of the great singer, for she poises her
throat just as a canary or other singing-bird does —and
that is a tip which very few singers will take from nature.
In the programme of Marshall-Hall’s last orchestral
concert he says the Finale of Beethoven’s Symphony in
D Major “ brings upon us a thousand road frolics and
humorsome situations, and dismisses us with merry and
innocent hearts.” Since when has Marshall Hall had a
merry or an innocent heart?
The Howard divorce-suit (Sydney), which resulted in a
decree nisi for the husband, goes to show that a gold-
buttoned ship’s officer is quite equal to any other actor
for “ mashing” purposes. It seems that the respondent,
Mrs. Howard, was a “ fairly wealthy widow ” when she
gave her jewelled hand to comedian Howard, in England,
five years ago. The bride’s health soon required a sea-
voyage, so she took hubby to England per passenger-
steamer. Chief-officer Townsley became very friendly
with the newly-wedded pair, and, after a voyage to and
from Australia by the same boat, Airs. Howard forsook her
lawful spouse, and cleared-out with the theatrical chief-
officer aforesaid. A quite natural indiscretion. The
dandies of the mercantile marine are seasoned stage-
lovers, as a rule, and on their own boards (the quarter-
deck) they have an irresistible attraction for any woman
who inclines her heart to mummers.
Melba, it is printed, will be heard at Covent Garden
next year, after all. She intends to tour Europe this
winter, penetrating as far as Constantinople and St.
Petersburg; but her projected South American tour, for
which she had a princely offer, is postponed for the
present.
The latest about Haddon-Chambers is that he has been
fined £5 for hitting a railway porter with a big stick.
Chambers was (against the regulation) standing on the
footboard of a departing train, talking to a lady, and
having declined to , get. off was forcibly pulled down ;
whereupon he “ incapacitated ” the porter. He offered
no defence and merely pleaded anger.
“Constance Clyde” has been exploring a cheap Syd-
ney show, and comes back in the following frame of
mind: “The record for a cheap and gory treat is to be
found at the Royal Standard Theatre where the Sher-
wood-M‘Gowan Co. are playing ‘Jack Sheppard ’ for Is.,
6d. and 3d. The gallery-hoy who nobly sacrifices his
evening beer in the cause of dramatic art is given full
value for his money, inasmuch as he beholds among
minor horrors an explosion, a house on fire, an execution,
and murders thrown in by the handful. Everybody in
the play gets murdered, and some are obliging enough
to get murdered twice over. One man is killed by a
red tablecloth. That is in scene 113 of Act 95, or there-
abouts, and when the 115th scene rushes down he is still
being killed. The rest of the time is spent mainly in
people discovering they are other people’s lost children.
The plot is the most tangled plot on record, and when it
gets more tangled than usual it is smoothed out by some
of the characters taking documents from their pockets
and saying that these will explain all, and then the re-
maining characters slap their foreheads and say ‘Great
Heavens, ’tis true ! ’ The play is responsible for some his-
torically-histrionic information, notably, in a burglary-
scene, where it is proved that ladies in Jack Sheppard’s
time went to bed with their boots and hats on. There
are, likewise, pathetic touches, and the gallery-boy
chokes on his peanut when the brave highwayman says
something to the effect that if he can only be hanged
with his head on his mother’s breast he will be the hap-
piest hanged man in existence.”
“Poor old Leon Caron,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “fresh from a little pleasure trip of fifteen
years conducting in Australia, came to London and
begged but one favor of George Musgrove. Merely .as a
break, a change, a bit of repose, to be permitted to con-
duct the ‘ Belle of New York’ orchestra through some
•little things of his own.’ G.M. consented, and further
got Alfred Plumpton, of the Palace, fifty yards away, to
place his orchestra at Caron’s baton for the same day.
Then for a space of interminable hours the baroneer was
dodging to and fro over cabs and under ’busses from the
Shaftesbury and back working 150 musicians to death
and having" what he termed the ‘ finest holiday he could
have expected.’ ”
Ed. Bulletin.—Was pleased to read your remarks,
12 8 ’99, re the necessity for suppression of the so-called
Sydney “ College of Music.” I believe it to be, as you
say, simply a means for advertising certain music-
teachers arid levying fees. My belief comes from per-
sonal experience. In Feb., this year, J sat for A.Mus.
diploma of this college, at a fee of £3 35., being the only
candidate. Previous to this, after much trouble and
delay, I had been informed that the standard required
would be somewhat similar to the “ Senior Honors.” I
may mention that in June, ’9B, 1 sat for Senior Pass and
Honors of T.C.L., London, and came out with a percent-
age of 88 and 72 marks respectively. With six months’
study on top of this, then, came the A.Mus. papers. Re-
quiring 90 out of 120 to pass, I got 69. And this result
was communicated to me two months after sitting, and
only after repeated application. A request to have the
worked papers returned to me to be sent to England for
examination was refused. Of course, I was not a pupil of
any of the college teachers, and in the letter sent me I
was informed that another setting would be granted me
at reduced fees. —TRAZOM.
Marie Elster, who three years ago made a very good
mark in England as priina-donna of a touring opera co.,
is just now singing a “ turn ” at London Alhambra, and
the critics seem to be hailing her as a recent vocal “ star”
from Australia. Aliss Elster’s success in the early autumn
of her life reminds one of the years when Melbourne
never thought to “ discover ” singers. She and Frances
Saville both warbled deliciously in comic opera at the
Princess’s and elsewhere, but nobody talked of sending
them to Europe. They went “on their own ” without
flourish of trumpets. * Likewise, Lalla Aliranda had to
fairly earn a reputation ere she was reckoned deserving
of a farewell benefit. Saville, Elster, and even the com-
paratively youthful Miranda, not to mention Alelba, were
unlucky in’being born too soon. They ought to have
been contemporaries of Amy Castles.
Tenor Napoleon Boffard, being an honorary member of
Alelb. Liedertafel, received an invitation to its annual
dinner, at the Yienna Caf6. The day previous to the
dinner the Liedertafel secretary asked M. Boffard if he
would sing after dinner. Nap. consented, hut was sur-
prised later on to receive an account for 55., cost of said
dinner. Napoleon said : “ Five shillings for ze dinnare !
—why, being obliged to sing, I eat no dinnare 1” Next
morning, the sec. received an account: “Alelb. Lieder-
tafel. Dr. to Alonsieur E. Napoleon Boffard. One song,
£3 3s. ; less cost of dinner, ss.—balance, £2 18s.”
J O. Williamson meditates a production of “ Cyrano
de Bergerac.” The “ Alusketeers ” costumes will do for
it as the periods are the same. Indeed, D’Artagnan ap-
pears in aot I. of “ Cyrano ” as a minor oharaotsr.
Ada Rehan, the longtime star lady of Augustin Daly s
00., was so shocked by his death that she wouldn’t under-
take the leading part (specially written for her) in a new
drama. Said that the fair Ada, who is not in good health,
will retire from the stage altogether in a year or two.
Tom Costello sailed from London, Aug. 18, under en-
gagement to Rickards. He follows Cinquevalli at Melb.
Bijou.
“Of current playwrights,” writes “ Alba ” to Tiib
Bulletin, “Jones is the most exasperating. There are
times when one feels that he is about to rise to a power-
ful psychological crisis, as in ‘ The Physician,’ but either
the fear of Mrs. Grundy holds him back, or he hasn’t
the soul to pull it through. Volcanoes rumble in
the keynote of ‘The Physician’ when the great nerve-
specialist hints that he is absorbing the diseases of his
patients. One fancies that he will contract the dipso,
tendencies of the rival whom he magnanimously attempts
to cure —in that direction lay tragedy; but Jones’s volcano
only rumbled a little : he killed his dipso, and married
the"girl to the physician. Query : What shall we do with
our Jones? A similar rumbling happened in ‘Judah’—
his next-best. Wherefore he builds emotional fabrics,
and builds like a tradesman forging steel marionettes
with unutterable labor, hammering with Vulcan strokes
upon the iron of commonplace until the gods
are about to weep; and just when the desired
tear trembles to the cheek up. pops Jones with a sneer,
and down goes the fabric of unutterable sweat. Pinero
is different, his emotional holts are forged with ease, and
when his audience crowd into his palm he holds
them with clenched fist. Yet the grace of poetry
is lacking in this cultured playwright’s scenes.
Never a flower scents the glittering expanse
of dialogue. There is a scene where one of his
heroines looks across the close-packed meadows and sees,
in her imagination, London—London, flash, squalid, a
black ruin with gaslit squares squadroned with jaded
men —London, quick as champagne, repellent as a hedge-
hog ; London —lust, fire, and hypocrisy ! A rarer heroine
than Paula Tanqueray might have leaned from her bal-
cony and felt the eye of Fate burning through the
jewelled—mask of Infinity. Observe how Rostand’s
‘Cyrano de Bergerac’ gluts your sense with a night-
piece ! ‘ Ah, Paris wrapped in night; half nebulous ; the
moonlight streams o’er shadowed roofs ; a lovely frame
for this wild battle-scene : beneath the vapors’ floating
scarves, the Seine, trembling, mysterious, like a magic,
mirror.’ Anon he dwells upon the curse of friendship.
‘ This everlasting friendship which enfolds you is like an
open-laced Italian collar floating round your neck in
woman’s fashion, but . . . hatred, like the stiff ruff worn
by the Spanish, grips like a vyce, hut frames you like a
halo.’ ”
The shriek that W. J. Lyne, if successful
against G. H. Reid on the present occasion, would
be placed in the uncongenial position of haying
to appoint the first Federal Cabinet is mere windy
gasconading. There is every chance that the
Federal Parliament will insist on nominating the
first Federal Premier; at least it certainly ought
to. To let the Governor-General, who knows
nothing of Australian politics “send for ” whom
he pleases, and thereby decide on his own
responsibility who shall rule Australia would be
an insult to every democratic principle.- And if
the Federal Parliament chooses its own leader
then the fact that somebody is or isn’t Premier of
N.S.W. or of any other place can have no possible
bearing on the case. It may select Cnck or
O’Sullivan.
When the Federal address to the Queen
was before N.S.W. Leg. Council, Dr. Creed (who,,
when outside Parliament House, is always annoy-
ingly wide-awake and energetic), moved the in-
sertion of a dissolution clause. Then (mesmerised
by his soporific surroundings) he sunk into a deep
sleep, while the debate raged around him, and
made movements with his hands as one who was
heaving the Bill out in his dreams. The Govern-
ment representative kept an eye on him, and at
the earliest possible moment pushed the matter to
a vote. Everybody expected Creed to call for a
division, but he only slumbered harder, and his
proposition was rejected on the voices. Then,
long afterwards, he awoke and was starting to
complain that the remarks of the honorable one
then discoursing were irrelevant to the amend-
ment, and when lie was told that the amendment
was ancient history by now, and that his country
had been lost while he was having a snooze, he
could only groan.
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. §. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. < > lon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W.A.*
A little work called “Childbirth in
N.S.W.” just issued by Statistician Coghlan con-
tains information calculated to make the moral
section of the community groan enormous groans.
During the six years 1893-1898, 56,163 women gave
birth each to her first child. Of these 14,779 were
illegitimate ; 13,366 were, judging by dates, the
resultof something that happened be fore marriage ;
and 28,018 or not quite one-half, were perfectly
respectable, according to the canons of conven-
tional morality. This means that nearly one-
third of the women who married did so under dire
necessity to prevent their coming offspring being
illegitimate. The legitimate births have de-
creased from 37,437 in 1893 to 33,353 in 1898 !
During the same period the number of illegitimate
births rose a little, from 2486 to 2497; and the
number of legitimate births which were, appar-
ently, the result of unbridled love before marriage
rose from 1981 to 2408. So, apparently, the births
which were above suspicion were 35,456 in 1893
and only 30,945 in 1898 despite a considerable
increase in population. But the utterly stagger-
ing fact is contained in the apparent revelation
that only about half the women of N.S.W. who
reached what may be vaguely described as the
marriageable age between 1893 and 1898 were
“ respectable ” in the conventional meaning of the
term. Probably, however, a good many people,
especially in small country places, guessed that
much already. The registrar at a country
town once made a cynical remark to the
writer on this subject over a pot of beer.
“This is a quiet place,” he said, thoughtfully
lifting the beer, “but our old cats have
one amusement that keeps them alive. When-
ever a girl gets married every old cat puts
down the date in a book and then they wait to see
when her child will be born. When it is born
they put that date down also, and after that they
meet and cackle.” Here the official thought-
fully surrounded his beer. “ Some of them, he
added, “ have got books covering twenty years,
and you can look through them and find particu-
lars of every young married woman in this town
whose infant was a trifle previous. And you
would be surprised to know how previous they
are.”
N.S.W. Cabinet Ministers charge, the
Premier 3gs., other Ministers 2gs. a day, wliile
travelling in the country on public business. Tim
Ministers themselves define what is public busi-
ness.
Barton was met with a point-blank
refusal by the Reid Govt, when he asked for a
“pair” in the censure division, while away in
Queensland on the eve of the Referendum. When
the House heard that the Federal leader’s absence,
while fighting for Australia, was thus taken ad-
vantage of, ugly comments came even from the
Government side, and Chief Secretary Brunker
hastily telephoned to Barton that the Govern-
ment Whip would pair with him. Barton
was already on his way North, and the message
had to be wired after him. This incident is
eloquent testimony to the hold the Federal idea
has already taken on the body politic.
At time of writing, N.S.W. Opposition was
perfectly sure of ousting the Reid Ministry, and
professed to have discovered interesting facts
which quite accounted for the veering towards
the Government of certain members who entered
Parliament under the Barton aegis. And after the
Ministry has been “slung out?” Well, never
mind, say several of the Premier’s most active
enemies—“ Reid deserves punishment for his
Federation wobblings ; let the future take care
of itself.” The situation is a curious one. One
lot of politicians seeks to expel Reid from office
because he in the first place tried to block Federa-
tion, and these are backed up by another lot who
thirst for his blood because he ultimately decided
to help in bringing Federation about. One thing
is quite certain—the Opposition is united only by
hate of Reid and not by love of Reid’s enemy
Lyne.
At the dictation of David Syme, Vic. Boss
Policeman O’Callaghan (who has eyes on the Chief
Co.onmissionershjp) has started a series of lectures
on “ Police,Duty,” and has arranged for a “ big
house ” beforehand by ordering that all cops below
the rank of sub-inspector shall attend. The result
is that old, grey-headed sergeants who know quite
as much as the great O'Callaghan himself are
brought in from stations 20 miles away to hear
the Age’s protege telling them how to make an
arrest. O'Callaghan’s first lecture was delivered
last week, and in his two hours’ talk he told the
assembled peelers nothing that the average civilian
doesn’t know. The police force that needed such
a lecture ought to be instantly abolished. There
were altogether 335 men present, and fully five of
these derived some benefit from the oration. The
dragging of old-service men to such a discourse is
mere fatuous nonsense. If they have not learnt
their duty by now they never will. For recruits
the idea is an excellent one, but the lecture should
be given while they are on probation, not after
they have banged the inoffensive citizen over the
skull with a baton for asking which is Bourke-
street, and after half have been drafted to pountry
stations. There were only 35 constables appointed
to the Vic. force since last year, and of these 20
were mounted men now scattered in the back-
blocks.
The sudden refund to N.S.W. Treasury
of the .£350 paid to Brigadier-General Neild on
account of his old-age pension report labors is in-
volved in mystery, and as to " ho actually repaid the
amount opinions'differ. All the Ministerial party,
from the Premier to the meanest joint of the tail,
are in turn credited with it. Everyone of
course agrees that Neild himself didn’t hand back
the money. Months ago, when the famous at-
mospheric-gas bag burst, an outcry was raised
against the gallant bombardier, and he was called
upon to refund i>3oo received for commission in
floating the concern. This he declined to do,
urging that if he did so it would amount bo an
admission that he had not honestly earned the
money. Plaint then, by refunding this .£350,
unasked, the Field-Marshal would lay himself
open to the inference that he was not entitled to
the money, and that he had not come by it legiti-
mately, and could not retain it with an approving
conscience. Though the refund may have saved
Neild’s seat in the eyes of the Assembly, stdl it
must have a most damaging effect on the judgment
of the electors outside the House.
At time of going to press the Federal
majority in Queensland was 5525. South Queens-
land outside Brisbane supplied 26,000 votes, and
the anti-Bill majority was only nineteen votes.
Central Queensland gave about 1400 majority for
Federation, and North Queensland nearly 8000.
Only Brisbane was distinctly hostile. Yet that
fine old penny inaccuracy, the Brisbane Tele-
graph, was busy informing the public at latest
advices that all South and Central Queensland
were anti-Federal, and that the only thing to be
done was to cut North Queensland adrift, and let
it go and be a separate State, while the South and
Centre preserved their proud attitude of anti-
Federal isolation, and swapped lies with each
other in their cave about the great danger they
had escaped. If South Queensland dreams of
cutting away the Federally-inclined districts, it
will-'have to saw the province in two just south of
Gym pie, and throw all the goldfields, and copper
and,tin fields, and half the railways, and almost all
thb available public lands overboard. In fact, it
will have to throw overboard everything which
makes Queensland the great province it is, and
go Mjgfcfc under.


ARTIFICIAL teeth.
FTJTjTj SETS, £2 10 s.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot he proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot he complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot he
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted At- ifr-ial Teeth, t 2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, 15.
Thorough Mastication and beautiful Natural Appearance
guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stoppings,
otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSH AX.L, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
Gent’s Calf Kid-leg Goloslied 10/6
~ ~ Patent ~ 10/6
~ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
~ All Russia Tan Calf ... ... ... 10/6
~ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Gruinea
BOOTS
are Famous
r
. . SEND FOE . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies% Gentlem en %
and *.
CHILDREN S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, Worth Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BO L UKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat .
Losing Your Hair?
Starved Hair
Do you bring out a combful each morn-
ing ? Has it lost its natural brightness ?
Is it beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
Feed Your Hair
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough
hair. Such hair needs feeding. This
is why Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops fall-
ing of the hair.
Gray Hair
If your hair is gray, and you don’t care
to look at thirty as if you were sixty,
then you should use Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
It always restores color to gray hair.
-;.v
cm
h
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Pood
It gives nourishment to the roots of the hair, and a long, rich growth is pro-
duced. The hair no longer splits at the ends, but keeps soft and silky.
All Druggists and Perfumers.
BLAKE STEAM PUMPS,
For EVERY PUMPING
. . PURPOSE KNOWN.
a
L
SOLE AGENTS IN
AUSTRALASIA
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney and Melbourne.
GOOD
HAIR FOR
ALL !
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland's Marvellous Hair Restorer,
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving' Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
22
A#
6
$
G/X
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coilins-st., Melbourne.
STOPS COLD
This Well-kEiown Remedy foi"
COUGH, COLD,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immedia‘9 relief and rest.
Sa:e and pleas nt for children.
1"
'MSI
99
“ I 1135 :i good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGEN J'S—Elliott; Hoffnung • Duerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test wh ether my
remedy doss or does not cu e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. AU you are asked to < ; o sto
send for a free bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I ani quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Sa e Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION
H. G. ROOT, 28,ENOS LEI 9 HGDMS., 10 800N,EH 1 !.
Publications.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, CURIOUS,
an/ LAUGHABLE BOORS.
As advertised i/1 the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
It nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
■win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w il supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the know edge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gats and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure tor bashtulneos, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bitsin prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps. 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
CUNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOR THEE”
Words by Edward Ox ex ford ; Music by E. J.
Emmerton. In Three Keys—E flat, F, and G.
Of all Music Dealers. W. PAXTON, London
and Melbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” PF-
By Wildie Pape. Played by special command of
their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo iri Masehera,” “IlTrova-
tore.” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Money Order. Beware poor imitations
of my High-class Art.
R. GENNERT, 49c RU*! ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
VALUABLE BOOKS
Written by leadin
practitioners.
No. I.— Man, Know Thy elf.
No. 2. -Woman, Know Thyself.
No. 3.— Boyhood and Youth: Its Snares and
pitfalls. The simple truth.
No. 4.— Nature’s Mysteries.
Cheap edition of any one of the above valuable books
posted for 6d. in stamps of any colony. Write for
particulars and catalogue post free.
W. H. JENKINS, 41 Stephen-st., Melbourne.
Books! Books! "Books!
Popular Educator, £5, for £1 f>s ; The Home Physician,
4 2 10s, for 20s; Universal Instructor, £1 15s, for 15s;
Webster’s Household Dictionary, 255, for 10s. I have the
Largest Stock of Second-hand Books in New South Wales.
Write for Catalogues. I have also Three Choice Books,
Is 6d each, or three for 4s (can only be procured by post).
All books sent post free. Telephone 3043.
Second-hand \
Book Arcade, /
R. W. Skinner
J 105 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
Maoriland grandmotherliness is getting a
I) t ridiculous. A female teacher of a Taranaki
back-block school was recently police-courted by
a member of the School Committee for giving a
boy one cut with the cane. The B.M. sensibly
pooh-poohed the whole thing.
When Pius IX. died in 1878, the late
Melb. Archbishop Goold got a Pontifical flag
made, and flew it on the bell-tower of St.
Patrick’s Cathedral. After the Requiem Mass
the flag was lowered, and lay hidden away up in
the tower for 21 years, until Archbishop Carr was
to be welcomed back from Rome. Then some old
hand remembered the dusty, time-hallowed flag,
and it was unearthed and run up once more.
Which recalls that when Card. Cullen died in the
early ’7o’s, and Dr. Goold was having a Requiem
Mass for him, he got a Cardinal’s hat made to put
on the sham coffin, which hat was afterwards put
away in a press. And when the Archbishop, and
the sacristan, and old Dean Fitzpatrick, and
Father O’Sullivan, and the rest were all dead and
gone, and the building was finished, the old
sacristy was broken up, and a Cardinal’s -hat dis-
covered therein. Nobody knew anything about
it. The hatter’s name was branded on it right
enough, but the hatter was gone, too. Then some
said that Card. Moran had forgotten it when last
in Melbourne, and would be “calling about a
hat ” presently. And some said Archbishop Carr
had been made a Cardinal and was keeping it
dark. But when the fuss was at its height an Age
scribe solved the problem, and the old hat Ceased
from troubling.
“ Spotter ” to The Bulletin :
How they do thing's in Westralia. In dirty weather the
barque City of York, bound for Fremantle, hove in sight
of Rottnest Lighthouse (12 miles from Fremantle) late in
the evening of July 12. Barque signalled for a pilot, and
was answered from the lighthouse by a “ flare-up” light
—the light which in any civilised land indicates an ap-
proaching tug or pilot-boat. Consequently barque
steered in the direction of the light, expecting to pick
up a tug-boat or pilot, but on approaching close to the
lighthouse found neither in attendance, and discovered
t hat the light was on lane 1 . The vessel had by that time
been lured too close on a lee shore to wear off again, con-
sequently went on a reef close to the lighthouse. The
catastrophe occurred about 7 p.m. on Wednesday even-
ing. Yet news of the disaster did not reach Fremantle
(12 miles off) until midday Thursday. Then the Harbor-
Master, with a fully-equipped and manned steamer, went
off to render assistance, but on arrival at the wreck
found too heavy a sea running to attempt a rescue of the
men on board (the barque’s own boats having been washed
away), so the steamer returned to Fremantle. On the
way back it met the small steamer Dunksley en route to
ihe scene of the wreck. The latter steamer lay to, close
to barque, and the brave skipper put off in the
small boat and rescued seven men from the wreck.
The remainder of the crew, bar those lost, had already
swum or were washed ashore. How does this look for
the lifeboat and pilot service at Rottnest, and the fully-
equipped Govt, steamer Penguin ? The board of enquiry,
which consisted of the Collector of Customs and a P.M.,
found “that the drowned captain was guilty of gross
carelessness in navigating his ship,” &c. The verdict is
strongly resented by nautical men and others, who attri-
bute the cause of the disaster to misleading signals from
the lighthouse instead of carelessness on the part of the
late captain. It was admitted by the officer in charge of
the lighthouse, at the enquiry, that no code of. signals
was supplied him, and that he.could not communicate with
passing vessels. Since the catastrophe, the authorities
have decided that telegraph communication between Rott-
nest and Fremantle is necessary. (The niggers and other
prisoners escape from the island by wading ashore at low
water, and are generally far away before their escape is
reported. The authorities have consequently a long
chase after them, but they make up for the want of tele-
graphic communication by giving them an extra-large
flogging when captured).


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
E. J. Brady’s book of verses, “ The Ways
of Many Waters,” is receiving many compliments
from nautical men. Among others, American
Admiral Dewey writes to the author : “ ‘ The
Ways of Many Waters ’ has given me sincere
pleasure, as also the thought that at the other side
of the world I have an admirer in one capable of
such good work.”*
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to g'et out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cinemato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
W. >7. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
THE UNION SANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
BALANCE-SHEET, FEBRUARY 28, 1899.
Xiialbilities.
£ s. d.
Capital ... £4,500,000
Less reserve liability ; ... 3,000,000
Paid-up 1,500,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .... . ... 750,000 0 0
Invested as per contra ... £500,000
Balance employed in the
business of the bank ... 250,000
Contingent account 250,000 0 0
Circulation ... 451,519 0 0
Deposits (including Inscribed Stock
Deposits) 14,837,783 19 9
Bills payable, and other liabilities (in-
cluding- reserves held against doubt-
ful debts) 2,644,164 9 11
Balance, of undivided profits ... H . 71,848 17 11
£20,505,316 7 7
Assets.
£ 8 d
Specie on hand, and cash balances ... 2,884,009 12 7
Bullion on hand, and in transitu ... 116,259 16 1
Money at call and short notice in London 475,000 0 0
Investments—
Consols, and other
stocks Of or guaran-
teed by the Imperial
Government .. ... £89,975 10 6
India Government Ster-
ling Stocks and In-
dian railway guaran :
teed stocks 254,309 7 2
British Municipal and
Colonial and Foreign
Government Stocks
and Debentures ... 342,492 16 6
£686,777 14 2
Reserve Fund—
Consols, £250,000.
Local Loans. —Imperial
Government Stock,
£150,000 ; India Gov-
ernment Sterling Stock,
£lOO,OOO ... ... £500,000 0 0
1,186,777 14 2
Bills receivable, loans, and other securi-
ties at London office 3,285,739 10 8
Bills discounted, bills receivable, loans
and other securities at the branches 11,824,519 4 3
Bank premises and property in the
colonies 603,426 8 6
London leasehold pre-
mises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£12,502 2s. 3d. ; six
months’ interest there-
on at 3J4 per cent.,
£2lB 15s. 8d 12,720 17 11
129,584 1 5
£20,505,316 7 7
Statement of Profits-
£ s. d.
Balance of undivided profits at 31st August, 1898 67,277 12 0
Out of which a dividend was declared of 37,500 0 0
Leaving a balance of _ 29,777 12 0
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of
had and doubtful debts £152,645 18 8
Less :
Remuneration to the local directors, and salaries
and allowances to the colonial staff £70,771 13 2
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, &c. 23,894 0 2
Remuneration to the board of directors and audi-
tors, salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes,
stationery, and general expenses 15,033 5 1
Income tax ... 875 14 4
110,574 12 9
42,071 5 11
Balance of undivided profits at this date £71,848 17 11
London, 14th July, 1899.
ARTHUR FLOWER )
.J. DENNISTOUN V
H. P. STURGIS )
- Directors.
W. E. CARBERY, Manager.
T. C. C. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
We be? to report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and
have had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and having examined the
same, and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and
fair balance-sheet, properly drawn up, so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs.
as shown by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHTNNEY )
Chartered Accountants J
Auditors.
The Latest Wonder I
m UJ____ _ _ _ _ _ '
> t THE . i
“ PENJNT-IN-THB-SLOT ”
GRAM-O-PHONE.
The Horn, Sound Box. Travelling Arm, and Discs are JUST AS ACCES-
SIBLE as in the ordinary well-known type of Motor, and anyone desirous of adjust-
ing the machine or CHANGING THE DISC before starting it, may do so with
perfect ease. Before the winding mechanism can be released, it is necessary to put
a penny in the slot provided for the purpose, when the machine may b 3 wound and
started, after which it will run for ONE TUNE ONLY, and then automatically
lock itself. The person using the machine may then change the needle and replace
the record at will, and on placing a SECOND penny in the slot the machine may
be re-wound. This operation may be repeated any number of times.
I need hardly point out the great advantages of an automatic machine in which
the RECORDS or TUNES can be FREELY CHANGED with absolutely NO
TROUBLE or SUPERVISION.
i
Price
£l2 I2s.
I
i p. sms,
Music . . .
Warehouse,
227 Little Collins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
The earning capacity of a good penny-in-the-slot device is so well known that
I need hardly say anything on this head. That the Automatic Gramophone will
prove a remunerative source of income I have not the slightest doubt, and from the
startling variety of the records which can be supplied, and their absolute novelty, it
opens up a field which no other Automatic Musical device can in any way rival.
KF* Orders will be executed strictly in rotation as received,
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address
90 King Street, Sydney.
COMBINATION BROOCH, BOOMERANG
and FEDERATION PENDANT.
Solid Gold.
New Bird
Heart
and Bell
BROOCH.
Remarkable
Value,
15s each.
.Novelty Music Brooch.
Solid Gold, 10s ; Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Lucky
Moonstone.
Latest
Novelty
BUTTERFLY BAR BROOCH, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Cross, Mizpah and Ivy, 12s 6d.
3 Lucky Bells, Chain and Bamboo, 10s 6d
2 Gold Bars, set with 2 Diamonds, 17s 6d
2 Gold Doves and Heart, 8s 6d
15c., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 42s.
Please
send for
our Illu-
strated
Slips of
Novelties
POST
FREE.
Garnet Pendant and
Gold Bird Safety Pin,
5s 6d.
Bird Safety Pin.
9c. Gold, 3s.
Silver Gilt, Is 3d.
Registered.
BROOCHES,
Sterling- Silver, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
Solid
Silver Hat. Pins. Length 7in.
Any Initial,
3s each.
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid
Silver,
Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d.
Solid Gold
and
Shark’s-tooth
Pendant
BROOCH,
13s 6d.
Solid Gold
Mounted
Shark’s-tooth
PENDANT,
6s 6d.
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s.
lips
iiiiiii
11
3 Gold Bars, sets With 6 Pearls,
9c., 15s ; 15a, 22s 6d.
15a, 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 25s :
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
15c. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds and IRuby,
or 2 Diamonds and
1 Sapphire, 30s.
Gold, with 1 Bell, 10s 6d ; 3 Bells, 12s 6d
Silver, with 1 Bell, 3s 6d ; 3 Bells, 4s 6d.
m
15c., 5 Diamonds & 2 Rubies, Sapphires or Opals, 70s
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: QOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENO.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO . KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
A South Melb. man who lately bought a
ferocious-looking watch-dog to look after his
house, returned home the other day to find the
place cleaned out, and the proteotor of his hearth
stolen from the kennel.
In Napier (M.L.) the red blind was the
local sign of Venus, and the honest women there-
abouts were always particularly careful never to
have anything glaring about their windows. One
day a bank-clerk arrived in Napier from the
South, vvhere the red blind was not known, and
immediately he set foot in the city a house-agent
buttonholed him and leased to him for two years
a very comfortable house on the best end of Little
Beach. The worst end of Little Beach is very bad
indeed and every house on it at that time had red
blinds. The bank-clerk’s wife noticed this and,
thinking they looked cheerful, decked her own
residence with lurid window-gear. A delirious
whisper ran round Napier, and quite an army of
males strolled past, and the bank-clerk’s wife was
delighted,:. tp think she had secured a house on
the favoritej promenade. The fact that his new
clerk livediln a house with red blinds was quickly
mentioned 'to the bank manager. That evening
the manager himself strolled by and boldly winked
at the clerk’s wife who was sitting by the open
window. ! It was the time of the half-yearly
balance and the clerk was back at the bank, when
about 9 p.m. the lady was astonished to hear
someone rattling a walking-stick against the front
door. She opened it and a gay young dog stepped
in and oheerfully chucked her under the
chin. He was followed by three other gay
dogs and they all walked into the little drawing-
room, sprawled themselves all over it, called the
lady “ Tottie,” and made mysterious allusions to
English ale. The bewildered lady thought four
lunatics had got loose,-so she smiled sweetly and
asked them to excuse her a few minutes. They
said “Certainly, Duckie ! ” The blushing lady
retired to the kitchen and asked the maid what it
meant. The maid thought hard for a moment,
and then a look of horror came over her face, and
she gasped, “It’s them red blinds!” Then she
explained. Two minutes later the johnnies were as-
tonished to see the lady re-enter the room with two
kettles. One threw her a silk handkerchief, and
received in return a kettle of boiling water. Then
the other kettle flew among them, and the scalded,
startled dudes hurled themselves howling through
the open bay window and made a bee-line for the
nearest chemist’s.
A promising infant of 14 returned to his
home at Brunswick (Melb.) one recent afternoon
and, some trifling matter having annoyed him,
proceeded to make things sultry for his mother
and sisters. Having first expressed his displeasure
at their general behaviour, he started to ad-
minister personal chastisement, whereupon they
escaped to the bedroom and barricaded the door.
Not to be baulked, he then procured the family
axe and made a vigorous onslaught on the door,
and the beseiged women were only saved from
further castigation by the appearance of a con-
stable who had heard a sound of falling timber
and was cautiously reconnoitring. The determi-
nation shown by this youthful native should either
land him at the top of the tree or at the end of a
rope fastened to a limb thereof.


HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH A COB 3 YORK ST. SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS*
LAND.
Mr. Justice Real.
1899—N0. 106.
In the matter of the Estate of THOMAS
HEN DERSON ANNETT late of George-
street Brisbane in the colony of Queens-
land Civil Engineer deceased intestate
Between
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES Limited
Plaintiffs and RICHARD CHARLES
FRANCIS ANNETT Defendant.
WHEREAS by a Judgment of our Supreme
Court the following inquiries were directed to be
taken : (1) An inquiry as to who were the next of
kin of the abovenamed intestate living at his death
and whether any of them have since died and if so
who are their respective legal personal representa-
tives. (2) An inquiry whether JAMES JOHN
ANNETT the lawful brother of the said intestate
is living or dead and if dead when he died and
whether he left any and what will and whether he
was ever married and if so when and to whom and
whether there were any children of the
said marriage and who are his legal personal
representatives. And by a further order
of the said Court the said inquiries were
directed to be taken by advertisement. This
is to Notify JAMES JOHN ANNETT if
alive or any persons claiming to be interested in
the abovementioned estate through the said James
John Annett if dead or any other person claiming
to be the next of kin of the said THOMAS HEN-
DERSON ANNETT deceased that they are on
or before MONDAY the thirtieth day of OCTO-
BER 1899 to come in and prove their claims at my
Chambers Supreme Court Brisbane or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Judgment. Any person or
persons who can supply any information concern-
ing the said JAMES JOHN ANNETT or in any-
wise relating to the inquiries above referred to are
requested to communicate with me before the date
abovementioned. FRIDAY the third day of
NOVEMBER 1899 at eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon at my said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this twenty-sixth day of August A.D. 1899.
(Stamp) J. BLOOD SMYTHE
Registrar.
W. H. Wilson and Hemming
Selborne Chambers
Adelaide-street Brisbane
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Amusements.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of F. VERT.
Mdlle. Trcbclli
Mdllc. Trcbelli
SONG RECITALS
SONG RECITALS
SONG RECITALS
... ON ...
Saturday evening, Sept. 9,
MDLLE. TREBELLI
Will give the THIRD of a Short Series of
llecitals '
Prices of Admission : 35., 25., and Is., with a
booking fee of Is. Box Plan at Allan s.
H. MUSGROVE, Business Manager.
It THEN-iEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Every Evening.
% FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALASIA **
of the
German Reed Entertainments.
is produced for upwards of 36 years at St. George s Hail,
london, under the Management of Mr. Alfred German
Reed and Mr. Corney Grain.
Box Plan at Messrs. Glen and Co.’s.
CLEMENT TAYLOR, Bus. Manager.
Fiodoo Harriers’ NGgt ClOb
Races,
To be held on the MOONEE VALLEY
RACECOURSE,
Saturday, 23rd September, 1899.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency the Governor and Lady
Brassey.
Hu-die Race Steeplechase
Ladies’ Bracelet Findon Harriers’ Cup
And Other Events.
505 SOV/S. IN STAKES.
R. M. Cuthbkrtron, Hon. Association Secretary.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
LAST THREE WEEKS OF
the Bro6gb Conjedy Co.
TO-NIGHT, at 8 O’CLOCK,
“ The Gay Lord Quex.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QYDNEY TOWN HALL 1/- “POPS.”
SATURDAY EVENING at 8 o'clock.
| NEWBURY-SPADA U- “POPS.” |
Second Appearance of the Maori Chief, R A NGIUJ A,
Who appears in Maori fighting dress and plays original
selections on the pianoforte and guitar.
Wiegand, Vollaiar, Perry, and the Musical Elit6 of
Sydney. Reserved seats at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING, at 8. WED. AFTERNOON, at 2.
SECRET SERVICE.
A Drama of Absorbing Interest, written by William
Gillette.
(Produced by arrangement with Mr. Chas. Trohman.)
Plan, Nicholson’s. tW~ PRICES—Ss., 35.,. 25., and Is.
IRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
’ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
The Great Military Spectacular Drama, in Five Acts,
Tbs lijdiao
THE VERDICT UNANIMOUS.
A GREAT DRAMATIC SUCCESS !
Prices: 35., 25., Is. Early Doors 6d. extra,
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.45.
1 YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Ji Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.45.
AGAIN TRIUMPHANT !
Wbco Loijdoo Sleeps.
Presented with Graphic Illustrations of Scenic Splendor
by Messrs. Holloway & Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co.
SCENES and INCIDENTS of RARE EXCITEMENTS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
M
'AHIE NAItELLE’S GRAND CONCERT.
Undkr Vice-Regal Patronage.
T own.
Hall, Sydney,
19th SEPTEMBER.
Assisted by Eva Mvlott, Kate Rooney, Burns-Walker,
De Alba, Laurence Phillip, Woodhouse, and Huenerbien.
Magnificent Programme. Prices —3s, 2s, and Is.
Box plan, Nicholson’s. pfT Open next Monday.
T
OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Tuesday, 10 th October.
(Under Distinguished Patronage.)
Miss FANNY BAU€R
(The Brilliant Young Sydney Soprano)
.WILL GIVE HER FIRST
Assisted by Sydney’s Leading Artists.
Box Plan at Paling’s. JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
rpi VOLI THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Great Comedian,
Mr. 6. W. HUNTER.
SPRY AND AUSTIN. PAUL PELHAM.
Alma Grav, Virto and Irene, George C. Dean,
Florrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard Chambers,
Neva Carr Glvnn, Jas. Mooney,
CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
FAREWELL SEASON OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQU EVALLI
Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, R. H. DOUGLASS.
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Hamilton Hill, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, and all our
Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
IHEATKE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
FAREWELL OF THE BRILLIANT
Bland Holt Combination-
Final Production of Season, the Anglo-African Melodrama,
For CQglaod.
12 onl°yT For Eoglaijd. “’only™
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plain at Allan’s.
Business Manager Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
PRINCESS THEATRE,' MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
FRIDAY, September 8, and for a Limited Season Only.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
The Most Popular Comic Opera of the Present Day,
“THE tSEISHA.”
Written by Owen Hall; Music by Sydney Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
rjIOWN HALT
V, „ ~,, MELBOURNE.
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Dailv Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
IHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQ UA 111 VM !
THE MUSEUM!
THE FEES EUY !
; CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
lission—ONE SHILLING; Children—SIXPENCE.
DANTE THE GREAT.
South Australian Tour.
MOONTA—SEPTEMBER 9th and 11th.
KADINA-SEPTEMBER J2th.
jgp- CROWDED HOUSES EVERYWHERE.
Manager L. J. LOHR.
AIDS TO BEAUTY. —Dr. Hardy’s Face Bleach
etnoves all skin blemishes), 3,6; Freckle Lotion, 3/6;
stringent Lotion (removes wrinkles and closes open
ires), 36; Acne and Blackheads Lotion, 36; Blackheads
ream, 2/6; Hypatia Cream (skin food for beautifying the
diO. 2/-; Dipilatory for removing superfluous hair, 2/6.
NGLISH FACE MASSAGE SALON, 72 Strand, Sydney.
Publishers’ Notices.
VICTORIA:
Its Mines and Minerals.
The Only Complete Mining
History Published.
Illustrated with Two Hundred Views of
the principal Mines.
By post, Is. Bd. ; Queensland, 2s. Id.
Obtainable:
Office of Australian Mining Standard,
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
FOR-BIOKT STAMPS
mm
*
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, ls6d; 16 Roumania, 6d ;
8 Bosnia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 16 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d ; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d ; packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is; TOO, 2s (id ; 150, ss. Re-
mit hy P. 0.0. or P.N.; Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. BONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Tbs B. at)d N.Trcatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments abuve men-
tioned,that it becomes important to emphasise a .really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N.< Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared ' with the
greatest care by an experrmced and most, reputable phar-
macist. It is recqmtm tided with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne, Chanibers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
IN THE PRESS.
“A CLIP OF WOOL
Prom Shearing Shed to Ship,” by ]|. Sinclair.
The details of the Wool business fully explained. . , .
Every Wool-grower and Bank Manager should have a copy.
PRICE, Is. POSTED, Is. 3d. Orders received by
JOHN ANDREW & CO.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Abridged Prospectus of the
Lyell Blocks Coqsols
No Liability Conjpaoy.
(To be Registered under the No-Liability Act of Victoria.)
Mount Lyell* Tasmania.
J !
Area of Ground: 89 Acres. Situation: Adjoining the Mount Lyell Blocks.
In 1500 Promoters’ Shares of £5 each.
750 Shares to go to the Vendors for the purchase of the property.
500 Shares to be offered to the public.
250 Shares to be held in reserve for future issue.
The 500 promoters’ shares are offered to the public at £2 10s. per share (fully paid-up). Prefer
ence will be given to priority of application.
Directors:
Gr. C. Robinson, Esq.; H. D. Marsh, Esq.; A. G. Dawes, Esq.
Two additional directors will be appointed at the first meeting of the company. The legal
manager and auditors will be appointed at first meeting of the company.
Office (pro tem.): Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen-st., Melbourne.
Manager (pro tem.): G-. E. Robinson.
T , -o nnH-a rmnpppssarv to sav anything in regard to the Mount Lyell Field, which, as everyone knows, is of
i 1? The uromoters siinply refer the public to the reports on the Lyell Blocks Consols property by
world-wide repute. P . « _ii ninoka • and Mr S Rerofrv* mine manager of the Crown Lyell and
SmanLydl, Mount Lyell Extended, and Mount Lyell Consols, the present market values of which mines are as
follow :
Mount Lyell Company
North Mount Lyell Company
Mount Lyell Blocks
Crown Lyell
£ s. d.
2,810,000 0 0
1,700,000 0 0
49.500 0 0
87.500 0 0
rt will thus be seen that the property under offer is excellently situated, and that the venture is a legitimate
one Und one that Should return handsome profits at a very early date on money invested. The area isalso
sufficiently large to allow the parent company to float off another company later on.
FXTRACTB FROM THE REPORT BY MR. R. SCHLOESSER, MINE MANAGER, MOUNT LYELL
EAiKAWio rxwm x. BLOCKS MINE.
2nd Augnst, 1899.
’ . K/MinrioH nn the west bv the Mount Lvell Blocks. There is no surface indication of any break or
The sections Mount Lyeh ground on the west across Mount Lyell Blocks and the sections under
change in the covers the true surface of the ground. This layer has been
consideration A i layer ot loose congi | q{ thege boulderg) SO me of which are of 50 tons to 60 tons in weight,
found to be R)ft. ■ extends to 10ft. to 12ft. below the boulders, and is found to be gold-bearing where-
are fi", ,th old is fn fine sfarp particles in the samples washed, and not at all water worn. A feature of this
ever tested. T g ’ residue. Amongst this iron sand distinct particles of copper ore, glance, bormte
wash is the black sand found as a residue £ . { . ■ )agg Ag a furlher proof of the existence of copper ores
on dissolving some of this black iron sand and subjecting the solution to the usual tests, distinct evi-
and copper pyrites have bee^observec^ unaer sand and subjectiiig the solution to the usual tests, distinct eyi-
in this wash, or d-sso vmg some^o“ of saving these ores with the gold from the wash, this
dence the existence of ore bodies higher up the hill. There is no reason why
P nn«dv rich bwUes Should not be fbund on these sections as on those adjoining. The ore bodies found on neigh-
equa y . {r « VP little or no indication of their presence except by the teachings of native copper,
bouring sections ga . sionp of the hill is steep enough for prospecting tunnels to be put in cheaply,
Working facilities are ample. The hil p Ab p ndan & mining-timber grows all over
and for stores site 0 n the southern boundary, on a course roughly north,
the sections. A pro p F finding ore. Such a tunnel, with crosscuts at intervals, would cut any bodies
ore, as compared with the ex '^™ n [ ai ,° bf^'f llbolUlK seLtlons - ROBERT SCHLOESSER,
Mining and Civil Engineer, University of Leige ; Associate
Member, Institution Civil Engineers, London ; Associate
-m * 1. AY AnUnninnl U rWi'inPPVC T (Ofl fl fl H .
juCUIOCI) llloUituuiwll w* >* " t 1 _ « #
Member, Institution Mechanical Engineers, London,
Certificated Assay er, King’s College, London.
EXTRACTS from REPORT by Mr. S. REMFRY, Mine Manager Crown Lyell and Western TharsmMines.
At vour reouest I made an inspection of the sections at Mount Lyell, with the following results 3681
vervalluvial n'aeh’bemg on’your’piijperty
being assomated 1 worl< and teg (; your property would be to start a tunnel on section 2466, which will
The most eco unne j‘ o f j2oft. and fully 500 ft. of backs. After this is done, and you m eet wi th success, and I
give you a ' ® , .j ve vou w jll you can then come on section 3651 and start another tunnel, and that will gi e
have* every rea*> to» B i,„iliar one to the Mount Lyell Blocks and from recent
developments which have taken place there, I can honestly recommend this property to ba a good investment.
I am, dear sir, yours respectfully, g REMFRY, Min. Manager.
APPLICATION for SHARES to bo MADE to O. E. ROBINSON, 81 Queenetreet, Melbourne.
“The hapless Hapsburgs.” In a word,
the “ Mishapsburgs.”
Geo. Henderson, for six or eight years the
mainstay of Illawarra miners’ Labor organisa-
tions, continuing quietly but thoroughly the work
which J. B. Nicholson, now M.P., began, has just
retired from the secretaryship of the Miners’ Asso-
ciation. Henderson’s retirement is a pity, for he
was one of the most cautious, long-headed men in
theN.S.W. movement.
“ Sicovit ” says something :
N.S.W. anti-Federalists, during the recent campaign,
made a loud noise about “ the necessitous States,” and
howled about the beautiful prosperity of N.S.W. Tire
prosperity of N.S.W. ! Where is it? Writer was re-
trenched from the public service of that province five
years ago, and being a professional man, first tried prac-
tising his profession, llesult—couldn’t make salt, for
Govt, does all his class of work. Since then has applied
for, he believes, hundreds of billets in every conceivable
walk of life, and never once received even a reply to an
application. At 12-years-old writer entered for an exant.
in England ; was the youngest competitor, and came out
on top. At 21 went for another exam, in another line,
and was specially complimented by examiners. Since
then whenever he has met his fellows in competition has
held up his end of the log. Has wide experience, and
sheaves of recommendations. If he can only exist —not
live—in this community, what show has a person without
his experience of even doing that, without cast-iron luck?
Writer would bet —if he had the cash—that there are
hundreds of men in Sydney capable of running almost
any business successfull3', if given an opportunity, who
cannot secure any employment whatever in this “pros-
perous ” country.


The Fact that
it is impossible to ascertain the
quality of a plaster by a casual
examination should be a sufficient rea-
son for buying a plaster with a repu-
tation.
There is no plaster that has been
before the public so long ; none that
stands or ever stood so high; none
so well guaranteed, none whose
guarantee is so substantial and so
liberally interpreted ; none so safe
to buy as an
Allccck^
POROUS PMSIER
It is a marvelous cure for all kinds
of lameness, rheumatism, sprains, stiffness of the joints or
limbs, and congestion in the throat or chest.
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
AG Icock's
POROUS
PIASTER
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
MOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d„ i/-, and 2/- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New Sontli Wales:
flI4.Of:K & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI. STREETS, SVDNEV.
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
Important to Parties Furnishing*!
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers .. .
Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD'ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL’S give Value for Value—2os. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. 11 ALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpooi-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155.
Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
m
No. s.—Gentlemen’s Silver Waltham
Lever.
Keyless, f-plate, highly finished nickel
movement, with compensation balance,
7 jewels. In heavy English Hall-
marked cases, either hunting or open-
face - - -
£3
POST
FREE.
Please Note
AND Remember
These Three Facts!
1. That there are Walthams and
Imitation Walthams !
2. —That the Waltham movements are
frequently put into .shoddy
cases, and sold by unscrupu-
lous traders as the genuine
article.
3. —That H. Newman’s Walthams are
guaranteed genuine, both
as regards case and movement.
WALTHAM
H. NEWMAN
Has pleasure in announcing that he has completed
arrangements in regard to the productions of the
American Watch Co. 9 Waltham , Mass,, U.S.A.,
which wil enable him to supply the famous Waltham
Levers at greatly reduced prices—lower than those
usually charged for the inferior watches of other
makers.
Herewith are shown some of the principal lines. H. Newman
holds the Largest Stock of Watches in Australia, and if you
want any other sort of wa f ch, send for his Illustrated Cata-
logue, which will be forwarded post free to any address.
On receipt of remittance any of the watches shown will
be forwarded (with guarantee) securely packed, and postage
paid to any part of Australasia,
W atclmiaker, J eweller,
. . AND . .
—Dealer in Precious Stones
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
No. 52.—Gentlemen’s Gold
Waltham Lever.
Keyless, f-plate move-
ment with compensa-
tion balance, 7 jewels.
In heavy and strong
18-carat gold cases—
plain polished as shown
above, or engine-turned
or richly-engraved cases^
£l5
POST
FREE.
Wo. 39. —Ladies’ Silver
Keyless Waltham Lever.
f-plate movement, com-
pensation balance, 7
jewels. In English Hall-
marked cases, hand-
somely engraved -
£3
POST
FiiEE.


D.S.MAIR
S p
nn
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watcht-a Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2'6.
English Mainsprings, first quality, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Rotherham English Lever Watches,
capped and jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated.
Guaranteed 5 years, 35-
D. S. Mair for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Rings. Best
quality Opal. Solid Gold, 19/6.
I>. S. M:iir for Heavy Soli 1 Silver Pocket to Pocket
Alberts, English Hal) Marked, 10/6, 12/6.
Note address — OS-Q: George Street, Sydney,
(Albert & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents)
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phono[ftph
Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
hard. Best Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT & SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c.. made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending y6u the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG- & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
•*5
THE ACME of Mecba
nical Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “Home, Sweet
Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Bell,” "Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/- ; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2 extra,
any other Colony, 22. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, monev refunded.
' H. POTIER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
CITRATE OF
B.J S
<?.Ao
RB MtrM bCR IN TAE
NURSERY IT IS A POSITIVE
NECESSITY, A 5 AU-CWLDLSH
AI Lfi Eh TS Cl V& Wfif TO A
DOSE oR TWO
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI*
CORPUL.ENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
1 N insurance agent in Sydney says that if
A anyone who is affiicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box IG6, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have’tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Am.fort & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot ftwn Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
The Life of the System.
Baron Berzelius’ Report.
These Bitters I recommend in DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
NEOUS AFFECTIONS. The action of Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant; and it also assists persons suffer-
ing from Skin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
Mead What Medical Men Say About Them.
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. : —BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
Tonic, being pure and strengthening; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Digestion. I therefore
thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. :—lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar influence over the
Liver.
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY,
Homocea
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
it
AMO SOOTHES THE AGHIMG PART
Does not harden or change colour.
HOMOCEA CURES
CUTS,
BURNS,
PILES,
SORES,
BRUISES,
SORE EYES,
ECZEMA,
CORNS,
RINGWORM,
TOOTHACHE, MOSQUITO BITES &e„ &c.
iiAnn/n-' i rmnnnr ATTIAIU Absolutely the best thing of its kind in the
HOMOCEA EMBROCATION. World for RHEUmmM> lumbago, sciatica.
STIFF JOINTS, SORE THROAT, PAINS IN CHEST, SIDE, or BACK.
Put up in Collapsible Tubes in two sizes.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General j)ea/ers, <£ Chemists.
POPULAR, MEDICAL, and SOCIAL SCIENCE.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
lO Plates. 36 Chromes. 200 Illustrations.
A Sensible Book for Sensible People-
By the Most Celebrated
Medical Author,
Dr. E. JB. FOOTE.
(Hen $ (||omen
Married-^
AND
UNMARRIED
Are tempted to tusk thousands of questions of their physi-
cians, but are deferred from so doing by the expense.
This work answers just such questions so fully and
clearly as to leave no one in doubt. Remember, it contains
nearly 1000 pages and 200 illustrations. A well-made, clearly
printed, finely illustrated and substantial cloth-bound book of
inestimable value. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Com-
plete, unabridged, cloth-covered edition of this great work,
Plain Home Talk, for only 7s. 6d., post Free.
WHwa
m^ oo m
§SM3\NONWo
wa
m
[l*s
m
NOTE.— -SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING! AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG- BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIE ROBERT BEAR,
16
PARK ST.,
s"srx>]\r]ES"y.
pSijfll WILL
!: ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& lIVIPQFtTLR.
20? l i f2C?I
CHEAP
BOOKS
PLAIN NOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and_ Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 16. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus.), 2/6;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL A.hiTOR.j!>LI3E,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELT for -
GENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONOER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ug current that can be felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GEEMAN ELECTEIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Something is After You.
Far away, in the Jungle of Central India, a
village lies asleep. Only a solitary human figure
can be seen, following the winding jungle path in
the moonlight. It is early night, and the native
who comes has been delayed on his way home.
But what is that dark shadow that crosses the
path behind him ? Quite oblivious, the man
marches on. He looks neither to right nor left
nor behind him, where crouches that dark shadow.
A few yards more and he will be out of the jungle.
A few minutes more, and he thinks he will be
sleeping in the bosom of his family . But see, the
Shadow moves ! With two noiseiess bounds like
a giant cat the tigress is upon him. One despair-
ing scream and all is quiet. Bitten through the
head, the victim is snatched up and carried by the
grim man-eater to her lair in the hills. Meanwhile
the village slumbers peacefully on.
Was it the man’s fault? Yes, I think it was.
Had he not lingered, he would not have been
caught. The tigress would not have attacked him
in broad daylight. But he was no worse I think
than those in this country who are to-day doing
the very same thing. Thousands and thousands
of English men and women have a shadow in their
path. It is after them. The time will come, if
they do not take heed, when they will feel, like
Mrs Lydia Golding, “as if something had over-
taken” them. Here is a letter from her in which
she tells her experience:—
‘‘All my life I had been a strong healthy woman,
and up to the autumn of 18911 never ailed any-
thing. At this time I began to feel weak, weary,
and tired, and as if something had overtaken me. I
had a foul taste in the mouth, my tongue being
furred, and a sour fluid would rise into my mouth.
I had no appetite to speak of, and the little food I
took gave me no strength. After eating I had a
heavy weight and pain across my chest, and a
gnawing feeling in my stomach. I belched up’ a
deal of frothy fluid, and in the night I awoke with
a suffocating feeling. _ Cold clammy sweats broke
over me, and what with loss of appetite, and not
being able to sleep at night I soon got so weak
that I found it hard work to get about.
“ On December, 23, 1892 (one Sunday morning),
whilst preparing breakfast for my husband, I was
suddenly seized with paralysis, which affected the
whole of my right side. I had no use of my hand
or leg on that side, and a numbness took me on
both left and right sides. My husband got me to
bed, and fetched a doctor from Northfleet, who gave
me medicines. After this I lost my strength
rapidly, and what I suffered I cannot tell.
“I could not rest night or day and I was in and
out of bed every now and again. I got little sleep,
only dozing off for a short time and then starting
up. I was afraid to be left alone, and often in the
night I have been so nervous and frightened I
could scarcely bear it. I took medicines of all
kinds, but was little better for anything until one
day in August, 1893, my husband read in the paper
“Weekly People, ” of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup, and got me a bottle from Perry and Son,
Chemists, High Street, Gravesend. After taking
it a short time, I began to gain strength, and got
stronger, and stronger until I was free from the
effects of the seizure. I now keep in good health.
You can publish this statement if you wish. ”
Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. Lydia Golding, 12,
Carter’s Road, Perry Street, Gravesend, May 14th,
1896.
What was this shadow that had crossed Mrs.
Golding’s path? What was it that “overtook”
her and laid her helpless and suffering upon a bed
of sickness? Surely you can recognise the mon-
ster that sprang upon her as the dreaded disorder
Dyspepsia, which attacks you when you are most
defenceless and weakest. Paralysis; yes, Mrs.
Golding had it, and could feel it, but what she
could not feel was what it was that had so acted
upon her nerves and muscles as to cause them to
become so helpless. Nor could she, I suppose,
understand how Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup
cured her so quickly, though we know now that it
was because the dyspepsia was got rid of.
But, as the native was never heard of more, so
there are some who cannot get out of the clutches
of Dyspepsia, even with such help as Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup, if the help comes too
late. Hence the best way of all, say I, is to keep
out of the jungle after dark ; and if you must go
walk quickly.
rUVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design,
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduce
DR. YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One trial
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d, for which we
will forward you post free one box (three tablets) of DR.
YON MULLER'S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved on
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb
in# interest to every MAN.
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


H?r:RaSSn?6SS€i)’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Tears.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
' '** V
s
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
▲ Living Witness of the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sdatioa Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM 'ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
Snished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver ana Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For t.he benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr BASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
BlfclUi
1
nitijiimai
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A ualine VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A ifaliwe BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AIiFAIiINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
I IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN'S FREE
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,”
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL
BOOK,
which
COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials.
Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Bassmnasfin.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—•
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street., Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMiS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justi e of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming-the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sc iatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i ouirhs, Colds, c onsumption, bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. ’
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair lurning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful f >»• Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
- 547 GEORGE ST.,
WniTPC a C 2 TIAT T AlXriS . ▼
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
KAI.G-OOB.liII! Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller>


ceum ‘Kirer
HERUIEmt
Safety and
Comfort
During Change of Seasons,
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, Cotton, or Lisle Thread,
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, eto.
»■ CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents : 73 & 75
King’-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
David graham $ (Jo.,
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X 716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
FRIEND
R A HERVI.Y.
171 C LARENCE ST *
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVEHT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. G. Calvert & Go., Manchester.
USB
Spooler's
,*OON£/^
RQYALNAVY DRESSING
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
liliU.iHiniu.niuiHMuiuiimii:
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
THE
“Common Sense
« « Ear Drums **
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON BAR DRUM CO Apent,
C iALMEaS, 229 Collins St Melbourne
Mention “The Bulletin” when writing.
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(invisible)
DRUNKENNESS
OH THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
ssr mroRASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURF 4.ND
SPE-'DY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can lie jriven in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou , uccec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEflLflWn
The Thermal Springs District.
—WONDERLAND
THE
firand Hotel, ROTORUA.
The Largest and Best- Appointed Hotel
in New Zealand.
H» V. Gardner
(late of the P. & O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the*management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
VlHlfnra Will find *
1* kofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to JE3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
-—TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
“ I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
■ ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part ot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
. Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents:
The Result .
Craig & Ait ken. 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Fwt per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THH
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
NEW DISCOVERY!
t \
BRANDTSI
1 ACEIVLtNtiI
1 y
Z£>
A cOirvwiiiont portable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Homseiiold, Shop Windows, or Lantern Work.
Prioe (<Ge nerator only), 255. Pillar Lift hi, vrith shade
17s. 6<3- Carriage and Buggy Lamps fitted to burn
Acetylene Gas without alteration, so that either candle or
Acetylene can be used.
All accessories stocked. Send for Catalogues.
BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
[230 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, and
\ ; 422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
“A Living Example.”
Liver Troubles
and
Indigestion.
All the Credit to
CLEMENTS TONIC
The Case of*
MRS. W. MATTHEWS.
(For the “Newcastle Herald.*)
Mrs. William Matthews, who resides in
a pretty little cottage in Elder Street,
Lambton, is a living example of the efficacy
of Clements Tonic as a representative medi-
cine. Some years back she was a terrible
sufferer with liver complaint and indiges-
tion. Now, for a lady of 64 years of age,
she is hale and hearty and able to walk
about with freedom instead of being bur-
dened with pain.
These facts were mentioned in Newcastle,
and a reporter was despatched to enquire
into the truth of them.
“I shall never forget the benefit I de-
rived from Clements Tonic,” was the lady’s
first remark when the reporter explained
his mission. “ I had often felt so bad that
I really thought I could not live many
months, and yet a few days after I com-
menced taking Clements Tonic I felt re-
freshed.”
“ What were your ailments, Mrs. Mat-
thews ? ”
“ I had many ailments, but I fancy liver
troubles and indigestion occasioned the
most misery at times ; the soreness became
so acute that I could scarcely move about to
do my home work, and I always felt tired—
the first thing in the morning as well as the
last thing at night.”
“ Did you see any medical men ? ”
“ Yes. The doctors told me I wanted a
change. They said the sea air was too
strong for me and suggested that I should
go into the country. ”
“ Did you go ? ”
“I went to Singleton for a few weeks,
and that climate made me feel better in
comparison, but I never felt as well as I
did through taking Clements Tonic.”
‘ ‘ Was your illness of long standing ? ”
“For 3 or 4 years I was very bad with
liver trouble and indigestion. I used to be
attacked with terrible pains in the chest
and between the shoulders, aud at times I
could scarcely move about. My appetite
seemed to have left me. I had no desire
for my meals. I used to eat just to keep
up my strength, and what little I did eat
used to cause me great suffering by reason
of the indigestion.”
“ Could you obtain any rest at nights ? ”
“Many and many a weary night I have
put in. I have often prayed for dayligln
to come, and when I got up I used to have
that same old tired and languid feeling
Life was a perfect drudgery to me, nothing
seemed to do me any good. I could rtol
bear the slightest noise, and the smallest
trifles would have the most distressing
effect upon my nerves.- I was down-hearted
beyond expression.”
“ Who suggested Clements Tonic ? ”
“I think,” added Mrs Matthews, “that
it was one of my sons. I have one an
engine driver on the railways and anothei
is a student at the University—or it may
have been a neighbour that suggested it.
At all events I got a bottle, and I give all
the credit to Clements Tonic for the bene-
ficial change that has been brought about in
my system.”
“How soon did you experience relief ? ”
enquired the newspaper man.
“ Before I finished the first bottle,” was
the grateful lady’s immediate answer.
“ I took three bottles altogether. It
made me feel quite a new woman. I could
eat and sleep afterwards like a growing
girl, and I had no bad after effects. My
liver seemed to have righted itself, and the
indigestion pains gradually passed away.
I am seldom troubled with indigestion now.
I give all the credit for my cure to Clements
Tonic. I hope I shall never want a few
shillings to buy it, because I regard it as a
woman’s friend.”
“ Have you any objection to this testi-
mony being published ? ” enquired the re-
porter, holding up his shorthand notes.
“You can make what use you like of it,”
replied Mrs. Matthews. “Clements Tonic
has saved my life, and I am not afraid to
■own up to it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Ellkn Matthews, of Elder Sfc., Lambton, near
!i castle, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
>mnlv and sincerely declare that l have care-
v read the annexed document, consisting of
ee folios and consecutively numbered from one to
ee and that it contains and is a true and faithful
ou’nt of my illness and cure by Clements Tome,
l also contains my full permission to publish the
le in any way ; and I make this solemn declara-
i voluntarily, and without receiving any payment,
iscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
tue of the provisions of an Act made and passed
the ninth year of the reign of her present
lies tv intituled “An Act for the more effectual
dition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and
de in the various Departments of the Government
view South Wales, and to substitute Declarations
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
1 extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
ELLEN MATTHEWS.
declared at Lambton, this 14th day of March, one
lusand (light hundred and before me,
HOVERING
Between
LIFE AND DEATH.
The Nurse’s Remedy.
Mr. Rowe’s
Great Recovery.
How Hospital Nurses
Recommend Clements Tonic.
Reported for the “Redfern Times."
Ifc was a narrow squeak for me, and no
mistake,” said Mr. VVm. Rowe, of 76
Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney, to the
reporter.
“So I should imagine,” said the news
paper man, who was taking notes of Mr.
Rowe’s remarks.
“ Yes, I didn’t know what was going to
happen when the doctors at the Hospital
decided to operate upon me for the
purpose of removing an abscess in my side.
However, I knew it was no use making a
#uss about it it was do or die; so I let
them do it.”
‘ ‘ And they did ? "
“ Oh, yes ! They removed the abscess all
right, but I was for a time hovering between
life and death. In fact, I was in such a
dangerous condition that when a friend of
mine, who had heard of the danger I was
in, called to have a look at me, the doctors
refused to allow him to approach my bed.
The slightest shock at that time might have
put an end to my existence. Well, to cut a
long story short, my side gradually healed
up, and it at last became possible for me to
be taken home, but in such an exceedingly
weak state that it’s a wonder I ever got my
strength back. I was a mere skeleton. My
skin was drawn tight over my bones. It
was only with great difficulty that I could
move about at all.”
“ You couldn’t work, then?”
Mr. Rowe laughed. “ Why,” said he,
“ if you could have seen me then you would
have wondered how I could muster enough
strength to stand upright. I was a mere
ghost of what I used to be before I went to
the Hospital. I couldn’t eat properly and
my food did no good. I was in a state of
complete sheer weakness.”
“ Well, how did you get your strength
back ? ’’
“Just before I left the Hospital I asked
some of the nurses, who were very attentive
to me, what I should do to put strength
into my enfeebled frame and a bit of flesi-
on my bones.”
“ What did they tell you to do ? ”
“ They said to me confidentially, * You
bake Clements Tonic, and you’ll pick up
your strength soon enough.’”
“ Which you did ? ”
“ Yes ; after I left the Hospital I thought
of their advice and I determined to put it
into practice. I bought a few bottles of
Clements Tonic, and it didn’t take me long
to find that the nurses had recommended me
the proper and a good remedy. From the
time of starting with Clements Tonic I began
to put on flesh and daily to gain a little
strength.”
“ Did you take any other medicines ? ”
“ No; when I started with Clements
Tonic I put aside all other medicines and
stuck to that entirely. I was delighted tc
find that by the use of this remedy ]
continued to very steadily impi I could
soon eat splendidly. I got a fair appetite.
I slept soundly. Previous to taking Clements
Tonic my sleep was very unrefreshing—but
now I always gob a perfect night’s rest. J
felt cheerful and as though there was more
vitality in me. I continued to improve 11
this way till I had completely recovered m.'
lost flesh and was as strong as before n>
illness.” , „ m
“ And this is the result of Clements ion.
°“ Yes; I can say positively, without the
'• east exaggeration, that it did all this for me.
ft built me up from a physical wreck to a
man full of strength and vigour.”
“ I suppose a great many people knqw oi
this ? ”
“ Yes, it’s pretty well known.”
“ And you’ve no objection to our paper
making it still further known ? ”
“ Not the least in the world.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Rowe, of 76 Garden Street, Alexanu,
Colony of New South Wales, <■
solemnfv and sincerely declare that I have carefulb
i-pad the annexed document, consisting of three foliot
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
?t contains and is a true and faithful account ot
mv ihness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the same
‘n anv way and I make this solemn declaration
made and passed in the ni£h year of|he reign ol
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to»
Declarations in lieu thereof, and , °. r
sion of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths wa
Deolared at Alexandria, this Ist day of February
me thousand eight hundred and ninety
afore me, JAMES FARR, J.f
Tlie
A collection
Ways of Many Waters
By E. J- BRADY.
,£ Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.


THE OWL
CUT RATE
Consulting and
tp
£
i
£
DRUG CO*
WHOLESALE AMD RETAIL
Dispensing
Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, i£l; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Db. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGrORATOR.
A Concentrated, VITALISING, NERVE, BRATN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT: a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonio for the NERVES
it is unequalled. It Is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
READ THESE FACTS. —Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REINVIGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
vigor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON’S REINVIGORATOR, by its aotion
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLA CY.- —People run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR. V
£loo.— We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. Gd. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea.
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed,
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Electric Belts. No more COLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFICALLY MADE.--This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanic current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH AND LIVE!?.-The remedy most re-
quired to afford speedy_ and effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Electro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy - —in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BELTS.—Don’t throw money awav
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You wilt
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Post pone old age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. HU<SN€S’S FITSEPILEP.
This Celebrated REMEDY EOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of
So successful has it proved in these oases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
the aare.
eSects—
PYRAMID PILE CURE.
This is the latest specific) tor CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character ot
INWARD or OUTWA KD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE.
On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Deduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathnrst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORP€R RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
Re-Staged—"For One Night
Only.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hubbard slapped his pipe on the table. “Con-
found it all ! Hear this, Brotnby ! It’s from
Cottenham, up at Labuan. ‘ Dear Alick, this
will be handed to you by the Hon. Percy etcetera
Lushley. He’s a sou of the receutly-inanufactured
Lord Gallonby (beer !). He’s also a hideous snob ;
but, as he wants to reahlly see things, don’t you
know ! the Governor asked me to gi ve the cub a
line to you. Couldn’t well refuse Sir William, old
chap ; and, if you’re anything like the Alick Hub-
bard of old times, I suspect our young friend is
likely to see things with a vengeance.’ . . .
Pretty cool, isn’t it, Billy ?”
Billy Bromby turned over in his hammock.
“Lushley,” he repeated. “Wonder if it’s the
chap that was at Winchester with me ! Don’t
remember his front-name, but his father was in
the beer-line, at all events. More than half gaby,
the fellow was, and I suppose the title’s brought
out the snob-element as well. Where is he, any-
how ? ”
“At the Mission-house, I take it. It was
Father Thibaud’s boy that brought this. Here—
Tabash ! New white man at the Mission, eh ? ”
On Tabash’s cheerful countenance arose a por-
tentous smile. “ Eya, Tuan—yes, long as so”—
with hand held high above his head. “ Much-
hair, like—like api.”
“ Balk , Tabash—good ! I’ll come over. Cursed
nuisance ! ” Hubbard growled then, as he hunted
for a clean suit of linen. “You’ll have to see to
the loading-up of that sago to-morrow, Billy, for I
suppose I’ll have to look after this gilded youth a
bit ”
The cheerful Bromby flopped out on to the floor.
“That’s all right, old man. And perhaps he’s
not so bad after all, though he has hair like api
—whatever that is.”
“It’s fire. Man’s redheaded, I suppose. You’ll
never make a Malay scholar, my abbreviated
young friend,” and Hubbard disappeared, growl-
ing.
In half-an-hour he came back, laughing. “ It’s
your Winchester friend, sure enough, Billy. With
a mighty effort he recollected your insignificant
existence. ‘Vulgah little pusson,’ he says you
were. ‘ Awf’ly vulgah name, too,’ he was good
enough to add.”
Bromby—like many another man of “family ”
was democratic enough, unless you told him so !
His brick-red face turned scarlet.
“ Confound the swipes - selling cad 1 The
Bromby family
“Produced a real whtvO man in Billy of that
ilk ! ” puc in Hubbard. “ Otherwise I wouldn’t
have repeated the puppy’s words. But I’m not
sorry to see you kick, for I want you to lend me a
hand. I’ve a plan for getting rid of this conceited
animal, and taking it down a peg in the process.
Get your boots on. ”
Bromby promptly pulled a pair of very long
boots on a pair of very short legs “ Say on !” he
said —“ thy servant heareth ! ”
“ Well, this fellow can talk nothing but pirates.
He came down the coast in old MacTavish’s
schooner, and that veracious mariner, it appears,
crammed him with horrors until he nearly jumped
overboard. Now that he’s here safe, I suppose his
native insolence is on the mend again.”
“ But there are some pirates in Borneo still,
aren’t there ? ”
“ Yes; and head-hunters too ! —but that sort of
thing has been all knocked on the head hereabouts.
Not but we have an ex-pirate or two amongst us,
yet—Rogash, for instance.”
“ Always did think that old ruffian was no
good ! ”
“ Universal custom, my boy, in his youth !
And you won’t be wise to call him an old ruffian
to his face, for it was to fetch him up here that I
got you to put on your boots. Off you go, now;
and when you come back you’ll hear all about it.”
* * * *
Rogash had lost an eye, an ear, and three fingers
of his left hand. Small-pox had stippled his
countenance, and a sword-cut had made com-
partments of it. But the remaining eye was still
as bright as the wits behind it, and the old man’s
courage had not grown grey with his hairs. He
laughed as he listened to Hubbard.
“A good jest, Tuan ! lam with thee ! It will
mind me of old times ! Leave thou the matter to
me—l will have all things ready to thy word !
Would it were other than play ! ”
“ What a ferocious old tiger-cat it is ! ” Bromby
said —looking after the quondam cut-throat, as
he strutted away, bristling with sanguinary
memories. “ Are you sure he won’t slash the
Honorable Percy over the head in good earnest ? ”
“ Not he ! If the times permitted, he’d take a
man’s life as gaily as a flea’s —but he won’t break
his word. The ruffian and the scoundrel are often
totally distinct animals.”
* * * *
Father Xavier Thibaud was too well-bred to
acknowledge such a horror, even to himself, but
never was host gladder to get rid of guest. A
Frenchman of the best type—the genial little mis-
sionary had nothing in common with an English-
man of the worst —shallow-souled, mangy-minded,
nationally and individually conceited to the last
degree.
Said the priest to Hubbard, “ Your com-
patriot is more than impossible —he is incr-r-
-edible! ”
“ He’s a beast, Father Xavier —that’s what he
is ! —though you’re too kind-hearted to say so.
But we’ll relieve you of him for a day or two, at
all events. Here he is! ’Day, Mr. Lushley!
Will you come down the coast a bit for some
shooting with Bromby and myself ? We can pro-
mise you decent sport.”
The Hon. Percy—tall, fleshy, fiery-haired and
foolish-beaked—might jret have passed muster
decently but for the cultivated superciliousness of
his expression.
“ Oh—yaas !” he drawled with emphasised in-
difference. “I’ll gow if you’ll promise not to baw
me too much. Found all you Bawneo people in-
suff’wable baws, so faw ! ”
“ Insufferable bores ! “ translated Hubbard for
the puzzled priest. “But I hope, Mr. Lushley,
you make an exception of our good Father Xavier
here ! ”
“ Well, you see, yaw good Fathaw, as you
rathaw absurdly call him, is a foreignaw, and
foreignaws are always baws ! ”
“ You hound ! ” thought Hubbard. “ I’ll make
you pay for that, at all events ! ”
* • * *
Breathless equatorial night; starless, above, with
heat-haze ; intermittently brilliant here and there,
below, with swarming fire-flies or with the pale,
phosphoric gleam that shot along the face of every
roller as it curved thundering over on the beach,
swamping with its tremendous fall the thousand
minor voices of the tropic darkness. The lonely
house—a Malay fisherman’s —stood well out from
a jungly point, so that amongst the piles below
the pencil-fishes made merry tracks of greenish
light as they darted to and fro through the inky
water of the slack.
With all which things the wooden-witted Lush-
ley would have been but horribly “ bawed,” if
Hubbard’s boatman had not “the solemn hour
beguiled ” with certain delectable anecdotes of the
orang pumpak— the pirate-men. Djaran had Eng-
lish enough to be intelligible, and though he had,
at Hubbard’s private suggestion, taken the trifling
liberty of post-dating his horrors by about thirty
years, they were circumstantially so vivid that
they thrust conviction on the listening Lushley.
Long time he quaked in silence —not unmarked of
the conspirators—but at last he saw a gleam in
the gloomy recital, and found a husky voice.
“ I’m pleased to heah, at all events, that they do
not genaw’ly kill the white men they kepchaw.”
“No kill?” repeated Djaran, diverging for once
into romance. “ Oh, that ’cause keepat white man
for roast ’im. White man good for eat.”
“ Good Gawd!” and Lushley jumped to his feet,
“ this is puffectly infawnal! Let me get away
from heah.”
“ By Heaven ! ” shouted Bromby, with a huge
affectation of terror, “it’s too late —we’re done
for! Get your gun, Lushley, and die like a man ! ”
Into their faces, from the ridge behind the house,
there burst suddenly out a ghastly bluish glare ;
out of the jungle a score of screeching figures
rushed down into the water and began swarming
up the piles.
“ The bawt, the bawt! ” shouted Lushley, as he
rushed round to the seaward side of the platform,
just in time to encounter a dropping fire of mus-
ketry from the water. A bulletless discharge—but
Lushley didn’t know that, and, as the flashes
partly snatched put of the darkness the outlines of
a big prahu, the luckless Honorable darted into
the shelter of the inner room.
Eor a couple of minutes the din went on outside
—of shots, and shoutings, and metallic clashings.
Then—out of a comparative silence—draggings,
and bumpings, and the sound of smothered laugh-
ter. The listener’s hair would have stood up, if
anybody’s hair ever did stand up. “ The wretches
were actually laughing over their awful work ! ”
Thenalight shone into his corner, and a dozen hands
yanked him out to where stood Rogash—a grue-
some figure, naked to the waist, and gory with the
red paint that further crimsoned his parang and
dripped from the long-dried human head he swung
from his left hand by the hair. With his single
devilish eye the old rascal glared for half-a-minute
on the abject creature that flung itself on its knees
before him.
“I implaw you!”—began the Honorable at
last.
“ Good ! ” interrupted Rogash. “ Yis one white
man much fat 1 Keepat ’im for roast! Take ’way
him! ”
“ Hubbawd ! ” shrieked poor Lushley. “ Brom-
by ! For Gawd’s sake—help ! They’re going to
roast me! ”
“No use call Hubbar’ —he kill! Brommy kill
too ! ” and the ogre pointed to a range of bodies
dimly visible in the torchlight. “No fat ’nough,
dem ! Plenty fat, you ! ” and Rogash gave his
fangs a croeodilean clash that filled up Lushley’s
measure. He dropped.
“ Here, Hubbard ! —have a look at him ! ”
Bromby called. “ Hope to Gad we haven’t over-
done it! —he’s as stiff as a ramrod ! ”
“ Pooh !—only a faint. Sheer funk ! Pretty
sort of animal, this, to give itself airs ! Rogash,
you old villain, you did it splendidly ! Hanged
if I didn’t half believe in it, myself ! Now, be off
with you ! It’ll be pasana turun (ebb tide) in a
few minutes, and, if your blessed old kapsal gets
stuck in the mud hereabouts, it’ll give the whole
show away, and no mistake ! The amas will be
all right! ”
If the idioms were lost upon Rogash, not so the
magic word amas —gold !
“ Balk, Tuan ! ” he said, and disappeared.
• * • *
“ Vauriens / ” said Father Thibaud—“ vauriens,
tons deux ! ”
Bromby, who didn’t know any French, suc-
ceeded in looking lamb-like, but the twinkle in
the priest’s eye was too much for Hubbard. He
owned-up, as coherently as laughing would let
him.
“ So, you see, when he fainted with downright
terror we carried him within sight of the
Mission, and bolted the moment he began to come
round.”
“ Well, my children, he brought it upon him-
self! It is such men'as he who do make your
nation so disliked. Still—it was a le-ee-tle strrong
—the fear of being rroasted ! If you were of my
flock you would have to make him the amende /
But he is gone ! He vent yestairday with Capi-
taine MacTaveesh ! ”
“Yes!—and Mac. took a letter from me to
Cottenham—the biggest newsmonger in the Archi-
pelago—so that when our friend gets to Labuan
he’ll be in for his ‘ roasting,’ after all! ”
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
The father of the present Marquis of Salis-
bury made a specially obnoxious Tory object of
himself, on one occasion, by suggesting that the
poverty-stricken classes in dear old England
should be fed with red herrings if necessary. Any
hungry unemployed was, in his lordship’s opinion,
lucky to be able to get a red herring. The London
mob took an early opportunity to reprove the
noble Marquis. When he was out driving with
his wife in an open carriage, red herrings rained
upon them until they were compelled to seek
shelter in the house of a friend, leaving the coach-
man to get away with a full cargo of dried fish in
the carriage.
London Times seems to have a special
Dreyfus lie-manufactory of its own. It recently
stated that Esterhazy and Henry supplied the
German military attache at Paris at the time of
the first Court-martial .with 160 documents,
including the army-mobilisation plan and divided,
the money received therefor. Well, Esterhazy is
ruined and Henry dead, so they can’t contradict
the story, but we have an Italian attache’s state-
ment that Schwartzkoppen said he wouldn’t pay
more than 10 fr. for a plan of any French fortress.
Also, the mobilisation plan could not have been
any secret. The instructions for carrying it out
must have been in print, and been thoroughly
understood by every battalion-chief, adjutant,
and sergeant-major in the army. Schwartzkoppen
could have got all the information he wanted
about that for a 5 fr. piece, and as for fortresses,
they can’t be locked up in a drawer. Anybody
can see them from the outside and any engineer
worth his salt can get all necessary information
about them for himself. The spy-yarns are mostly
bosh.


Every lady should call or write for one of
our new Fashion Sheets of Spring Goods. Thirty-
four pictures. Posted free anywhere. Ladies,
you will miss a good thing if you don’t get one
of these; given away free by Hordern
Brothers, No. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street, Sydney. The fashionable drapers.*
Your Neighbor’s Word.
If your neighbor tells you something, you are more apt to believe it than if it merely
comes to you as a rumor from some far away place—
You know your neighbor and—if you have any doubts—can easily investigate his
statements—
That’s why, in telling you about DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, we tell you
what your neighbors say about them—
Home endorsements—testimony that can’t be doubted—
Testimony that comes from all over Sydney—the glad rejoicings of men and women who
have suffered all the tortures that come in the wake of kidney disorders and who have
been cured by the wonderful little conqueror of kidney ills. That’s the sort of guarantee
that goes with every box of DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
But be sure they are DOAN’S.
Only room for three statements to-day. Hundreds more will follow.
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Mr. Joseph Hammon, who carries on busi-
ness as a painter and paper-hanger at No.
56 Stanley-street, Wooloomooloo, says :
“ At intervals during the past five years I
suffered from kidney disorder. The worst
symptom was an aching back, which became
very painful when I had to stoop down. I
tried belladonna plasters, but they had no
beneficial effect. One day, while in New-
man’s Pharmacy, in King-street, this city, I
procured some of Doan’s Bachache Kidney
Pills. I took them faithfully, and they have
done me a world of good. The pain has
left me, and I have not had any further
signs of kidney disturbance. I have re-
commended the pills to many people, as
I have every faith in them myself, and
believe them to be the best kidney remedy
made.”
GLEBE
Mr. William Greenland is a printer, and
lives at No. 22 Forsyth-street, Glebe. He
says • “For some considerable time I suf-
fered from backache and kidney complaint,
having a heavy aching pain in the small of
my back, just over the kidneys, which
troubled me a good deal. The secretions
were very much disordered, containing a
large amount of sediment. I procured some
of Doan’s Backache Pills, and I now have
pleasure in stating that they did me a great
deal of good, completely removing my
trouble, and putting the kidneysin‘a healthy
state. Although I had previously tried a
number of other remedies I failed to get any
benefit. I have recommended these pills to
a number of people, some of whom I know
have tried them, and, like myself, have de-
rived great benefit.”
SUSSEX-STREET.
Mr. Rbt. Ryan lives at No. 309 Sussex-
street. He is a married man, and has lived
for some years in the locality. He said:
“ Some 18 months ago my kidneys became
seriously affected, and I was regularly
afflicted with backache. My condition gra-
dually became worse, and although I tried
several well-known remedies I found it im-
possible to get relief. I obtained some of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s
Pharmacy in King-street, which I have tried
with great success. They have completely
cured the bachache and other pains from
which I suffered. It is now 12 months since
I took the pills, and I have had no return of
my complaint. I must say these pills are a
splendid remedy for kidney complaints, and
sufferers cannot do better than give them a
trial.”
DOAN S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may be had of Chemists and Storekeepers generally throughout the colo-
nies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes for 15s. 3d., or will be posted on receipt of price by any of our branches, as follows:
Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (Main Office) ; 292 Elinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King William-street,
Ydelaide; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers; St. John-street, Launceston,
eare Eairthorne & Son.
Star and Spire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Spire in the still Night stood dreaming,
And away and above it afar—
Alone in its deep Heaven gleaming—
A white, a mysterious Star.
Was it Fate ? Was it falsehood or madness—
Your eyes, and the lights, and the wine ?
t he mood of our mirth—and its sadness ?
Your secret, my lady, and mine.
Ah ! suns which have burnt into ember
Had better die down in the West,
With a Star and a Spire to remember ;
A kiss, and a clasp, and the rest.
Each day of my life am I learning
This sorrowful lesson by rote—
On Earth stand the Spires of our yearning :
The Stars of our dreams are remote..
Sydney.
E. J. BEADY.
In Hospital.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I r was in a hospital, and I had been ill. They
had just dragged me back from, the awful
things that lurk in the Land of the Shadow. And
in the first glamor of convalescence, I had pro-
posed to Nurse Royl. She had accepted me.
To-morrow I was leaving, and the consciousness
that I had made a monumental ass of myself was
slowly soaking me through and through.
She had nursed me assiduously—had probably
saved my life. Her presence had inspired me like
a benediction, and her touch I had found the most
soothing thing on earth. I had felt towards her
as I suppose a baby feels towards its mother. I
gloried in my helplessness—my absolute depend-
ance on her. Then, in the earliest stages of con-
valescence, when the mere joy of living makes
every triviality a source of endless gratification, I
lay for hours drinking in the faint odors I asso-
ciated with her, gloating over her supple rhythmic
movements and their suggestions of boundless life.
Then—
But it was impossible! She surely could not have
taken me seriously. Royl herself would be the
first to admit my irresponsibility. She would free
me from all obligation. Gratitude I felt—but,
marriage ! —the two were incompatible. Moreover,
it was only her duty to treat me as she had.
Laafe would be well paid for saving me to society.
He knew it, and that was why I was given Royl
to myself. I would explain to her. I was sorry
for Royl, but —she entered.
I sat at the window. After a pause: “You
leave us to-morrow, Greggie ” —and the sentence
died in the faintest of sighs.
“ To morrow,” I said, and gazed fixedly at the
lawn below.
“Do you know it, Greg., we haven’t had one
nice, long talk about our marriage yet.”
She laughed softly.
“Sit beside me and tell me what I must wear.”
She drew me to her. She nestled oosily against
me. I was silent—holding myself up to my own
contempt. I knew that my courage was oozing
from my finger-tips. I mentally put up the
pathos of her position in extenuation.
“Gregory,” she said, “I want to make a con-
fession. No 1 don’t interrupt.” She held my
hand. “ Since the day I first came here, exactly
eight patients have asked me to marry them.
This is one of the consolations of our trade. I
accepted them all with absolute impartiality.
The others, each as he became strong, went back
on his promise. They all made an excuse of a
something. I didn’t mind. But now, Greggie,
even you are going to do likewise ! ”
I was young, very young, and my father’s son.
I saw only the pity of it. There were tell-tale
wrinkles softly lining her eyes and mouth, but
she was at airtimes lovable.
“Roy, Roy, how could you think it!” I pro-
tested.
“Ah! That’s what I wanted, Greg.” She
laughed in relief and kissed me lightly. I was
young. “I am glad you stand by the conse-
quences of your rash act—even if it is only in
obedience to a very youthful sense of duty. But
you, too, must retreat ”
“ Never !” I cried—l think in obstinacy.
“But, my Gregory dear, I accept patients’
offers, matrimonial or otherwise, in a purely pro-
fessional spirit. It hastens their recovery —so I
flatter myself. Then they see with other eyes. A
purely professional spirit. There was one excep-
tion, Greg. But there was a tragic gap between
our ages. I was beginning to fade—l knew it,
and he ” —she rose and went to the mirror over the
fire. “Yes,” she said, “to him I gave freedom
without condition.”
“ You evidently don’t know, Greggie,” she said
at last, “ that my domestic name is Mrs. Roy]
Laafe. Neither did the others. The doctor who
owns this establishment is my husband.”
WILLIAM H. DYSON.
The “ disqualifications ” in Premier Tin-
ner’s proposed Old Age Pension scheme are mor
numerous than are generally imagined. Beside
the unfortunate ivho has been in gaol duringthelast
ten years the man who has been gaoled for five years
at any time stands out, ditto the thirsty soul who
has been five times convicted of drunkenness, and
the malignant who has neglected his wife or
neglected to support his children ; ditto the child
of iniquity of whatever sex who is not of “good
moral character ” or has not been leading “ a sober
and respectable life ” for at least five years. Hon-
will that child-supporting clause “knock” the
veteran who wants a pension mainly because he
cannot support his children ? Who is to apply the
test of “good moral character,” and what con
stitutes “a sober and respectable life”? Under
these latter clauses, as interpreted by an eminently
respectable (ilicial prompted by the W.C.T.U
and the Charity Organisation Society, the man
who qualifies for a pension will be eminently
qualified for a halo and a harp. Strange that the
sober and respectable Government does not insist
on a record of five years’ steady church-going and
regular attendance at prayer-meeting and Bible-
class, the capacity to repeat fifteen chapters of
scripture, and positive proof that the applicant
has shaved his upper lip consistently for at least
seven years.
Reciprocity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old George was telling his pathetic story of a
wounded leg and a full hospital with the eloquence
born of many recitals. “An’ I come straight here,”
he said, “an’ I says to the sergeant a decent
bloke he was—l says, ‘ I gives rneself up.’ That’s
right, ain’t it ? ”
“You did,” nodded the watchhouse-keeper;
“you never told a lie in your life, George.”
“Oh, yes, I have,” corrected Old George;
“ I’ve sworn a few into gaol before now. I’m
workin’ for the police, / am,” he added, proudly,
with an explanatory turn towards the reporter.
“ Doing a bit of fizzing ? ’’ suggested the scribe.
“That’s it,” admitted Old George. “ But you
have to be careful. A chap got murdered one
night—Bunt Owens—for doin’ that. They put in
Eddie McKay for two stretch over it, but he
never done it. It was another bloke altogether
that hit Bunt with the bottle.”
“ Perhaps you were there, George ? ” suggested
the watchhouse-keeper.
“ Well” —George stroked his beard with a wise
air—“l mightn’t a-bin very far off.”
The journalist saw “copy ”in George. Had he
been a journalist of fiction or drama he would have
produced a note-book—and stopped the speaker’s
mouth on the spot. But, as he knew his business,
he merely opened his ears wide and asked casually,
“What made you start the game, George? ’’
“Why, it was that son of mine —the dirty
dawg ! Didn’t you know about him ? It was him
that got me 12 months—ain’t that right?” The
watchhouse-keeper nodded. “But I waited for
him all right, an’ I got him two years ; an’ there’s
more ready fur him if he comes back from Tassy.”
“He must be a swine,” sympathetically mur-
nured the reporter.
“Swine! Swine ain’t no name fur it! Go’n
>ut away his poor old dad—74 years of age. He’s
i dawg—that’s what he is ! ”
Old George dumped his swag on the floor of the
station, and bit off the end of a plug of tobacco.
“ Yer see, he was livin’ with me an’ the missus,
an’ never payin’ us a bean ; loafin’ roun’ with the
Rats all day ; so I gets him a billet asphaltin’, at
six bob a day. A-course, I expects him to sling
a few peg'at the end of the week—but not him!
The cow ! —if ever he comes back here agen, I got
somethin’ readied-up fur him. Why, when
he .”
“But what about the asphalting, George?”
< lid the reporter.
“ Yes ; I was goin’ ter tell yer. He never gives
us a bean of the stuff ; so I says to him, ‘ ’Arold,’
I says, ‘ this sorter thing ain’t right, yer know.
You got ter go ! ’ and with that .1 ’its him on the
’ead with a shutter-bar. Me and the missus
didn’t see him agen for a bit. Then, one night, I
hears a tap at the door, an’, when I opens it, there
was a young chap with strapped trousers an’ top-
boots, an’ a whip, as flash as yer like. I didn’t
know him at first, but the missus, she says, ‘Why
it’s our ’Arold!’ An’ so it was. Well, I was
sorry after -I chucked- him out; for blood’s thicker
than water, yer know ; an’ I asks the boy to come
in and settle himself. The scoundrel—the dirty,
mean cow !—I wish I’d bashed his skull in in-
stead ! ” ■
“How’s that, George? What’d ho do next?*'
fisked the watch-house keeper.
“Well, after he’d been there a few days, he
comes to me an’ says, ‘Dad,’ says he, ‘I ain’t
treated yer right, I know.’ ‘ That’s all right,
’Arold, my boy,’ I says, fur I was sorry for the
trouble we’d had. ‘ Well, I ain’t got no money
jus’now, dad,’he says. ‘But ’ere’s a watch an’
chain o’ mine that yer can ’ave as somethin’ off
what I owe yer.’ I felt near blubbin’ at the time,
I tell yer; an’ I says to him, ‘No, my boy, I won’t
take them things from yer.’ But the dirty
dawg ! he made me take ’em—me, his ole father,
74 years old. Then he says good-bye ; and the
very nex’ day up comes Detective Doolan with a
search-warrant. ‘ George,’ says he, ‘we want a
watch an’ chain, an’ we know you’ve got it.’
Like a fool I says first, ‘I ain’t got no watch an’
chain,’ an’ they turns the place over an’ brings it
up. ‘ George,’ says Doolan, ‘ we’ll have to putyou
in over this lot. That there watch was only stolen
las’ week ’-—while ’Arold was in my house, the
dawg!—‘ an’ you’ll be lucky if you get off with
receivin’.’ That’s what I did, too. Twelve
months for receivin’; an’ the meanest thing
of the lot was that the very nex’ day
I was goin’ ter the Agricultural Show at
Warrnambool with a shooting-gallery—a three
days’ job at two quid a day. They all knoo
I was convicted inneroent, an’ they treated
me fair while I was in ‘ stir,’ an’ I come out won-
derin’ how I was to get even with ’Arold. It
was jess two days after I was discharged that I
was going down street when Ikey Cohen
comes outer his shop an’ calls after me. ‘ George,’
he says, ‘ I thought I’d give yer the orfice. Your
son ’Arold he sold me a watch las’ week fur 15s,
an’ I see now it’s on the pawn list—inscription,
number, an’ all. I don’t wanter be hard on the
lad,’he says, ‘ but I promised it to a gent for a
quid. If you’ll let me have the quid you can have
it ?’ What sort of luck was that ? I says to Ikey,
I says, ‘ I’ll see if I can raise it, and then I walks
off. How did I get up that there hill to the
Detective Orfice ! ‘ Detective Doolan in ? ’ says I,
and he cornes out. ‘ I can put yer on to a good
thing,’ says I, and I tole all I knew. A-course,
d’rectly the demons looked into Ikey’s an’ showed
they knoo somethin’, he squealed, an’ ’Arold
was put in same night. I went up to the court to
see him tried.”
“ Blood thicker than water, George? ”
“No dam fear! He was up before Madden.
I was praying ter Gawd ’Odges’d get him, so’s
he’d get life, but I promise yer it was the primest
day’s sport I ever had when I seen him potted.”
“ And since then you’ve taken up fizzing as a
profession ? ” asked the reporter.
“ Yes, an’ I’ve put away thirty or forty o’ ’em.
That’s right, ain’t it ?” he proudly demanded of
the watchhouse-keeper. Then, supposing that
the scribe was a new addition to the ranks of the
“ demons,” he drew him out of the door and
whispered, “I don’t want no money ; but I’ll put
yer on to as much stolen stuff as’d fill a dray, if
ye’ll only say the word.”
McG.


In Bed for Months? Terrible Suffering?
Rheumatism Cured ? A Limb Saved ? Now Works Hard at 72.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
fern
nnV
NS-
v "\V'
m
r
m
y.
a
i -
While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good.
** As soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
‘ ‘ One doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose my leg.
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
am now 7 2 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
AYER
The
Sarsaparilla
That "Cures.
It Acts on the Blood
Ayer’s Pills are
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing l
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
IIA/1 VU
Junglomc
BE SUBE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. If d., 2s. M., is. 6d.,
and by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
ECO
P ILLS
Wi
<2
5^
IN GREAT REQUEST.
Head erom the Bed: “You’ve been a long time bringing
those BEECH A M’S PILLS, yon beauty!”
Snowball : “ Yes, sah ! thank you kindly, they are all ringing
for BEECHAM’S PILLS this morning—and I always
help the ladies first.”
NICHOLSON*Co.’s PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS.
BECHSTEIN PIAN
MIG- NT ON PIANOS.
NANON PIANOS.
OS.
WONDERFUL INSTRUMENTS OF
WORLD-WIDE FAME.
Thu (GREATEST Achievement o)
Modern Times. Superb Pianos.
AT THE PRICE, this INSTRUMENT
IS WITHOUT A RIVAL.
FOR £35 CASH. THE CHEAPEST
PIANO ever Made Anywhere.
WE STOCK only THE BEST MAKES of PIANOS.
Seven Years.
LOW PRICES Jor Cash,
Every Instrument Guaranteed for
or on EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY
PERTH.
%
Sen-Sen &
R.RINGDOH Ml ENUt\
LONDON. <1
INVALUABLE JO
SINGEBS & SPEAKERS
cP
m


SOME POINTS -
ABOUT OUB
Waterproof Coats.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUTELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-CUT and SILK-STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
The (|)ost powerful Driving Belt in the ||jorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping,
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
E. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
W.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON . Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM ... ... 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
- Hi
m
mm
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
Ml PRTEDT BEITS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales daring the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
'syf
A Simple—
TANGYE
■imp.
BENNIE, TE4RE & CO.,
, Melbourne, Perth, and Coolgardie.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of .Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); .Refrigeration; Ice-making.
Pioneers
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visi *i h «£L T 7 DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23
AECABU-ftir AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
is ONE OF THE
WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
ii.ii i ■ ■■■ i, ;
H. PATESON, Manager.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY HOUSE IN THE
WORLD.
PAR
7
GATES’ ROCKBREAKER
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
ALIi KZIMBB OF" MODERKT MACECIKTERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, TJ.SJ
CE STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
!7 CLEMENTS LANE,
“Tb€ R€AL MAC KAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky,
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison &s Attwood., Sole Proprietors.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne. Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK :—l4 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel fall choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. AU Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
1
B.S.A*
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes ("all Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3/6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perrv’s
8/3 gross. Ijar* SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 26 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPSOM BROTH
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON.
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
• • Send fo;*- Catalogues . .
