

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
PRY’S HALTED COCOA
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
_ . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXT 1 OSiVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Ivor 2400 riy Ur o-J£x tract rs »oid and at work
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
*.’sI r *£ r S >r,W S GEORGE HOTEL, oppositest
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C 0,85, 85 Pitt street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBEIMT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These nmclnnes have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods Sutrar
Salt Chemicals the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPAItE PARTS STOCKED Send°for
lestimomals and full particulars. lor
WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mi's. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
JECOBART.
——
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
CtECOND-HAND
AND
FURNITURE
N EW
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
4:1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the lIOME of best
quality at fully 50 percent, less than prices charired else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georere-st. (3 doors past Jiuiiter-SLA SIDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W-. c. □BI.XDiaXIDG-lEJ & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltk SXItEKr, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Countt y Orders by post / vum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
a/jo
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month-
AND THE BEST.
a
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Piices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGT& SOW, LTD.,
SJL'Z Yorlit S 3 iroet,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, ; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System,”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
erang Brandy
° NE DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
Tlie Host Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST W!NE/^>
AUSTRALIA.
t3T Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
203 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER’S “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Love & Co.
George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 20.—N0. 1025. J
[Saturday, October 7, 1899.
Berstered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a newspaper.


jg'OYV READY.
fljaoriland: and Other ||erses
By Arthur H. Adams.
The best book of verse# Maoriland has
produced.
CONTENTS:
DEDICATION.
Mother o’ Mine !
MAOIULAND.
Maoriland.
On the Plains.
The Dm ellinss of Our Dead.
Rain in the Bush.
The Storm and the Bush.
The Coming of Te Raupa-
raha.
Written in Australia.
The Brave Days to be.
LOVE MOTIVES.
To You.,
Lament.
On the Sands.
A Portrait.
After Lons; Years.
Songr.
Blossom of Life.
The Goal.
Grey Eyes.
Just a Woman.
Lullaby.
Afterwards.
My Lore.
The World has Grown so
Grey.
Satana.
A Woman’s Farewell.
And Yet 1
SONNETS.
A.D. 19 ?
My Land.
Lore and Life.
The New Woman.
Reminiscence.
The Four Queens (Maoriland)
To My Love
The Stars.
The Girl at the Harp.
Sunspt.
The Perfect Present.
Lovers.
China, 1890.
Antagonists.
Sydney.
Morning Peace.
To One Slain in Absence.
OTHER VERSES.
Myself—My S mg.
The Poet to he Yet.
Man and Woman.
Pansy : song-words.
Blossom.
Sydney Nocturnes :
From the North Shore.
Kins; Street
In Hyde Park.
The Australian.
Fancies :
From Wellington Terrace.
The Parade.
Tlte Sculptor.
The Ebb of Hay.
The Reaper.
A Child.
The Tui.
Dawn.
The Anarchist.
A Song of Failure.
The Garden of the Sea.
Bereft.
A Question.
Epitaph.
THE MINSTREL.
Printed on deckle-edge antique paper, uniform
with Ogilvie’s and Brady s verses. Bound in
white buckram, gilt top.
Price: Five Shillings Post Free.
Tub Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney
and Brisbane.
c c
Hudson’s Eumenthol” (Registered) Jujubes,
For
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. Cd. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Province. Sydney Agent: S. Tatlor, 5 and 7 Queen's Place.
gar They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA, la
UDER THE GUMTREE
More Triolets.
MEETING.
They come together in the night
Who through the day have
parted been;
In Life’s revenge, for Fate’s
despite,
They come together in the
night :
Out of the dark into the bright,
Warm light of Love pure and
serene
They come together in the night
Who through the day have
parted been.
R.C.
LIFE’S PLEA.
This is Life’s plea—
But to be loved !
By land and sea
This is Life’s plea;
Else wearily
To Death ’tis moved:—
This is Life’s plea
But to be loved !
R.G.
WHEN!
When a kangaroo
Has a little joey,
What will joey do
When a kangaroo ?
She’ll have joeys too,
If she’s not a Joey ,
When a kangaroo
Has a little joey.
GUS H.
FOSSICKING.
Call it work or call it play,
As your fancy pleases.
Fossicking, amongst the clay—
Call it work or call it play.
Seeking how the gold may “lay,”
And the luck that teases.
Call it work or call it play
As your fancy pleases.
Fate says bend, and you bend low,
Hope says dig, and you obey.
Though no speck of gold may show
Fate says bend and you bend low.
Bending lower, for you know
Hope says ’tis not far away.
Fate says bend and you bend low,
Hope says dig and you obey.
Luck is kind, at last, at last!
Dishes show a “ splendid streak.”
All forgot the hungry past.
Luck is kind, at last, at last.
Castles rise, and dreams so vast
Blot and blur your friendly creek :
Luck is kind, at last, at last!
Dishes show a “splendid streak.”
B. ALLARAT.
PARTING.
That night when we parted,
The Starry Cross shone ;
We kissed broken-hearted,
That night when we parted ;
The bitter tears started,
The creek made its moan,
That night when we parted—
The Starry Cross shone.
M. McC.
THE ALARM.
Something’s amiss at the Barracks to-mght!
Men speak of a raid on a station near.
Troopers are drawing the saddle-girths tight—
Something's amiss at the Barracks to-night!
“ They ’ye looted the stores, and Manager Whit#
Lies pierced thro’ the breast by a blackfellow’s
spear! ”
Something’s amiss !—At the Barracks to-night
Men speak of a raid on a station near !
W.M.W.
THE DROVER.
Roads deep in dust and waterholes dry,
O for a day of good soaking rain !
The strong stock falter, the weak ones die—
Roads deep in dust and waterholes dry 1
And crows overhead chant cannibal cry,
Till brain and heart beat the cursed refrain—
Roads deep in dust and waterholes dry,
O for a day of good soaking rain /
F.W.H.
AFTERNOON: GREEN LAKE. HORSHAM.
Across the lake the black swans glide,
And, passing, spurn the obeisant reeds;
Arching their sinuous necks in pride,
Across the lake the black swans glide.
Leaving a Liliputian tide
That lightly stirs the sleeping weeds,
Across the lake the black swans glide,
And, passing, spurn the obeisant reeds.
A.W.R.
A KISS.
Is anything sweeter
On earth than a kiss ?
More divine, or completer?
Is anything sweeter ?
(Oh, bother the metre
That chains you like this !)
Is anything sweeter
On earth than a kiss ?
W.H.O.
War to I acts and Dates.
Hone te Heteka ” writes :
“Rolf Boldre wood’s ” Maoriland novel, “War
to the Knife,” cannot fail to be read with much
interest and not a little surprise by those Maori-
landers who are familiar with the war period in
the sixties and the country in whioh hostilities
were carried on. It is usual in fiction which deals
with historical matter and mentions localities by
their proper names to have the facts correctly set
forth, or approximately so. Literary licence may
cover a great deal, but it does not warrant jumbling
the occurrences of ten years into a few months, or
bringing districts hundreds of miles apart within
easy walking 1 distance of each other. In “War to
the Knife,” for instance, the hero and his half-
caste guide pass from Auckland to the Waikato
district, from which they have a splendid view of
the volcanos, Ruepehu and Tongariro. This is
like seeing the Victorian Alps from the top of
Bourke-street. After a day or two the guide intro-
duces the young traveller to the townships of
Oxford and Lichfield. This happens in 1800, or
20 odd years before either Oxford or Lichfield
were thought of, or before there were any white
settlers in those parts.
Lake Taupo, or Taupo Moana, is apostro-
phised as “ the Moaning Lake,” the author
being apparently under the impression that
the Maori word, “Moana,” must mean moan-
ing’, which, of course, it doesn’t, or any-
thing like it. Taupo and Roturua are not,
as the reader of this work may suppose, in each
others immediate neighbourhood, but are nearly
a hundred miles apart. By some extraordinary,
means the travellers pass from the Hot Lakes to
Hokianga, in the extreme north of the island,
without going near Auckland, which place they
want to reach. It is like going from Melbourne
to bydney and calling at Brisbane en route. In
some unaccountable manner the soldiers in the
Taranaki war. get bathing in the Manga Piko
Creek, which is in the Waikato country, and the
jump from the Waitara trouble to the siege of
Paterangi appears to be only a matter of hours,
not years. By some oversight, “Rolf Boldre-
wood ” has forgotten to say that the redoubts were
connected by telephone, and that the recon-
naissance of Rangiriri was made by the aid of
electric searchlights.
The settlers are assured that Waka Nene will
“fight for us in this war.” Poor old Waka! If
I am not mistaken, Waka Nene went to Cook
Straits with Rauparaha in 1818 on an errand of
slaughter, and could not therefore have been much
of an ally for the Queen’s forces in Waikato in
1804. Nor .did he live in Waikato then. In one
part of this remarkable story we are told that
* l aratoa is one of the most turbulent and blood-
thirsty chiefs.” As it was Taratoa who dis-
tinguished himself at Gate Pah by risking his life
to get a drink of water for a dying British officer,
who was virtually his prisoner, the author must
have meant these words to apply to someone else.
Orakau, 1 find, is described as “a stronghold of
great strength.” This is exactly what it was not.
The British marvelled that tacticians like the
Maoris should have thought of defending a posi-
tion so weak. The “stronghold” was only a few
hurriedly-dug rifle pits in an exposed position.
Speaking of Maori reinforcements hurrying to
assist Rewi at Orakau, the author says that these
had “come right through from Maungatautari
with only one halt,” and that the General talked
of intercepting them at Kihikihi. The most super-
ficial knowledge of the country which “Rolf
Boldrewood ” nas made the scene of his story
would have taught him that Maungatautari is as
close to Orakau as Sydney is to Balmain, or Mel-
bourne to St. Kilda, and to say that the Maoris
“came right through with only one halt” does
not credit them with much of an achievement. In
the next place, to say that it was proposed
to cut them off at Kihikihi is ridiculous. A
party marching along a straight line from A to B
cannot be intercepted at C outside the line, find
General Cameron could not have proposed any-
thing so absurd. Again, we are told, Henare
Taratoa who distinguished himself at the Gate
Pah by remarkable heroism was “himself killed
soon afterwards at Orakau.” The author forgets
that Orakau was fought before Gate Pah. Then
the hero wounded at Gate Pah is carried off by the
heroine, in some impossible fashion, and hidden
in a cave at Rotorua, some 60 miles distant as the
crow flies, and after a while the wounded man,
now convalescent, is carried on a litter to the
coast —a kind of afternoon stroll!
I am sorry I cannot compliment the author on
his local colour, his sense of distance, or his
historical accux-acy. His heroine is a highly
educated young half-caste maiden, the daughter
of a well-known Pakeha-Maori. She is pure and
innocent, yet spends (presumably) years wander-
ing through the country in company with a lusty
young English baronet, his constant associate day
and night. I have known many half-caste young
women in those parts, but none of the type dis-
covered by the author. Aucklanders will be
amused to learn that their city had 30,000 inhabi-
tants in the fifties, and that passengers from Eng-
land arrived there by steamer in those days.
Foreign Letters.
[Many Australians have friends or relatives in foreign
countries whose letters—or portions of them—would be
valuable and entertaining reading for Australians at
home. A man in the Transvaal just now, for example—
with an eye for the picturesque and some skill with the
pen—should make a capital correspondent. The Bulle-
tin will at all times he glad to look at interesting letters
from Australians beyoud Australia. It is of little import-
ance how they are written as long as the matter is
first-hand and intrinsically worth print.]
From Signor Stkffani.
Venice, 30tli July, 1899.
My dear ,
. . . Memories of Pittwater and unlimited
breathing and elbow-space are at this moment
disturbed by a terrific* smell rising from the canal
under our window—wafted in on the morning air.
It is so hot and breathless that I have got out of
bed at this early hour —4.30 a.m—to cool. There
is a man in the opposite house as restless as my-
self ; and he opens his shutters about this time to
put out his canaries—only a few feet off. The
Gondoliers and boatmen, who are never silent, are
beginning to pop up and down ; so what with the
yells and smells the day does not open agreeably.
How picturesque this place is! —and how filthy!
As I write the word a slop-pail’s contents whizzed
past our windows—splashing into the canal . . .
Whack! There goes something else equally dread-
ful and more solid. This is the system of sewer-
age ! No sneaking drains, or shameful midnight-
carts —no deception. All is simple, open, and
above board. I should say that the average native
is either quite insensible to the smell, or rather
prefers it than otherwise. It is everywhere. It
steals in during meals at the restaurant, and
subtly flavors the food—as the onion in a well-
made salad. It may be said to be taken as a uni-
versal condiment, suitable for any dish—as grated
cheese, garlic, &c. And yet the streets are clean,
the people sober and orderly and by no means un-
tidy as to their persons. There is no disgraceful
litter about the road and pavement as in Loudon
or Sydney. Refuse boxes would horrify the
people—and, in fact, would be an abomination
among the promenaders late in the evening. I
suppose the Italian’s eye and ear are abnormally
developed at the expense of his nose, while we are
constructed on the reverse principle.
Our attention to musical matters is entirely
interrupted during the close season of opera and
concert. These have given place to the usual
open-air bands—uncommonly good here in all
quarters. The finer ear of even the lowest class
of Italian is as much indicated by this, as the
inferior British one by the mere toleration of the
Salvation Army band. The appearance of the
latter here would most likely be followed by
bloodshed. ...
Since our visit to Europe I have been gradually,
and always increasingly, impressed with a feeling
that the future of Australia lies in a better belief
in itself, and thence the possibility of self-develop-
ment, at present so muon obstructed by the atten-
tion given to European refuse passed on from
London, and timorously accepted in Australia.
No good can result from the perpetual attempted
assimilation of Foreign ideas, at such a distance
and under entirely different conditions of cli-
mate, population, society, class distinction, etc.
So long as there is a blind trust in importa-
tions with newspaper reputation—so long as
the Australian at home will take any notice
of the assumption of superior knowledge by the
travelled Australian snob—there is little hope of
improvement. It is deplorable that through
ignorant, loose, or even corrupt journalism, so
much misapprehension should exist as to the
actual position in the musical profession in Europe
of many of those who have visited Australia, and
have been held up as examples. Of the sister art
of painting I hardly dare express an opinion ;
but, at all events, I think that imposture, or
fictitious reputation, is less possible among the
painters than among the musicians.
We shall go on to Milan on 9th inst., having
taken rooms here for a fortnight merely for the
purpose of exploring Venice. It is intensely in-
teresting. Here it stands, with every church,
palace and house and twisted yard-wide
street, canal bridge, or open space—just as
during its most prosperous period any time
during the past 1500 years—a monument of a past
history and not a ruin yet. Yours of 3rd June
was forwarded to me at Brussels. One item of
news as to Friedenthal calls for remark. He is a
well-known pianist, of course, but suffers from
want of London newspaper support. London
reputation really means the same thing. The
Londoners are quite incapable of discrim-
inating, and London, which is a refuge for
any sort of incapacity, will tolerate anything,
although it may not always attract them unless
bearing newspaper approval. Australians should
refuse to be a refuge of the refuse of London (I do
not intend any play upon words), and should fear-
lessly judge work on its merits. They ean do it
quite as well, or even better, than Londoners,
and would learn by making mistakes. Snobbery,
and the British fear of looking ridiculous, are the
root of the evil—and although the Australians
don’t like to hear it, there is just as much snob-
bery among them, proportionately, as in any other
part of the Empire.
Very sincerely yours,
STENO STEFFANL.
Kipling has re-purchased the copyright of
“ Departmental Ditties ’’—the book of early verse
which has caused him so many heartburnings.
Now, as far as British copyright extends, he can
omit what he pleases: American pirates will print
on serenely. Kipling originally got £5O for the
book from Wheeler and Co. ; he is said to have
paid .£2500 to get it back.—By the way, Kipling’s
last Jingo “ poem “ Cruisers ” —is mere verbal
jugglery, without fire or force. Some verses—
As our mother the Frigate, bepaiuted and fine,
Made play for her bully the Ship of the Line,
So we, her bold daughters by iron and fire,
Accost and destroy to our master’s desire.
-i ‘ *' . .. * . *
What see ye? Their signals or levin afar?
What hear ye ? God’s thunder—or guns of our war ?
What make ye ? Their smokes or a fog-bank out-blown ?
What chase ye? Their lights or the day-star low down ?
So, times without number, deceived by false show*,
Deceiving we cumber the track of our foes.
For this is our office—to veil and betray ;
Preparing great battles a sea’s width away.
Writer versus critic. Letters between Charles
Reade and Charles Mathews, shrined in Justin
McCarthy’s “ Reminiscences
Rkapk to Mathews.
Garrick Club, Covent Garden : November 28.
Dear Sir,—l was stopped the other night at the stage
door of Drury-lane Theatre, by people whom I remember
to have seen at the Lyceum under your reign.
This is the first time such an affront was ever put upon
me in any theat re where I had produced a play, and is
without precedent unleis when an affront was intended.
As I never forgive an affront, I am not hasty to suppose
one intend'd. It is very possible that this was done
inadvertently ; and the present stage list may have been
made out without the older claims being examined.
Will you be so kind as to let me know at once whether
this is so ; and if the people who stopped me at the stage-
door are yours, will you protect the author of “ Gold,”
&c., from any repetition of such an annoyanoe?—l am,
dear Sir, yours faithfully, Charles Reads.
Mathews to Reads.
T.R., Drury-lane : November 29.
Dear Sir,—lf ignorance is bliss on general occasions,
on the present it certainly would be folly to be wise. I
ani therefore happy to inform you that I am ignorant of
your having produced a play at this theatre ; igndrant
that you are the author of “ Gold ” ; ignorant of the merits
of that play ; ignorant that your name has been erased
from the list at the stage door ; ignorant that it had ever
been on it; ignqrant that you had presented yourself for
admittance; ignorant that it had been refused ; ignorant
that suoh a refusal was without precedent; ignorant that
in the man who stopped you you recognised oue of the
persons lately with ine at the Lyceum ; ignorant that the
doorkeeper was ever ill that theatre ; ignorant that you
never forgive an affront; ignorant that any had been
offered ; ignorant of when, how, or by whom the list was
made out, and equally so by whom it was altered.
Allow me to add that I am quite incapable of offering
any discourtesy to a gentleman I have barely the pleasure
of knowing, and, moreover, have no power whatever to
interfere with Mr. Smith’s arrangements or disarrange-
ments ; and, with this wholesale admission of ignorance,
incapacity, and impotence, believe me, faithfully yours,
C. T. Mathews.
What is a letter? (writes J. C. Pailey in
“Studies in Some Famous Letters”). It is
written talk, with something, but not all, of the
easiness of talking, and something, not all, of the
formality of writing. It is at once spontaneous
and deliberate, the bile occupation of an hour and
the sure index of a character. It must not be all
serious, for then it ought to have been an essay or
a book ; it must not be all trifles, for then it will
not have deserved ink and paper. But the most
essential of all its qualities are its spontaneity and,
so _to speak, its personality. . . . These two
points are vital. A letter, indeed, will not be
literature, unless it be written according to the
rules of the art of writing; but unless it flows
spontaneously from the writer’s mind and pen,
unless, too, it b a from him and no one else, to his
correspondent and no one else, it not only will not
be literature, it will not be a real letter at all.
A L[?]nch SolHogug.
“ Waitress, my usual cafe noir,
My usual cigarette.
Let business sleep, this hour I keep
To brood and to forget.
I ask not that the day remit
Its tax on brain or brow,
I ask one thing, that each day bring
The calm I capture now.
A fragrance haunts the cafe stair,
A thrice-familiar din,
And the red stars of strong cigars
Invite the weary in.
And city faces, sternly set,
Round marble tables gleam,
Where to and fro the domino
Is moving in a dream.
Enjoy the day, old Horace sang,
Enjoy the hour, say I,
And wisely sup the Arab’s cup
Ere life’s be running dry.
Possess your soul, if only here
Where smoke for ever curls,
And the same men make eyes again
To the same smiling girls. ”
From. THE OUTLOOK.
Bookfellow's Competitions.
' IX. —WANTED—A SPEECH.
Sydney undertakers picnicked the other day;
and the speeches, sad to say ! were all sermons.
Now, an undertaker is obviously a jovial soul, and
if he had imagination he would make a jovial
speech. The BookfeUow wants that speech. You
are the chief undertaker at the picnic; you are
naturally bright and humorous';, you are jolly
with good living, light hearse-exercise, and the
cheerful atmosphere of tombs ; and the eyes of
all the other undertakers and the mutes are fixed
upon you ; —you call upon them to charge their
glasses, and you fill your own ; they beat upon
the table encouragingly and the caterer’s dog is
hished away then you rise in a hush of joyful
expectation broken by a ripple of anticipatory
laughter, and propose
Success to Undertaking !
What do you say ? in not more than 500 words,
packed with wit and sepulchral wisdom —by
Oct. 14.
The best speech earns 10s. 6d., plus space rates.


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turninir prey
should send for a llolfle of LI.KCIRINh HAIIt-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and yon em, pet any
shade or color roil desire. I*ri (, e, fi.ff. I'nsl tree.
CRAIG & AITXEN,
6SO— GS2 GKORGK STUKKT, SVDN'F.Y.
Medical.
ofkin Wi4ea6e6.
sTleii) Wkeotieri/
“*£i(jmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, .Nov. 30, 1597. My
dear Mr. Malvon, —I have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in inv own case, hut with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young- lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own had ease of Eczema.
Kindlv send me another box of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.’’
What the Hon. W. 11. EM BUNG, M.D., M.L.C., says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1599. Mr. W. 11. Milyon. Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. 11. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
MydearMr. Malyox,— August 21st, 1899.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis.” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Oall
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically' your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
acid that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept mv heartv thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THUS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, JULC-S-i L-
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRY MALYON,
31 anil fact nrin <j Ch enlist ,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. a, nci Vs. 6dl. £la,cli.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney :
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
safe*
Caution. —Genuine Cldorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS DROWH€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely' to he
most generally useful, to the exclusion of till
others, I should say Chi.OUODYnk. 1 never travel
without it, and ils general applicability to tho
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. 51
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS 1
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood.and ena-
bling Hi constitution
to lesist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
lor weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and inlei csling
preparation"
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL -“Tthas all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the dige.diun.atid
it does not blacken the teeth "
cf> '" H v CHF.M-T« AM TilF wonin OVFB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
iassi at saxrsnoux
W. JNO. BAKER’S
Standard Sheffield Razors
Are made by the Pick of the Skilled Razor Forgers
and Grinders of SHEFFIELD. Every Razor is Tested and Set
Ready for Use by my Cutlers before despatch.
They Recommend Themselves.
Two of my STANDARD Hollow-ti round Razors, with Ivory Handle *, in handsome
villi and velvet-lined Case, 21/- per Case, post free.
inch '.vide, s'-.
6 /-.
7 6.
Post Free.
W- Jno. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter - street, Sydney.
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
John Hunter $ Son’s (Ltd,)
SHOE STORES.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
A LIMITED.
Offices : - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Life of the System.
BRUSH’S!
The STANDARD HARNESS
of A USTRALIA . . .
To-day, as hitherto, we lead the way with a
reputation of fiS years for Sound, Reliable
Goods. We solicit, your commands, and we
do so with every confidence.
M
fa
I
//
IJAm
Hli
m
*•=7=
Brush’s Fashionable CARRIAGE,
BROUGHAM, TANDEM, DOG-
CART, and BUGGY Harness in
best Brass, Nickel, and Plated
Mountings.
SATIN ROSETTES for the ahove
harness our own manufacture
and of the latest style and pattern.
A choice assortment of perfect
Satin Rosettes are kept in stock
or made specially on the shortest
possible notice.
CRESTS AND MONOGRAMS
TO ORDER, Desij>-iiB Submitted.
Seven EIRST PRIZES last year by
exhibitors using; Brush's harness
at the different shows, and with-
out any effort on our part. : and
the same NICE APPEARANCE
and FINISH which attracted the
judge's eyes is seen in our every-
day work.
Reliable Sulky or Buppy Harness,
in Black, and the Fashionable
Brown Leathers, with Collarand
llantes, and fitted with the most
modern furniture, from £4.
VERY SUPERIOR HARNESS,
£6 Ids.
Do. Do. Part lined, £(> ]os.
Do. Do. Full lined, » 7 10s.
BRUSH'S TANDEM HARNESS,
from £lO 10s. up, Extra for
Improved Bars.
PAIR-HORSE LANDAU, VIGTORI A, or CARRIAGE HARNESS, 18 guineas and up.
BRUSH'S PAIR-HORSE BUGGY HARNESS, 15, 15 10s., £6 10s., 17 10s., and up.
A GOOD SET OF BLACK LEATHER SULKY HARNESS, with Collar and llames, £'3 15s.
Cash Orders of the value of £3 up sent Carriage Free to any Port or Railway Station in N.S.W., or 5 per cent
discount to the adjoining colonies.
Price Lists and Illustrations and any information about harness will be sent on receipt of postcard.
THIS IS THE ADDRESS:
.John Brush, Son & Co.
403-405 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTFPS of the WISH
ami BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing' in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietai'y Limited,
238 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Series, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splend.d Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 (>. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, a. 5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 3."* -. Hiding
Hreeches, 25/-. Wa terpro o f,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Hiding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Heady-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits,2l -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Kainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 Jl, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6. 96. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
unr Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing. Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Bugs, Bags. etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included. ,
m
VrTi**
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis.
' id ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs.
2d : 12 Mexico, Is ;50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Itou-
nmnia, s<l : 8 Eittpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6<l ; 40
Japan Is 6.1. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6<l ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000. 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 10<HI ditferents (mounted)
only 2ns ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. \VM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Mklhoi rxk.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants <k Importers.
Our Specialities are -Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, l>ra|>iugs, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Hasketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/(! oactw
PLAITS'» mI TAILS,
2t)in. lone. till real hair.
CUTTINGS b COMBINGS
. worked up, 2/0 per oz.
\Ve ore the chenpestin An*
trail* for all llair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.^figz«U,>
lio William Strf.et,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send eUnipe for full Price LleO 1
Proopt atteution'jdven to Country Order*.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalypti!h Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agbsts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BE S., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmania* Ei calyptis Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. M AUNG'S REMEDY
Is Onaranteed to Cure the WOItST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXI'KXSIN E, HOME 'I REATMLNT.
Can he (jit en secretlv in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed hv Sydney's leading physicians. Write for
I'liinphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIOINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Muling Remedy Co.,
3S Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
rm
DEAF
HEP
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
rto the ear« as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Vi'o-n montbs without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free..
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
n
©
ana
srasss®
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 W Ul*M STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. CUNEDIN.
tUIZA-ETH STREET, BRISBANE
E NTS AND MACHINERY.
Skp’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Falir
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heicle
PIANOS
Price from £36
Bud. Brelimer
PIANOS
Price fro m £3
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents-
W. H. 6LEN & CO.,
359 Georgfe Street, Sydney.
2*72 & 2*74 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S.
Atmress: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Caulfield C. October 21.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sliares in tlie
Cup.
Name •.
Address
£
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
, 100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please sllot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares the above.
Name
Address :
s
s
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Caulfield C 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C. ...
... 100,000 at 5
TATTEESALL.
Please allot me Shares
the Special,
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care G-eo. Adams, Hobart.


ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Famous Low Prices
FOR HEW SPRIKG GCGDS
and everything else.
Portfolio of Fashions for
Spring and Summer,
OVER 200 ILLUSTRATIONS,
sent Post Free to any address, on
application.
STATION SUPPLIES!
If YOU WOULD GET OUT of the
OLD FASHIONED RUT, and SAVE
MONEY,
buy from us.
Patterns and Price Lists free by return.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
flaymarket (only), Sydney.
9
PAKfcoT
WLYpTw
Lfwon.M^
3P'?aiNs \VoUndc
(OLDS lc J
of" >
IMITATIONS 1
Modern
Milling-
Machinery,
\
\
AND SAW MTT.T.S. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACH IN ERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System,
iw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
achinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
ad Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
“ DOWRIJXx E’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A divorce judge is accustomed to hard
cases and mostly takes them as they come. But
an applicant in London recently managed to be
so unusual that even His ’Onah sat up in astonish-
ment. The lady was sueing for a divorce on the
ground of her husband s alleged adultery, but
being too ill to appear, owing to the fact that she
had just given birth to illegitimate twins, she
desired a postponement, and His Onah said that
the incident had given him a moral shock from
which he would take long to recover.
tM
<3J-0 TO H-ftT »T ■—
MIDLAND tor Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred, Hageo,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney._
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
rUEEllOU)”“l CONDITIONALLY PURCHASED PASTORAL «i.d FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of lona Jldes on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
KICIIARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
lus., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for Brice List. “@3l
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Semi for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beat and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: 41ELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
99
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BESTJ3RESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
v;:
v
■ Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
44 1 have used
your * KOKO ’
now since June
last, and 1 have
not only st pped
the falling out,
which had been
exces>ive after a
severe illness,but
Ihavean entirely
new growtn of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 i>m not a
young woman,
but an old one, 1
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COV. t _j-lPa.
'Ye? BEVIS MARKS, LONDON, ENGLAND -J
j rrnv hoj hivh cxoo-p
riMht
»}
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has trained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, Mid giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your llair is falling off, TR\ IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey llair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. (id. Postage,
9d. extra.
Wash i sgtos H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOll ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
plum
tun
THB
‘ Plum
( 4 WNTLEMEIS who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor
i trial This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow grounda
rimrs like a bell and never requires grinding. Bern- practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the,
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
nfvears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
ot y ’ The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s fid.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, fid. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
AK ents
Itetridercd and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
IVJ SW. Carriage & Saddlery UVEaxxf.
* ’ Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, ±'6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, til.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard, Buggies, from £9
10s Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and. Made
to OrderHARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us jour
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not be
misled by any Arms who say they will deliver fur less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 p6r
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any WTiarf or
JT.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ego.
Here and a part of me—
White and resplendent —
Standeth a soul of me,
Proudly ascendant.
There, and a part of me,
Dark and descending,
Crawleth a soul of me,
Black and offending.
“ Which is the Soul of met
Good ? Or of Evil ?
What is the Soul of me
God? Or the Devil?”
Answer there fell to me—
Good, and of Evil.
Heaven and Hell to thee,
God and the Devil.”
Each is the Soul of thee,
Ever and ever,
Part and the Whole of thee,
Ever and ever.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Blossom.
A lone rose in a garden burned —a quivering flame,
But yesterday blindly from out the bud it came ;
And now an envious wind with itching fingers
leant
And touched its lingering beauty, and the petals
went
Upon the twilight tossing swift,
Like little dusky boats adrift.
Then in the birth and doom of that brief rose I
saw
The long unrolling of creation’s one vast law.
All things were blossom, and God thrilled at that
flower’s birth
As when from night-sheathed chaos broke this
blossom-earth.
For God no large or little knows—
A universe slept in the rose.
The scattered star-mist, that dishevelled trails
through Space,
Hears the low whisper of the Spring, and to its
place
Whirls vastly, and its bulk with aching life is torn,
And with a pang that shakes all Space a sun is
born.
But God on it bestows the heed
He gives to any wayside weed.
About it bloom the planets, like a pageantry
01 rival blossoms in a garden-galaxy.
They break and wane and wither, till upon some
earth,
Faded and chill and shrunken, a pallid thing has
birth ;
And on a world weary with strife
Creeps forth the efflorescence Life.
Strange vegetations fiercely bloom and fall from
sight; •
Monsters uncouth are spawned, and sink into the
night ;
Huge mountains blossom white beneath the ocean
spray; . .
Vast tropics glow where once the glacier-ice held
sway—
Till like a lichen on the stone,
Comes Man, bearing a soul unknown.
The lichen spreads, and civilisations grow forlorn,
Bloom once, and dying, blight the place where
they were born.
Incomparable, unique, each in lone splendour
burns;
Each bears one perfect grace that nevermore
returns.
Ah 1 gone is sculptured Egypt—gone
The blossom that was Babylon !
The lotus of the East, the Grecian lily cold—
Each blossoms only one new beauty to unfold.
And this rich rose, the West, that opens now so
vast,
Shall tell its message, then upon the night be cast.
But God still scatters through the gloom
Hew seeds whence nobler flowers shall bloom.
And aeons rise and fade, and still the petal-years
Fall from the trembling stem of Time, that
proudly rears
Space, like the last huge blossom of the far-thrown
And Space itself shall wither like a trampled
weed.
But in the void the Sower still
Scatters new seed, until—until . . .
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau
OoS;Z; oN 222 CAN NON ST. L,J
" ‘ S u„ a „ *
m c to-1 „ „ AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES •
® l " iffh ' B< ' r ® et > SYDNEY.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. J. Adams. Manager.
What Visitors say of this Hotel*
Tariff: 10s. per Day.
JB3 per Week.
“ Everything is new; and
everything is of the best.
We cannot suggest an
improvement.”
Painless Dentistry,
the ....
Condon Qental
Institute.
T.RVRII, Graduate In Dental Surtrery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. S. D. ASH Kit, Dentists.
Modern. Dentistry in all its Airnnchet
Def/itinintely Practised.
Y. " e guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN— '
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from « - per Day. D. Swiss-Daviks, I’rnp.
Telephone 784. (Member Com. Trav. Club.)
Greatest demand
Oi6ar@tte;
because the Sest.
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
£
O
•o
iRADEMAR'
5E
MM
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BRLLISTITE.
Does not strßlll the grin. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by '
MOISTURE.
nob
VJS
>£AT>
TE
Yk
Hi
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTirE won over ,£2ooo at Gun Club, Notting Hill ana Hurlimr-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over ,£lOOO more than any other powder,—Fide Field, June 24, '99.
2 ' in . nh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
onooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland ,
Messrs. Brabant A
l- Co.
FOR
Ruberoid
Cheaper than Iron.
E. Rich & Co. Ltd., Sydney.
1
>
FOR
Roofin
Cheaper than Iron.
E» Rich & Co. Ltcl, 9 Brisbane.
PRICE LIST
Of Ruberoid Roofing, delivered at the railway stations
named below m lots of 2800, 2400 and 2000 square feet, including wire
netting, cement for seams, nails and wsshers, as per method described
Train age Paid.
3pl.y.
2000 ft.
23 17 9
24 12 0
22 16 6
23 2 4
25 19 4
24 9 1
23 18 7
23 16 8
23 4 2
24 0 7
24 2 5
25 0 2
22 15 1
24 2 1
25 8 4
25 1 1
24 2 1
22 10 1
IMPORTANT.
Box 22, G.P.0., Sydney, IS/S/V9.
Messrs. E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney.
Bear Sirs, —
In the construction of roofs when timber is costly I have with marked
success used wire netting as a foundation upon which to lay Rubcroid.
In the roof framing the rafters need not be less than Aft. apart and
Hu*h Sh °/fn >e /‘ Lncc f bro(ld side U P battens or purlins , sai/, 4 by/kin.
sunk flush with the face of the rafters spaced 2 ft. 8 in. apart from centre to
C neitlu i a Zn,° l / e r 6 Wh . ol % sh,jul / d be li, J ha h stretched from cares to ridye wire-
netting, say, 1G gauge by 3or 4m. mesh firmly secured at the ends The
of d eac°h rifter tUny U SUCh that UIC edyes can 0e naUcd on to Ul ' e ccntrc
Over the top of the wire-netting the sheets of Ruberoid should be placed
commencing at the eaves batten on to which it should be tacked down per-
linTaftertVnTJh 1 shcet .* houfd then be placed so as to overlap the first bi,
jm. (after using the usual paint, of course), and the bottom of this and the
completed, S e6t HaUed l ° the SCCOnd baUcn > ZLt toZ until
Tf rlht Ruberoid . shouf 'l also be nailed to the rafters for additional safety.
If ordinary care is used any handy man can in this way construct a neat
serviceable, light, substantial and inexpensive roof. ’
Yours truly, C. M‘MASTER.


The Bulletin
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1025.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1899.
Prick 6d.
VIEW FROM ‘TELEGRAPH” ROCK.
GUIDE BRIENT : “As I was saying, the view from, this rock is superb—just a step further and you’ll see
L YNE: “ Isn’t this near enough to be comfortable? I feel slightly giddy already.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Atistralians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu t.ktin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the 00.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TER ATS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal JS ote,
One Pound Sole, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oiiectoi.
Literary Communications to be addressea ». F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence 77 column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not excelling tioo columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendina MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
Other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
tainin'! a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of ea-h mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutler-street.
South Akiiica. It. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. If. Solomon
and Co., 22 Uout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Austral in,
Westralia and IMaorila nd.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postanc on lutcrinocincial N civs papers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with !s. 2d. added for / ostage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added or i ostaae.
No news pa per can. be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease oT in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage IUL on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition ol Tiik Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1899.
On the Importance of Being Crooked.
John Forrest, of Westralia, like George
Reid, of New South Wales, bids fair to go
under in the end through his foolish crook-
edness over the Federal question. It was
his shiftless, purposeless “ Yes-No ” which
ultimately wrecked the fat and crafty Scotch
lawyer of N.S.W. And under rather differ-
ent circumstances, but on exactly similar
principles, the Jarrah Judas is also plunging
in a large-footed way down a steep place into
chaos. Things are growing so complicated
in the West that it is difficult to guess what
will break first, but it is practically certain
that something will break very soon. Also
it is practically certain that the pieces of it,
whatever it is, will fall on John Forrest,
and great will be the thud thereof.
m rn * *
Forrest’s position has been anomalous all
through. He made the grievous mistake at
the beginning of fearing to trust the people.
He hadn’t sense enough to see that even an
unpopular and blundering despot like himself
might rise to popularity by taking the
people’s side on a big question and making
himself the leader of a people’s movement.
If he could, have seen it, however, he
wouldn’t have been the blundfering despot he
is—in other words, he wouldn’t have been
Forrest. The. Westralian Parliament which
decided to send delegates to the Federal
Convention . wasn’t Specially elected
on the Federal issue. Forrest doesn’t
believe in disturbing the deep agricul-
tural slumber -of Westralia with large
questions, so there was no Federal
campaign .in Groperland. The ten delegates
sent to the Convention were not elected by
the people. Forrest was probably afraid to
trust the people, lest they might wreck his
prestige by putting him halfway down the
list, or at the foot of it, though it is 100 to 1
that even the Kalgoorlie miners would have
returned him at the top if he had wit enough
to make himself the figurehead of a people’s
crusade. As it was, the Westralian dele-
gation wasn’t elected by anybody, and had
no authority save its own. Since then,
Forrest has been afraid, for a number of
reasons, to send the Bill to the people. So
he appointed a Committee (also with no
popular authority behind it) to suggest
amendments and find means of postponing
the evil day. And, now that it has made all
the suggestions it can think of, John Forrest
doesn’t know what to do with them.
• * * •
The situation grows more complicated as
it grows older. Forrest was one of the
Premiers who pledged themselves, after the
last Melbourne Conference, to put the Bill
to the popular vote as soon as it was ac-
cepted by N.S. W, He was the only one of
the crowd who broke faith, and dragged his
honor in the dirt, and demonstrated that the
truth w r as not in him. He promised
at a public meeting which he addressed at
Perth to support the Bill, and in those days
he declared that it was, on the whole, a good
Bill, and that he was satisfied with it. Now
he declares that Westralia should not accept
it unless certain amendments are made,
wherefore he declares, in effect, that he
didn’t tell the truth in his famous Perth
speech—or else that he isn’t telling the
truth now. As the loudest obstructionist
in the recent Parliamentary Committee he
alleges that Westralia can only accept the
Constitution if it is altered to provide for
the construction of a transcontinental rail-
way, to provide that Westralia may be
divided into senatorial districts, that it shall
be allowed to keep its full border customs
tariff for five years, and that it shall be free
from any interference by the interstate com-
mission for that period. As he attended
four Federal conventions without realising
that lie wanted any of these things, the
natural inference is either that he doesn’t
want them now, or that he was a miserably
slow 7 ignoramus not to know that he wanted
them then. And as he further waited,
after all the conferences were over, till
N.S.W., Victoria, Tasmania and South Aus-
tralia had sent the Bill to England for
acceptance, and till it had been accepted
by the people of Queensland, before asking
for these radical alterations, a further natural
inference is that he is about the last human
possibility in the way of a slow person, or
that his profession that he wants Federation
at all is unreliable, or that he doesn’t know
his own mind, or that he hasn’t got one.
* » * *
Forrest, it is quite probable, meant to go
straight. But he is not a strong man—only
a bulky one ; also, he is not a free agent—
mentally he is the body-slave and bondman
of Haokett, of the West Australian. And
when Hackett made up his slow intellect at
a late hour and went against Federation, his
political serf made a feeble struggle for in-
dependence, and then did likewise. Thereby
lie has landed himself in the middle of a
great problem. His party—the predominant
one in the Legislature—represents about
one-fourth or thereabouts of the people.
It speaks for the old Sandgroper element
which is largely anti-Federal, or is willing
to be anti-Federal if the Forrest clan tells
it to be so. That fraction is predominant in
the Legislature because of the system which
gives four members for 308 old Groper
electors in Ashburton, De Grey, Irwin, and
East Kimberley, and only gives four also
for 15,317 mining and city electors in Kal-
goorlie, Coolgardie, Kanowna, and East
Perth. Forrest’s first mistake was in
allowing such a state of things to exist at
all. Having allowed it to exist, he was face
to face with this problem : Unequal repre-
sentation of this kind can't go on for ever ;
in a few years it would lead to insurrection
and the capsizing of the Bunbury oligarchy
by violence. If the handful of old Gropers
who are predominant now are really and in-
curably anti-Federal, then John Forrest,
supposing he kept his by-gone promises, and
supported Federation, would lose his billet.
The Old Gropers would throw him out. And
if he turned traitor to his Federal promises
and professions in order to save his paltry
job and his salary from the wrath of the Old
Gropers, he thereby made it certain that the
New Gropers, when it became impossible to
any longer avoid giving them something a
little nearer to a fair share of Parliamentary
representation, would turn him out. So
John fell heavily between two stools and
arrived nowhere in particular.
* * * *
A man whose craft was not so utterly
shallow would never have drifted into such
an impossible position. If the concessions
he now demands are really essential a poli-
tician of brains would have recognised that
fact two years ago, and demanded them from
the Convention. If he didn’t get them he
would have, in their refusal, a good excuse
for his present attitude. If he got them he
would be the biggest tin god in Australia. A
stronger man, having accepted the Bill as
Forrest did, would have defied his slave-
driver, the not-too-brilliant boss of the Perth
paper. He would have set to work to con-
vert the Old Gropers, and with his great in-
fluence —for, strange as it may be, the
Jarrah Judas had great influence—lie would
probably have done it. And he would have
set to work to enfranchise the New Gropers,
his natural allies in a Federal campaign. As
it is he has been on both sides. He didn’t
please the Old Gropers much bv his Federal
professions. He pleased them very little
also by demanding certain concessions when
it is too late to get them. He is trying to
pacify the practically-unrepresented majority
by a Redistribution of Seats Bill, which
gives the Federal majority on the goldfields
one-sixth of the representation to which it
is fairly entitled—instead of about one-
fifteenth as heretofore. This will bring
enough of the new Federal element into
next Parliament to make Bigjohn’s billet
unsafe if the new element is hostile, and the
grudging nature of the concession, as well as
Forrest’s anti-Federal attitude, make it
pretty sure that the new element will be
hostile. He is confronted by a petition
signed by about one-third of the adult male
population demanding that he shall keep his
promise and send the Bill to the people. If
he sends it, Westralia, on that occasion, will
vote as one electorate ; the returns can’t
be faked by the cattle vote of Kimberley and
De Grey, and the results will show that John
Forrest has only a fraction of the people
behind him. If he refuses—well, it is a large
order to refuse such a demand and the man
who is so badly scared of Haokett has
hardly the nerve to do it.
* * * •
So the big man stumbles along, trying to
please the parochial minority which keeps
him in office by being against Federation
unless special new concessions are granted to
Westralia, and trying to keep square with
the Federal majority which may shortly get
a chance to put him out of office by being in
favor of Federation provided these conces-
sions are granted. He has lost his chance, for
the present at least, of getting the concessions
by hesitating in his alleged mind till it was too
late to amend the Bill. He has lost his chance
of being a popular leader by fearing to trust
the people. He has now to explain in Par-
liament how Westralia is to set about obtain-
ing the special terms which he now says it
wants, and which he previously said it didn’t
want, and he can’t explain it satisfactorily,
because he himself threw away the chance of
getting them. He has been both things,
and hasn’t shown himself a strong leader as
either of them. And now he is only a large,
hot, angry man, waiting for something to
turn up.
Some Wrong's of Private Enterprise.
Sydney Telegraph used to call itself a liberal
and progressive organ. That was years ago,
when it was trying to secure the Labor vote
for its beloved policy of cheap imported calico.
Now it has given up the struggle and serves
out plain, unadulterated Toryism like this :
Mr. Brucf. Smith, at the Institute of Bankers on Wed-
nesday, dwelt upon the dangers of “advanced” legis-
lation, which involved rule by those who played down to
the ignorant masses, State interference in private enter-
prise, a surrender of that self-reliance which had made
the British race what it is, and coercion of the minority,
wnich would mean the wealthy, for the supposed gain of
the majority, which would mean the laboring classes.
Yet what has State socialism and advanced legislation
accomplished for the laboring classes ? Very little. Mr.
Bruce Smith instanced the Maff'ra Beet fiasco and an
a Ivance to paint manufacturers at 3J per cent. The
political disrepute which failures like the Matfra affair
involve were really worth the expenditure of £63,000, as
they constitute a step in our education. Take the
most “advanced” of all our Australasian Govern-
ments that of New Zealand. What have they
accomplished? They have established a life in-
surance department, which has to work on com-
mercial lines. They have established an Advances to
Settlers Fund, which has to follow the same procedure.
They have practically taken over the management of the
Bank of New Zealand, and having done so are far from
comfortable, because that, too, must be managed on
commercial lines. They have established a graduated
land tax on unimproved values, and a special tax on
absentees, with the aim of breaking up the large estates,
and have bought up a number of large estates for sub-
division. Finally, they have passed an Old Age Pensions
Act, which will lie somewhat costly hereafter. They have
discussed State compulsory fire insurance and other
socialistic measures, without result, and the feeling in
the country is growing that a rest is needed. The
Bank of New Zealand affair was forced upon them.
The Life Insurance and Advances to Settlers Depart-
ments both encroach somewhat upon the field of
joint stock enterprise, but can offer no so-called
advantages to the community unless they accept
risks the joint stock companies would not take.
The graduated land-tax and some of the other measures
have had the effect of driving a certain amount of capital
out of the country, and Government borrowing has
partly supplied the deficiency. The effect, can partly be
seen in the following comparison
Taxation in New Zealand £3 14 2 per head
Taxation in Victoria 2 9 6 per head
Taxation in-New South Wales ... 1 17 10 per head
This is a sortPof result -New Zealanders can hardly appre-
ciate, and it will work its_own cure. Indeed, they are
not likely to proceed much further in such directions, as
all such further steps will cost money. Australia, it is
to be hoped, will not proceed anything like so far, because
it could not stand £3 14s. per head taxation, and labor
would suffer most.
* • • •
Part of this preposterous tirade may, per-
haps, be set down to natural ignorance.
The rest is seemingly the natural Toryism
of the Shoddy organ breaking out. And
the two make a wondrous combination of
misrepresentation with hardly a streak
of truth in it anywhere. Maoriland’s State
Life Insurance Department has never cost the
province anything ; it has always paid its own
way. The Bank of New Zealand has
paid every penny of the interest on the
money which the State raised to prop it
up when private enterprise made it such an
unspeakable wreck. The Advances to Settlers
Department has paid its own way. So has the
land-resumption policy. Seeing that the nation
doesn’t pay in taxes a single penny of the
interest on these socialistic enterprises it is
obvious that it isn’t State Socialism which
makes taxation so high in Maoriland. One
great cause of the weighty burden is that
Maoriland is the only province in Australasia
that ever had an expensive war or that totters
under the burden of a big war-debt. Another
is that Maoriland is the only province which
had to buy a very large portion of its public
estate from the natives ; the other provinces
simply stole theirs. In N.S. W. the land
revenue, obtained through that cheap and easy
steal, runs to about £1 10s. per inhabitant per
annum. If N.S. W. was in Maoriland’s situa-
tion in this matter, and if it had a correspond-
ingly large war-debt., it would, on present
appearances, be taxed the more heavily of the
two. The government of N.S.W. costs 12s.
per head per annum more than that of Maori-
land, therefore it appears that State Socialism
is really a cheaper condition than the private-
enterprise policy of N.S. W. But N.S.W.’s
great luck with its land steal more than makes
up for its expensive system.
• • * *
Maoriland’s taxation, curiously enough, was
more per head in 1882 (17 years ago, when the
Tory party was in power, and there were no
State Bank, or State Land Bank, or land re-
sumption system, or Old Age Pensions, or
graduated land tax, or absentee tax) than it is
now. This again gives the lie to the theory
that it is these things which have brought
about the present heavy burdens. No one
ever proposed, either, that the various enter-
prises enumerated in the D.T. tirade should be
worked on other than commercial principles.
The Telegraph’s financial editor probably
thinks that the original idea was to put a
Domain orator with matted hair in charge of
the Bank of New Zealand ; and to place the
Advances to Settlers Department under the
control of a wild-eyed Bard of Freedom who
would write poetry on the ledger, and call cus-
tomers in to hear him read burning odes about
the Dawn of Liberty ; and that it was intended
at first to make the State Insurance Office a
mixture of an insurance society, a soup-kitchen
and a league for the Regeneration of Man
mingled with dynamite. But that is only his
ignorance. The idea was pure business from
the first, and Maoriland has adhered to the
business idea all along. And the State Land
Bank doesn’t need to tout for business by
taking “ risks the joint stock companies would
not touch.” It gets it by taking interest they
wouldn’t touch. The reason why it can do so
is that it can borrow more cheaply and that it
only wants to recover the interest it actually
pays, with enough over to cover expenses and
make an adequate reserve. It has no share-
holders craving for 15 per cent, dividends.
• • • •
And, by the way, what is the proper “field
of joint-stock enterprise,” and what right has
joint-stock enterprise to any field except the
one where it can hold its own against its com-
petitors? If the State, conducting its land
bank on purely commercial principles, can run
joint stock enterprise out, what right has the
latter to object ? It preaches free competition,
anil weeps like a lost soul when the State com-
petes. If the one little loss of =£63,000 which
Victoria made in helping the Maff'ra Beet
Sugar Co. is a terrible lesson in the evils of
State enterprise, why isn’t the ,£20,000,000 or
so of Australian capital which has gone within
the last 60 years by the bursting of private
banks a many times more awful warning against
the private variety of enterprise ? And, by the
way, where is the private enterprise of Aus-
tralia ? Where has it ever been ? The coal
industry was started by State assistance—the
State supplied gratis, or practically gratis,
convict labor, and handed over the voalfields
to the early syndicates at next to nothing an
acre. The pastoral industry was started by
free grants of land and by a supply of practi-
cally free labor. The sugar industry was started
by Protection —which was more State inter-
ference. The agricultural industry was first
created by free land grants. The agricultural
and pastoral industries are both fostered and
bonused now—six benevolent Governments
carry the produce of them below paying rates
to help them along. The newspaper industry
was assisted by huge bonuses in the shape
of free postage. The N.S. W. banks were saved
in ’93 (those that remained of them) by State
aid. The biggest Queensland bank was
rescued by a large State loan and by State
supervision after private enterprise had run it
down asleep place into insolvency. The great
Victorian butter industry, which now stands
on its own feet, and which brings in to the pro-
vince nearly £1,000,000 per annum, was wholly
created by State bounties and State supervi-
sion. The N.S. W. coal-export trade is partly
kept up by State aid now —it receives an in-
direct subsidy by, exemption from ordinary
port dues. The country has been railroaded
by the State ; private enterprise consistently
refused to tackle the work unless it was helped
and coddled with State aid in the shape of
land grants, and even when it got them, it
mostly failed. Where is that Australian pri-
vate enterprise that the Telegraph is so
anxious to defend against the unjustifiable in-
terference of the State ? Also, where has it
ever been ?
Love and Death, in the Suburbs.
The story of Sydney Frederick Giblett, one
of insignificant millions, under the influence of
the grand passion which makes the world go
round-O. Sydney was a little storekeeper at
Port Macquarie, N.S. W., and lie loved Eliza.
She was not his first love, for lie had been
married and divorced ; but sometimes second
loves are best—or warmest. Ami Eliza pro-
mised to marry Sydney. When she came to the
Ultimo suburb of the big city, with her sisters,
to start dressmaking, Sydney (at Eliza’s re-
quest, he said; but Eliza didn’t remember
that) gave up his business and followed her.
Eliza’s sisters opposed the marriage ; but
Eliza “strung him on” (so Sydney says;
though Eliza didn’t remember that). Eliza,
however, led Sydney to believe she would
marry him. She did not remember (until her
letter was produced) that she had remained
“your Eliza.” She remembered that she was
frightened of Sydney, and had made up her
mind not to marry him. She remembered
(when she was shown the letters) that about
the same time she hint—complained he did
not write to her, and had Sent him “ fond love”
and a kiss-cross to v seal it. Nevertheless,
Sydney felt a chill, and'came to Ultimo to
enquire. Once (he said). Eliza chatted with
him for ten minutes at the back gate. Another
evening he walked 6ttt ..with Eliza and sister
Lizzie, and kissed' Eliza good bye. A third
time he waited ’by ..appointment at the back
gate of romance, but Eliza did not come, and
Sydney walked round to the front door. Then
Williams—Williams the engineer, six feet
and muscular —threw him out. Sydney
could not object, for his physique was as
insignificant as his character ; but the seven
deadly demons of jealousy gripped him harder
han Williams.


He did not understand this monstrous
thing—lie came for Eliza, and this stranger
assailed him, hurt him, humiliated him— Eliza
might have laughed ! His heavens and earth
whirled round—he did not understand. He
rushed down street, took a cab to Sydney, and
came hack with a revolver. He knocked ; the
six-foot stranger caine and threw him out again
—harder. The stranger told him to come away
from the house, and they came away. “ The
girl doesn’t want you,” said the stranger.
Sydney asked for his love-tokens and letters.
Sisier Lily brought the tokens, and said the
letters were burnt. Sydney understood less
i ban ever. He asked sister Lily who the
stranger was. She did not answer, and walked
hack. Said the stranger, “ I’ll show you who
I am ! ” and rammed Sydney on the blue-metal
road (he exhibited a scarred knee to the jury).
His tongue was hanging out ; lie could not
escape. When the stranger let go, Sydney
fumbled for his revolver and shot him—dead.
Then, with the blood-madness on him, he
rushed back to the house and fired at the
women, wounding two, but not Eliza. Then
he went home. This is Sydney’s story ; sister
Lily did not see stranger Williams throw
Sydney down ; she said Williams was inter-
cepting his return to the house. Charge :
Murder. Verdict: Manslaughter. Sentence:
16 years’ servitude. And all on account of
Eliza.
* * * *
The unexpectedly severe sentence passed in
the Giblett shooting case emphasises The
Bulletin’s contention that a jury should
approximately fix the sentence as well as
give the verdict—in other words, it should
say not only whether a man is guilty, but also
how guilty it considers hint to be. The
charge of killing, for example, could be placed
as in other countries in four separate categories :
(1) murder (2) manslaughter (3) manslaughter
with extenuating circumstances (4) justifiable
homicide. And it should be the duty of the
Judge to tell the jury : “ If you find this man
guilty of murder, he’ll hang—sure; if of man-
slaughter in the first degree he’ll get ten to
15 years’ penal servitude ; if of manslaughter
in the second degree he’ll get two to six years’
penal servitude ; if of justifiable homicide, he’ll
go scot-free.” 7 hen someone would be responsi-
ble for the issue of the trial of a capital charge—
that is to say, someone would directly feel his
responsibility—whereas, at present, nobody
feels really responsible for a hanging when one
oci-urs. The Judge isn’t responsible— he didn’t
find the verdict ; the jury aren’t responsible—
they didn’t think the man would be strung-up ;
the Executive isn’t responsible, its action being
the mere logical outcome of the finding of the
Court.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Bridge Swindle.
Item from Tasmanian Parliamentary reports :
After further discussion in the course of which the ne-
cessity of keening wooden I.ridges in repair was discussed,
and reference made to the necessity of effecting renewals
oul of revenue.
The Minister of Lands said with regard to the question
of renewals, it was immaterial in what way the money
borrowed was spent so long as it was improving the pro-
perty of the State. It did not matter whether it was
spent in putting bridges in the same place over a river 50
times. If they were improving the property of the State,
they were doing good to the State. Assuming that a
bridge, which, cost £5OOO, would last 100 years, and
another which cost £5OO would last one-tenth of that
time, it was very much cheaper to the State as regards
interest on the money spent to construct 10 bridges at
£SJO than one at £5OOO in the course of 100 years. He
did not say the money asked for the bridges was for ex-
tension or anything of that sort, but it was to replace
others, and it was a fair thing to take the money out of
loans.
On the question that the item be postponed with a view
to deciding the principle if bridges should be constructed
out of loan or revenue, the House decided as follows :
Ayes (8). —Messrs. Cameron, Hoggins, Mulcahy, Fow-
ler, Lewis, Woolnough, Propsting, Dumaresq.
Noes (19). —Sir Edward Braddon, Messrs. Miles, Urqu-
hart, Gilmore, Hall, Crisp, Gaffney, VV. H. T. Brown,
Mackenzie, Bradley, Yon Steiglitz, Clarke, Hamilton,
Archer, Murray, Aitkenhead, McWilliams, Leatham, Bur-
bury.
Pairs. —For: Mr. Dobson. Against : Mr. Evans.
The Tasmanian Minister of Lands is Captain
Miles, the awful master-mariner of Stra-
han harbour notoriety, whom Braddon, in an
aberrated moment, took into his Cabinet.
Said awful mariner here lays down the doc-
trine that, in the first place, it is a perfectly
legitimate thing to build bridges (which yield
no cash return) out of loan moneys because
they “improve the property of the State.”
The money the State makes by this improve-
ment of its property is not, however, to be
applied to pay for the bridges. And when
these bridges wear out it is quite proper, in
Miles’s opinion, to build new ones out of loan
money, and when the new ones wear out to
charge the next lot to loan money, and so on
for ever and ever. And after many, many
years the money which the State gained by the
improvement of its property per medium of
these bridges will all be spent; and the people
who benefited by it will be dead ; and the
40th consecutive bridge over Tinpot River
(at .£lOOO a bridge, all built with bor-
rowed money) will have worn out ; and
the interest bill on the £40,000 for bygone
bridges will he £l2OO a year for ever ; and
the people, with £l2OO a year to pay as inter-
est on the ghosts of dead and gone bridges,
will have to start building a new bridge in the
same old way. The Tasmanian Assembly has
decided by 19 to 8 that this shiftless, foolish,
childish swindle is legitimate finance, every
member of the Government voting with the
majority. Tasmania has the very worst repu-
tation in Australia for this kind of fraud upon
posterity ; out of £7,663,000 which it owed at
the end of 1897 more than half (£3,846,000) had
no payable assets to represent it, and had been
frittered away in order to make the current
revenue look solvent when it was nothing of
the kind. In 1897 Tasmania spent £79,602 of
loan money, and £66,226 of it went for unpro-
ductive works properly chargeable to re-
venue. In 1896 the isle got through
£Bl,BOl of loan money, and £54,801 of
it was misapplied in like fashion. Yet
in oRe respect Tasmania is more moral than its
neighbours. More than one-fourth of its House
of Assembly rose at last to protest against the
sinful swindle—and no such section of any
other Australian Assembly has ever risen
definitely on the subject. And at least Tas.
Assembly compelled its dreadful sea-captain
to defend the bad old fraud. The Bulletin
doesn’t remember when any other Minister was
called on for a serious defence. In other pro-
vinces everybody was too much alarmed lest
he should lose his own bridge to make any
serious complaint.
Great Caesar! !!
Thus Brisbane Worker :
Truly the North has a real grievance against the
Southern Government. It has been almost abandoned to
black labor in the past, and unless it bestirs itself, another
burden in the shape of syndicate railways will be laid on
its shoulders shortly. But while it chooses to return
Philp and traitors to White Queensland of his ilk to
Queensland Parliament it dcesn’t deserve any better treat-
ment.
For cool, cast-iron arrogance this is un-
rivalled. The North and Centre have sup-
plied the Democratic bone and sinew to Q.
Parliament for many a long day ; the opposi-
tion to alien labor and syndicates has nearly
always come from the same quarters, while the
South has filled the ranks of boodlers and alien-
coddlers for the past 10 years. If the Northern
representatives ruled Bananaland, neither
Kanaka nor Jap. nor Filipino immigration
would be tolerated for a moment, while as to
syndicate railways, almost the whole of the
opposition to them came from the Democratic
members north of Capricorn. Unless the North
bestirs itself! The North has bestirred itself;
it’s only the wretched Southern and metropoli-
tan constituencies that go on year after year
returning hide-bound Tories who fight like
furies incarnate against electoral reform, Aus-
tralian union, and everything else that makes
for progress. The North is a big Democratic
country with little Conservative patches;
the South a Conservative wilderness with
here and there a little spot of Liberal verdure.
For every traitor to white Queensland in the
North there are hundreds almost within coo-ee
of the Worker office, and a Brisbane organ
has the audacity—in face of all this—to tell the
sturdy diggers that their country doesn’t
deserve any better treatment. If such be the
deserts of the North, pray, what will happen
when the South gets its due ? If the returning
of Philp is to be so heavily punished,
what shall happen to the land that produced
three-fourths of the boodlers and exploiters
that have fattened and battened on public spoil
for years past ? If this be democratic pabulum,
this inversion of all logic, this perversion of all
sense and decency, then—a fig for democracy !
♦
Still Moaning 1 .
The parson-edited Brisbane Cowlegraph
still goes off its head at the very mention of
that Referendum where Parochialism went
down, and pounds its skull against the wall to
some such tune as this :
Persons who have axes to grind weary us in pointing
out the influence which distant electorates should have
in their vote for the Convention Bill. Take Carpentaria.
On a map it may be spread out till it looks like the terri-
tory of the Czar. In that electorate there are 522 electors.
Take Bulimba. As an area it is only a speck on the map ;
but it numbers 2584 electors, In any national question
are we to listen to the voice of the wind amonst the gum-
trees of Carpentaria, or the voices of the toiling thousands
of people in the electorate of Bulimba ? Take half-a dozen
of city and suburban electorates and they give a plus
number of electors to entitle them to three more members.
This inequality startles and shocks the sense of fairness
in England. How much more should it startle and shock
us when practically the small vote of the remote con-
stituency counts for more than the large vote at Bulimba.
All the heavy voting of southern Queensland against the
Convention Bill, though representing such a large pro-
portion of the population, counted for little against the
scanty voting of northern electorates. —Brisbane Tele-
graph, 23/9/’99.
This is the Brisbane paper’s 17th distinct
attempt to demonstrate that the 38,000 votes
cast for Federation weren’t so numerous as the
31,000 cast against it. On Referendum Day the
size of the constituencies, their populaiion,
their plural votes, the inequality of their re-
presentation, all counted for nothing. All
Queensland was one constituency, and every
voter had one vote, and the fact that spiders
are larger and hairier in the North than at
Bulimba, or that Mars isn’t so big as Jupiter,
or that there are more dingoes in Carpentaria
than in Brisbane, made no difference in the fact
that the Parochial cause was shamefully and
miserably licked. The poor Cowlegraph, try-
ing to account for what struck it by saying the
North has too many cows or M’s P. or some-
thing equally irrelevant, is a pitiful spectacle.
Anyhow, even if Carpentaria has five times its
fair Assembly representation as compared with
Bulimba England’s “sense of fairness” has
about as much to do with the case as a wallaby
has with the New Testament. And a country
like Britain, where one-member constituencies
range all the way from 1820 electors to over
19,000 can stand a lot of shocks to its sense
of fairness.
♦
An Uncommonly Generous Offer.
Yic. M.L.A. Bromley’s Tramways Amend-
ment Bill comes on for the second reading Oct.
11, and as four of the twelve suburban councils
interested have supported it while only three
oppose —the rest being undecided—the sweat-
ing co. has made an offer. Finding that there
is every probability of the Bill passing the
Lower House, the awful co. begins to climb
down in a very gradual fashion. It is prepared
to lower the hours from 60 to 56 per week—
which apparently means 7 days’ work every
week—and to pay for overtime as time-and-a-
quarter, provided the co. receives in return
large concessions, as follow : —(1) That the
power given to the Govt, to revise the fares be
excised from the present Act. (2) That a Bill
be passed fixing the rating of the lines at one
per cent, of the gross earnings of the co. (3)
That the municipalities shall at the termination
of the lease take over the plant, rolling-stock
and buildings at a valuation. Or, in place of
these three concessions, it asks that the muni-
cipalities recompense it for its increased expen-
diture by allowing a reduction of the sinking
fund with a corresponding extension of the
lease. M.L.A. Bromley very properly re-
fused this alleged concession, pointing out that
the men demand, not 7 days’ work every week,
but 48 hours’ work for a living wage. The ex-
tension of lease demanded by the co. would
amount to about seven or eight years, and if
that be refused the excision of the fare-revising
section would mean a popular and pressing
demand for penny sections in a year or two,
when the grasping monopoly would demand
the same old extension of lease, and all in
return for the miserable concession of four
hours per week. The original intention of
Parliament in giving this octopus concern- its
monopoly of the street traffic has been pointed
out sufficiently often. It provides (sec. 26,
Act 765, 47 Vic.) 3d. fares on all lines, as now
in practice. After the lapse of ten years from
the completion of 20 miles of track (about Jan.,
1899) Parliament may revise the fares without
the co. being entitled to any compensation ;
(sec. 24). All or any of the municipalities may
at the expiration of the lease purchase the
plant, stock, and buildings, without any con-
sideration for goodwill, &c., at a valuation ;
(sec. 62). The days of labor shall be eight
hours ; and it further provides that the co.
shall not sweat too large a dividend out of its
employes, as witness sec. 42, which is worth
quoting in full :
“ Whenever the profits derived from the traffic on the
tramways shall in any year exceed ten per centum on the
actual cost of the tramways, rolling stock, arid property
of the co. used for the purposes of such tramways then
of such profits over and above ten per centum one-third
shall be paid to the local authorities in proportion to the
mileage of tramways within the limits of each local
authority. The directors may set aside out of the profits
sums as a reserve fund to equalise dividends and meet
claims for damages and compensation, provided that the
sum so set aside shall not in any year exceed two-and-a-
half per centum on such cost as aforesaid, and shall not
at any time exceed in the aggregate one eighth of such
cost. And in the event of the tramways being purchased
by any one or more of the local authorities, one-third
part of the then existing reserve fund shall become the
property of and shall be paid over to the local authority
or authorities so purchasing.”
This carefully-drawn up anti-sweating proviso
has been calmly ignored by the co. It has
driven its trams and dummies wholesale
through this section of the Act by the simple
expedient of watering its stock. The original
capital of the co. was .£250,000 in 500,000
shares, paid up to 10s. In 1889 it increased its
capital out of its sweated profits, by granting a
bonus of 60 per cent., to be taken in shares,
paid to 10s., and ranking as ordinary shares,
thus bringing its paid up capital to £400,000.
In 1890 it repeated the operation to the extent
of a bonus of 20 per cent, on the increased
capital, thus bringing its paid-up capital to its
present figure of £480,000. Thus, the Parlia-
ment of 1883, which passed the original Act,
carefully guarded the interests of the employes,
the public and the municipalities, and
the rapacious co. has coolly ignored the
whole thing. The Turner Govt., which has the
power to compel it to keep its agreement with
its men and with the public, refuses to move in
the matter, and Turner’s boss, the Age, the
alleged working-man’s paper, fairly barracks for
the sweaters, remarking that Bromley’s Bill
“ will certainly receive short shrift in the Upper
House ” (Age leader, 19/9/’99). It is more than
time Vic. Parliament forced these grasping
monopolists to keep their agreement, and show
itself as strict in safeguarding the interests of
workers and public as was its predecessor of
1883.
♦
The Tat Man Opposite.
It is already intimated in pretty plain words
that Reid intends to challenge the Lyne
Government with a motion of censure almost as
soon as Parliament meets, and if he does the
necessity for suppressing George with a strong
hand will soon become apparent. As the stand-
ins? orders are now, an unscrupulous Opposition
leader can block business almost continu-
ously with motions of censure, and when
Reid was Opposition leader he proved
himself the most utterly unscrupulous and
hardened office-seeker who ever held the post
in N.S.YV. During the 2| years’reign of the
Dibbs Government Reid moved 13 votes of
censure and was licked every time. But he.
took up between one-third and one-fourth of
the Parliament’s time on this matter alone (to
say nothing of the fact that he reduced the
adjournment motion business to a fine art),
and the chief reason why the Dibbs Govern-
ment accomplished so little was that it was
talked to death by the fat man opposite. If, as
seems probable, the same weary talking-to-
death process is to commence again, it will be
necessary to find a remedy, or else N.S.VV.’s
public business will come to a standstill. One
way out would be to decree that when notice
is given of a motion of censure public business
shall go on as usual till the night fixed, not less
than a week or more than a fortnight ahead,
for the censure debate. Then the mover shall
state his case and one selected supporter may
assist him ; also two members on the Govern-
ment side may reply, and the vote shall be taken
the same night. And the night thus lost shall
be nude up by having an extra sitting day that
or the next week. So long as a censure motion
may occupy a fortnight or more, and there is
nothing to prevent George Reid moving six of
them each session, except George Reid’s politi-
cal conscience (of which conscience there are no
symptoms up to date), no Government except
George Reid’s is likely to have much of a show
in N.S. W. It will be no injury to the country
or to Parliament to prevent the rank-and-file
of the House dripping pages of dreary declama-
tion about all things under the sun. Speeches
don’t influence votes.
4.
Braddon’s Newest Opportunity.
Premier Braddon’s opportunities increase and
multiply in a manner which must make every
other Australian Premier mad with envy. In
addition to firing out the Constitution Bill,
thus leaving the province without an electoral
law to bless itself with, the Leg. Council has
just ordered the Customs Bill to be read “ this
day six months.” The Bill proposed a remis-
sion of £25,000 worth of duties, but the House
of Refuse simply said Pish ! or grunted to that
effect, and the Bill was blown away. Last year
the Council sacrificed over £20,000 revenue by
unanimously agreeing to accept the proposed
abolition of police rates, &c. Now that
august body of mumblers declares that
the country wants every penny of re-
venue it can get, and there you are.
Therefore Braddon gets two chances at once.
He can go to the country at the approaching
election with the alluring cry “I 'want ,you to
rally round me so that I can compel this awful
Upper House to ease your burdens,” and there
is no man with soul so dead that he wouldn’t
rally to that appeal. Also, he can say “ Sup-
port me because I am the brilliant financier
who paid off £25,000 more of the
deficit than I promised,” and he can
add—“ Under my beneficent regime the
country is so prosperous that the revenue is
£25,000 more than anyone expected.” It isn’t
every man who has a lot of money and a valu-
able war-cry presented to him at the time
—and that by liis -worst enemies. But the
weary potentate says nothing, does nothing,
and probably intends to remain that way from
sheer inability to get out of his own road.
—
Evidence for the Crown in a case recently tried
at Wagga (N.S. W.) would appear to show that
accused unlawfully caused a certain girl to take
a large quantity of a certain drug for the pur-
pose of producing an illegal effect. From a
report by the Government Analyst the liquid
contained gentian and another harmless vege-
table extract, but was free from those drugs
commonly used for producing the illegal
effect charged against the prisoner. Yet it
was contended that if the accused adminis-
tered, or caused to be administered, any
harmless vegetable extract (his Honor sug-
gested pea-soup) with the intention of pro-
ducing the illegal effect he would be guilty of
the crime charged to him. For, as Mark
Twain once pointed out to an enquiring youth,
the intention constitutes the crime. And it
matters not whether he tilled up the unfortu-
nate girl with the innocuous gentian, beans and
bacon, or strawberries and cream ; if the in-
tention was in him to perpetrate and pro-
duce this illegal effect he would go to gaol,
even though the victim throve upon the diet.
What is more—the gaol would come if even
it could be shown that, by reason of the
absence of the “ certain condition ” in the girl
it happened to be impossible to produce
the effect. Which practically amounts to
this, that a person may be prosecuted,
found guilty, and punished because he might
have the intention to steal the moon, or
to murder his great-great-great-great grand-
mother, who had been dead for five generations.
Surely it would be sufficient to punish a person
for the intention to perpetuate the possible !
but the law provides that in the case of Jones
being caught climbing up the fire-escape, armed
with a carving-knife, and possessed of the in-
tention to cut off a slice of the moon, under the
impression that it is a green cheese, he shall be
charged with being in that elevated position
with unlawful intent—to wit—larceny of the
mooD, the property of the Aimighty.
“ Gumleaf ” to The Bulletin :
A more bumptious and bowelless exercise of judicial
power has never been known in the Vic. Law Courts than
that of which Chief Justice Madden was guilty last week.
It is laid down clearly by the highest authorities that in
committing persons for contempt of court judges should
not proceed otherwise than with great caution and de-
liberation and only if no other pertinent remedy can be
found. Yet Judge Madden arose in bis strength and
committed a poor woman, in the Criminal Court, without
a second’s thought, for refusing to answer a wholly irrele-
vant question, put by himself, as to who was the father of
her illegitimate child. Admitting that the Chief Justice
was the sole judge of whether a question was relevant
or not, in this case the witness had just undergone a
severe cross-examination at the hands of the able bar-
rister Fixlayson, and, although he brought out that the
woman had had an illegitimate child three years ago, the
fact that he did not ask for the name of the father is no
small proof of, its irrelevancy. Judge Madden, however,
with a washerwoman-like desire to pry into the
private concerns of this unhappy woman, (lid not hesi-
tate to put the question to her the moment that Finlay-
SOX had finished his cross-examination. “ Who is the
father of your child?” he blurted out. The woman re-
plied quietly and firmly, “ I refuse to answer that ques-
tion.” “Then,” said the Judge, with a toss of his be-
wigged head, “ I will commit you for contempt of court.”
He did not, as he is required to do by law, tell
the woman that she had a perfect right to refuse to
answer if in any way the reply incriminated her'. Even
the policemen standing around were heard to whisper to
each other, “ The Chief is cruel, ain’t he ! ” It was
not until the following morning that the haughty Madden
realised he had got himself into a tangle, and, as usual
with him, he tried to sneak out of it by saying that
he had not. told the woman she could refuse lo answer if
the reply incriminated her, because she was ignorant
and might, have jumped at the chance of getting out of
the difficult}’ in that, way, and so, perhaps, lay herself
open to a charge of perjury. If the woman was ignorant
there was all the more reason for her being informed, by
the Judge, of her exact position. His heartless action
was illegal, and in violation of ali authorities, but as the
woman is poor and obscure the Judge is safe.
The latest victim to the stupidity and caprice
of the jury system in civil cases is Melbourne
Argus, and as the present case comes so soon
after the Lorimer dog-jury business the heavy-
brained public begins to awake to the situation.
The Argus was sued by a clerk named John-
ston for £5OO damages. He complained that
in reporting one of the Flanagan trials,
Purves, Q.C., had been made to use his name
in connection with a certain embezzlement,
whereas in fact and truth Purves did not use
his name at all. The evidence was clear that
the name Johnston was used, and the state-
ment was therefore privileged. In fact, it w'as
proved to demonstration by Judge Hamilton,
who tried the case, and Crown Prosecutor
Finlayson, who prosecuted, and who con-
sidered that the name bad not been accident-
ally used, and referred to Purves’s remark as
most unwarrantable. Judge Hamilton de-
posed that the name was used distinctly, and
that bis first impulse was to correct counsel.
“On second thoughts,” he remarked, “I
decided not to, because it occurred to me that
counsel might mean something more than I
then understood.” In addition to this, all the
reporters engaged in recording the case, with
the exception of one, swore positively that the
name was used, and that its use was discussed
at the time. One of them, in fact, produced a
very legible shorthand note of Purves’s speech
with the word Johnston standing out inches.
Yet the jury returned a verdict for plaintiff for
a farthing damages. Just there a curious
thing occurred which illustrates the intelligence
of the jurymen. They had been discharged,
and an argument as to whether a farthing
damages carried costs was about to be entered
upon when the foreman remarked, “Your
Honor, I sent out to ascertain whether a far-
thing damages carried costs, and we were
informed that it did , otherwise we would have
given the plaintiff sufficient damages to carry


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
• ••
• ••
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARrro ’
any other Life Office in the World. valuation LARGER than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Tay Claims)-
WILLIAM iSE S* MOKT ' MX.a,
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
®* W * IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
1
fHinmnn”!?’
Wifi!
K
:
Kl||||S||
fcii !
iltfiiiiiUfiu*
The
JENNINGS
PATENT
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
For TAILINGS, SUCTION DREDGING,
ALLUVIAL MINING,
IRRIGATING, &C.. &C.
DEMONSTRATED
to bold
FIRST PLACE
for High
EITICIENCY
and Remarkable
ECONOMY.
Sole Manufaotceebj
for N.S.W.,
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
(Md.) GRANVILLE.
costs.” Ib subsequently transpired that the
court-crier had been called into the jury-room
and that the sapient jurors had taken the law
from him upon that point. How often do the
Victorian court-criers assist juries to come to
decisions f
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Ma.uwty’b “The Christian.”
Lyceum “ When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Criterion “ Lights o' London."
Palace Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princrss.. “ lolanthe.”
Theatre Royal “ The Merciless World.”
Buoo Rickards' Variety Co.
The two best things which can be said
concerning this week’s Sydney Lyceum drama is
that the man who wrote it is dead and that the
drama itself won’t be seen after to-morrow night.
And it is devoutly to be hoi>ed that the man who
wrote it is thoroughly dead, as a guarantee that
he will never write anything more of the same
kind. “.£lOOO Reward” is alleged on the pro-
gramme to be “ now in its Gth year on tour in Eng-
land,” and if it is. the blunting of that country’s
moral sense which is fast leading it to war is fully
accounted for. The “ Reward ” is a production
that would lead a man on from plain, ordinary
homicide down to bad grammar, and improba-
bility, and even darker crimes, till at last he fell
hopelessly into the moral abyss and had doubts
about the authorship of the first five books of
Genesis. There are certain coiners in it whose
skilful concealment of their retreat has baffled the
brightest intellects of the detective force—the coin-
ing retreat being a room off the bar of the Flying
Scud public-house. The boss coiner frankly states
to an unfriendly woman in the street that lie
makes counterfeit money—which renders the task
of the detectives all the more difficult. The hero,
who is said to be the brightest intellect in the
force, makes one capture during the long produc-
tion ; he has been long and sleeplessly on the
track of an embezzler and finds him at last through
hearing a red headed policeman addressing him
by name in the street. The present writer would
undertake to find out Nana Sahib, the real Tich-
bome, the Man with the Iron Mask, King Sebas-
tian of Portugal, the man who wrote “Junius,”
the other man who struck Buckley, and the lost
grave of Moses, also the place where Leichhardt
died, and the man who slew the Gatton Murphys,
if he heard a policeman addressing them by
name, and knew he could rely on the policeman.
The incompetence of that brilliant ’tec is calcu-
lated to mi a Chinese bobby with scorn. The
conduct of the erring wife, now a rich and brilliant
singer, who wants to save her daughter from simi-
lar sin, and has her brought up tenderly in a low
public-house where the coiners are, is also touch-
ing to behold. Any rich but sinful woman
desiring to save her child from wrong would natur-
ally have her brought up in a public-house, where
people of university education hold each other up
with difficulty, three abreast, and call out in the
dead languages for beer. There are many impro-
bable things in “£lOOO Reward,” but that re-
pentant mother is the most remarkable of the lot.
It doesn’t ap|iear that she ever did anything very
bad, but she is verc sorry for it, and her°great
hope is that her dauguter won’t do likewise.
• • • •
The Lyceum co. is not quite as dispirited
as the drama, but near it. On Saturday, John F.
Sheridan (the famous “ Widow O’Brien ”), Gracie
Whiteford, and a London co., is due at this theatre
with a new play—“ When the Lamps are Lighted.”
In view of the near approach of this vast event, it
may be that the management is of opinion that it
doesn’t matter —anyhow there is a run-down feel-
ing about the show at present. When the co.
firstappeared inSydneyitincluded Inman, Eugenie
Duggan, William Gourley, and sister Amy. Of
the four, Inman only remains. The rest of the
co. is doubtless of the highest moral character,
and the support of its aged mother, and all that]
but its stage capacity isn’t great. If Charles Hol-
loway himself would take a part, it would brighten
things somewhat—not that C. Holloway is
exactly a Sarah Bernhardt, or even a Carbine.
* * * -#
Sydney has discovered that “The Chris-
tian ” is a strong meritorious play, and is support-
ing it very well on the whole. Certainly it
deserves all the support Sydney can afford to give
it. There are at least nine people in the cast, any
one of whom would do well as the star of a very
respectable company—in fact Williamson has put
stars into all save the smallest parts; and as
the result of his lavish attention to detail “The
Christian ”is a fine performance all round. The
one thing wanting to make its success complete is
an acrimonious discussion of many parsons in the
newspapers, and that ought to come as soon as the
church realises that it is a clever morbid essay on
the disadvantages of being Good. John Storm
was never really bad, but he was a cheerful happy
worldling till the pious craze came on him. And
then he was a feverish uncomfortable visionary
with large hollow eyes and an impassioned coat-
tail that was always disappearing round the
corner in pursuit of sin. The sudden ending of
the story is regrettable. But a story like that has
to end suddenly. Presumably poor Glory, after
the death of her husband of half-a-minute or so,
led a pensive, soulful existence, grieving all her
days that she hadn’t trotted more enthusiastically
down the muddy bye-ways along with her uneasy
prophet, and lifted up her voice with wet feet and
muddy stockings at street corners in aid of his
“ mission.” If the Church doesn’t presently start
to haggle in three-column letters about the moral
of “ The Christian” this paper will darkly suspect
it has had a disagreement with Williamson about
the percentage.
War artist Frederick ViHters lias come
and gone. He struck Sydney at a pood time when
the desire to go Out kiid kill somebody was on the
usually peaceful city, and it yearned after larger
tilings than a bottle-fight at Chowder ; and though
hi* lecture was about the taking of Khartoum he
judiciously rung in irrelevant observ&tftffis regard-
ing the Transvaal trouble by way dt striking his audi-
ence in the place where it whs most interested. The
1 ransvaal part of the lecture had undoubtedly a
good deal to do with its success, though the audi-
ence received it with mixed feelings. When the
artist-lecturer revealed “the fearful work of the
maxim gun” and “ the effect of the new lyddite
shell,” that part of the audience which had lean-
ings towards forming a N.S.W. contingent felt a
hot thrill as it thought of the possibility of shoot-
ing at Oom Paul with such weapons. And then it
felt a cold thrill as it thought of Oom Paul shoot-
mg at it with just such weapons, and wondered
yi. 1 .®. l er . l t °r Paul would manage to shoot first.
Villiers is just the same rather dry person that he
was aforetime—a person with a good story to tell
and a parched mode of telling it. He left a
moderate-sized thrill behind him —but it was only
moderate. And if Sydney hadn’t been troubled
with the idea of shooting at Oorn Paul just then,
and curious to see hoiv it would look when it was
honourably dead on the battle-field, the thrill
might have been smaller than it was.
** * *
The days of “ Called Back ” are num-
bered, and the “Lights of London” is due on
Saturday Sydney Criterion. The present drama
might have had a longer run if Rignold had been
better supported, but Paolo Macari had to bear
too much of the heat and burden of the story all
on his own.” With a view to the new perform-
ance, that large, silent iron performer, the Tank,
is actively rehearsing his part and hopes to be
letter-perfect on opening night.
* * *
Cinquevalli, the Wonderful* has come
back to farewell a little more at Sydney Palace.
His capacity for balancing the thing that won’t
stand on top of the thing which obviously Won’t
support it, and making it stay there when its
staying there is obviously impossible, is as re-
markable as ever. Time has not staled the
infinite variety of his unstable billiard ball, and
the unusual young man gets as loud a welcome
now as he did on his first appearance months ago,
** * *
The New York Circus and Roman Hippo-
drome has left, according to the advt., for that
large, indefinite place called “the East.” Which
means, presumably, that it is going Far North
unless it is bound for Peru or Chili. Its stay <vas
bnef, but, before it went, Sydney had come so
distinctly to the conclusion that it had seen many
better circuses, that the Hippodrome couldn’t do
much better than depart.
** * *
“Uitlander” Samson, Boer-cusser-in-chief
for Melb. Argus, is just now employing his even-
ings m demanding berlud at St. George's Hall
and other places. Samson’s lecture on “The
Question of the Hour” is about the worst-c-lo-
cuted yarn that any beefy little jingo with a pane
of glass in his eye has ever been guilty of; but
Samson s artless off-handed manner of expressing
Him penal sentiments is rather good fun. South
Africa, as seen through his window pane, is a
place where the British Lion was intended by
Providence to go around seeking what it may de-
vour, and the noble animal is now about to
devour the 1 ransvaal and the Orange Free State
lhe trouble with the Boer would long ago have
been settled to the satisfaction of Samson and his
right-thinking audiences but for the sihful policy
of an old fool named Gladstone (groans), who was
a disgrace to the Empire and an insult to civili-
sation fortunately, there are high-minded states-
men like .Joe Chamberlain and Lord Salisbury at
tiio head of affairs just now ; also Cecil Rhodes is
waiting to avenge the defeat of the Jamieson raid,
and the blood of the Australian kangaroo is fairly
up. Many brave fellows will be required to die
in Britain s Great Cause (ominous silence among
the Melbourne military in the top gallery), owing
to the crafty tactics of the Boers, and other cir-
cumstances over which Samson has no control
but the relatives of the deceased will enjoy his
warmest sympathy, and so forth. The long ago
disaster,” at Majuba, is bound to be “wiped
out anyhow. Samson pauses on the summit of
Majuba Hill, as it were, to wipe a tear from his
other eye, whilst a young lady recites a set of
verses from the Argus. The damsel, Miss Edith
Berry, is a sister-in-law of the bard who manufac-
tured the verses so she probably knows the Him-
perial drift of them. Unhappily she fails to waft
their meaning over the footlights, and the im-
pression she leaves on the public mind is merely
that of a nice girl who inserted a piece of recitation
between two awful performances on the buo-le bv
an unseen instrumentalist. This bugler, one may
suppose, is expected to awa’ien the Majuba dead.
If the miscreant were shipped to South Africa his
efforts would probably be crowned with
success.
** * *
. “lolanthe,” the beautiful opera where-
mto Gilbert put Ins favourite humor, and Sullivan
scored his daintiest music ; “lolanthe,” the most
poetical, satirical, and whimsical-tiie most strictly
English, and least generally understood of the
txilbertian productions, was revived at Melh
Princess son Saturday, after a long absence. A
brilliant first-night audience may be presumed
to miss only oO per cent, of the unobtrusive points
in this case, a few people see all the points
others see none, whilst the large majority lau«j)
as often as they would if they were London law-
yers lolanthe” is the work of a confirmed
Londoner, who had been called to the Bar before
he began to write Bab Ballads and fantastic come-
dies. Gilbert adapted the scheme of his onera
partly from bis ballad of The Fairy Curate, partly
from his fairy comedy, “The Wicked World,”
and otherwise from his sense, of the ridiculous
in British politics, the LoVd Chancellor, cockney
park soldiers ajyl tn'e Dresden china figures on his
mantelpiece. He was bound to write “ lolanthe.”
ills little army of followers were eagerly
anticipating such a story, and when it came ill
IHS2 they found it just what they had been
educated to expect from Gilbert, To them it will
\ v , a y s 5 ee ™ incomparably superior to the tricky
ivlikado, or tile labored “Gondoliers,” never-
theless Australia, like America, will continue to
prefer “Mikado ” and “Gondoliers,” which carry
their humor mostly on the surface ail'd are just as
much at home in Germany as in the ilempire that
the sun never sets upon.
• * l
The BbLfcEim, having hitoitys thkeh a keeii
interest in tbs House of fleers and the learned
Woolsack, Mm girls with little Wings sprouting
~ ,” 1 ] 1 their shoulder blades, has always loved
lolanthe ” and is hot going back on the old love
merely because the present performance is much
weaker than several previous attempts. “lolanthe,”
for that matter was ever subject to weak spots in
the cast, and in one place this cast is positively the
strongest Australia has seen. Miss Dorothy Vane
(the present writer doesn’t Worship Miss Dorothy
as a rule) goes one better, or tWo or three better,
than her predecessors in the name part-. She
looks young and fresh, acts earnestly, ahd Sings—
well, not too badly, KemUttgham is good as the
tenor earl, and Howard Vernon seems to have re-
fined his treatmentof the Lord Chancellor. For the
rest, they are either vocally or numerically un-
satisfactory. The leading lady, Miss Perry, chh’t
sing very well, and baritone Pauli caii’t Act Very
wed except when he “acts the goat,” Arid both
1 hyllis and &re airtafceurs as regards
dancing. Jhe Fairy Queen’s music is positively
murdered by Mrs. Bracy, and the winged beVv of
Visions includes several unlovely mortals. Ves,
lolanthe ” Was a better ill-round show in the old
days at Melb. Rdyal, when front stalls were three
bob, aild the public—says manager Williamson
—expected less for their money. Blessed were
they who expected less—but no matter. “lolan-
the will run for 12 nights.
** * #
At Melbourne Bijou a fair-steed bill in-
cludes the clever Valdares, Wallace King, Baby
Powers, Whitburn, Howard and St. Clair, and
the painful humorist who plays many instruments
a ”? As described as “my papa” by his little
child, loin Costello, a tuneful character come-
dian with a considerable Fnglish reputation,
took the head of the bill on Saturday, and ap-
peared likely to take it much better when he
shakes off his nervousness. The new man got
through in a somewhat new style, and the fact
that he had visible doubts re his chance of knock-
ing a new audience was noted to his credit. On
the face of these misgivings, Costello can be set
down as an artist worth encouragement, The
Bulletin knows of a good many comic singers
who could never have been abashed by anything
less emphatic than a brick, and are now beyond
redemption for the reason that they were left to
sing on, undisturbed, in the days when the brick
ought to have colne down.
The brandy-bottle drama at the Royal
doesn’t take root and flourish, notwithstanding
its South African colour, and the final tableau
triumph of the British flag. Perhaps Melbourne
has had too much Boer and Ztilil of late, in which
case Holloway’s present production was hopeless
from the start. Any Way, the public indifference
shown to “A Soldier and a Man,” is a matter for
observation by the heroes who want free passes to
the Cape just now. On Saturday, the Holloway
Co. will try the effect of “The Merciless World,”
which is said to be startling—and regardless Of
expense.
At Poverty Point.
Cinquevalli’s benefit-matinee, at Melh. Bijou, which
drew the biggest crowd of the season, showed him in
sundry new juries and one new character. After dis-
posing of his usual “ turn,” the juggler came forward as
a frock-coated citizen and gave them a couple of mandolin
solos, accompanied at the Piano by his brother Pole,
Benno Scherek. The mandolin’s twang is hard, unsym-
pathetic music, however delicately produced, so Cinque’s
clever performance merely Went to show that he might
have made his mark in public as a stringed instrument
player if he hadn t kept his many banjos and things for
private use. Friend Scherek w'as then called upon to
hold a couple of razors edge-upwards? A narrow
strip of newspaper, formed into a loop, was hung Over
each razor blade, and a stick of about half the circum-
ference of the ordinary wash-house copper-stick was sus-
pended in the paper-loops. With a knock from another
stick Cinquevalli smashed the suspensionary stick with-
out doing any appreciable damage to the paper-loops, a
feat, or trick, that seems to require just the same knack
and Careful calculation as Sampson’s breaking of the two
Chains. In days of yore Cinquevalli did it before the
“Wales" family at Marlborough House, and Albert
Edward encored it nine times. Whether his Royal Nibs
was any more learned in the law of non-resistance after
the ninth stick had been broken Cinquevalli doesn't say.
Mrs. Doubleday, the “ discoverer” of Amy Castles and
several subsequent damsels from Bendigo, is to have a
benefit concert in Melbourne. Tim Bullhtin is informed
that Mrs. D.’s “ unselfish efforts on behalf of local talent
have embarrassed her financially,” but seeing that her
Castles venture was very profitable as far as it went and
that her other ventures would have been mueh more pro-
fitable if the new “ talent ” had justified the fuss she
made about, it, Mrs. D.’s friends do protest too much.
What do the general public owe to the amiable widow
who. for instance, introduced Lili Sharp to them as a
budding aspirant ?
Cinquevalli and his assistant, Walter Burford (who gave
a successful comic song in character at the benefit
matinee) got vociferous‘farewells from their Melbourne
admirers, but probably the orchestra didn’t feel sorry to
see the close of the “ star ” performance. Cinque, put in
some awfully hot business on his last day. In the after-
noon he carried the joke of the mock mishap with the
cannon-ball so far that he nearly fell over the footlights
in his effort to eatoh the hall, which was close to the
flageolet tootler’s skull at the time. In the evening he
actually dropped the ball, on the right side of the Foot
lights, and scared the house by pretending to lose his
balance, coming legs foremost down into the orchestra by
VVay of Uie piano. The sudden descent looked like an
accident until Cinque., standing with his hand behind
him, played a little tune on the piano,
Wilson Barrett to Archer : “ I'M going to take ttahiiet
off his stilts.” Archer: 44 Take care you don t land hittt
in the gutter, ’
“ heMUria" :• The Flyirig ■toWkt'hk ciihlfe Were tfo gS
krtotS touhd th'e other circilseS vV'e hive s'eeh irt Sydney.
Yelk, the ‘cHildrth ate clev'er, and so are the two
Mephistopheli and sonic other people, hut as to the riderjj
—I have rtfteri Seen as clever riding done by three or foqr
little girlS on a bare backed horse with strihgy-bark
reins.
... “ Timi WaS Ah Party prophet of Madame Cecily
StaUnldn’s success as a vocalist, when fifteen years ago I
heard her sing atari Auckland (M.L.) concert “See bow
it sparkles,” as 1 had never heard it sung before. In face
and figure she was the most charming of Australasian
songstresses.
“ Jep “ : Am doubtful if “Lord tju'efc ” is a coifiedV
with a moral or ait ihhhotality disguised in comedy. I
can instance dite bad effect of witnessing .the piece,
FrOni a S.vdhey bdarditig-hoiise the AmoPousi,y-in'cliH,ed
Slavey Went, saw, and nr'piignt back the 'trick 6f tit?
dOor-ribbon', whihh advised the gAy lord .that his old
naihe Was prepared to repeiv'e hini. For the next few
nights a greeh ribbon oh Mary’s door told the world that
Mary Was prepared to receive boarders. Mary’s place
how knows her not.
S.M. Hkrald (29/9/’99) theatrical ,ddve'rtis ! erheht Jt-
* Wanted to Buy, Second-hand ILAY, complete. 423
Crow n-st., Surry Hills.” hot-tpp-hifich-used company
will doubtless he required 16 perforin it.
, Mrs. SAra Lane, 77 - yeAr - old proprietress of the
Britannia Theatie, Hoxtoii, died Aug. 10.
the tightly-packed population of N.E. London went into
Mourning, and thj posternimgers' donkeys sported
crape hows on their narratives. In accordance with
genial Sara’s lAst particular wish, her body was taken to
the theatre, and the funeral closed her career as a show-
woman. The masses thereabout are mortal fond of tear-
ful spectacles, so the funeral was a sort of farewell benefit
tendered by the occupant of the private box to her loyal
admirers, who lavished grief anil woe and humble floral
tributes upon the occasion. The “Brit.” is a vast;
humanising and humorisilig institutioh—the riatiVes ttnoAr
it as theßritanni-erOxton-,”all inoiie w’ord. Atthe “Brit.”
oneproOUrts oranges, and beer, Aha. generous twopenny
sandwiches, As well as intellectual refreshment, and all
the meiUherS of the stock company are known to the
gods by tlAeii- Christian names, it is the Socialistic
home of British blood and thunder melodrama, the acting
being very plentiful and good of its kind, because the
audiences know' what they want and take care to keep
their friends, the mummers, right up to the mark. Yet
no old identity is ever too old for the “Brit’’ habitues.
They like to see the same faces year after year, especially
at pantomime time. Sara Lane herself was ah aflnUAl
panto, feature until her one-time witching tegs greW tOO
weak for the work, anil the nightly reception given to the
14st. manageress when she appeared as ihe Pearl of
Beauty, or Princess Pansy, Was something to remember.
Off the stage good old Sara played the part of Lady
Bountiful, disbursing a considerable portion of her
profits in alms and beanfeasts, assisting struggling shop-
keepers, and helping to keep all sorts of Hoxtoii pots otl
the boil.
In the case of a youiijg mail recently
charged, at East Maitland, N.N.W., with poison-
ing his illegitimate offspring, Mr. Justice Coheir,
cmhtriehtihg Ori the fact that the giH-niother’S
fa ill ily had calmly allowed immoral delations to
continue between the pair, Observed that there is
more need for missionaries in Our midst than iti
places where they risk their lives to very little
jrn'rposß. Unto which The Bulletin fras going
to cry Amen when it bethought it that, a§ a mere
Hebrew, Judge Cohen can’t be expected to see
things in a proper Kerristian light. Don’t we
strive to missionise his Honor’s o\Vh benighted co-
religionists?
Tlie Girls’ Grammar School question con-
tinues to furiously agitate the Brisbane com-
munity ; n,rtd the points are of interest to educa-
tionalists every where. What the trouble amounts
to is this: Without expert examination of the
school, and guided partly by the back-door com-
plaints of the under-mistresses, the trustees have
discharged at five minutes’ notice a head-tnistress
of tl te highest personal character, with high
scholastic references, specially chosen in Eng-
land for her position, under whose man-
agement the school overdraft has been reduced,
the number of private pupils has substantially
increased, the number of boarders has done like-
wise, and the school examination results have
been at least as good as previously and compare
well with the results of the Boys’ Grammar
School. The result is that if the head mistress
started a private school to-morrOw half her pupils
would follow her ; and the credit of the Grammar
School would fall smash. These are the facts
which testify so eminently to the administrative
capacity of Chairman Chief Justice Griffith and
his obsequious co-trustees.
He the recent fatal cycle-accident to young
Stockwell in Sydney, a Bulletin correspondent
points out as curious that while destruction thus
overtook a steady rider of trained nerve and
practised eye, “the scorchers escape, and the
suicidal woman rider dodges in and out among the
vehicles in crowded streets without accident.”
Another correspondent “would like to point out
that the main cause of cycle accidents within the
city is the antiquated, devil-may-care system
of Sydney traffic control. When the incompetent
’bus cad, and the harum-scarum cabby, and the
rest are improved off the face of the earth or
bound down to stringent laws in their progress
through the city, we shall hear of less accidents of
all kinds.” Since, however, there is no immediate
prospect of that total abolition of all other traffic
in favor of the wheel which this writer appears
modestly to suggest, The Bulletin has only to
repeat that the man who undertakes, on a bike, to
negotiate the congested traffic of a slippery-blocked
Sydney street takes his life in his hands. That he
doesn’t oftener lose it is a partly compensatory
result of the brazen nerve which enables him to
take the risk in the first place.


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
1 —'BUVKR OP —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER'S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Minins, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
S. ZOLLNER,
30-30 Druitt-st,, Sydney.
For Prices
and particulars apply
q Smoke the Latest g?
sjjSS VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR 1/-
n
C/CAffs
%
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant.—
this is one of I. and E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
• * * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc.C.E., is visiting the Cool.-
gardie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 240 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ’’ brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfleld Improved National and Ingersojl
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
The other week, the Wealth of Nations was
g-oing to astonish the world again. Now it has been
decided, “in view of the low return from ore treated
during the past three months, to temporarily suspend
crushing operations.”
BLEACHING POWDER, 38 35%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
93/109&
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv. Markwald,
178 Will'am Street,
Mki.bournk ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Gurrie-st., Adel. -, 27 Kagle-street,
Brisk.; Lambton Quay, Wellington , S.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maoriland Government proposes floating a
£1,000,000 loan. Of this £525,000 is for railways ; £105,0 0
for roads ; £50,000 for purchase of native lands ; £50,000
for “permanent works on goldfields”; £50,000 for schools ;
and £25,000 for defences. The destination of the balance
doesn’t appear to be decided as yet. At all events, lul y
£290,000 is for unproductive works fairly chargeable to
revenue, and the only difference between Seddon s
financing and Reid’s in this matter appears to be that,
while they are both on the same swindle, lteid carried the
swindle further than the other man.
* * * *
Premier Forrest reckons that the Westralian
revenue for the year to 30th June, 1900, will be £2,795,450,
expenditure, £2,010,303 ; surplus, £179,177. This is
assuming that the revenue will be about £310,000
more than it was last year, and the expenditure
about £77,000 more. If his figures pan out right,
the end of next June will see the accumulated de-
ficit reduced to about £03,000. During the last financial
year the loan expenditure was £1,023,943, or almost
exactly £6 per inhabitant. Not one of trie
eastern provinces in its maddest days of boom
ever quite managed that, and yet it was a
great sobering - down for Westralia—in the year
ended 30 6 ’9B the Forrest Government expended
loan money to the extent of £1,894,962 —about
£ll 14s. per head. And the total debt at 30th June, 1899,
was £10,372,824—ab0ut £6l per head. It was less than
£3O per head when Bigjohn came into power in 1890, so
that vast person has been going it sure enough. And the
totaldebt during his Premiership has been multiplied eight-
fold. In the last six years Westralia’s finances have seen
many ups and downs :
1894 Surplus .. A 24,859
1895 „ .. 189,212
1896 „ .. 34,832
1897 „ .. 3,298
1898 Deficit .. £502,165
1899 „ .. 60,546
1900 Estimated
Surplus .. 179,177
Revenue returns for September, 1599: —
Revenue for Sept., Increase as compared
1390. with Sept., IS9S.
New South Wales £-739,253 £48,013
Queensland ... 579,104 41,410
Westralia ... 241,736 23.397
Tasmania ... 79,122 10,370
Decrease as compared
with Sept., IS9S.
Victoria ... 684,770 1,427
The returns for the financial year in each province for
which returns are available (the painfully slow officials of
Maoriland have supplied no information as yet) are as
follows : They all cover a period of three months except
the Tasmanian figures. The island closes its financial
year on 31st December, so nine months of its year have
now gone by :
Increase as com-
pared with
Revenue. corresponding
period of 1898.
Queensland (3 months) £1,253,310 £131,870
Westralia ( ~ ) 648,800 54,490
Tasmania (9 months) 700,993 48,754
South Australia (3 months) 610,930 48,569
Victoria ( ~ ) 1,730,724 46,443
N. S. Wales ( „ ) 2,243,988 17,842
In proportion to population, the improvement is at about
the following rate per annum :
Increase of revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Westralia ..£l5 7
Queensland .. ... .. 11l
South Australia.. .. .. 10 6
Tasmanian 7 4
Victoria .. .. .. . 3 2
New South Wales .. .. 10
Things are improving all over Australia, but the improve-
ment is very unevenly distributed. The most remarkable
items are the renewed boom in the Westrrlian revenue —
though that is partly accounted for by increased taxa-
tion, and the great rise in Queensland, though that pro-
vince isn’t booming quite so vigorously as it was last
month, when the increase was at the rate of £1 Is. Bd.
per inhabitant per annum. Also, Tasmania’s boom keeps
up marvellously. Victoria has gone back somewhat.
And N.S.W., which, for the first two months of the
financial year, showed a considerable decline in revenue,
has now caught up its leeway, and exhibits an increase.
• * * *
Some months ago the Sydney Morning Herald
rose in its financial columns to point out the evils of
State banking compared with the private variety, as
instanced in the Slate-managed Bank of New Zealand,
and the privately controlled National Bank in the same
province. Speaking of the increase of 115,0(10 in the
year’s profits of the latter it asked sternly why the State-
managed concern “ couldn’t show as great pji increase of
net profits.” In its issue of 30/9/’99 The Bulletin ex-
ploded this mean and shabby fiction by publishing the
profits of both institutions for some years past, the figures
proving that the State concern had the larger increase
every year. The Herald rises in reply, and mumbles the
old bone over again in its issue of 3/10/’99 It says nothing
at all about its previous fiction, but it starts afresh
by alleging that the State-managed B.N.Z. only earns
£l2 2s. per cent, per annum on its shareholders’ funds
while the National earns £l3 18s. per cent. No mention
is made of the fact that the National has had eight years
in which to recover from its great disaster, and the
B.N.Z. only four. It isn’t mentioned, either, that the
8.N.Z., doing 2J times the business of the National in
advances and discounts, keeps three times as large cash
reserves and more than eleven times as large reserves in
cash and State securities, which add greatly to its
safety though they seriously reduce its profit-earning
capacity. The Herald finishes up Its (the B.N.Z.’s)
results do not compare favorably with those of the
private National Bank of N.Z. If they did, it
would probably be about the first instance wherein
a State - managed institution came out with results
equal to those obtained by one controlled by pri-
vate directors.” Seeing that the State - managed
8.N.Z., by the Herald’s own showing, earns much more
than twice as much per cent, as the Bank of Adelaide,
Bank of N.S.W., Royal of Melbourne, National of Tas-
mania, Bank of Australasia, Queensland National, or
Ballarat Bank, and /rain three to ten times ns much per
cent ns every other' privately-managed Australian bank
(the W.A. Bank only excepted), the Herald appears to
be even further from the truth this time than it was last.
• • * •
A terrific sensation impends concerning the
George-st. (Sydney) electric-tram. The Bulletin has it
on reliable authority that something very serious has gone
wrong with the works, and that the line isn’t likely to
start this year, much less this month.
According to the municipal authorities there
were oil August 81, 1899, 577 vacant dwellings and 173
vacant shops and stores in Sydney city. No mention is
made of vacant oflices, which are legion.
• • • •
In its issue of 9/9/’99, The Bulletin made some
more or less unfavorable remarks about the finances of
the United Australian Mutual Fire Insurance (Jo , of
Melbourne. It has since been blessed with sundry letters
from business people asking if the remarks referred to the
United Insurance Co. of Sydney. If these business people
can’t see from the dissimilarity of the names, as well as
from other things, that the remarks about the United
Australian Mutual Co., of Melbourne, don’t refer to the
United Co., of Sydney, they had better retire from busi-
ness. People who are unable to understand a small mat-
ter like that can’t be trusted with any business. The
business will come to a bad end. They had better take to
writing spring poetry.
* * • •
The half-yearly report of the Commercial Batik
of Tasmania has verified certain Bulletin prophecies of
longstanding. Not to go further hack, this paper re-
marked, in its issue of 2nd October, 1597
“The figures rouse a good deal of suspicion as to the
solidity of” the assets. There are very few banks whose
assets are quite solid which earn so little as this.”
On Ist October, 1898, it again observed
"The earnings are certainly very small, and they
vaguely suggest the idea that an overhaul of the securi-
ties might not be amiss.”
And on Ist April, 1899, this paper further remarked
" If its assets are quite sound and there is no heavy
depreciation which ought to be provided for but isn t, the
position of the Commercial of Tasmania looks a good deal
of a mystery. . . The great falling-away of the Com-
mercial looks inexplicable, and it is this odious compari-
son which suggests that a writing-down of the assets
might do a lot of good.”
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania now admits a neces-
sity for writing off £90,009, thus reducing the reserve
from £190,000 to £100,090, and the total shareholders
funds from £331,492 to £241,492. The Bulletin, as the
only paper which drew attention to the fact that the
Commercial of Tasmania had heavy losses unprovided for,
rises to point out that its words of prophecy have been
fully justified.
The profits for the past few years have been
June, 1892 .. £13,393
December, 1592 8,352
June, 1893 .. 6,589
December, 1893 5,586
June, 1894 .. 4,345
December, 1894 4,378
June, 1895 .. 4,910
December, 1895 3,700
June, 1896 .. £4,199
December, 1896 3,833
August, 1897 ..
(8 months) 4,969
February, 1898 3,463
August, 1898 .. 3,823
February, 1899 3,885
August, 1899 .. 4,519
The £4619 is net profit, after providing ±lOOO to write
down bank premises, so there is a very considerable
improvement. It is equal to ±3 14s. lOd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ written-down funds (capital
±141,402 and reserve ±100,000), which looks much more sol-
vent than the t 2 6s. Ud. per cent, per annum earned last
half-year. On the evidence of the earnings, it appears as
if the provision for losses was sufficient, or not very far
from it. And the management, with lamentable prompti-
tude, raises the dividend from 5 to 6 per cent., which
absorbs ±4457 (dividend ±4245 ; dividend-tax, ±212). The
very small balance of ±62, added to amount previously on
hand, leaves 1980 to carry forward. In view of the very
heavy losses which have just been acknowledged, the
management would have been much wiser to keep the
dividend at 5 per cent, for a few years longer, and set to
work at rebuilding the damaged reserves. The shareholders
of the Commercial of Tasmania had many glorious years
of 15 and 20 and even 224 per cent, dividends, and in the
very worst times of the slump they have always got
5 per cent. Investors whose 5 per cent, is as regular as
the sunrise call for no special sympathy. The business
shows a considerable improvement allround, and with
economical management the institution should retrieve
its losses in a few years. But it is no use hankering too
violently or too suddenly after the old big dividends.
They aren’t likely to be honestly earned again in the time
of anybody now living.
* * * *
The balance-sheet of a curious little institution,
the Sun Permanent Building Society, of Melbourne, drifts
along this way. This concern has about s 20,000 worth of
assets at book value. Their real value is unknown, but
during the vear ended 31st July, 1899, they yielded a total
return of ±366, equal to ±1 16s. 7d. per cent, per annum,
so probably they are worth about ±6OOO at present prices.
The ±366 above-mentioned was all the society’s income,
and its outgoings were ±438 —±292 for interest on deposits
and overdraft, and ±146 for working expenses. Conse-
quently it went £72 to the bad. The bank overdraft is
±994, and the interest on this (£B5) is evidently at the
very steep rate of 8 per cent. If this liability could be
paid off by any means, and the interest be saved,
the Sun should show a profit of £l3 a year,
which would enable it in time to write off the apparent
depreciation of ±12,000 or so, and become an affluent
institution once more, but there is no visible prospect of
that just now. The Sun Permanent Building Society has
±11,020 capital and ±6609 deposits at 3 per cent. It hangs
out, by arrangement, in a corner of another society’s
office, and it has the loan of part of a clerk at ±1 per
week. The directors get ±9 a year among them ; con-
sidering what they have brought their institution to, they
ought to work for nothing, and also pass the bell-topper
round when they meet and raise a few shillings subscrip-
tion for the society. Altogether, the Sun Society is a
pleasant little curiosity to hear of now and then.
* * * •
The purchase of the Eastern business of the
Straits Marine Insurance Co. of Singapore, by the South
British Insurance Co. (Maoriland), is a new departure.
Hitherto it has almost always been a ease. of Australasian
companies being bought up by foreign rivals. Whether
the South British is well advised in trying to do a big
business in the land of the mongrels and the depreciated
mixed coinage is another question. An office whose
dividends range from 10 to 174 P er cent. appears to be
doing well enough without wandering far afield in quest
of strange risks.
« » • *
The People’s Prudential Benefit Society, of
Sydney, a little proprietary affair doing a mixed business
(industrial, accident and sick benefit) in the small bye-
ways of life assurance, presents its third balance-sheet
for the year ended 31/8/99. Results, so far, are as
follows:
Total Out-
Income Expenses Claims goings Balance
1897 .. ±8,611 ±3796 ±3966 ±7,762 £849
1898 . 11,670 4646 6173 10,819 851
1899 .. 11,782 4674 6935 10,609 1173
£32,063 £13,116 £16,074 £29,190 £2873
The People's Prudential has paid no dividends as yet, and
the balance (±2873) represents its accumulated assurance
fund. What its liabilities to policy-holders may be is an
unknown quantity till the actuarial valuation comes along,
but as most of the business is of the sick benefit order
the liabilities are presumably small. Taking one thing
with another, it looks as if the obscuremiscellaneous in-
surance business had considerable possibilities in it. The
Society has a paid-up capital of £4llO, and against that
the principal item is goodwill, £3500, that being the sum
for which the original business was purchased from one
Mulligan, its founder. This will obviously have to be
written off sooner or later —at least it ought to be, but
apart from this matter the ex-Mulligan society appears
to be doing well enough.
* * * *
Last year’s work at Broken Hill, as set out by
the local inspector of mines Ore raised, 1,139,873 tons ;
waste removed from open-cuts (exclusive of ore), 360,756
cub yds. ; timber used (practically all sawn Oregon, im-
ported from ’Murka), 13,066,945 super, ft. ; dynamite and
other high explosives used, 400,9601 b.; powder, &c.,
used, 80,0001 b. ; machinery and plant used on the mines
(exclusive of seaboard works), £401,800 ; value of gross
metal contents of ore, exclusive of zino, £6,368,211; vnlue
of material shipped as zinc product, £84,824. To which
may be added—lives lost, 10; accidents, serious but not
fatal, 10 ; ditto, less serious, 56 ; number of men employed,
6950 (exclusive of those at the seaboard works).
m • * *
It is a standing grievance at Broken Hill that
the official reports of silver-lead production show net
value no*, whereas formerly, when the smelting was
done on the mines, the value was returned gross. In con-
sequence the province’s statistics show a reduction in the
value of the output from £'3,484,739 in 1891 to £1,044,777
in ’9B, although more metal is now produced than at any
time hitherto. Though the official statistics show the
“aggregate value of silver, silver-lead and ore” last year
to have been £1,644,777, the local mining inspector re-
turns the gross value of the silver and lead in the ore at
£’5,368,211 ; while the total value of the recovered metals
(apparently exclusive of zinc) was £3,447,728. The last
two sets of figures, by the way, show approximately the
enormous loss of metal under the present methods of
treating the sulphide ores.
m * • •
The Tasmania Co., Beaconsfield, has had
another good crushing; 2170 tons yielded 27120 z. gold
valued at £10,499. This co.’s reduction plant is most'
complete. The Luhrig system of concentration (vanners,
etc.) was introduced nearly five years ago, and as an
adjunct to the 65 head of stmps continues to save large
quantities of valuable pyrites. Full particulars of Luhrig
machinery may be obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill. An ex-
perimental plant is erected near Melbourne for treating
small parcels from two to five tons.*
* » • *
Dear Bulletin.—Anent the taradiddles of
“ John Turon ” in a recent issue : Where he does not
absolutely strangle trufh, he puts up statements that
would shock Ananias. Here are a few slabs of fact for
“ J.T.” to gnaw 'The Turon capital is £48,000, of which
£12,000 remain unissued. The working expenses average
£45 weekly, not £6O. The dredges, of which three addi-
tional are under construction, are paid for out of the
capital in hand. Interest in the shape of divs. will have .
to be paid on, so far, £36,ooo—not £lOO,OO >as scornfully
suggested. Whilst working, the earnings of No. 1 dredge,
have averaged about 40oz. weekly. Any Molyneau-x- ■
man will tell you this is A.l, considering the dredge is
only feeling its way to the good ground —Golden Point.
You can’t drop a dredge like a bucket from a boat l ight
on the spot where the cream is concentrated. Hartley-
and Riley’s, which lately put up the record of 7860 z. for
a week’s run, could only secure at the start from 10 to
15oz. The Turon has 15 miles of liver. With four
dredges at work, winning no more than 40oz. each per
week, shareholders will have a real soft thing that should
make them shake hands with themselves; I’m not a
shareholder; wish I was. —Maori Tyke. [But mustn’t
interest he largely reckoned on market values ? These
shares have been above £3; they are now a little above
£2, and people who bought will reckon accordingly. £45
per week for expenses is a very low estimate —lower than
the average in Maoriland, where the conditions are in the
main ideally favorable.—Ed.B.]
* * * *
Opal, which so far as N.S.W. is concerned, is
mined only at White Cliffs, is now fifth on the list of the
provinces mineral products, standing between copper
and tin. The product of the latter has fallen from
£415,171 in ’B9 to £60,600 in ’9B. The year’s opal is offi-
cially guessed to have been worth £80,090, which locally
is said to he under the mark.
• * * *
The Insurance News, London, writes: “The
whole position of the Colonial Mutual, as revealed by the
latest report, is calculated to give the utmost satisfaction
and confidence to the members.*
» * * *
Associated Tin and Diamond Mines, lingha,
Ns. W.—£lo,ooo in 1000 shares of £lO each. Sydney D.T.
savs: “The good feature is that this property has not
been Thk Bulletin adds that the bad
feature is the name “ Associated,” obviously apeing the
Westralian mine of that name. No mine that calls itself
after another mine deserves to be believed in. There have
been at least 20 Mt. Morgans all over Australasia, hut up
to date never a second Mt. Morgan. There are Great
Boulders already infesting Australian mining camps, alas
in name only—and so t’will ever lie. A mine hard up for
a name is usually a very hard-up mine.
• ■» * *
Gibraltar mine in N.S.W. —co. in London —is
producing as usual over IOOOoz. a month. Shares, 3s.
Less than two years ago they were £3. Always sell before
the crushing. All going in expenses.
• • * •
Blayney Mining and Smelting Co., N.S.W.
Big things told of this every week by every Sydney news-
paper. One that the lode is over 30oft. wide ; another,
several more water-jackets are going tip ; a third, that
Newton’s shaft has been knocked through revealing a
tremendously big lode, and that yellow ore is coming out
of the bottom levels. A fourth yarn is that large quanti-
ties of ore are being sent to Lithgow for refining pur-
poses. A few facts are necessary. Expended to dale
over £20,000, anil has to show for it a well-equipped mine
opened up to 2i)oft. Ore bodies numerous, with poor ore
and hanks between, none 300 ft. wide yet found ; a low-
grade proposition, averaging, perhaps, between 3 and 4
per cent, copper, easily worked, and fairly good smelting
ore. Furnace averaging over 100 tons a day and
producing about one ton of 20 per cent, matte
per hour. In less than a month’s run has pro-
duced over 500 tons matte containing about 100
tons of copper. Gold and silver variable, hut, taking
the mine as a whole, not an important factor in the pro-
position. Owners determined to put up another £15,000,
bringing'the total to £36,000. Objects, to bring the
railway into the feeding-floor, or a tramway from the
present railway-siding up to the feeding-floor ; to build
hot-blast stoves for pyritic smelting ; to erect a convert-
in»-plant, or to change theoid reverberatories into refining-
furnaces, and, above all, to enlarge and sink the main
shaft another 200 ft., so as to thoroughly open up the
mine in the sulphide zone. As might be expected, all
this monev is not coming from Sydney ; fully two-thirds
of it hails from Melbourne and Adelaide.
• • * •
The Austral Otis Co., of South Melbourne, are.
very busy, and have, amongst other machinery, orders
for two large Compound Duplex Cyanide pumps for the
Great Boulder Proprietary Co, and also a large compound
Duplex Plunger Pump for the Mt. Lyell Co.’s water ser-
vice and the iron work for their new coke ovens. They
have also in hand the building of several Bucket and
Suction Dredges for this and the neighboring colonies,
and a number of steam engines, &c., for various purposes
and a whole section of the works is kept employed in the
construction of the new Wilfley table.*
• • * *
Royal Standard : A strange little gold-mine,
because, though in N.S.W., it has paid many small divs.
It is passing through another tribulation period : has sunk
over 300 ft. below the level of the tunnel, mostly on the
reef, with little or no gold, hut, having just passed from
the sandstone into slate, and all the gold above having
been got in slate, manager and shareholders are more
hopeful. A very small but heretofore very consistent
vein ' , . . .
Mt. Drysdale and El Dorado, two N.S.W.
mines in the far west, look both very sick.
• * * *
Gallynvont, N.S.W., 400 tons for 2470 z., and
the tribntors report that “the mine is looking better
than ever.” Alas! The market for this mine is looking
much worse than ever. Last year there were buyers in
London at 15s. There are now sellers there at 15d.
The Otago dredging boom “continues without)
sign of abatement.” There is, however, considerable
abatement in N.S.W. dredging boom sinoe the Turon
clean-up which, though not “ too bad," recalls the text
“Blessed are they who expect little for they shall not
be disappointed.”
« * • •
The Lloyd Copper Co., of London, having taken
over Burraga (N S. W.) copper-mine, started hy increasing
miners’wages 15 per cent., which set the ball rolling
generally. Wood-carters and ot hers have demanded and
have got increases. Altogether a higher scale of wages
has been adopted with a view of bringing more skilled
labor into the place. Plans are being laid down for the
complete equipment of the mine. Main shaft straightened
and enlarged and mine getting ready to maintain a bigger
output. About to treat a large consignment of ore at
Blayney Smelting Works before determining size and
character of its own reducing plant.
* • • •
A concentrating-mill has been built at the Burra
copper mine, idle these 20 years, to re-treat the old slag
dump. A trial run was made last week. The Martins
and Mays, the Gawler(S. A.) machine-men, have the enter-
prise in hand —the Burra co. is far too sleepy to touch the
thing: itself. If anybody wants an illustration of the
danger of allowing co’s to secure the freehold of mines, he
can get it at the Burra seven days in any week.
* * * *
Q. mining items : — Gvmpie 2 S. Gt. Eastern,
7i4 tons for 19260 z., 2s. (id. div. ; S. Glanraire and Monk-
land, 986 tons, 12000 z., 9d. div. ; Oriental and Glanmire,
1108 tons, 5520 z. ; Q. Menzies, 240 tons, 5160 z,, shares
tottery ; Raub, 2250 tons, 1600 oz.
Stanthorpe, on Q. border, is resurrecting some
ancient tin-shows.
Charters Towers market slack. Some results :
Brilliant and St. George, 13:12 tons, 15300 z., Is. 3d. div. ;
Papuans, 380 tons, 3710 z.—a very long lane ; Brilliant,
2382 tons, 24480 z. (two crushings), 3d. div. ; Kellys, 540
tons, 6320 z., 6d. div. ; Band of Hope, 437 tons, 6480 z.
* V * »
North Lon" Tunnel (Vie.) started to crosscut
for the Long Tunnel lode at the 2500 ft. level, oi 800 ft.
below where the shoot of gold was got in the parent
mine. Upwards of £lOO,OOO is said to have heeh spent by
this co., and great interest will be taken in the result of
the crosscutting.
* * * *
Mt, Lyell, Australasia's greatest copper-mine,
for the month : 815 tons of copper, 67,725 ozs. silver, and
2430 ozs. of gold. Average about same as usual.
» » • *
Some substantial Westralian this year’s figures.
Lake View Consols gives another £1 div. —£250,000. At
this rate L.V. divs. will equal those of all the Vic. mines
put together. It has paid to date this year £625,000.
Every £ div. represents a return of the whole capital.
Ivanhoe total for this year, 200,000 ; Golden Horseshoe,
£150,000 ; Great Boulder, £167,500; Hannan’s Brownhill,
£123,750. Associated mines, £45,000. What on earth is
the mine doing with ail its gold ? A financial earthquake
will take place in connection with this concern shortly.
Mines producing less than half its gold are paying about
double in divs. Great Boulder Main Reef,’£l2,ooo, G.B.
Perseverance £8750, North Boulder 18236. Total
£1,277,736. Total to date, excepting a few small divs.
paid by the Lake View and Ivanhoe, when they were
“ Colonial ” concerns, £2,492,720. 1
The Westralian market continues to slump as
the Transvaal war approaches. The big mines are only
maintaining fair values. Ihe “ eats,” of which there are
many, have been practically knocked out. Many were
very low in London when the mail Left. A few prices :
Arrow Brownhill, Is. 3d. ; Carlyle Consolidated, Is. Gd. ;
Fingall Reefs Extended, 3s. ; General Gordon, 10s—this
thing was supposed to have been wiped out long ago, and
the quotation must be a purely nominal one. Gladiator,
2s. Gd. ; Cement claims, 6d. ; Gordon Ridge Proprietary,
buyers 3d., sellers 9d. ; Hannan’s 100 acres, buyers 6d.,
sellers Is. Gd., no sales: Hannan’s Consols, sellers Is.,
buyers nil ; Hawk’s View, Is. 6d.; Kalgurli Great Western,
ls.‘; Mawson’s Reward, sellers 0d„ no buyers ; Menzies’
Crusoe, 35.; Menzies’ Golden Age, Is. ; Menzies’O’Driscoll,
2s Gd. : Menzies’ United. Is. 6d.; Mt. Charlotte, 2s. 6d. ;
N.W. Associated, 2s. ; Phoenix, 3s. Gd. ; Princess Royal
(Cue), 3d., sellers 9d.; Sugarloaf Cement Leases, 3d.
There are a lot more, but these are enough to show the
deadness of “ cats ” that were very lively two or three
years ago. *
Norman Grodkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * .*
Verdant persons buying Kalgoorlie shares a.t
ruling rates for divs. should abstain from certain calcula-
tions—if desirous of escaping paralysis. The market
assessment of Great Boulder, for instance, is about 3)4
millions—moderate, doubtless, in comparison with others
on same belt. On basis of Gd. quarterly, shareholders are
returned capital in 20 years—a monthly div. would give it
in about 6)4 years. Sixpence monthly needs about ,18jJ
tons gold annually, 1)4 tons a month, after working costs
and paying London directors, &c. The Boulder is a big
mine, but can it do this for 6)4 years ?
* * * •
Block 45, Hannan’s: “ Manager reports lode
sft. wide, assaying SJdwts.” Yet a few weeks ago it had
a market-value of over £2so,ooo—since slumped to about
half. Has next to nothing to recommend it—except that
the first telluride specimen was found in it.
• • * •
There is a lot of money in the gas-business.
Consider some dividends declared within the last few
months: Ballarat (Vic.) Gas Co., 14 per cent. ; Hobart
(Tas.)co., £8 17s. 9d. per cent. ; Launceston (Tas.)co., 4
per cent. ; South Australian Gas Co. (Adelaide), 12 per
cent. ; Sydney Gas Co., 15 per cent. ; Melbourne co., 8
per cent.; Brighton (Vic.), 5 percent..; Williamstown
(Vic-X 8 per cent. ; Townsville (Q.), in per cent. ; Cast.le-
maine (Viet), <5 per cent. ; Auckland (M.L.), 15 per cent. ;
Bendigo (Vic.), 6 per cent. ; Footscra.v (Vic.), 7 per cent. ;
Maryborough (Q.), 6 per cent. ; Rockhampton (Q.), pre-
ference 9 per cent., ordinary 7 per cent. ; Brisbane (Q.), 9
per cent. ; Tamworth (N.S.W.), 10 per cent. ; Wellington
(M.L.), 10 per cent. ; Christchurch (M.L.), 10 per cent. ;
Geelong (Vic.), 12)£ per cent.


d
ft *
A NEW DEPARTURE
gn Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
order Trade.
SBT We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
(°^T)
SYDNEY.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
24-plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Brisbane Branch: 34 QUEEN STREET.
Melbourne Agents: CRAVEN & CO., 179
COLLINS STREET.
THE NAME
Narrii)gtoi)
Is inseparable from everything good and novel in
photographic Jfppliances
MATERIALS.
We are Experts in our business, and the benefit
of our EXPERIENCE and JUDGMENT will
be yours by purchasing from us.
NarriQgtoQ $ Co. Ltd.
Merchants in Photographic Supplies,
66 King-street, Sydney.
Jp<U~ Agents in all the Colonies.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
Dr. Fraser, victim in the recent Melbourne
tragedy, seems to have been the sort of husband
known as a “ beast ” among the hysterical sex in
general. He regarded his wife’s tantrums with a
scornful eye. When the neighbors, on one occa-
sion, heard screams and smashes next door and
came rushing in to see what was up, they found
Fraser seated at his languid ease in a big chair.
There was nothing to worry about, he said : his
wife had merely thrown the lamp at him, and they
would observe the fragments in the corner of the
room. The masterly indifference of the man
being a constant reproaeli to his rampageous
spouse, she shot him in the hope of wounding his
feelings. More failure. When she cried at the
hospital-- 4 *O, don’t die —for our child’s sake,”
the perforated cynic informed the lady that he
would endeavor to live for his own sake.
* • * *
The experience of Dr. Fraser aforesaid,
who survives for many days, apparently
in good health, with his wife’s bullet in
HE WASN’T A MOTHER.
S HE: “ Ah, you don't know what it is to be a mother, or you wouldn’t dislike the little darlings so !”
REGINALD (elevating his eyeglass after an omino'us silence) : “ Weally, I — ah —have not had that
pleashah !”
his brain, reminds the writer of an old Ballarat
instance. Two Cousin .Tacks were engaged sink-
mg a shaft on the old Indicator m the East when
one accidentally drove about two inches of cold
pick into his mates brain ; whereupon the latter,
witli the pick still in his head, looked up sadly,
and said in the hurt tone of a man whose corn had
been trodden on ; ‘ Here, I say, Jack, that s too
dashed had, you know. There is a professional
man in a Vic. provincial town who habitually
sneers at brain injuries with the same formula.
“ Pooh, pooh! sir, my head was not worth a
damn till I had half my brains kicked out by a
co lt.”
A bullet in the brain is popularly supposed to
mean instant death, but long survival after ap-
parently fatal brain-injury is rather common.
Present writer was talking to a surgeon in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, years ago, when a man who
had just shot himself right through the head in
the Domain, walked up and quite calmly asked
for the doctor’s assistance. The patient died next
day. Then there is the case of Mr. Norton, the
N.S. Wales P.M. who lived and was perfectly
sane and conscious for many months after being
shot through the brain by iiis friend, the hand-
some Mrs. Wilkie. And there are many other
instances.
♦ * ♦ *
The Fraser shooting case became mixed
up with a difficult legal point. Dr. Fraser was
lingering in the hospital with a bullet in his head,
and the doctors were of opinion that his only
chance lay in an attempt at extraction. Fraser,
however, refused flatly to have his head interfered
with. All he wanted, he said, was to get up and
put his clothes on, and have a smoke in the
garden. Under ordinary circumstances, a patient
has an absolute right to refuse to be operated on,
but the Fraser case was not ordinary, and
the doctors approached the Attorney-General
for advice. They pointed out that if Fraser died
his wife would probably be hanged, whereas if he
survived she probably wouldn’t, therefore Fraser,
by refusing to be operated on, was possibly killing
another person besides himself. Under these cir-
cumstances they wanted to know if they could
operate without his consent, if necessary. Isaacs’s
decision was that they had a moral right to
operate, but he appears to have skipped like a
smiling child over the difficult legal aspect of the
question. Just then, too, the patient withdrew
his objection, and as the operation was a failure
after all, the law point ceased to have any further
connection with the ease. All the same—what is
the law in the ease, or is there any law?
Revs. A. Holden (Wesleyan) and J. Car-
ron (R.C.) have volunteered for service in the
Transvaal as chaplains to the Victorian forces,
The goodly Italian brigands who robbed their
victims under the shadow of the cross have repre-
sented the height of shocking inconsistency to the
resp ectable British mind, and yet the Britisher
never starts out on a pillaging expedition without
his chaplain. The vice of the people is the vice
Q f u od _
* * * *
, . , ,
A. number of Victorian women have volun-
teered to accompany the local contingent to S.
LOST JOY.
SUSIE: “ W’y, Jim,, what’s wrong wid liddle
Lillee? ”
J IM: “ Oh, him! ’E’s bin en made er bloomin’
error—swallowed ’is taffy ’fore ’e chewed it !”
Africa as nurses. “This should encourage the
men to roll up,” says a Mildura paper. If these
insinuations are scattered about The Bulletin is
willing to wager that there will be more nurses
than men.
* » » •
An Australian, whose letter from Johan-
nesburg is printed by a Sydney paper, complains
of the “clumsy impudence” of the Transvaal
postal-authorities in opening letters in transit.
Well, the thing may be done more clumsily in the
Transvaal than elsewhere, but done it is every-
where (respectable Britain not excepted) in similar
circumstances. The value of the writer’s observa-
tions is badly discounted, anyhow, by the assertion
that the Boers are “ curs.”
* * * •
This young country is going to make an
awful young ass of itself over the Boer business.
On second thoughts The Bulletin is inclined to
withdraw _ its prediction that the Aus-
tralians will be kept in the background when
there is hard fighting to be done. It may occur to
the boss Britisli warriors that the bush-bred swash-
bucklers from “down under” are good men to deal
with the unorthodox tactics of the Boers, in which
case we shall presently be raising (at Government
expense) colossal monuments to the memory of our
deceased contingent.
* * • •
Description of a woman voter on a Maori-
land electoral roll: “ Jane Smith, domestio ser-
pent.” The compositor sets up many a true word
by accident.
* * * *
Chief Justice Madden hates typewriting
and shorthand, and never misses an opening
to fire off a jibe at either. Still, even His
Honor’s prejudices can be worn away. Most
of the legal documents that come into court
now-a-days ate typewritten, but the other
day an indictment in a grand-jury case
was handed up to the haughty Chief
engrossed in the good old “writer’s”
style, as required by law. The Judge
looked at the document fora few seconds
and then fluttering it at the tips of his
fingers said, “ Really, Mr. Dash, can
the Court not have a more presentable
and legible indictment than this?”
Mr. Dash smilingly informed the
Court that the document was ‘en-
grossed according to law. “ Humph,”
snorted the C.J., “ with all these
flourishes and cross-flourishes the
thing is a veritable Chinese puzzle,
calculated to dazzle the strongest
eyesight.'’ Evidently the absurdity
of his beastly Toryism in this direction
is beginning to dawn on s’onah.
The other day an ex-bank-manager
who has been “called,” and was going
aw a y to give light to the darkness of
heathen souls in China, told an Evening
Herald (Melb.) reporter that he worked
along very easily. Never troubled his
h,ead ; about coin. It always came along
in the.nick of time. Thus he was once in
Mapriland and wanted to get to Hobart.
Hadn’t; the. passage money (A 3), but had
any amount of faith in th,e Lord. So he
packed, up and went aboard the steamer and
chose his bunk. Just as the boat was
about to start a gentleman turned up and.
handed him an, envelope. Opened it and;
found £2 12s 6d, The Lord had; sent it.
But the narrator forgot to tell the scribe
how he faked up the balance of 7 s - 6d.
Doubtless thaf fell into his pouch while he
lay heaving up his innards, and imploring
Heaven to go one better, and send along
a, stomachic.
A woebegone person;, accused 5 of larceny
at Port Melbourne, told the Bench of the 4s.
found on him and alleged to have been, stolen —
“ Two reporters gave it to me.” That settled the
case. Six months.
“ Constance Clyde” : Be “Her-
mes ” and his proposal to make the
illicit child the child of the State, also
the want of logic of those who worry
over the decrease in population and yet
lament when the unmarried mother
kindly undertakes to make up the de-
ficiency : There was a time in English
history when something of “Hermes
scheme was in force. Towards the end
of the last century there was an interest-
ing reaction from the severe poor laws
first put in force during the Tudor period.
In those days outdoor relief was the rule ;
the wages of laborers were added to out of
the poor rates —wl,iich was solely for the
employers, poor parents obtained a dona-
tion for every child they brought into the
world, and if the child was illegitimate the
mother was paid somewhat more! Parent.
hood being found such a remunerative em-
ployment, it is not surprising if women soon
ceased to trouble about any other. It sounds
very nice to reward those who present the
State with its future soldier, artisan, &e. ;
but, after all, they don’t do it to please
the State; if we remunerate a man for
giving us a citizen that is a credit to the
community, on the same basis when his
child is hanged, or otherwise behaves in a manner
calculated to cause expense, the State ought to
come down on the father with the bill.
Will Australians—and cornstalks in par-
ticular —kindly fix an eye on this item, from Syd.
ney Telegraph :
The proposal is to incr, ase the salary (of Sydney Town
Clerk) to at least £lOOO, and it is thought that to secure
a gentleman with the qualifications which it is supposed
that the occupier of the position must possess, it will be
NECESSARY TO LOOK OUTSIDE TIIE COLONIES.
What is the good of the Australian being the salt
of the earth in theory, if, when it comes to prac-
tice, the poor wretch hasn’t brains enough to be
even a town clerk ?
* * * *
S.M. Herald advt. :
iyrATRIMONY. Highly-respectable young Man
f'-*- (Britisher), steady, little capital, des. acquaint-
ance, nice, amiable, dom., sup. Girl (20), rather fair,
robust, irreproachable, little money if possible.
Brunswick, Herald.
If this fastidious young man gets only half the
perfections he asks for, he will be remarkably
lucky. If he gets any of them he will have no
reason to complain. Another :
YyANTED, by a single man, a highly-respect. Wife
*' without eneum. E.D.M., Botany View Hotel,
N’tn.
Here is a combination of modesty and modera-
tion. A man with only
to recommend him
line at the ready-made
his singleness
draws the
family.
A CONVINCING
REASON.
“ Didn't she say why she broke off the engagement? "
“ Oh, yes. She said wedding-cake always gave her-
the toothache ”
BEFORE MARRIAGE.
They sat in the park in the sighing dark,
And he vowed for her to live ;
And from 6 till 8 he muzzled the great
Australian adjective.
AFTER.
No sentence so small, and no phrase at all,
To speak could he contrive,
But out in a spate of gore rushed the great
Australian adjective.


Cricketers going for records would do well
to try Zetz Spa Water—exhilarating. The real
Elixir of Life compounded in Nature’s laboratory.
Try a Zetz and lemon. See that Zetz is on the
bottle.*
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Galcrum, and are now prepared to enter into
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices„ , _
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... LI 5 O
Automatic-Generator for Household Use,'Piping,
Brackets, complete ... ••• l** 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 010 o
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 2 U
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send'for Illustrated Catalogue.
Sore Throat.
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL of London,- England,
are the only Makers.
“CoNDY’S I~LUID”can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
§»y Oil Cake
FOR all STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recoumienOed.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throng hout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
i B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
HAlf-sICK J' is t s ' enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. la.z.v, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
ALL ACHES AND PAINS
CURED . . .
By Writing: to
F. Senior, Chemist,
246 George Street. Sydney.
Three steamers on the Australian coast,
the Tanais, Buninyong, and Glaucus, all lost their
propellers last week while at sea. These acci-
dent*, so closely following a crop of similar ones,
including the well-advertised Perthshire and
Waikato, must have a marked effect on the
coastal passenger trade. Considering the various
dang- rous and lonely positions in which the dif-
ferent steamers have been disabled, it is little
short of miraculous that no terrible disaster has
happened, and that the Waikato’s three-months*
drift has been the worst experience.
* * * *
Should steamship propellers continue to
break at the present rate", in the very near future
no sane person will ever dream of taking passage
in anything but a twin-screw boat.
J ** * *
A word attributed to George Reid : “ Five
years ago people said that I would never succeed
as a politician. Well, I’ve shown them that I
could. Now, they say I’ll never succeed as a
lawyer. Well, 111 show them that I can. And
Georgy-Porgy made a very successful opening for
his unpolitical career in the Giblett case. With
the aid of a bright junior, he practically saved his
client from hanging; for Giblett would assuredly
have been convicted of murder had his case
been badly handled. The ex-Premier’s cross-
examination of the prisoner’s lady-love was very
skilful and effective, and his address for the
prisoner simply exhausted the arts of oratory.
In the Giblett case ten of the jury, at once, said
“ manslaughter ” ; one of the other two wanted to
argue the point, but he only had one listener.
The ten prepared to turn-in for the night, when
an agreement was arrived at —manslaughter.
Judge G. B. Simpson deferred sentence. The
jury expected Giblett would get four or five
years ; his Honor gave him 16 ! The same Judge,
by the way, some time ago reserved his decision
for the Full Court in a divorce petition against
Giblett. The point was, what constituted con-
structive cruelty ? The Full Court found for the
petitioner.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Amen to your remarks
about George-st. ’busses. It’s simply cruelty to
animals to ride on a penny ’bus, drawn by what,
for obvious reasons, are known as “ whip-and-
water ” horses. Why not “ horse ” tfi® ’busses with
mules ? The gentle mule you can neither bully
nor coax. Twist his tail half off and he smiles,
stroke his back and—he caves your ribs in. He is
the most insouciant and philosophic of beasts.
Wherefore, I say, put him in the ’bus. — Jep.
* * * •
Please don’t all speak at once ! Sydney
advt. :
A CHRISTIAN, well acquainted i\ith the originals,
and with the Lord’s Second Coming, would un-
fold this Truth in an inland town, where food and
shelter during the time were provided for him and
his wife.—Parousia, Herald.
* * * *
Sydney, as The Bulletin has many times
remarked, badly wants a lot more police. The
other evening before dark a very prominent civil
servant was, while walking near Circular Quay
with his two daughters, knocked down and robbed
of his gold watch and chain by a man who got
clear away. Purse-snatching is too common to be
worth talking about —and no wonder, considering
that present writer, while travelling in a tram
t’other afternoon with 14 women, noticed that
each of them, with the exception of one poverty-
stricken-looking old dame, held a purse in her
hand.
Lemuria : Have
often heard that girls
are a great attraction
in business places, as
they “draw the men.’’
Tills has always seemed
ridiculous, considering
that any man can stop
by the Post-office any
day and see more girls
in a minute than he can
remember in six months.
Yet I suppose it is true
enough. The other day
in Pitt-strcet, Sydney,
I found the roadway
crowded with men
there was no getting
along. So I made in-
quiries as to the nature
of the accident, or the
jrime, but could learn
nothing for some time,
till a man near to the
window shouted to the
others, “ I was here
first, and this chicken is
going to have a look, so
you needn’t shove.” I
waited, and all the con-
fusion was over a girl
working a typewriter
in a window, and she
was a very harmless
looking woman, too.
Strange that nobody seems to have been
responsible for the rotten condition of the gang-
way that broke under the weight of 70 or 80
children, drowning two of them, at Circular Quay,
Sydney, the other day. Police evidence at the
inquest: —
Inspector Hyem said he saw the piece of wood referred
to by the previous witness cut off the centre beam. He
also produced pieces of the two other beams showing
the fractures which had taken place at the bolt-holes.
The wood was rotted a few inches. The gangway was
there when he went to the Water Police Station nine
years ago. He believed it was examined six years ago.
It was not under his control. In the early part of the
year he saw a number of troops on the gangway embark-
ing for England.
Two officials—an engineer and an inspector—of
the Harbors and Rivers department said they
were not responsible. They belonged to the
Public Works, and the Treasury owned the gang-
way. If the Treasury asked the Public Works
on the proper form, and the Public Works gave
the proper orders, the inspector would inspect.
If he said repairs were wanted, and the Treasury
asked to have them done—again on the proper
form —the engineer on receiving his orders from
the Public Works would see to it. The net result
was that the wharfingers should have moved the
Treasury, &c., &c., in “House-that-Jack-built”
sfc y le - *
Westralia, having so much money to spare,
is spending .£12,000 over Paris Exhibition. The
room allotted to the province in the mammoth
show is insignificant, the rate for floor-space being
absolutely appalling. The work of preparing
exhibits has been entrusted to men who know
absolutely nothing of exhibition work. H. W.
Vernon, married into the Six Families, and For-
rest’s former Minister of Railways, is president;
and, of course, editor Hackett is a member of the
Commission. They both want to go to Paris
which may be the genesis of the whole business.
None of the other provinces would touch it, but,
then, they are not bossed by a Forrest Govt.
* * * *
Trials for “Turkish ” practices are becom-
ing alarmingly common in N.S. Wales. Consider-
ing the difficulty of sheeting home such crimes,
the frequency of the trials is a matter for serious
reflection. Marcus Clarke may have miscalculated
the characteristics of the future Australian race.
* * * *
The legal definition of sanity, and, there-
fore, legal responsibility, in criminal cases, is
“ knowledge of right and wrong.” Now, anyone
familiar with lunatic asylums knows that a major-
ity of patients, when they do wrong, are conscious
of the fact: they betray fear, cunning, and often
remorse. Yet the law does not make an
authenticated madman responsible for his offences
against society. Why not ?
• * » *
The Bulletin regrets to hear that the
N.S.W. Dreyfus—Suffield—has completely broken
down in health, and for some weeks past has been
confined to his bed—the result of the long anxiety
connected with his imprisonment.
• * * *
Died, the other day, a woman with a his-
tory. Was the mistress of an old-time Governor.
Went to a big gold-rush, in the early 60’s, with a
variety-show, which largely consisted of a dozen
blousy females posing half-naked on a revolving
platform. Here she “ picked-up ” with a banking
magnate, who, after 10 years of illicit bliss, passed
her on to a horse-trainer, with the title-deeds of a
swagger pub. as a make-weight. In her later
years she became a Mayoress.
“ A most remarkable discovery was made
at Point Gellibrand cemetery. In the course of
removing the bodies to the new cemetery, the
workmen engaged in the exhumation exposed a
coffin of American ash, which, though it had
been underground for 40 or 50 years, showed little
or no sign of decay. Ihe coffin was
contain the body of a fine-looking woman, almost
completely nude. The remains had been so effec-
tively embalmed by the use of some preservative,
with which the coffin was filled, that they seemed
to have been only freshly buried. When touched
the body was quite hard and resonant. recuna -
ities in the shape and workmanship of the cottin
indicate that it had been made on board, ,P;
This would seem to suggest that the deatn naa
happened on a voyage, and that a husband or
close relation, shrinking from committing tne
remains to the deep, had taken this method o
securing for them a burial on shore. . • • •
“It has been ascertained that the body of the
woman which was disinterred at the old cemetery,
and which was found to be in a wonderful state
of preservation, is that of Mrs. M‘Eacharn, the
wife of the late Capt. Neil M'Eacharn. Oapt.
M'Eacharn was a well-known identity in the
fifties, when he traded from Australia, to the
Mauritius and other parts of the world. ( MeLb.
papers.)
Beautiful woman, who died at sea,
Woman whose body, once soft and warm,
Beloved in its lovetime tenderly,
Retains its grace in a stony form :
Woman who ’erst was the captain s wife
Tell us your thoughts about Death and Life.
What happened those weepers of bitter tea;?
Passionate tokens of selfish woe ?
Tell us, young sleeper for fifty years,
Where are your mourners of long ago?
And say if their sorrow, false, or true,
Seemed aught but a transient joke to you ?
They buried your coffin and roamed away,
And lived, maybe, till winds blew cold
Joyless and wrinkled, bent and gray,
They died the death of the weary old.
The living decayed (Time has no ruth)
Whilst you slept on in your changeless youth.
Speak to us, woman, whose form so fair,
Fresh from the grave of mouldered love,
Is e’en as the figure of Truth laid bare
In the light that shines from Heaven above ;
Woman, grown wise since you last drew breath,
Tell us your story of Life and Death.
v * * *
Subscriptions to the Baronet Clarke
memorial fund, which have been slowly accumu-
lating for 24 years, seem to have stopped at £1350,,
but a donor who “ desires to remain anonymous ”
will add J 2550 so as to bring the total amount (in-
• tiding-interest) up to <£2ooo. The nameless
QUITE TEMPORARY.
EHRHTIA: “ I do think long engagements so nice; did my Ownest never get engaged to any other
girl before me?”
OWNEST: “ Well—nothing but ephemeral affairs, that always got broken off the next day!”
donor is presumably some member of the
Clarke family, for otherwise there were no reasons
why such a thumping token of admiration for the
deceased property-owner should not have been
put in earlier pour encourager les autres. Mel-
bourne has lots of room to spare for monuments
to Clarke, or anybody else, and the money in this
case promises to produce something beautiful
enough to lure other gilded citizens into following
the late baronet's lead. The work of art designed
by Bertram Mackennal will present very little
Slarke (a life-size bust only) on a fine heroic pedes-
tal, depicting Victoria in the act of handing over
a laurel wreath to one who devoted much coin
towards the higher education of the adjacent
small boy. The boy sits at the foot of the pedes-
tal holding a model of Trinity College in his
hand. A suitable text for the Clarke memorial
would be—“ He bought his title wisely, and wore
it for not more than it was worth.”
* • * *
In the recent Melbourne dog-bite case the
jury’s anxiety about its own hat stood out in
strong contrast with its utter want of anxiety
about the other fellow’s child. Plaintiff, an
infant, had been bitten in the countenance by the
very “willing” dog of the defendant, and per-
manently disfigured. It was considered advisable
to view the place and the animal, and while doing 1
so the latter gave proof of his savageness by
charging the jurymen and destroying the bell-
topper of one of them. Apparently the injury
rankled, for when the jury got back it hung up
the injured child’s case for a few minutes while it
appealed eloquently to the court for the price of a
new tile. And when it got this load off its mind,
and was assured that the 10s. 6d. or thereabouts
would be forthcoming for its bitten hat it felt
much better, and gave one shilling damages to
the bitten child with great alacrity.
* * * *
Melbourne’s recent spasm of virtue hasn’t
been very lasting, and the Lonsdale-street maisons
de joie are all in full swing again. But something
seems of late to have discouraged Abdul and
Fatta and Hang Sin. In the Stephen-street block
wherein these noxious aliens most do congregate
there are 15 houses and shops to let, although in
other parts of .the city “empties ’ are rare and
rents rising.
„ • * *
Miles, the N.S.W. railway-employe who
for notoriety-gaining purposes placed an obstruc-
tion on the line at Ashfield, Sydney, goes
practically unpunished, in the mere legal
sense, his sentence of 18 months g ac n
having been suspended under the 1 irst Offenders
Act But he’will lose his all—his railway service
billet. Miles had once been the means of prevent-
ing a serious railway smash, and presumably he
wanted to obtain more kudos upon false
pretences.
* * * *
The London correspondent of Melbourne
Age, speaking of the wealthy English girl who
lately married Lobengula’s son, a tall, handsome
fellow, of the negro type,” suggests that her
parents might have prevented the love-match
by getting her locked up as a lunatic. Ihesexs
amorous weaknesses in this way seem strange to
the Ijundoners, who seldom get an opportunity to
study female human nature at a real nigger-show.
On this side of the world, we sometimes ibegin fo
wonder whether every woman isn’t a Desdemona
at heart.
A SA[?]ING [?]DYL
l Pp ic\ ii)o Jen 1 " ■.[)« oweeby ur<L>ed
<%r>d l)<& covv)piie.d -
<*V bodies* su'ij i)ot cvo y<? f
Tl)00gb lyo-'c. bee I) tried
[?]


SpriQg B6d& IjaVe BCirSt
MARK FOY’S
A Riot of LoVlipcSS. .
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
ONlNNflte
m
5* MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
m
itjji
iSil
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
What can be more uncomfortable in a house
than (he continual messing about in the trimming of
kerosene lamps. This is entirely avoided if you use the
“Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires no trimming ”
after the first time, emits no smell, gives a better light
all you have to do is to keep the well filled.* ’
Trebelli’s delightful voice is a recent
instance of the marvels which can be wrought by
culture on the naturally beautiful. Just as the
flexibility and sweet modulations of a fine voice
can be improved by the highest artistic culture so
can the natural grace of the female form be im-
proved by that work of art, the P.D. Corset.
Beauty and P.D.’s are synonymous terms.*
Rcn??n}b?r!
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TIUMMINGS,
IN FEATHER DO AS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS.
IN WARM underwear,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES. JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES. RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
Kinjr <fc Ceorife Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE
TEDS have NO Equal
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 3, 1809.
Mr Dkar Mtee. —
Little Maud MaoCarthy’s return was the event of
last week. The musical world had a jolly day out
last Friday, in honor of it. Singers and players,
and actors and managers, priests and political,
artistic and social lights, and their wives and
daughters, went down the harbour on a steam
launch to welcome the Oroya at the Heads
Among the party I noticed Mrs. Parkes, dressed
quietly but bewitchingly, in black, with a little
toque of purple irises. The launch started after
11, and the Oroya came in about 3, so that the
trip was an all-day picnic before anyone knew.
It was a most jolly, convivial outing, with lunch
and Dan O’Connor laid on, and bright cool
weather. The launch loitered in and out of a
dozen different bays, and stopped for an hour at
Watson’s Bay. Then somebody sighted the Oroya
from the Gap, and the party hurried back to the
launch, and steamed away to meet the big steamer
with its little passenger.
She leaned over the side in a blue-green coat and
skirt with white revers, and a good deal of thin
youthful leg showing through the netting. It was
some time before the launch party realised that
the very small little girl waving a white hand-
kerchief furiously was Maud. Presently the
launch came alongside the big ship, and down the
ladder came Mrs. MacCarthy, two boys, and the
little fiddler holding on to Mr. ,T. T. Toohey’s
hand. She wore a simple shady white hat trimmed
with forget-me-nots. Cheers and hearty wel-
comes! Bpeeehifying and toasts. Everybody
was wildly excited. Dr. MacCarthy looked quite
dazed. Mrs. MacCarthy, in a serge frock and
mushroom hat, w'as vivaciously recognising old
friends. Only one calm, cool person among the
crowd. That was Maud.
The comment of a well-known musical critic has
a moral: “Thank goodness, she’s not pretty?”
That may have been because they have all been
depending lately on their prettiness—all the
innumerable Voices—and back of the prettiness
not too much anything.
A healthy-tinted, longish nice, very broad
brows, soft, bright quizzical eyes of a light-brown
shade, a large, intelligent grown-up mouth, that
often doesn’t close over the teeth, childish golden-
brown hair hanging loose, childish little figure,
very composed manner, and a charming but
remarkable grown-up voice and way of expressing
herself—this is Maud MacCarthy at the present
day. Absence of frill, mannerisms, and spoiled child
air may be attributed to her mother’s shrewd care.
All the same, she is a most young-old little per-
son who doesn’t lose her head easily. On the
launch somebody said, “I heard you in London,
three years ago.” “Oh! but I have improved
very much since then, ” said Maud, quickly. She
was showered with flowers, in bouquets made-up
in violin-shapes, and altogether the reception was
everything a reception could be, warm and wide
and was renewed at the Quay, where a big crowd
had gathered. A carriage. with two white nags,
tied up in blue ribbons, stood waiting, and the
cheer that went up from the bv-standers showed
that even the man in the street has been following
the remarkable young artist’s movements pretty
closely. If Miss Maud can fiddle as well as her
entourage can advertise, her fortune is made.
A chat with Maud MacCarthy means an inter-
view with Mrs. MacCarthy, a meditative, listening
stare full of intelligence and quiet humor from
Maud, who sits in a chair with her hands clasped,
and a few dreamy reminiscences and comments
from the doctor, who walks up and down the
drawing-room all the time. Now and then Maud
says a thing or two, but it is the mother who does
the talking. Maud says she doesn’t know what
to say. She forgets all that happened, all that
she thinks and feels, when called on to talk about
herself, and falls back gladly on her mother’s
lively chatter about musical life in London. Maud
is said to be 15, but I think she may be a little
older, for she left Sydney ten years ago, and was
seven then. A strange complication of child
and woman looks out of her quiet, uncon-
scious face with its fleeting, humorous expression
about the mouth and thoughtful eyes. She carries
herself carefully and is as easy in her manner as
any grown-up. Ihe gaucheries of fifteen are not
to be seen here. When she breaks in with a
remark it is often unaffectedly funny and shows a
bright little brain working behind it. Her successes
don t weigh on her yet. “Oh yes, ” she says, and
looks towards her mother. It is evident that Airs.
MacCarthy, energetic, alert, animated, is the prop
and mainstay of the situation. She thinks of
managing Maud’s concerts herself, but C.
W illiamson is whispered about as a probable
engineer of the tour, which will cover all the
provinces in turn. The doctor here steps forward
irrelevantly with his own little bust of a Russian
pianist in his hand. “Put that away,” says Mrs.
MacCarthy, “ what has that to do with the case ? ”
The doctor meekly pushes it into a cabinet and
Maud giggles youthfully, as the bust with the big
nose is quickly poked into a drawer. Then Mrs.
MacCarthy tells how all the big musical guns rolled
up to Maud’s concert in London. “1 tell you,”
she says impressively, “ it’s a most unusual thing,
but they all came to hear Maudie and bring their
wives with them.” By this time the doctor lias
worked his way round to Maud again, and is
squeezing her arm against his side, and whispering
to her about her gymnastic exercises. They
are evidently wrapped up in each other, these
two. All over the walls and tables are
photographs inscribed, “To dear father, with tons
of love from Maudie,” and so on, and every now
and then the father and daughter gravitate
towards each other irresistibly. Mrs. MacCarthy
talks away. She says she never heard a word of
I'lorence Schmidt in London: Steffani is evi-
dently keeping this singing bird very dark.
The first MacCarthy concert comes off in tho
Town Hall on October 18. Mrs. J. I'. Toohey
had sent out many invitations for a ball on that
night, but has since good-naturedly put her dance
back an evening. It is now fixed for October 17.
Speaking of dates, Miss Una Russell’s marriage
with John Downer, Q.C., is a fixture for Novem-
ber 211, at St. John’s Church, Milson’s Point.
By the way, [ read a full description of that
wedding somewhere lately (the reporter even over-
heard the guests commenting on the decrepit state
of the bridegroom’s knees), but I can assure you
that it doesn’t come off till the above date. I
presume Miss Observatory Russell’s marriage with
Mr. Harry Barff was mixed up with the Downer-
Russell nuptials, but the part about the knees
was surely a dream. The Registrar has physique
enough to throw out a dozen candidates at a time.
Ask the candidates.
All the concerts are getting themselves off suc-
eessfulJy Sydney Hoben’s, Grace Fletcher’s,
and Nellie Cooke’s came off last week. Especially
well-worked was the latter, which was a free
show, and saw 3009 people turn up in more or less
evening-dress. Miss Cooke’s voice has been en-
thused over so widely that a paying concert is
already arranged for October 13th at the Town
Hall.
Among all this profusion of voices, it is quite a
relief to come across someone working quietly
with her fingers. A visit to Miss Louise Hunt’s
studio shows you what a mistake it is to jeer at
the solidity of a Uock of wood, for her wood
carvings are beautiful, and highly decorative.
1 he native beech is Miss Hunt’s favorite material.
Her chairs and tables are treated in a fine free
way, and their high market-value adds to their
interest in society’s eyes. Miss Hunt teaches,
designs, and executes commissions at her studio in
Paling’s Buildings.
Ihe latest little yarn about His Ex. He tripped
on a country footpath lately, and fell into the
gutter. Those who were nearest heard him ex-
claim in a wailful tone of voice : “Oh, Ido hope
this won’t get into the S.M. Herald or Truth ! ”
The latest ticket-story caps all others. A rail-
way Light received blue tickets per morning post.
Afternoon’s post brought a letter with white
tickets in it. The letter said there had been a
slight mistake, white tickets were enclosed, and
would the Light kindly return the blue. He did,
promptly, and he returned the white too. And
yet H.E. declares lie is positively sure the new
system will work like greased electricity when the
people get used to it. Apropos of all this, Society
stood aghast lately at its sober-sided daily leading
on the revolution against Govt. House. Explana-
tions are in the wind, and in the background a
wound runs redly. You are wrong if you think it
has anything to do with white tickets. I have
heard 72 different statements of the “true facts
of the case,” but I prefer to hear a few more before
I tell you the true story of the Herald’s insubor-
dination.
But what a continuous series of these little
yarns there has been and still is. The queerest
part of it is that they are kept alive by full-grown
men who take life seriously, not by giddy society,
butterflies of the feminine order. The Milingtary
in particular has blown itself out with anecdotes
of H.E.’s weird goings-on. For our home-made
soldiers have been deeply wounded for once. Not
on the battle-field with cannons roaring, but
up at Govt. House with “The Blue Danube”
flowing peacefully alongside. Colonels and
captains- and majors were hustled hither and
thither, told to keep on their swords, then
to take ’em off or keep out of the ladies’
road ; they were nearly demented by orders
about caps and helmets, and regimentals generally.
They all turned up at the balls in a state of daze,
and found themselves focussed and reprimanded
by an aide who is equal to a subaltern. Several
brave officers are reported—by themselves—to
have flatly refused to keep their boots on or take
them off, or whatever it was that the aide was
commanding them to do. And one of the largest
and tallest and most important of them all is going
about saying pitifully, “The Governor bumped
into me and thumped me when he passed me in
the dance.” Looks promising for the Boers,
doesn't it?
The Cat Show came off on Saturday, and after
the cats, the most interesting thing was the num-
ber of men who turned up to admire what is com-
monly supposed to lie a very feminine weakness.
There were crowds of men saving “Puss, puss,
puss,” and stroking feline tails. Mr. and Mrs.
Keep seem to be the chief promoters of the show.
Airs. K. exhibited five grown-up cats and lots of
kittens, so that it was a distinct relief to see Mr.
Keei> going about in a normal and healthy condi-
tion. The Keep’s “Silver Queen ” was a fulfilled
dream of what a cat should be. A lovely silvery
grey creature with palest brown intermixed, long-
haired, and looking at you out of two round eyes
as green as. grapes. Her tiny kittens were sold
for five guineas each. Then there were lots of old
brick-wall warriors, with terrible chins; an appal-
ling collection of ugly Toms who don't show up
well in an exhibition, several aristocratic-looking
Persians, and a few nice kittens. The show was
not as large as it will probably be next year, only
153 cats in all. The cold weather told on the
Manx cats, who couldn't wrap up in their tails.
Artless notice on the cage of a plain, homely,
black-and-white cat. “ His name is Dwarf Tom,
or Valentine. Picked up in Hyde Park. Poi-
soned a month ago by a neighbor, but promptly
treated and cured. A great lover of three things,
freedom, fresh air and fun.” I forget the rest of
his history, but was extremely relieved to find
that Ins third name was not •‘Beauchamp.” The
only cat called after liis Ex. was a white creature
who looked incapable of stealing a sardine until
its mistress s hack was quite turned, so that H.E.
is not a wudly-popular Governor yet. Not until
ntty cats, ten dogs, three fowls, a racehorse, many
public-houses and a hundred and four waltzes have
been named after him has an H.E.’s star arrived
at its zenith.
Evidently “ The Christian ” acts like a magnet
on the Jews. Saturday night at Her Majesty’s
sees Israel and its gew-gaws pouring into all parts
ot the house, and every man who isn’t a Hebrew
is sitting next to a Hebrew anyway. But the
name has little to do with the play. In fact
there is no indication as to who “ The Christian ”
is. if you like, you can take it to be the man
with who knocks the breath out of John
►stormy Kingston. In the novel, there are pages
of soul-striving, wherein Hall Caine points out
plainly that he means John Storm to fill the title-
role. But the play leaves all that out, mercifully,
most mercifully, and you are not obliged to reckon
John Storm the chief person in the play. And if
you feel the conviction forced on you that the
part ot John is too sick for anything, try and
imagine Wilson Barrett therein, and realise the
ghastly illness that might face you then /
Henrietta Watson is the living person in the
play. She makes up fair, with short reddish-
brown hair, and looks crisp and cheeky in her
short sailor-girl suit of blue serge, with a white
wool jersey showing in front of her coat. She
tosses her words out naturally, and doesn’t fall
ln n 11 th6 sta " e s y stem of measuring out the
syliables even when a long speech has to be thrown
otx. A little trick of Miss Watson’s rather adds
to her realism. She repeats herself under her
breath frequently, just as everybody does in life,
in the big scene—discussions are already out in
the newspapers she wears a not very startling
rrock of white satin brocaded in violet tones, and
striped downwards with broad mauve stripes.
Ihe way in which this frock falls off Henrietta’s
lovely shoulders is its best point. She wears her
hair low, and a trifle raked-looking, and has violets
somewhere above her knob.
Rose Musgrove dashes in fora few minutes in a
retching apple-green velvet robe, with a polonaise
or guipure lace. The touches of black velvet
along the neck line and at the waist are very
effective, iwo capes that come in to the play
might be considerably bettered. Miss Watson
throws on a mouse-colored cashmere with fur that
kills tier complexion at once, and somebody else
wanders m to the supper-party in a short white
cape that looks as if it came from Homebush or
thereabouts. On the whole, the dressing is quite
m keeping with the name of the play, as under-
stood by the people who have their knowledge
.Straight from Ezekiel.
“ The Christian ” is just the sort of play that
lures m all the great letter-writing public, and
lets them loose on the newspaper next day. Piety
ciixl a doubtful situation ! How the heart of the
true churchman swells when lie gets these two
good things together. Do you notice that pious
plays, cloaking the realisms of life, always go to
the head of ‘‘Pro Bono Publico,” and “Amicus,”
and ‘One Who Knows,” stirring them up to
shocked outcries in the newspapers afterwards.
1 hey raise the dust by blowing on it. Can any-
one, whose feelings are genuinely wounded by
coarseness, whose sensitiveness revolts at it, dilate
gloatingly and sign his name in large black at the
end of the gloat ! “ Lord Quex ” was founded on
a far more difficult situation, but there wasn’t the
mantle of Elijah thrown over it, so religious bodies
never attempted to get up a controversy in the
name of the Lord and the prophets.
The wedding of Mr. William Lovell, of the
Brough co., appears to have been one of the most
untheatrical on record. A friend writes me from
Melbourne that she hurried up to St. Peter’s
Church last Thursday expecting to get in with the
crowd, and found that she was the only onlooker.
The wedding party numbered five all told, including
the curate, two witnesses, and the bride and
bridegroom. When the ceremony was over the
quartet walked out, took the tram, and disap-
peared. By the way, I forgot to mention before
that the bride s name was Miss Harrison.
W rites my Melbourne correspondent:—
At the Royal these times the sorrows of the
hero’s ma-in-law harrow male spectators twice as
much as members of the so-called gentler sex.
Ihe slow music of . sad scenes is punctuated by-
male sniffs, while each lover in the audience sits
with watery eyes averted sheepishly from his lass.
“T’other night a portly patriarch in the d.c.
started to wriggle uncomfortably as soon as he
spotted the aged sentimentalists in workhouse
wear. When tliey took a peep at their old home
and found it m ruins, he lifted up his voice and
moaned uneasily, but when Alice Deorwyu died
m a garden chair for love of her up-rooted
mignonette, lie put his head on his knees, and
knuckles in his eyes, and keened in unison'with
the bereaved relatives.
“ Tall, plump Dora De Winton loses the sym-
pathy of feminine beholders of her starvation,
because of the well-nourished roundness of her
bared white neok. And through famine, battle,
murder, and sudden death, so to speak, she in-
dulges in Mowing lisse scarfs. The real-life unre-
sourceful female denies herself floating chiflFons, if
she’s got nothing more formidable ahead than the
family wash. Just the same with hubby John
Saunders. He steps forth to die a shameful death
m the wilds of Africa with his hair parted beauti-
fully and glossy enough to see your face in.
“The disinfectant nuisance was painfullymarked
at the last of Trebelli’s concerts in Melbourne,
when a party of three provoked enquiring sniffs
from everybody seated in their district. The male
escort smelt like one who had been getting cleansed
of his sins in a benzine bath, whilst the two
women f diffused odors of camphor all over the
shop. Trebelli and Prouse became quite a minor
consideration under the circumstances, for we
seemed mostly to be wondering whether the pun-
gent trio had just escaped from a hospital, or
were merely preserving their garments from
moths.
“The Austral Salon, the resort of Melbourne
pen-hens and suburban matrons, is condemned by
the Board of Health because it has no fire-escape.
Ihe lift is narrow, and the staircase long, so a
fire-escape is to be obtained. ‘But,’ said a
Salonite, ‘isn’t there some dreadful scandal about
a fire-escape?’ ‘Yes; Parnell used one on a
memorable occasion.’ When they have the escape,
the of the Salon ought to practise the
use of it. ‘Fire-escape drill and tea’ would be a
good afternoon’s amusement.
“ Bendigo, it seems, shows no inclination to set
her clever younglings on pedestals. ‘Home, sweet
home ’ always is the worst place to look for a halo.
Rockhamptonites, for instance, disparage Flor-
ence Schmidt’s farewell vocal display in her birth-
place and lament the alleged ruin of her voice
‘down Sydney-way.’
“The tale lias been told in print of how an
exalted Melbourne hostess engaged Napoleon
Boffard, the plump French tenor, to tune his little
lay at an At Home. She gave him a definite
statement of the times—B.so p.m. and 9.10 p.m.
when lie would be called upon to warble, but never
a word about the fee. Apparently he was expected
to sing for his supper, for when he had put in his
two turns and was preparing to go, the hostess
tapped him graciously on the shoulder and asked
him if lie didn’t intend to join in the rush for
’freshments. To which the diplomatic artist
replied that he had merely come on business —and
off he went. After waiting a week for a cheque
ze grea-a-t Napoleon forwarded bis account, which
Avas received Avith awful silence. At the end of
another month he did swear by an attorney, in a
French of speaking, and the attorney’s letter
fetched the lady up to scratch. But there was a
further shock for her when she rustled into a
certain music shop and informed the tenor, Avho
was present at the time, that she had come to pay
his most uncalled-for bill. Napoleon wouldn’t
take the cash. Ze lawyers, by whom he had swore,
would receive his fee, plus some leetle expenses.
After mutual promises to tell their respective
friends of the way in which they had been treated
the interview came to a sudden end. The
economical hostess tore herself away, and the
vocalist duly got his cheque through his sivorn
solicitors.
1 be husband of a rural Avriter of short stories
and horticultural articles is, alas ! noAv confined
to a lunatic asylum. The unfortunate medico
started to practise insanity not long after he had
become a benedict, and now he shares the exile of
a well-remembered musical-director, a champion
cricketer, and a leading comedian. All four men
seemed no madder than the rest of them a year or
tAvo ago.
“By the Avay, a tragedy happened up north after
the Queensland warbler’s flight to Europe. An
untravelled songstress, Avho, from time immemorial,
had chirped acceptably at local entertainments,
suddenly developed ambition, and, at a crowded
concert, attempted mad trills, dizzy top-notes, and
frenzied shakes, in imitation, presumably, of the
Schmidt’s. Hearers, from very embarrassment,
laughed till they cried, while the vocalist let her
angry passions rise, and stamped her foot at them
for an insensate mob. It would be touching to
conclude by saying that the poor soul never
carolled again—that the performance was her
swan song! As a matter of fact, Avhenever
possible, she still twitters in public as cheerily
as a rain-Avashed sparrow.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
.£206,000,000.
CUlEjf OFFIChK
for thr. Department of Australasia :
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
AußftTtf Wanted. General Manaujck.
Q
UJ .
HUI
z ,0)U1
<UJUJ(£
OfflhlL
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The smoothness, delicacy and uniformity
of flavor have made Zetz Spa Water a table
favorite with those suffering from indigestion,
dyspepsia, &c. Be sure and ask for ZETZ.*
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Carbolic Disinfectants.
FOR GENERAL USE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The r T lt of the Aehfleld election wae the
tiiumph of Brains over Bricks.
Journalist P. E. Quinn, who represents
Bligh Division in N.S.W. Assembly, succeeds
Journal” °’ BalHvan as editor ° f the Fkj£KMAN ’ s
.’ , . ...
, Five is the maximum number of times any
man has worn the N.S.W. Premiership. Three
have achieved that distinction—Parkes, Robert-
son and Cowper.
“ Madame Melba has written a touching
letter of advertisement to Madame Dreyfus.”
‘‘Congratulations’ was the cable s word for it
but that s a detail.
Prophesied that Minister Fegan’s “con-
scienoo,” his strict teetotalism, rigid Sabbatarian-
ism, and general Jacob Garrard piety will be the
nightmares of the Lyne Ministry.
An Australian Governor has been writted
for £5OOO by a bank in connection with an alleged
guarantee. No Governor should be a trader in
any sense during his term of office.
“Honest ” Tom Playford is the only S.A.
Agent-General who returned to local politics—in
fact, the only one who returned to his province.
Bray, Blyth, and Dutton died abroad.
y~v -i . „ , AT D ttt
Unly two out of the seven JN.o.W.
Supreme Court Judges received their legal train-
ing in Australia Stephen and G. B. Simpson,
Cohen is a native, but when he surrendered com-
meroial pursuits for law he went to London.
Treasurer Holder has a thin-man rival in
A. Assembly in Morris, M.P. Both are tall
and lean. Holder formerly edited a country
paper; Morris edits Mt. Gambier bTAR, so that
each has a reasonable excuse for his bare ribs.
B. R. Wise has had four close finishes in
his political career. He was returned for Ash-
field, last week, by a majority of 21. He got in a
year ago by a majority of 5. He was beaten in
1895 by 37, and in 1889, on a poll at which 21,000
votes were recorded, he came within 20 of getting
in. Which was about as narrow a case of missing
the ’bus as there has been even in Wise’s career.
BILLET-HUNTING.
FIRST MOTHER (in London): “And how is Jack yetting on in Australia?”
SECOND DITTO : "Well, he must be doing very well, because in his letter he wrote that he had been
engaged billet-hunting ever since he landed.”
Judge Bundey, after a year’s illness, re-
turns to the bench. The only local Judge with-
out a title, he is far and away the most popular in
S.A. It is mainly through Bundey’s example
that flogging is practically a dead letter in S.A.
“I’m glad I'm an Englishman, not a
Frenchman,” said the juvenile N.S.W. Governor
last week. First, the name Beauchamp is a sus-
picions one for a man so affected with Franco-
phobia to carry. Second, the roots of the family
were French.
Tasmanians returned from the Transvaal
aver that Hon. William Hart, M.L.C., Laun-
ceston’s boss Wesleyan, and biggest shareholder in
the celebrated Tasmania mine, is more like
President Kruger in appearance than Oom Paul
is like his own photograph.
“ B.” : lie a recent Bulletin par. as to
the powers and privileges of N.S.W. Govt,
messengers, I asked one if he was pleased at the
prospect of a new Ministry. “ Rather,” he re-
plied ; “That Reid crowd was a mean lot. Why,
look here, when I had to go into the room when
they had a meeting they would all stop talking ! ”
In Dr. Collingwood, of Summer Hill, Syd-
ney, there reoently “ passed-out,” in Germany, a
remarkable man. Son of an artist, and brother
of a leading English art-critic, he was physically
and mentally an athlete, and added an uncommon
personal oharm to distinguished attainments both
inside and outside his profession. The doctor
died of consumption.
The giant of N.S. W. is a German, Peter
Bierschurk, a wine-seller in Market-street, Syd-
ney. He stands 6ft. 4in., is 49in. round the chest,
weighs 19st. 41b, takes 15 in boots, and is an
excellent gymnast. Peter was offered a billet in
the Guards in Germany, but he preferred emi-
grating to Australia. The little Peters are all
built in the same mould as their father.
Demise, at Brisbane, Barrister Turner,
senior Q. Counsel, brilliant forensic orator, com-
mon law expounder and sot. It did gall the haw-
haw legal light to be put right on a fine point by
the frowsy man who had just finished gnawing a
red-herring. On one occasion Turner was in dock
at the Police Court, and, being promptly dis-
charged, took up the cudgels for another occupant
and got him off.
Rev. Samuel Savage, who died lately in
Sydney at 66 years of age, had the current
of his life wholly altered through Want of a
vehicle. He was appointed to the Congregational
Church at Bathurst soon after the discovery of
gold there, but all conveyances were so busy
taking provisions from Sydney that no room
could be made for him. He overstaid the time
given to him, and so lost the call. He then pro-
ceeded to Queensland and spent the ensuing nine
years there.
It came out during the sittings of Brisbane
Police Commission that Wilson (of Ipswich-hor-
ror notoriety) was caught per medium of his own
“ flashness.” Previous to leaving Ipswich for the
South, Wilson had received a small-debts sum-
mons from a local chemist. On reaching Mel-
bourne he indited a sarcastic epistle to aforesaid
chemist, containing a hunk of doggerel and certain
very insulting gibes, together with his enemy’s
bill of costs. This letter was posted in S.A., and
supplied the clue by which the Q. detectives con-
trived to pick up Wilson at Albany. The chemist
got square after all.
Martin Kennedy, who is probably Maori -
land’s nearest approach to a millionaire, is now
on a visit to Sydney. He was in Parliament 20
vears ago, but resigned the Senate for the mart,
and is now a big brewer and a B.N.Z. director,
and numberless other things. He still remains a
» olltT a l l ,ower 5 ,nd, ‘ ed ; Premier Seddon has been
h " a [ d to W BSS a n aS whether Kennedy
° r hl “ self 18 really King of M.L So long as
the .f tw " allies as at present, all will be
welI Y When they fall out, great will be the
smash. Trie first sign of disruption was appar-
ent a few days ago when Srddon told the House
that Kennedy “ had only one political idea, and
th;it was Beer ! ”
Many years ago the An-
flican minister at Westbury,
'as., was the Rev. Montagu
Williams, father, by the way,
of Seton Williams, the Mel-
bourne lawyer and hunt dr
sport. The reverend was noted
more for his dry humor and
clever discourses than for any
ecclesiastical humbleness, and
many stories of his quaint wit
are still remembered. One of
them : The church cow having
run dry the pars nage had to
depend on the services of a
dairyman. One morning, after
complaining to his family of
the poorness of the beverage,
the parson accosted Mr. Pails.
(He had a beautifully soft and
insinuating voice). “ I say,
Pails,” he began, “ when we
milked our cow a kind of—er—
scum used to appear on the
dishes. Now I never see it on
your milk, Pails. Can you in-
form me——” But Pails under-
stood. Both Mr. and Mrs.
Williams were enthusiastic
botanists, and the former, on
one of his excursions, named
a tremendous drop on the
Western Tiers “The jumping-
down place of all Creation.”
The late W. B. Suttor,
of Wallerwaugh (N.S.W.), was
one of the whitest squatters of
his or any other time. He was
extremely rough and-ready, and
would take his pint of tea in the
kitchen with all sorts. Was once banqueted at
Hargraves, and thus responded to the toast “ Our
Guest ” : —“ Well, gentlemen, I thank you for all
the good things you’ve said about me this evening
—not that I think I deserve half of them—” A
voice : “ Oh, faith you do, Misther Sutther, every
wan o’them.” W. 8.5., continuing: “Certainly
any poor devil that ever came to Wallerwaugh
was always welcome to a feed— ” Same old
voice: “Sure, an’ it’s well we know it, Misther
Sutther ; welcome, indade, to suck as it was ! ”
The western wilderness of N.S.W. knows
the Dawes family as well as any. The eldest of
the brotherhood, R. 8., of Yandama and Mokeley
stations, after battling with droughts for a quar-
ter of a century, went down the other day before
an attack of influenza. Mr. Dawes has worked
some of the most waterless, drought-cursed coun-
try in Australia ; among his experiences was that
of paying J 231 per ton for chaff for nearly three
months to keep his working horses and cattle
alive.
Modest In Memoriam, from the Brisbane
Courier, 27/8/’9B :—
BYRNES.—In affectionate and grateful remembrance
of the Honourable T. J. Byrnes, who died on the
27th September, 1898.
Naught need be said, save silent now is he
Who, when he spake, made all else silent be.
From which it would appear that even Saint Peter,
or the Supreme Being itself, would now be mere
Under-Seoretaries in the administration of the
Celestial Dominions.
S. A. political life seems fatal to private
friendships. Premier Kingston and Tucker
who between them so ably managed affairs
during the hospital crisis, are now at daggers
drawn. The jaunty Gordon, who formerly
led in the Council for the present Govt., is now a
bitter opponent of Council reform and he and
Kingston “hardly speak.” And the old sincere
friendship between Kingston and Playford has
now subsided considerably. It is a characteristic
of Kingston that it is his intense seriousness that
produces the breaches in his friendships.
Apropos barrister Gregory. Vic. Bar had
a previous crank on the rolls, a sound real-pro-
perty lawyer named Parsons. He cordially
detested the Supreme Court Bench of the day,
Stawell, Barry and Williams, the first particu-
larly. Also, he openly showed his aversion in
court, but no notice was taken of him. At last
he suicided. Carrying to the very last his con-
tempt for Stawell he drowned himself in the
Yarra, at the foot of the Judge’s garden. His
remains were washed up on to the Judge’s pre-
mises, and Stawell paid the funeral ex.’s of his
old enemy.
William Dally, one of the five brothers
who discovered the famous Tasmania reef, died
the other day aged 64. His father, who died but
a year or two since, was close on 100. The other
brothers were named James, John, David, and
Job, and the whole family wrestled valiantly
with the devil in the township of “ Waddy ”
(with apologies to Dyson), unearthed the Tas-
mania reef, and successfully strove to change the
unholy name of Brandy Creek to Beaconsfield.
Hobart Clipper tersely obituarises William :
“ Rough, religious, simple ; paid everyone 20s. in
the £, and didn’t die rich.”
L. L. Lewis, the Melb. composer, is a
pronounced Hebrew who professes Christianity.
He is the “ father ” of the Melb. cabmen, and the
excellent work he has done on their behalf led
them to present him the other day with an illu-
minated address. The ceremony was entrusted to
an oratorical jehu named Maguire, who, all ignor-
ant that Mr. Lewis’s religion was at variance
with his appearance, launched out into a eulogy
of the Chosen. “ Look at the advantage of living
under the British flag,” cried the Maguire.
“ What do we see in France ? A Jew is hounded
down and persecuted, while here the true friends
“DRUGGED
LOCLA J.P. (who is also local medico) : “ What’s the charge?”
CONSTABLE: “ Dhrunk, yer Washup.”
J.P.: “ Drunk! The man looks as if he had been drugged.”
CONSTABLE : “So he was, yer Washup, Oi drug him all the way
from Flanagan’s hotel to the lock-up.”
of the poor man number among them Mr. Zox,
Mr. Levi, Mr. Abrahams, and Mr. Lewis.”
(Loud applause.) The beneficiare made no dis-
claimer.
G. H. Cox, M.L.C., whose shearing-shed
at Mudgee Gov. Beauchamp so rapturously
praised the other day, is one of the few relies
of N.S.W. ’s first responsible Parliament. He sat
for Wellington in the first House, and earned the
name of being one of the best debaters in the
Assembly. This repute he carried into the second
Parliament, but he waned rapidly and appeared
to care little for success in that direction. He
went to the Leg. Council, and has been sitting
there practically for 35 years. Wool-raising took
the place in his affections which oratory occupied
in his earlier life. He is a N.S.W. native, one of
seven sons, all born about Mudgeeorthe Hawkes-
bury. Mr. Cox is now in his 7 >th year.
N.S.W. Rowing Association possesses a
notable Vice-President and President. The V.-P.
is Miss Eadith Walker, thebi -millionairess, whose
charities and benefactions flow in streams. Gossip
considers it proper to make widower Primate
Smith propose for her hand at least once a year—
a little piece of pleasantry which is said to amuse
the principals as much as it interests the gossips.
The President is veteran George Thornton, M.L.C.,
now in his 80tli year. Hon. George was born in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, and is a living history of
the growth of N.S.W. When he went to school
in Jainieson-street pens and ink were scarce, and
the boys wrote their “copies” with a stick in
white sand spread over the desks for that purpose
Old man Graves, who has brought charges
of nepotism against Vic. Minister Best, is known
in political circles as Tory Graves. He looks like
a fox, and acts like one. Me has a spluttering,
incoherent mode of speech, which gave point to an
interjection once made, in the course of one of his
orations, by M'Lellan, then member for Ararat.
Graves was denouncing the village-settlements :
“ Sorr, ” said he, “ these so-called settlements have
been started on swamps that are unlit for men to
live upon. We promised homes for the people,
but, instead of that, what have we got in this
country?” “Swampy Graves,” bawled M'Lellan;
and “swampy” was so apt an adjective for
Graves himself that “Swampy ” has stuck to him
as a nickname among his enemies, who are
numerous.
Among the many utterly-humorless per-
sons in Yabha-Yabba Legislative Assembly is the
member for Dead Dog, who is especially proud
of the fact that he is a self-made man. At a
public dining-table recently he was discussing in a
loud voice how he had risen from being the boy
who swept out a grocer’s store to store-proprietor.
“In fact,” he solemnly remarked, “I never worked
for a storekeeper during my life that I did not
afterwards buy out.” Trenwith, who was sitting
at the far end of the table, instantly chimed in
with, “ Ah, I suppose that was before the days of
cash-registers?” The member for Dead Dog
sniggered the snigger of the humorless, and said,
“ Oh', yes—it was long before the time those con-
cerns came into use.” Then he joined in the
burst of laughter that followed, firmly believing
that he had said something hugely clever, and for
the remainder of that day he chuckled to himself
when he thought of how he had created a laugh
at Trenwith’s expense.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Parent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SPECIAL
CORN
SOLVENT
NEVER FAILS TO CURE !>%,
Made only by
Newman, Chemist,
82 King Stbkkt, SYXNEY.
The Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOR, and See that You GET,
Franz Josef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Morgan and Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence - street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Alio troli'o
Rates from 12/0 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
TOURISTS
from all parts of the
world are unanimous in saying
that “ The Australia ” Hotel
is the best thing in Austra-
lasia.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Managkr,
Castlereagh St, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
There are curious freaks of color amongst
half-castes. An Australian at Cape Town, in-
fatuated with a yellow damsel, agreed to marry
and expansively pressed her to invite her family
to the ceremony. He noticed that she hesitated
before consenting. On the morning of the day
the Cornstalk awaited the guests. First enter a
pair of chocolates in evening dress (cousins), then
chocolate-creams (sisters), strawberry-blondes
(aunts), and, in a mob, vandyke-browns, sepias,
old-gold, and, finally, Day and Martins—all near
relations. Good Lord 1 ” exclaimed the happy
man, is this a cake-walk ?’’ Enter a grey-haired
darkey with a smiling negress on his arm—they
were introduced as “Fa ” and s< Ma.” “ No, you
roj t’r oont ' nue d the bridegroom ; “ not me ; it’s
Old Uncle Tom and Aunt Dinah—it’s some fake.
I came to a wedding— not a Christy Minstrel
show.” And he “ gat.”
• • * »
“ Alpar” : The champion cool hand was a
man with whom X boarded when skulldriving
out-back. He went into the orchard one
afternoon for some peaches for his wife, and was
bitten on the leg by a brown snake. Returned
with the fruit; said not a word about the bite,
but got a razor, retired, and scarified the wound.
Then he privately sent his son off with a note to
owner of adjoining station, and when an hour
afterwards the latter arrived with brandy and
ammonia, the bitten man told his wife he’d be
engaged in the office with Mr. until very late,
and asked her not to wait-up. Next morning he
was all right and told us what had happened,
and we went and saw the dead serpent. He it
was, also, who, in discussing snake-bite once with
me, said it would be “ a good thing to have an
instrument to nip the piece clean out at once.”
Many people, he thought, who couldn’t bear to
use a knife would use such an instrument. I made
the suggestion in a letter to a Sydney paper, with
the result that Lassetter and Co. actually made
such an instrument and sent it to my friend on
approval, but I never heard of his having occasion
to use it.
* * * »
Frenchy entered bar of Dead Finish pub. ;
was delighted to observe framed on the wall the
legend, “ Ici onparle Francais,”and started to talk
in voluble French to the stolid-looking proprietor.
Latter, after a few moments : *' Wot yer givin’
us, mate ? ” More jabber from Frenchy. Land-
land : “ Look ’ere, mate, if yer want anything
ask fer it in English, an 1 don’t come any
o’ that blanky palaver here.” F. : “Vat 1 you
spik not ze French ? ” L. (indignantly) : “ No,
wot d’yer take me for—a furriner?” F. :
“ Yell, vat you have ze placard on ze wall for ? ”
L. : “ Wot’s that got to do with it ? Strikes me
you’re a bit ratty, mate.” F. (excitedly) : “ I
BELIEVED IN [?]OTAL
IMMERSION.
Shearer Bill (getting hit
first-born christened) : “ Dip
him, parson. Dip him right
under, why don't yer? A fat
lot of ticks yer’ll kill that
way !”
have ze rat ? No, nevare ! Zat placard say * loi
onparle Francais dat is, ‘ Here—ve—spik—ze
—French.’” L. (meditatively): “’Ere, ’ave a
beer, mate.” Frenchy accepts and cools down a
bit. L. (confidentially) : “ I say, mate—straight
viH rß _dofts that reallv moan ’bout
v>. ««n ? ' i ,
r rerich ere . , • Certainly ! Here is
ze I rench spik —dat vot it say ! ” L. (emphati-
cally) : “ Well, by cripes ! Let me jes’ get a holt
of the that sold me that text. I give ’im five
bob fer it, frame an’ all, cos ’e said it wos Latin
fur ‘ Gawd Bless Onr Time ’ I ”
ter uawa iJless Uur Ume !
* * * *
“Snell” • That Henrdio miner who Hkorl
oneil . inac Vjeorcne miner WtlO liked
his meat raw was no novelty. Once. saw a man
enter a butoher’s shop in the mining town of
Goldsborough, Vic., cut a slice from a piece of
beef, pepper it liberally, and put it into his mouth.
He dronned dead as auicklv it seemed ns if ho
rie aroppea aeaa as quicKiy it seemed, as it he
bad been shot through the heart choked. The
children I associated with as a youngster, who
were, comparatively, new-chums, all cribbed the
raw meat when sent to the butcher’s, as natives
oribbed currants and sugar. They regarded a
raw sausage particularly as a great luxury.
OBLIVIOUS.
MARINER NO. 1 : “Hello, captain! You seem to
be pretty well loaded to-day.”
MARINER NO. 2: “ Thash all right, captain! You
can t (hie) say I've got more on board than I
can (hie) carry.”
M. NO. 1: “ No, of course not. But” (reflectively)
I think you might have made two cargoes
of it. ”
Are horses liable to seasickness ? (“ Abo ”
B. 16/9/’99). “ D.G.,” producing no evidence,
pronounces, d prion, that all animals must be
liable to seasickness. “G. 8.,” taking horses to
India, has found them get seasick in varying
degrees; “ though even the worst oases don’t get
off their feed—a great help to recovery.” “ Sym”
says horses are liable to seasickness “ with all its
symptoms, except vomiting, which is anatomic-
ally impossible to equines.” “Rox” has seen a
horse obviously seasick in every respect but the
vomiting. “1.P.” has been shipmates with
horses in all weathers, but never saw one seasick.
Eller, has sea-travelled with horses in the
heaviest weather; never saw any seasickness
ar spngst them. Cattle and sheep, for certain,
E ” adds, never get seasick.
* * * *
“Wurrym”: Be the Blackburn (Eng.)
man fined for using the great Australian adjective
“ blanky ” . The Perth (W. A.)
P.M. when a man was brought
before him charged wid language,
to wit, “blanky,” said, “That’s
neither obscene nor blasphemous.
I feel tempted to say that you ” (the
constable in the witness box) “are
» blanky fool.” There have been
no similar charges since.
* * •
“P.A.”: The aristocracy of
Mixtralia contains some curious
specimens. One youth lately said,
in a fowl-stealing case, that they
had some “ pullets ” running in the
yard. “ But there were some cocks
amongst them ? ” said counsel.
“ That makes no difference: a pul-
let is anything that is tender. You
ought to know that; you are not a
ohild,” the youth patronisingly told
the barrister.
* • •
“ Splur ” : A blackfellow told
me that when an aboriginal girl-
baby was born a cobweb was
wrapped tightly round the infant’s
auricular finger, with result that
after a week or so the finger would
drop off, no pain being felt. Any
reader throw a light on this matter?
* * *
“J.D.”: Let Hop., even at
this late hour, take comfort. At a
roadside farm not ten miles from
a southern capital I can shoiv him a
windlass with the tie-piece below
the barrel (drum ?). N.B.—But
the windlass is painted green.
a do S> :
I was once at a tired little saw-railling settlement on
Coromandel peninsula, M.L., where amusements are
limited. Saturday afternoons are spent in tipping out of
°ver-canvassed dingies, with ancient circular-saws for
centreboards. This sport, however, is too exciting for
Sunday ; so on the Sabbath such of the people as
have crawled ashore on the previous day and survived
the tanglefoot at the “ Kauri Tree ” drag their 14st. selves
down to the river to fish. No Izaak Walton business for
them, though ; a dynamite cartridge with time-fuse is
tl ? e ,‘. r . A , laz 7, lot-7'vouldn’t even trouble to
pickup the fish only its easier to cook them there than
*<, home for tea. Well, a new man called
Daley had just come down from town to take
°Y er the P ub - He was a bi S lum P of an Irishman,
with a retriever that was always at his heels, and as he’d
been treating the boys well the night before they let him
throw the charge his first Sunday. He wasn’t much of a
shot; the thing sailed up in the air and fell about syds.
out \ and bef °re it sank Daley’s dog had seized it. Good
retriever was Toby. Then the fun began. At first
Da i e y looked a bit mad over his bad shot, but then it
struck him that his dog had done a real smart thing,
and he turned round to beam at us. He had to look a
good way off to find us for beaming purposes, and we
wer ® Btill movin g- All of a sudden he dropped
. ar, d just as Toby came up with the car-
himself dry' 9 D Ty started* off alters. “ofISKj
Toby pelted after him for all he was worth. Daley must
have weighed over 16st., but I guess he shifted a few
records up that hill. Toby couldn’t last it. His coat
was heavy with water, and the thing fizzing in his mouth
annoyed him. He wouldn’t drop it, though. When the
end came, and Toby flew into small, hashed dog it was
nothing worse than over-exertion that laid Daley flat. We
pulled him round all right with a flask out of his own
pocket—then we had one ourselves. Daley’s been the
most popular man in the place ever since, and if any of
you boys are down that way, you’ll be sure to meet him.
But don’t ask him what’s the best way to catch mullet,
and don’t try to sell him a dog, especially if it’s a big
black retriever with a curly ooat.
* * * *
“ Kal.” : In Cairns (N.Q.) I recently saw
a buxom white woman in the main street with a
half-caste Chinese child on one side and a ditto
black youngster on the other. History of the
case : Woman when a widow had married a
Chinaman, who divorced her for infidelity with a
Kanaka. “Best Queensland mixture —very
choice 1 ”
• * * *
“8.5.” : During the late Yic. municipal
elections I said to a candidate, “ I suppose Blank
will vote for the other side ?” “Noa,” he replied,
“ nar naither’ll any av me oonniction, an’ they have
thurty-wan voats out av sivinty-sivin in the
ridin’.” The Council ornamented by this gintle-
man only uses its hall as a matter of form, and
conducts all its real business at the local pub. bar.
The Council’s aggregate age is 300 years, whioh is
about its distance out of date.
« • * •
“Jimpan”: Be the blacks’ dislike to
work. During the first months of my exile in the
Big Scrub I found it very hard to get the river
blacks to do even little graft for big pay. Also,
when I used to offer them good
prices for aboriginal weapons if
they had any on hand they’d sell
readily; but they would not con-
tract to make any. And a curious
fact is that I could always get
more wild honey, or ferns, or
oysters, for a plug of bad tobacco
and a bottle of worse rum for a
start and same on delivery than
by offering twice the value of
these poisons in spot cash. “ Blacks’
rum ” everywhere is vile enough, but
in the B.S. it is mostly bar-drip-
pings, dregs, bluestone, cayenne,
treacle, and tobacco-juice—upon a
slender basis of raw river-spirit.
* * * •
“ 0.K.” : We were baling
water on night - shift,
when suddenly the rope
broke, and there was a
flash of fire as the
wrecked tank dropped
with deafening crash
on the well-boards
along with 200fto.
of wire rope,
fragments of
ladders,
skids, &c.
Deadsilenoe
then for a
full minute
be f ore,
from the
darkness
below,
oame a
hail: “On
top!”
“ Hullo 1"
I answered.
“ Tell the driver
to lower that there
tank a bit steadier, will
’ee l ”
“R.W.S.” : Booroondara station, Cobar
(N.S.W.) district, has a pet emu which is used as
a decoy. Roams off into bush, foregathers with
wild emus, and entices them into a yard where
they are slain, sometimes to the number of 30 or
40 in a batoh.
« « • •
“ J.YV.S.” : I can back-up “ Nell Cook ”
about starving emus. They can be seen dead in
hundreds along the border-fence near Angledool,
and I have frequently seen them running along
the fence but never attempting to jump or break
through. The statement that they can break the
wires is nonsense.
* • • •
“J.S.G.” : Be white dingoes. While
convalescing from typhoid once, at Port Augusta,
I saw and heard a lot too much of a white dingo
that a neighbor had chained in his yard, and
which, in ray enfeebled state, very nearly finished
me off with his diabolical and persistent night-
howling. I have said “his,” but this dingo,
besides being absolutely white, was a hermaphro-
dite.
* * * •
A pair of white opossums were recently
captured in Glen Innea district.
• * * •
“Jack No. 1”: I know a ’possum-
trapper’s horse that will eat raw ’possum—with
relish. I have known him to put away five
’possums in one night. [The Bulletin now wait 3
to hear about the other horse that climbed the
tree and caught his own ’possums ; also, the horse
whioh wasn’t a good olimber, but always gnawed
his tree down.]
* * * •
Extracted from Papuan letter :
The people at Mukawa are quiet and peaceful, and
seem very intelligent and obedient, but they are great
wife-beaters. Only the other day one man was caught
trying to sorew his wife’s neck, and then battering her
breasts with stones. The funeral oeremonies of an im-
portant man are very impressive. The body is buried at
sunrise or sunset, depending on the time of day when
death takes place. A few hours before burial the body is
placed on a bier, then four men carry it away from the
house to a place where four poles are driven into the
ground. Here they rest, with the bier on their shoulders,
taking hold of a pole each, and swinging backwards and
forwards. The relations then, each holding a spear, faoe
the bier, standing in a circle. The eldest relative
picks up a stick about 2ft. long, and, speaking to the
corpse, asks him what caused his death. Receiving no
answer, he strikes the body to awaken it. At this, all
thelr'spears, drite'them?Y“Vt"’ B name > and - lifting »P
)s then repeated until The ceremon y
into the ground Thev f i. the . 8^ lcka gathered are driven
house and cry over it Th!" £ ke the body back to the
find out the per,on o T r he object of this ceremony is to
deceased. eausin K the death of
which cause arise emilessficrhr 30 "!? then killed — froin
By the way, in old li-ltft and feuds '. n New Guinea.
Interrogating the ° f
* * *
W i fe ; “ Mal y Ann,” used to
beer took “ M^ly’^'n’»> a s^ hen ( i n , the end t [’ e
r d „,s„f
ou ids aTJ d ; nvn his neck would take one
outside and empty ,t on the ground “Allee
same shout for Maly Ann ! ” he would eiplain
An amateur dyer on a Vic. dairy farm the
result d tW eft a ' Ub ° f g - een dye outside > w 'th the
mixture Wh H"H UlBlt i Ve ealf drank half ‘he
f w d ’ u nd owner . a bush humorist,
cause nf l fb' t ,he vets ' {or an opinion as to
cause of death. The opinions received form a
weird and interesting collection, ranging from
gangrene to heart-failure. The stomacl. bore a
striking resemblance to a new emerald Turkey
carpet. J
* * * *
In Queensland no timber can be cut on
Grown lands within two miles of the head-station
of a run, save by the lessee’s leave. A party of
licensed wood-cutters apply for a timber-siding on
Northern railway-line ; and, after spending a
lot of money on it, start to chop. Lessee
knocks together a little bark cottage a mile
from siding, fixes his bunk and his camp
oven therein, and calls it
his head-station. Then
he goes forth and
collects a stiff royal-
ty on all timber
cut and sold.
Another vic-
tory of mind
over mere
muscle.
FIT FOR BETTER THINGS.
THE SHEPHERD : “ You should be doing something
better, my poor man, than breaking stones in-
side a prison wall.”
B 411 (thinking aloud) : “ That’s a fact. Safe-
breaking’s my line.”
“ Kooka ” : Should like to have it settled
for me whether snakes are really able to spring,
i.e., throw the whole body through the air for any
distance. I have tried various snakes but have
found none do more than draw back part of body
and then suddenly straighten out, literally throw-
ing the head at the object of attack. If followed
closely the snake will perform this movement so
rapidly as, perhaps, to account for the springing
notion. I should also like to know what is the
fastest that snakes can travel. Have effectually
followed them across ploughed ground at the rate
of a quick walk.
* * * *
On ) Trunkoy Creek (N.S.W.) goldfield a
miner’s wife bought some vegetables from a.
Chinaman. She handed him a half sov. and
hurried inside with the apron-load of “ cabbagee ”
then she returned and asked for 9s. change.
“ You no give me ’arf sov’ring, missee.” “ But I
did, John. Now, no larks.” The heathen
emptied his pockets and purse. But she was posi-
tive, and a wordy war ensued. “ What’s the row
about?” thundered the miner’s voice from the


WEDDING
SILVER
A pair of Solid Silver Salt Cellars (English
Hall-marked) in choice morocco case, witn
Two Silver Spoons, from 15/- to 20/- the case.
These are in designs of exquisite refinement.
Every table requisite and ornament we stoca
in SOLID SILVER at London Cash Prices.
Fairfax & Eoberts,
Write for
our
Silver
Catalogue
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney . . .
23 Hunter Street.
::unn
m
6
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 Hunter-street, Sydney.
STEELING SILVER SALT CELLARS, 15/-
Arthur H. Adams, author of the just-
publißhed “Maoriland, and Other Verses,” is a
native of Lawrence, a mining township in Central
Otago, M.L., and his advent on June 6, 1872, was
celebrated by a three weeks’ snowstorm. From
Otago Boys’ High School he took a scholarship to
Otago University, gaining his B.A. degree.
Became a reporter on Wellington Evening Post
under his uncle, editor Gillon; and in 1898 came
to Sydney to act as literary secretary to J. C.
Williamson. Adams has a strong dramatic
tendency, evidenced in the cantata “ Hinemoa/’
and various plays acted and unacted. One of
these, “The Minstrel,” agreeably varies his book
of verses.
“ My hearers," said the impassioned and
eloquent woman suffragist, as she gazed defiantly
at the vast audience before her, “ the time is fast
approaching when we shall rule the world. Why,
even now, in the New England States, there are
60,000 more women than men, and all of them
likely to become mothers ! ”
■ln the middle of winter in Scotland, ice
is collected and stored away for use in summer ;
but as this cannot be done in Australia, a small
hand ice machine has been invented by Messrs.
Brandt Bros., lamp manufacturers, of Sydney and
Melbourne, in which small quantities of ice can
be made at a moment’s notice. The cost of the
machine is 50s. The same firm also makes ice-
cream freezers, entirely doing away with the old
style of turning a handle.*
Two Sydney newspaper lads were recently
having a “go” in Elizabeth-street when one
violated the canons of the manly art by slashing
into the other’s face a handful of a substance not
uncommon where horse-traffic abounds. “ Orl-
right, Spud,” blubbered the recipient, “I’ll put
yer away for that. I’ll leave it on till a copper
comes! ”
A visit to the establishment of W. Jno.
Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-street, Sydney, is a
revelation of the improvements in the cutler's art
during recent years. The old stereotyped patterns
now give place to the patented, registered and
unique designs such as Boundary Rider’s Kit
(knife, sheath and steel), Station and Wire Key
knives, Bush, Hunting and Picnic knives, &c. In
razors there are some splendid specimens of the
cutler’s skill, and even in carvers and table-knives
there are marked improvements. For ladies there
are some beautiful scissors for all classes of work.
Mr. Baker fully realises the fact that it is by their
use only that such articles can rightly be appreci-
ated and therefore has always endeavored to pro-
duce the most useful designs coupled with the
good steel and skilled workmanship which has
won for his steelware an Australasian reputation.
Readers will find Mr. Baker’s catalogue, which is
posted free, interesting and instructive, as many
of the newest designs are there illustrated. A
postcard with your address should b« sent to
3 Hunter-street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
Pottles Is. everywhere.*
COLEMANE ano SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
•THE ONLY PURE IN THE WORLD.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide. Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THREE PERFECT GENTLEMEN.—Mr. Harry Richards' dogs.
Photos., Kerry & Co.
bedroom. “ This Chinaman won’t give me my
change.’’ Then John “ came down ’’ with, “ Ah,
missee, me tink it ; me puttee in ear,’’ and the
ohild of the sun hastily drew out the coin and did
not even wait for his shilling.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Will any of your natu-
ralists settle whether or not the ordinary green
whip-snake is poisonous? Much difference of
opinion on the point exists in the bush. This
Bnake is very numerous in Port Stephens district,
and is hard to distinguish amongst scrub grass-
trees. —Billykam.
* • » *
A man who is fairly in the running for
“champion mean man’’ lately bought an up-
country hotel. He was landed in the middle of
the night at a railway township 30 miles from his
new location, and after he had got a sleepy local
beer-merchant to admit him, he asked for hot
water. When this was procured he produced his
own whisky-flask and compounded a nobbier, in-
forming his host at same time that he was the
new publican at Mugs’ Flat. “Oh !’’ said that
individual, “are you ? Well, if all the travellers
who come to your house are like yourself you’ll
make a re" 1 pile ! ”
* * * *
“Billy'’: Re an old-time Bulletin
recommendation of ordinary “ gum-tree ” resin
as a cure for diarrhoea. I have often since so used
it with effect, blood wood or ironbark gum appear-
ing to act best, although that from blue or red
gum is also good. Bloodwood gum has also great
healing powers, and is used largely by North
Coast settlers upon horses, cattle and dogs. I
once saw it applied to a fearful wound in a dog’s
chest caused by a kick from an old man ’roo.
Dissolved in warm water and applied three or
four times a day, it cured the injury in a couple
of weeks. This gum also makes good cement.
• * • *
During shearing at Darr River Downs,
near Longreach (Q.), the committee appointed to
select books for the shed library, in a moment of
aberration, allowed one of its number (evidently
a Sassenach) to pick “ Maria Monk.” On arrival
of the books there were ructions, and the full com-
mittee (mostly named Sullivan) sat in judgment
on “Maria.’’ One practical member suggested
selling the lady, buyers being plentiful; but it
was solemnly decided that she should be burnt,
which sentence was duly carried out, and poor
“ Maria ” perished miserably.
' List of stations on Al-
bany (W.A.) line: —Beenup,
Pootenup, Tumbleup, Marble,
and Rupanup.
* *
“F.P.”: Big snakes
aside—what is the smallest
adult snake on record ? I
had one (a species of death-
adder) 7 inches only, which,
as it shed its skin while in
my possession, I concluded
was full-grown.
* *
The following extracts
fromthe “ Alcheringa” myths
of Spencer and Gillen’s “Na-
tive Tribes" of Centralia
would seem to be worth fur-
ther investigation :
p. 440. There it is said that a
Purula man who had a stumpy
tail left the party, intending to
go away, but changed his mind
and returned. Was this the miss-
ing link ?
pp. 446-6. In the Alcheringa a
spark of fire ascended into the
sky at Urapuncha—the place of
fire, which lies far away in the
north—and was blown by the
north wind to a spot now indi-
cated by a large mountain, also
called Urapuncha, or Mount Hay.
There it fell to earth, and a great
fire sprang up, which by and by
subsided. . . . The remains of the
great fire still smoulder on the top
of the mountain, where the sacred
storehouse of the (fire) totem is
located, and at night-time, espe-
cially if the night be dark and
rain}, the fire can be seen from a
long distance.
Is there an undiscovered vol-
cano in Centralia ?
* •
A “ HAIKAI."
The pall of the bush,
Drear Monotony, chokes us—
Thank God 1 the mailman 1
Von Kotzb.
• *
Considerable agricultural
activity was lately displayed
in an odd corner of the Isle
of Dreams. Old Redgum,
the patriarch of the wilder-
ness, who was strongly sus-
pected by his relatives of
having a substantial “ plant ”
somewhere on his farm, was
one night “ took with a
stroke.” A reliable vigilance
committee was appointed to
soothe his last hours and
take notes. Despite these
precautions the old warrior’s
testimony was disappointing.
At the dawning of the day he
sat up with a grim smile,
pointed somewhere in the
vicinity of the South Pole,
muttered the word “Stump,”
and passed out into the Un-
known. As he forget, in the
hurry of leaving, to say in
what part of the globe the
stump was located, and as
stumps are not very un-
common anywhere, the direo-
tions were a bit vague. However, a spirited
race ensued among the mourners for the likeliest
spots on the selection, and the neighborhood re-
sounded with the ring of spade and pick and
the cries of the widow. Farm implements
rose to a disquieting figure at the local
store, and enough perspiration was dropped
on the farm in one week to start the dead
timber growing. At latest advices the sor-
rowing relations were still improving the
ground, greatly to the relict’s benefit.
* * * *
In Huncer-street, Newcastle, a shop,
which makes a speciality of selling curios to
over-sea visitors, has this sign in win-
dow : “ Kangroo Eggs, from the Never-
Never Country. A few for sale within.”
Samples shown appear to be ostrich eg gs. ”
* * « •
“Alpar”: Re bush-cruelty. Once,
up Braidwood (N.S.W.) way, saw a fellow
killing a cow with an axe. Struck eight
times !—knocking off a horn, putting out
an eye, and smashing a jaw. Then I could
stand it no longer, and cleared. Heard after-
wards it took about 20 more hits to do the
job. And yet, in town, a man is severely
punished if he works a horse with sore
shoulders. Also, we continue to send mis-
sionaries to China 1
* • * *
“ H.D.G.” : Re boobook and mopoke
(“ 5.W.,” B. 12/8/’99). Anyone acquainted
with both birds can easily distinguish be-
tween their cries, and they are not often
found together. Again, is “S.W.” aware
that there are two distinct boobooks—the
big and the little ?
* * • •
“ Treb.” : Some W.A. blacks pre-
pare ’possum for eating by covering it
with thick coat of clay and cooking in
hot cinders. The skin then comes off
with the hardened clay, leaving flesh clean
and white. But these niggers are not all
equally epicurean, as many of them are con-
tent with placing their game on the fire just long
enough to burn off the fur ; then they devour the
half-warmed flesh ! Writer once saw a native
cutting up an emu, his youngster anxiously wait-
ing the while for the heart—a special dainty.
Went away happy, sucking the practieally-raw
heart like an orange !
Answers co Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
C.W.: Not Fegan, Feegan, or Fagan, but
Figgon. For further information, see “ Liggon ” (not
“ Lyegon ”). T.C.S. : “Donoghue” wants a woman
and a dog in it—at least, there’s something wrong
Tom Connolly : Large and ordinary Eiffa : “Natural
Specimen ” too steep and awful. Like climbing a huge
mountain to look at a decomposed dog on the summit....
R. : Councillor Patrick Denis Kavanagh O’flanlon doesn’t
look interesting at this distance Maorilander : Or, as
a German put it, “ De ghost is ready, but de meat is
feeble.” .... Uno : Dunno .... Skull (Moonee Ponds): Can’t
say, but it sounds like cold, damp bosh L.: You wish
us to “ kindly insert in theatrical column ” that you are
“ proving yourself a great favorite in Maoriland ” ; also,
that you “ are a great Sydney favorite,” and will be back
there shortly. Well, we never heard of you in Sydney.
When did you paralyse that city, and are you a bones or
a Macbeth ? .... Pael : A good many prophets like you say
the Lyne Govt, will only last a few months and then
Reid will come back. And when Reid was made Foreign-
trade leader you all said he would only last a month or
two, and then Parkes would return .. . Gobung : You say
“ Don’t have a large family ” for various reasons. Well,
the declining birth-rate shows that peopleare don’ting. ..
J.N.R. : Too long and flabby. Flabby verses and flabby
women are detestable, and always come to a bad end
A Shearer: Do you mean well? You certainly don’t
know J.B.D. : U F.8.H.: Send to the Australian
Magazine Anon : Public opinion sided with the judge,
anyhow, and w’hen further proceedings were started the
defendant, it is said, paid a pretty big sum to settle the
question. Are you related by marriage to the jury?
Also, you mustn’t impute corrupt motives to a judge on
such shadowy grounds ... Bronzewing: Spring pome
competition closed, or these lines would certainly have
won the donkey-prize :
The magpie now on highest tree constructs her
Nest of hard dry sticks and strong,
Imbued with strong desire to reproduce
The kind, so it may not become extinct.
E.P. : You and all the rest of the bloodthirsty Aus-
tralian warriors who want to go and shoot Boers in the
Transvaal should be put through an examination as to
what the trouble really is. It would be interesting to
know how many of you know what it is you want to go
shooting about Splinter: Not ill-done, but situation
too often used before .. Harry M. : Can’t answer Ist
question precisely, but the Valentine B iker train-
affair occurred about middle of ’7o’s. Duke of Portland’s
name is Cavendish-Bentinck; don’t see where “Ellis’’
comes in Backstay: “ Rot to say that the associating
of s.s. officers with passengers involves any danger to the
ship.” Well, it’s rot that has been proved up to the hilt,
anyhow. And what you say about officers’ care for
their certificates amounts merely to saying that they don’t
intentionally cause mishaps. Which didn’t need stating.
C.L.P.: The difference in the words is illustrated by the
fact that whereas before marriage a man is “ struck,”
after marriage he is often stricken .. X.Y.Z.: Silly item,
accompanied by long letter ... T.M. : Many thanks.
J. Fairnie : Story now printed. One of the verses for
illustration Hugh V. : Too verminous a subject
Malua : Three chestnuts; other may serve..... C.L. :
Bulletin never prints 43 pp. foolscap. When it does, it
will die suddenly B.S. : Thanks; though it doesn’t
give us the deepest emotion V.R.B. : Don’t care for...
W.J.M. : Better say things plainly Wil: Not a gleam.
Titoki: Some points; not enough G.B. : We’re
sure you were a better digger than poet
Helen B. : Will consider both Wallaroo : Might tone-
down and use .... Elsa E. : Some power, awkwardly
applied; and the developments lack reasonableness...
Cypher : Well-written, but only an amplification of a
well-known wheeze, and too “ strong ’’ for print, any-
how Willo 0. : Puerile rubbish J.B.D. : Would
need a lot more spirit in the telling... Alice B. : Well-
aimed, hut doesn’t hit hard enough J.T. : May pos-
sibly cut down and use. The two portions don’t hold
well together ... Hoiya : May do, with some alteration
of finish .. Lucius : Not lucid, though... F.J.O. : Would
take too long to unravel the knot you’ve tied yourself
into Ratty : Well, tue weren’t going to call you so—
Miss FANNY BAUER , the North Sydney Soprano
who dihuts October 10 at Sydney Town Hall.
Photo., The Falk Studios.
but you know best! 0.D.: Very good, but hopelessly
out of B.’s line.. Marquise : Hasn’t constitution enough
for its length.. . Walter S.F.: Reminds us of brickbats and
things R.B. (M.L.) : Too much tail to too little kite
Gemini : Good C.M.K. : Weak. . H.C.(Rich.): Metre
far too rocky .. R.B. (Q.) : Sorry too late; printed
when your letter arrived John T. (Manly): Glad if
you will call B.K. : The father was practically con-
victed of encouraging his daughter’s prostitution in the
first pL.ce, and further degrading her (by force) after-
wards. Are “dissolute girls’’ to have no protection
against their more vile parents? .. Rats: Story has no
beginning .. F.W.E. : Yes, it means that it is rejected
(2) cannot fix any definite time Walter G : Black & T.
a very strong situation, which needs much better
handling Cantab (M.L.)i: Can’t write, Cantab
R.C. : Poesy’s dribbling infancy'. Eyewitness : Re-
ceived .... Alone 2 : Come, you ought to know better
than that ... Haidee : May the Lord have no mercy on
you Joe R. :Hm 1 . Ferdinand : Late—and bad
Eiffa: Pretty poor R.W.S. : “France" no chop;
possibly' other .. P. St. J.: Will print at advt. rates.
Raupo: Personally we prefer a taupo .Mac:
“Chance” dull Zingara : Not novel or strong enough.
Neila : When the river “ wended ” MS. wended, too.
I eo : “ Reformation ” very feeble for you.... Vinegar
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Photo., Alba.
You don’t get the force out of story.. W.N.B. : Well-
worn theme M®ma : Couldn’t print that. No; we
don’t usually acknowledge pars. Sketches referred to
probably not yet dealt with. Wal.: English chestnut
Gobung :*“ U.D.” not yet examined Fred. W. B. :
Thanks; already to hand from elsewhere. A.L.C. :
Vide Bulletin 30/9/’99. Eight H. : Dull rhymes in
sick metre. Lucy B. : Too complicated. Other things
being equal, the simpler a “ plot ” is the better Arta :
It’s one of the things that only seem easy. You don’t
come within miles of the mark, anyhow.


SOUVENIRS OF THE SYSTEM.
“Further food for reflection was afforded yesterday evening to those engaged at the Point Gellibrand cemetery of “ man’s inhumanity to man, in the disco very of a second shacklod (presum-
ably convict) skeleton. The irons described in yesterday’s H[?]ALD were as mere toys to those in the second case. Mr. A. W. Hick, who has charge of the work of diefuderment (under Mr. A.C.
Mitchell, of the Railway Department), states that he weighed tliese irons, and they turned the scales at Allowing for loss by corrosion, he hazards the opinion that when in wear by the
brutalised victim they would not have weiyhed less than 18lbt." — Daily Paper.
THE SPECTRE : “Let the dead Past bury its dead!”


CARTOONLETS.
THE ROSE BAY RECLAMATION SCHEME.
Premier Lyne: “And what do you
propose to call it ? ”
The O’Sullivan : “ Call it Lyne Park. It wiH perpetuate
your name to ”
Lyne (with a far-away look): “To the time when our succes-
sors sell it off for building sites, or perhaps dredge it out and
turn it into swimming-baths. Such is fame ! ”
WASN’T IT GOOD OF HER 1
It is owing to Miss MacCarthy s
desire that her countrymen should ,
hear her in the flower of her youth
that she is paying this visit to the
colonies. “ I felt,” she said, “ that
each season was Bringing more and
more engagements, and that if I
pyt off my visit much longer I ,ain
would not be able to go to Aus- v \\y'
tr&lia until I was old and worn /
out. ” / /i
“ I spent three days on my
knees, and received a Divine,
revelation that I was to go to >
war with England.”—Paul /
Kruger. /
Gov. Beauchamp told the Cobar people that he would give
lectures in Sydney on his travels in that district. The Bulletin begs to
'> su ggeat a design for a poster.
Officer (commanding a
V s o response.) “Now ra
the Orange F re , St'ate r 8 ° “
Mb, (yelling, „a %);
SPLENDtWgI
igglgislgiilll
THE OLD BUSHRANGING
SPIRIT.
A SICKENING THUD,
OR THE FALL OF BAVISTEK


m
M
O'
in
Cn
if
v A.SAUNDERS
PATENT ELY BACK CN ~
Jn SPLIT SECONDS
G LEVER
jft
30
M
Split Second Flj'-back Ohronosrraph and Minute
Recorder, £3 10s ; not split, £2 2s. Special value.
a a a
16a Gold Heart and Bird, with Ruby and
Diamond, 355.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d •
16c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Sm&i
a~cf
w
&
A. Sounders.
dold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s; 15c. Gold, £%
Latest Style, Solid cold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d; 15c. Gold, 21s.
A. Saunders (Registered).
GMd Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 15c Gold
£2. Diamonds, as shown, £2 10s. and £3
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
9c. Solid Links and Opals, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s.
m,
Links, 9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, i'2. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s6d, 15s,
20s. Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
French Diamond, Pure Solid
Silver Hat Pin, 4s 6d. Any
Initial.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£-2 10s, £3, £4.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20 j.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Gold Wish Bone Pearl Set Bee, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 355.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 16a
Gold, 15s; 18c. Gold, 20s; Silver, Ss 6d.
Registered." 9c. Solid Gold, 17s 0d
150. Gold, SOs ; 180. Gold, 85s.
m
18c. Gold, 6 first-class
Opals, £2 10s ;
Larger, £3 10b.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies, and
4 Diamonds, £3, ‘ 3 10s
14. Send for Size Card.
A. Sauiders.
18c. Solid Gold, Band
Binge, pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A. Saunders.
180. Gold, pure Double-
cut Diamond, £6.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, r2O.
i -
18c. Gold, 2 Opals and
3 pure Diamonds, £4.
gQfc.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
All Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting' Keyless, ±2, £2 10s, £8;
Key, 255, 80s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £6.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS’ New Gold Forget-me-not
Heart and Chain Brooch, lie 6d ■
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d.
Registered
“Gold S« r ord”
and
Spray Brooch,
13 Pearls, Ruby,
or Sapphire, and
Diamond, 255;
without
Diamond,
■22, 6d.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
First-class Pure Diamonds, £10; Diamonds and Rubies, £7 10s.
SEND
FOR
Prick List.
JjATEST style.
Handsome Gold Necklet and Pure White Pearls, £3 6s: extra heavv £6
LATEST LONDON RAGE.
Solid Gold Band.
Opal, 17s 6d;
3 Opals, 22s 6d.
160. Gold, 1 Opal, 30s ;
3 Opals, 355.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
815 <S€OR<S€ STR€€T (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYPNEY.
9c. 2-Bar and Bell, 12s 6d {
Amethyst, 13s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
First-class Hand-made, Solid Gold Wedding
Ring and Keeper, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s, 30s,
355, £2. Send for our Size Card
Vitadatio
THE 6REAT HERBAL R€ty€Py
IS YOUR FRIEND!
READ THIS AND ACT PROMPTLY !
•v .
-;v.
THOMAS JOHNSON.
TWICE TO ENGLAND IN
SEARCH OF HEALTH.
10 Princes Street, Kew, 15th May, 1899.
Mr. S. A. Palmer, General Agent for “ Vitadatio.”
Dear Sir,—ln sending- you this testimonial, I feel it will
no more represent my case than a St. Bernard pup
represents the si*e of his great parents ; still, small as it
is, it is the truth, and that’s the main thing.
You know I have been twice to England to try and get
ease from my snfferinys, and was there treated by some
of the best medical skill in the world, but all to no pur-
pose. They told me at last that nothing could be done,
even to ease my pain (except to inject morphia), so I had
to go on suffering, with no hope of ever getting better.
No one but a man like yourself can realise the gloom and
misery, yea, agony, of such a state, but you, having been
in a similar plight, know how one in such a case longs for
death, and often feels inclined to do some desperate aot
to be rid of such an existence.
I had tried all different treatments. Allopathic,
Homoeopathic, Hydropathic and Electropathic. I have
also tried Russian, Electric and Turkish Baths, and
others too numerous to mention. One gentleman in
Sydney had me under the Crisis Treatment for six
months, and when I would not let him torture me any
longer, he declared that if I allowed my sore, raw body
to dry, I should soon be a dead man. I told him that
death would rescue me from suffering, so I would face it.
I parted, telling him that if Satan was hard driven to find
some special torture to punish his most hated victims, I
thought that he was the man that could teach him
(Satan) some wrinkles.
When returning from England three years ago, God
knows that I never expected to land in Australia. I had
then given up all doctors, and just meant to let myself
die. 1 thought, surely I have tried enough and spent
enough, so will try no more. Thus I w r as just suffering
on till death should release me. Everything I did,
whether eat, walk, talk, or sleep, was a burden to me.
Many who read this will remember how I then some-
times screamed with agony night and day. I went over
to Tasmania. Here 1 first heard of VITADATIO, and 1
may tell you that (if it had not been for reading the de-
claration made by four gentlemen, who signed their
names, referring to the genuineness of your cure of
Hydatids, in Invercargill, New Zealand) all the people in
this world would not have induced me to again start
taking physic, as I had been taking medicines for 13
years, and was getting worse.
I could not get “ Vitadatio ” in Burnie (Tasmania), so
had to wait till I came back to Melbourne. I procured
my first bottle at the Mutual Stores, Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne. I took five large bottles. It certainly strength-
ened me, but it did not take away my severe pain, so,
like many others, I gave it up.
About four months afterwards, Mr. Button, of Oat-
lands (Tasmania), introduced me to you (Mr. Palmer), and
your remarkable case, being so much like my own, led me
to go in for “ Vitadatio,” if it should take my last penny.
I drank, as you know, two bottles weekly, yea, one day I
drank a large-size bottle. I found it was food and every-
thing to me.
A well-known doctor, with whom I was friendly con-
gratulated me on my improved looks each time he saw
me, so I kept on taking “ Vitadatio,” and, as you re-
member, I came every other day to your Head Office ;
and so, by seeing you, got your encouragement, which
kept me taking the medicine. I endured the pain, and
drank the remedy, until the disease began to come away.
Soon it came away so fast that I have got bottles full of
the disease three or four times a week, which I brought
to you.
This, that had puzzled the doctors, when inside me,
now puzzled them as they saw it in the bottles ; one even
said that it was the “ lining of my bow'els " coming away.
In fact, I understand one of the doctors sent a letter to
a leading morning paper to that efect. I should think he
would now withdraw it. I said, “I hope I shall soon be
free from all such ‘lining,’ as it is taking away the pain,”
and since the time I lost the “ lining of my bowels” (as
the doctors called it), I have put on a stone weight of
flesh, and, “ Hallelujah,” I can now sleep, eat, talk, and
run, and that with pleasure ; should the same doctor see
me now instead of wanting me to make my will, as he did
then, I think he would pass me for any life insurance
office.
I have been cured of the following :
1. Running sores in the legs, of over forty years’ stand-
ing. To show the thoroughness of the cure, a small dog
bit me on the very place five weeks ago, which caused me
some alarm, and two days of pain, but it is now
thoroughly sound.
2. Piles, that for years were a trouble to me, are now a
thing of the past—from them I am perfectly free.
3. Singing in my head, which was a constant nuisance
to me for seven (7) years, has completely left me.
4. Some small growths on the skin, which often
troubled me, have withered away, leaving only a stain on
the skin, which in every respect is as sound as can be. I
did not take the “ Vitadatio ” for any of these complaints,
but only for the dreadful agony which I suffered, on
account of the growth in the pit of the stomach, and
which you now have in so many bottles, but I am glad to
say I can bring you no more, as it is all gone, “ yes, all
gone."
I intend to write a pamphlet on the different things the
doctors have called my disease, and which they could not
touch, but “ Vitadatio” has driven it from my poor old
body, which is daily getting stronger, as if going baok to
youth.
THOMAS JOHNSON,
22nd May, 1899.
VITADATIO INSTITUTE, Melbourne.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—There is not a shadow of a
doubt regarding the Wonderful Cure here described.
There are hundreds of well-known people who have
watched Mr. Johnson’s case very carefully', professional
gentlemen and others. Mr. Johnson is a worthy man,
and Mr. David Beath, merchant, of Melbourne, has sub-
scribed the testimonial as to the character of the grateful
patient, who is a living witness to the merits of Vitadatio.
Yours faithfully,
S. A. PALMER.
P.-i.—Mr. Johnson’s case stands out prominently as a
“ Star of Hope ” even to the most apparently' hopeless.—
Mr. F. W. HOHNE, who has been a clerk in the em-
ploy of John Perry, timber merchant, 150 Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne, for nine years, sends his photograph
to show what VITADATIO has done for him. Read what
he says : “ For the last five years I have been a great
sufferer, and I did not know what it was to be at work
for a month without having to have two or three days’
leave of absence. I became so despondent at times that
I began to think of suicide, as life was only a burden to
MR. F. W- HOHNE.
me. I consulted my lodge doctor (I am a prominen
member in the Druids order) who said that 1 had very
bad bilious attacks. When I had the last attack of my
trouble a particular friend of mine, who is a great
believer in VITADATIO, came to see me, and would not
go away until I promised him to go in for a course of
VITADATIO. I did so. I purchased six bottles, and
before I finished the first bottle, I got so bad that I con-
sulted a doctor. From what I told the doctor on that
occasion, he said : ‘ Why, man, you are suffering from
Hydatids.’ I said : ‘Oh ! well, that is ail right, I have
got Lhe cure.’ He said: ‘What is it?’ I replied:
* Vitadatio.’ The doctor said : ‘ I have heard some good'
reports about that remedy.’ After persevering with a
course of the medicine, which I took in ten weeks, I am
thoroughly restored to perfect health. I will be glad to
answer any inquiries about my case, addressed in care of
above firm. Yours very gratefully,
FRED W. HOHNE."
Past District President, United Ancient Order of
Druids, No. 1 District.
HEftP QUARTERS’ INSTITUTE: 45-47 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branch Institutes at Adelaide, Perth Brisbane, and Wellington. Depots in all principal Cities and Towns, and from Chemists and Grocers everywhere.
Fixed Price, large bottle, 5s 6d; small, 3s 6d; One Doz. large bottles, 60s. S. A. PALMER, Agent-General for Australasia.
Sydney Institute - - - 184 Pitt Street.


Banking, Publio Companies, Ao.
MONEY LENT
... on ...
All Classes of Security.
Mont de piete Go*
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
P*HR MOUTH.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, ETC.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^#
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
Tho Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 George Street ( facin « Brid^e - Bt - ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOmp. ijiaiiilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'MIIiLAN, M.P., A. W. Mkkks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Pkaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Coyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED . . . 200 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
'Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Months,
~ ~ il Years, 5%
~ ~ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting gompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Offb-e. 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi>doo & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
NliW ßi°a”c h h: Vales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, t 500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Tiie Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Odarkkr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Li&bihty of Share-
holders ... ... 260,000
£350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yiotorian <fc Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., Ootober 7, 12 Noon.
► Barrabool, Tues., Occober 10, 6 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oot. 14,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuea., October 31, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., Ootober 31, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Oot. 7, 2
Buninyomr, Tuea., Oct. 10,
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 14, 2 p.m.
p.m.
6 p.m.
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 7, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., 00. 14, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M'llwraith, M'Eacharn <fc Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ Trustees, €*€Q<itors,
AND
Corppaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 811
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Coilins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capi lal payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . £3,123,555 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. VV. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager: Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishop aff ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE ST Ft IS KIT.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymaiket, Gosford with asrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, Soulh
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418. *
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humpiikry, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.O.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of Nevy South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PiTT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Managek.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured oi Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ibmay, Imrih <& 00., Liverpool.)
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.
MEDIC, 11,984 tons, October
AFRIC, 11,916 tons, November
And will be followed by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIO.
The attention of the travelling publio and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and fonr-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon arid Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, Bent Street, SYDNEY.
England via amerioa
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. Sc A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the oold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR “WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
Tons.
I Leave
I Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
3158
3158
4000
Oct.
Nov.
Deo.
Oct.
Nov.
Deo.
30
27
25
Arrive ah
San
Franoisco,
Nov. 17
Deo. 15
Jan. 12
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
'.lost favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
ail other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
(11‘llQiraith, Hl^acharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotat ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M‘Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
HI # a Jjj THE
piled IpSCiraoce Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances on *u classes of
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks °? Wool Merchandise Hulls
— of Vessels, freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Row.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL^*^
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
X\J ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
' ' Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neaie Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer;
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
AT a MEETING of CITIZENS, held at the
Town Hall, on TUESDAY, the 19th
September, his Worship the Mayor (Sir Matthew
Harris) presiding, it was resolved that the Right
Honorable G. H. Reid, P.C., Q.C., be enter-
tained at a Public Demonstration, and that a
Souvenir be presented to him, as a token of the
appreciation in which the people of New Soutoh
Wales regard the great public services which he
has rendered to New South Wales, and to Aus-
tralia. The Demonstration will be held at the
Town Hall on Monday, 16th October, 1899, at
8 p.m.
All Subscriptions to the proposed Souvenir to
be addressed to his Worship the Mayor (Sir
Matthew Harris), or to the hon. treasurers, at the
Town Hail, Sydney.
Dr. J. GRAHAM
H. S. LEVY
Hon.
Treas.
THOMAS JESSOP 1
JOHN NOBBS j
Hon.
i Seoa.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT li I).
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Viotorian, and Queensland Ports,
FOll MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE RAY
8.9. Ointra, Friday, Oct. fl.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Oofc. 7.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
Oot. 6.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Ootober 7.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Paroo, Friday,
October 6
Best cV Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YOILIj and CO., Ltd., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, f 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Hiddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESS AGE R MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Forts and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co ~ Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sot* German
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S- INI. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
3YDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA —W eekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE - B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agencj
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


The Safest, Best and Finest Bridge
in the World.
“ There is an old saying that you should always
praise the bridge that carries you safely over, and
this sentiment actuates me in joining thousands
of others in testifying to the merits of Warner’s
Safe Cure. This wonderful medicine was indeed'
a bridge that carried me over a tide of trouble
emanating from a chill, viz., rheumatics and
neuralgia ; and I can confidently recommend it to
those who are suffering from kindred ailments. I
enjoy robust health to-day, to which Warner’s
Safe Cure mainly assisted.’’—JOHN H. SMITH,
Sloane-street, Summer Hill, Sydney.*
THE WHISKY OF THE WISE.
Is the title bestowed on “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) by many hotelkeepers. They remark that
the more brainy customers, veterans who think
twice before ordering, say—“ Mine is “D.C.L.”*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations *
SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
Grranixma, and F o dala.
Most popular TEAS of the age.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDENIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow !
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW’S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMMENDADOR PORT WINE.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.’S SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc., Colonial and Imported.
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Millers,
Manufacturers and Importers,
DEANS PLACE, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
iftE Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo Roe&C??
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEACHER&C? evmicv
82 A PITT ST bYUNty.
ASK
FOR
go
M ln
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Servioe Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4 FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr.. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the si action Jloorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bbadlky & Co., 324 George-**.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bavister resigned his good Govt, billet to
contest Ash field election. The result shows
clearly that Bavister was not Wise.
As a matter of diplomacy, the N.S.W.
“ oountry ” Ministry should connect North and
South Sydney with a bridge. Just to show there’s
no prejudice.
Actually, several Australian Govts, pro-
pose to send volunteers to fight the patriot Boers
m the Transvaal ! Var h a th its prostitutes no
less than peace. :
The Lyno Cabinet relies on “Mines”
Fegan to supply the “ frigid Sabbath ” and
“cold-tea” elements seemingly essential to
N.S.W. Ministerial longevity. He has already
anathematised the “Liberal Sunday.”
GETTING HIS MONETS WORTH.
(A George-street, Sydney, sketch.)
Michael Davitt’s prayer that God will
strengthen every Boer is playing rather low-down
on the Deity, since the inevitable result of an
Anglo-Boer war will compel the conclusion either
that God went under or that He hadn’t the honor
of agreeing with Davitt.
Though Premier Lyne has said nothing so
far about imposing postage on newspapers in
N.S.W., more than one of his Ministers declare
that a Bill with this object will be introduced in
Parliament within the first three months of the
Govt.’s life.
Oommonsense politicans begin to see that,
unless they can claim Cabinet rank in the Federal
Parliament, it will pay them better to devote
themselves solely to local politics, with the view
of gaining a local Ministerial position. Ordinary
Federal member, iAOO; local Minister over
.£lOOO.
- Q- Labor-party will get its solidarity
severely tested this session. Three syndicate
railways will undoubtedly be brought forward
Normanton to Cloncurry, Burketown to Lawn
Hill, and Mareeba to Atherton—all witli the
patent copper-silver sheen on them and affecting
strong Labor constituencies.
Let this fact stand steadily to the credit of
the Reid administration : —Not a single recom-
mendation to mercy in a capital case was ignored
during the Cabinet’s five years’career. Previous
administrations often refused to give effect to
•merciful recommendations. Brutality and back-
bune are sometimes near allied.
If N.S.W., because it is the most populous
gr >vince, has a right to supply the first Federal
remier, then the politician who represents the
most populous electorate in it ought to be that
Premier. Wherefore M'Lean, of Marrickville, is
obviously the man. Or else Carruthers, as the
■ member who was returned by the largest number
oi voters, should have the billet.
The saddest thing in all Queensland is the
attitude of Rockhampton since the Federation
vote. So long as that ambitious city could assert
that it was backed up by the Central District in
its aspirations it felt comparatively happy, but
when the Federation vote showed the antagonism
of the country electorates to Rockhampton—
lohabod !
What will new Mines Minister Fegan do
with the weighing, clause of N.S.W. Coal Mines
Act? It is three years since the Act passed.
Sections of it bearing hard on the miners have
been rigidly enforced, but the particular portion
exacting just weighing on the part of the masters
has been devitalised under one pretext and
another. Minister Smith played with it till the
country kicked him out ; Minister Cook similarly
played with it. Now. comes a third Minister—
and what will he do?
The importance of keeping sweet with
N.S.W. Labor-party just now was exemplified by
the fact that neither Govt, nor Opposition openly
opposed the return of the Labor candidate for
t le Boorowa seat vacated by Kenneth Mackay.
Though the successful Neilsen’s opponent, Wad-
dell, was assisted by some of the Lyne following
in the Assembly, the Metropolitan press was
careful to announce on behalf of the Ministry
that he was running purely as an “independent.”
majority in the Hume election,
though large enough, was far smaller than was
expected. Considering he was'jfighting the election
a ter ib years representation of the Hume with
all the prestige and influence of the Premiership
behind him, together with the assistance of half-a-
dozen Ms. P., the proportion of votes polled
against him was surprisingly large. The long
politician s action over Federation was, of course
the cause, and he would have had a hard fight for
the seat in the capacity of a private member.
Premier Seddon grows disappointing in his
old age. Recently Lewis, M.H.R., asked if the
Maori land electors would be allowed an oppor-
tumty to say, at the coming election, whether
they desired to join the Commonwealth, and
Seddon repbed grumpily that it couldn’t be done,
b v S,< ! eS i th -? - H oll tioa.l issues were already too
omplicated. Yet all that is required is to give
each voter an extra bit of paper with a “ yes ” and
? ° n ’V wll,ch ,1 s P lain enough. And one
burning question would thereby be taken out of
the political tangle.
q Ar U xj n g ie cam P a ig n f°r the Ashficld seat
to.M. Herald “yes-noed” in this fashion. It
gave news prominence to the Reidite speakers,
while ministerial orators were reportorially cur-
tai ed. But on the day of the polling the Herald
leading article deprecated opposition to Attorney-
General Wise. Recalls the Herald’s Mount
Rennie attitude : when the wretched boys were on
the scaffold, and not till then, the Herald ad-
mitted that they hadn’t had a fair trial. Left to
itself, the Herald is a sneak of a paper. It
would have gone crooked over Federation had it
not been braced-up from outside.
Although Gr. H. Reid is a keen opponent
of the present system which makes it imperative
fora newly-appointed Minister to seek re-election
hi * advice that B. R. Wise, the new
rs.b. W. Attorney-General, was opposed by Bavis-
ter the ex-member for the Ashfield seat. And Reid
could not resist the opportunity of heaving a few
lialt-hricks at Ins old adversary, by speaking on the
hustings m favour of Bavister. But Wise cannot
complain of this last action, for his denunciation
of Reidism, or the abnegation of responsibili-
ties, would have made even a worm turn.
F. A* Wright, M.L.A. for Glen Innes
(JN.b.W.), has been counting up his benefactions
to clubs, churches, and societies in his electorate
during eight months of the present year, and
finds they total <£34 19s. The donations exhibit
an impartial spirit: Wesleyan Church, .£1 Is •
Salvation Army, .£1 Is. ; R.C. Church, .£1 Is. ;
Church of England, £1 Is. ; four football clubs
a guinea each ; six cricket clubs a guinc,_
each ; a rifle-club and race-club two guineas each,
and so on. The M.L.A. anxious to keep his seat
must be always bleeding. As Frank Farnell told
the court: “I gave away all my salary one year
to keep the people sweet.”
If the Victorian Premier is in earnest over
his Old-Age Pension scheme, there is trouble
ahead. If he isn’t in earnest there is trouble
ahead. The I ories object to Old-Age Pensions
altogether. The democrats object to the impos-
sible moral conditions attached to this one, and to
the proposal to levy income-tax on small incomes
to raise the monev—this after reducing the tax on
large incomes. The Tories will gladly use Turner
in order to <’et the reduction of the tax on large
incomes. Then they will be pleased to throw him
out, so it isn’t worth while trying to buy their
support. And the proposed tax on small incomes
weakens the support of Turner’s own party. It
is the first big mistake the astute attorney has
"uide—but it is a very big mistake indeed.
THE MOUNTAIN AND MAHOMET .
Big John Forrest won't go to the mountain, hut he reckons in his own modest little way that the
mountain will come to him, if the harness doesn't break.
S.A. Premier Kingston lately prosecuted
Tucker, M.P., for voting in a district without resi-
dence. To prove either that the law is obscure or
misunderstood, Griffith, M.P., pointed out that
he had voted in Port Darwin at the last election,
although not permanently residing there. “ Right
you are,” said Kingston, “if you’ve broken the
law you must be prosecuted too.” Later came
the discovery that two of the Premier’s col-
leagues, Butler and O'Loughlin, resident in Ade-
laide, also voted in country constituencies, and
the S.A. Pr emier has also handed them over to
the police for enquiry.
J. H. Gordon, formerly Chief Secretary in
Kingston’s Ministry, leads the Tory Opposition
to the Household Suffrage Bill in S.A. Leg.
Council. Gordon has tabled an insidious amend-
ment to postpone the measure until a referendum
of Council voters has been taken.
Ednie Brown, formerly of S.A. and N.S.
Wales, and for a few years past Westralia’s Con-
servator of Forests, has been computing the pro-
vince’s timber wealth, It pans out something like
this : —Under timber lease, 1,000,000ae. ; mills
(40), 2554 h.p. ; employed at mills, 2580. Of
principally jarrah country there is 8,000,000ae. ;
of karri, l,200,000ac.; wandoo, 7,000,000 ac. The
total forest country is 24,000,000 acres. Mr.
Brown estimates there are 40,000,000 loads of
matured jarrah and 15,000,000 loads of ditto karri.
He thinks this worth to the country 60s. a load,
and so claims that in this line alone the province
has an asset of <£124,000,000. Last year’s out-put
of sawn timber was 322,000 loads, of the gross
value of <£2,000,000.
So far, there appears to be a chance that
S.A. and Westralia will stand out of the Jingo
rush to the Transvaal. If S.A. goes in, her
finances for this year will come smash, for Holder
has cut things so fine that he can only see his way
to a surplus of .£195. As for N.S. W., with the
huge deficit anticipated in Reid’s last estimates,
it has no spare cash to go shooting with ; and if
Victoria goes Boer-hunting it will probably have
to find the money by postponing old-age pensions
for another year or two. Premier Turner, by the
way, does not believe in sending a lot of men to
kill the Boers—he maintains that 250 will be
enough, as all that is required at this juncture is
to demonstrate the solidarity of the Empire—
Thus, though on bloodshed he is bent,
He has a frugal mind.
Although Barton, outwardly anyhow,
cheerfully acquiesced in Lyne’s election to the
leadership of N.S.W. Opposition, and supported
him there, by voice and vote, yet Copeland,
Ewing, Dugald Thomson, and other Bartonites
vehemently protested, and declined to vote with
him on the division which resulted in the over-
throw of the Reid Govt. And although Barton
himself spoke for Wise at Ashfield, and announced
that it was at his advice that Wise had accepted
the Attorney-Generalship in the new Ministry,
yet Sunlight Soap Gray and other prominent
federalists in the electorate unexpectedly turned
against him on the ground that he had deserted
Barton. How all these deadly-in-earnest people
propose to benefit the Federal leader by openly
fighting on one side when he himself is on the
other is not evident.
Attorney-General Wise (N.S.W.) has in-
timated to that double-barrelled official, Statis-
tician-and-Public-Service-Board Coghlan, that the
souud principle of one-man-one-billet requires him
to become an official with only one barrel. Pre-
sumably the new Government intends to apply
the same good principle all round. Coghlan was
a man with two billets but only one salary—he
held the second billet gratis. Critchett Walker
lias two billets and two salaries (Under-Secretary
■£lo2o ; returning officer £2so—the latter item is
called “bonus” but it is always paid). Chief
Justice Darley gets <£3ooo as a Judge and
■£7ooo as Lieutenant - Governor when acting.
Mr. Pollock is secretary to the Attorney-General
at <£7so and Additional Parliamentary Draftsman
at =Bl7O. Also, Mr. Lockyer (Collector of Customs,
£920, and Commissioner of Taxation) and Dr. Ash-
burton Thompson (Chief Medical Officer, £lOOO,
and President of the Board of Health) are in the
same position as Coghlan. Each of them has two
billets and only one salary.
Melbourne Age publishes a bitter Jingo
article about the fiendish cruelty of the Boers to
the natives—and every word of its charges is fully
justified. But if the proposed invasion of the
the Transvaal is to put down cruelty, and not to
seize the Rand goldfield, let the matter be under-
stood. And let it also be explained why Britain
is so much moved to tears over the cruelties of a
nation which has a rich goldfield to be seized,
while the twenty-times-more-appalling cruelties
practised in such countries as Morocco and Persia
(where there are no rich goldfields) don’t make it
weep into its bell-topper worth a cent.
In a pub. with a few friends, seated on a
barrel, empty pint in front of him, sits one of the
good old sort who never refuse a drink—a gentle-
man with a face like the setting sun, and a look
that plainly says, “ Will yer trust me till I sell
me dawg? ” The Australian (to friends): “ Eng-
land has yet to sanction Federation.” One of the
Good Old Race : “ ’Scuse me, srents all, but, speak-
ing as one of that good old race, I say she-will-
give-it-you.”
“Vic.” : Penny-a-liners are writing about
an approaching downfall of the Turner Cabinet.
I have dropped in at the Leg. Assembly for a
number of its most recent sittings, and am well in
touch with it, besides knowing things that go.
Merely through having lived too long, Turner and
Co. could be bowled over, like Reid, but there is
nobody to do it. The Opposition is about the
most paltry ever seen in a Parliament. It is
surprising that Victoria can fall to such a low
intellectual calibre. Many of my sympathies,
mind you, are with the Opposition side. Yet I
declare that Turner is as complete a master of that
House as the mahout is of his elephant. Of
course, he is Saul in the Cabinet. The only other
able man is Isaacs. Yet, apart from Gillies, who
has only lost his dash, no member of the Opposi-
tion is a match for the weakest member of the
Ministry. Murray Smith—what a shadow of a
shade !
The final result of the Federal Referendum
in Queensland :
Majority Majority
Yes. No. for against
_ . t the Bill, the BilL
Brisbane ... 6,140 10,168 4,028
South Queensland 14,825 14,454 371
Central ~ 6,306 4,150 2,156
North „ 11,217 2,224 8,903
The result is a majority for the Bill of 7492. Of
the four great electoral divisions, three have de-
clared for it and only one (Brisbane) against.
Still, it is possible to twist the figures in all manner
of curious ways, and the dismal Brisbane Telegraph
is twisting with all its might. For instance, Central
Queensland, South Queensland, and Brisbane, if
aU lumped together, show 28,772 against, and
27,271 for—majority against 1501 ; therefore the
yell of the anti-billites is that “all Queensland,
except the North, has decided against the Bill.”
And in like manner it may be claimed that Bris-
bane and North Queensland, lumped together,
show 17.357 for, and only 12,392 against; where-
fore Brisbane has quite as obviously declared for
the Bill by 4965 votes. But the frantic struggles
of the three-parson paper to show that the 30,996
noes are more numerous than the 38,488 yeses are
only interesting to its dreary self.
Arthur Adams’s book, “ Maoriland and
Other Verses,” now published by The Bul-
letin, will definitely place him among the
first flight of local poets. The book contains, in
addition to those published in The Bulletin,
many charming pieces not previously printed ;
and is issued in dainty style. Price 55., post-free
from Bulletin office.


Palings
STCIHWny PIANOS
BRINSMEAP PIANOS
FCURKN PIANOS
UEBCL PIANOS
ECKE PIANOS
SONttld UODIA
B€LLIN<S PIANOS
€ST€Y ORGANS
PBLINfi’S
Head the List
with Highest
Grade
Pianos
at
Lowest
Prices
The
LATEST
MUSIC
by
Every
Mail
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
AUTOHARPS
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS, &c., &o.
W e stock
EVCRY KNOWN MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
And Strings and Fittings for all.
Otir Prices arg tb< Lowest.
CALL or
WRITE TOR
CATALOGUE?.
W. N. PALING *c° L TD 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbaoe
Newcastle
national Cash Registers.
Storekeepers’ CoCiporj Register
No. 92.
USERS .
OPINIONS
“All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“ Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
“Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q.”
BENEFITS
OF USE.
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
•
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
The Qnly Tine Effective Coupon System
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to
Natiooal Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
m
sp
m
v.
i\
I
/
mz
¥
-S^a
MULTIPLEX
First
in
1888.
je
Foremost
Ever
Since.
Tb€
ReaSoo
Wby
are so popular with Lady Riders
is their all - round Reliability,
Absence of side-slipping, and Ease
of Attachment.
Ladies
should make a point of specifying
“Dunlop's” when buying their
Cycle, and thus ensure satisfaction
on this most important point.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Aus. Ltd.
and a t __
486 Kent-street, Sydney;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.
.Everywhere Popular
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS!
Always Reliable;
Business Daily Increasing
Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent
No. E672l.—Elegant Bird Brooch,
Whole Pearl, 16c. Gold, £1 16s.
No. 155.—Artistic Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 8 Sapphires,
£8 10s.
No. E244B.—New Design, Bird and Amethyst
Brooch, 9b. Gold, 12s. 6d.
No. 660. —Elegant Brooch, 21 Fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £8 7s 6d.
Q O r ;,..Q
No. Es629.—New Lucky Bell Broooh,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 146.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds 2 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s. 6d ;
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 206. —9c. Gold Neck Chain, 11s 6d.
No. 214.—Neck Chain, 9c. 18s 6d ; 15c. £llss.
No. 213.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, £1 2s 6d.
No. 215. —Pearl and
iuby Heart, 9c. Gold,
16s 6d.
No. 141a.— 9c. Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2 10s.
No. E6206.—9c. Gold “ Prince of Wales ” Long Muff Chain.
Finest make, £2 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
No. 282.—Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s 6d.
Shoe Lift to match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
No. E 5203. —Qc. Gold Long Muff Chain, £3 5s
15c. Gold, £5 15s.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Hair Brushes,
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355.
As Illustration, £1 2s 6d.
Silver Mounted Combs,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d
As Illustration, 10s 6d.
9c. Pearl Initial Brooch,
any Letter, 6s 6d.
No. 271a.—Solid Silver Hat Brush
6jin. long, 11s Cd.
Glove Stretcher, Solid Silver Handles, Ivory Points,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d.
As Illustration, £1 2 6cL
No. 173.—Finest White
Diamond, £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds, 18c.,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 261.—Medal.
Jc. Gold, £1 Is ; 15c. £ll7s 6d
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. ItiSA. —lBc. Band
Ring, set Fine Diamond,
from £3 to £6 10s.
No. 171a.— 18c. Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
No. 220.—Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
9a Gold, £4 10 6 15a Gold, £7 10 0 Silver, 14s 6d
9a Double, 6 15 0 15s. Double, 10 15 0 Double, 20s.
No. 179a. —Set Links.
9c. Gold, tl Is. 15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s 6d.
Silver Plated Serviette
Rings, hexagon
design, 6s.
No. 193.—Set Links.
9c., 15s 6d ; 15c„ £1 10s.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Fine Silver-Plated Shaving Mug and
Brush, 355.
New Design Toast Rack, Silver-Rated,
Finest Cut-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
37s 6d.
Pair Silver-Plated Knife Rests, 21s.
Silver-Plated Out-Glass
Butter Dish, with.
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. E64l3.—Silver Mounted Cloth Brush.
Elaborately chased, long, £2 10s.
Hi
m
m
V
w
Handsome. Toilet Set.
Finest’’Cut-Glass and Solid Silver Mounts, 5 Pieces, £lO.
* No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9c. Gold, £3 3s ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller Sizes in 9c., 35s and 50s.
Smaller Sizes in 15c., 65s and 87s 6d.
9c. Gold, £3 17
9c. Double, 6 6
Gent’s Gold Alberts.
6 15c. Gold, £6 6 0
0 15c. Double, 9 10 0
Silver, 15s 6d
Double, 21s.
Full Set Combination Brashes and Manicure Instruments,
Solid Silver, Mounted in Handsome Case, £B.
V i
* *
y/y A v
MM
u
h
' * ; ■ ■ . ~
■
No. B3732.—Combination Spirit-Stand and Cigar Cabinet.
Handsome Oak Frame, Nickel Silver Mounts, Finest Cut-Glass Bottles, £5.
No. 175.—Carved Half
Hoop, 5 Fine Diamonds,
£l7 10s, £22, £25 to £5O.
ill
18c. Gold Wedding 1
Bings,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 50s.
No. 231a.—15c. Gold Locket,
set with 3 Diamonds and
4 Sapphires, £4 10s.
No. 182. Marquise
Rings, Fine White
Diamonds,
£lslos, £2O, £25- £4O
flasgi
No. 167.—1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 ss.
Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £2 17 6, £3 3 0 15c. Gold, £4 17 6, £5 17
9c. Double, 317 6, £4 15 0 15c. Double, 616 0, 10 10
Silver, 8/6
Double, 12,6
No. 196 A. —Set Links.
9c. Gold, 17s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £ 115 s. Silver, 4/6
Silver Plated Serviette
King, semi-circular or tri-
angular designs, ss.
No. 200a.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 18s 6d. 15c. Gold,
£ 115 s. Silver, 5s 6d.
Dainty Serviette Holders,
Solid Silver, 3s 6d. Silver-Plated, Is.
No. E 4086.— Silver-Plated Sugar Bowl, with
Sifter, 15s 6d.
Silver-Plated Egg Frame, 255.
Marmalade Jar and Spoon.
Out-Glass and Silver-
Plated, 6s 6d.
lifts
Cut-Glass Scents,
Silver Top, 11s 6d,
21s, 255, 30s.
Silver Fruit Knives, Pearl Handles,
6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s Od each.
No. 340.—Elegant Silver-Plated Ink Stand, llin. long*, 2 Cut-
Crystal Bottles ; Emu, Kangaroo, or Horse, in centre, £2 10s.
„ OTF The varioa , illustrations shown above are eneraved from the articles direct Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will he
paid)°on receipt of remittance. New Booklet op SpECULTina (80paoes)Post Fbeb. • • ■ J « J W « W
qtFWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street, and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
OIUVTIIIV T .r-*lvrT-»OTvr. MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure
THEE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST * MEDICINE I N AUSTRALIA.
com-
:V3
fortine in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cougl: , , . _ ,
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sumcient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G.Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter.'.- I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease' to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my. bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ .CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, hut derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vie.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
i“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a hottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
dqctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
sir.—-My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
vours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a mOst violent cough, expectorating blood
,and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :•—“ After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883—15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4t.h April, 1899, he states : —“ I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
w.
Small Size, 2s
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HEAKVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
fey*
I - 3
DA.FTO (Lake
(LI MIXED),
Illawarra),
near SY33TXTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
'
■
I
I 1
Bbmhs
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
SINVJNI
aoj QOQj
9
''Benger’s Food is sold in various
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
Books! Books! Books!
History of Australian Bushranging, by 0. White. Frank
Gardiner, the King of the Rond, and his Gang, Is 3d ;
Ben Hall and his Gang, is 3d ; The Caloola Robbers and
other startling incidents, Is 3d.
The New South Wales Banditti, or Donohoe, Under-
wood, Webber, Clarke, and their Gangs, Is 3d. I have
three very choice books Is 6d each. Popular Educator,
in 6 vols., £5 for 255. Write for Catalogues; all books
sent post free. R. W. SKINNER , Second-hand Book-
seller, 105 Castlereagh-st:, Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Valuable Books-
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOR 6d. IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
W. H. JcokioS/T.'firiSiie.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 165.,
265. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SFNI) FOft A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
YOU DON'T need to hunt for level roads
if you RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
“ Runs easy, and keeps running easy.”
Factories—-'Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
liratiobex—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin. Brisbane. Adelaide. i
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application).
The {eld Options $ mineral Development
COMPANY. LIMITED,
Capital - - £20,000 in £1 Shares.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. A. J. GOULD, M.L.C.; HARRIE WOOD, J.P., Esq. : JOHN J. HORROCKS, Esq.
P established to secure DESIRABLE MINING PROPERTIES for Development and Flotation.
Prospectors and others having claims of undoubted value, which will bear investigation should
conoatnunicate with the Secretary, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The Company will INVESTIGATE ON BEHALF OF PURCHASERS and furnish Expert
Reports, and advise as to the management of properties ; and undertake the preparation of Plans,
Estimates, and Specifications for DREDGING PLANTS and other MINING MACHINERY.
SYDNEY:
Eql3.ita.T3le Building-
MELBOURNE:
245 Collins Street.
FOU the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE FALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factor}- Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels tilted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
>J . F. McDermott,
Terms on General A (rent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FEDERAL
PALACC
NOT€L
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation-all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAI-'E
IN RED BIRD BEARINGS
Each ball runs in a separate case by itself and does not come in contact
with its fellows; result, a saving of over 50 °/ 0 in friction. With this
hub.it is impossible for the bearings to jam when axle nuts are tightened
and at the same time they cannot work out of alignment.
In other bearintrs, the balls run together in one cup; as a result,
they rub one on the other, causing friction and wear.
Our Catalogue will teach you more about this great feature.
Manufactured, Sold & Guaranteed by
Che 6oold Bicycle Co*,
Ctd.,
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
H9«wts—everywhere.
Australasian Branches : 64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australi*-
261 COLLINB-BT., Melbourne, Vig
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-Bt., Wellington, N.Z.
Salesroom
04 King-street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Tug-of-war tourney for championship of N S W
and Sydney Rkkkrkk prizes (460) ended at the Flying
Jordans Circus (Sydney) Saturday night last. Cockatoo
Island qua.ir.vmen unexpectedly won after a bitter
e ' V ', th ? , tean ' ° N-B.W. wharf-lumpers, who were
favorites, at odds on, all through. Rules provided rh-.t
each team should be beaten twice before being considered
absolutely out. Cockatoo Island men had gone under in
fourth round to Wavedey, but A.U.S.N steered clelr of
defeat right through to last. tug. First null in final
lasted 2mm. exactly, and was a terrible strain working
onlookers and barrackers up to a high pitch. The
indicator was in Cockatoo space for every second of
limn., and then A.U.S.N. drew it dead over middle-
-Btate V Alfs N en >uT°? kepl ifc fixefl 30set ’- At this
f„T A - U - S - N ”": ,th better « round favoring them, put
• nr 'i‘ and «-radually dragged the centre mark
across their line ; but not a fraction of a second too soon,
rww V fe J °' er each other ' ,llme diately afterwards.
Cockatoo got away with second test in 18sec. and third
fn lmm. 18seo.-another big struggle. This left one
nLm Trio v ° h ’ and they a " reed t 0 P ull same
night. A.U.S.N. were most, affected by the severity of
the work. Quarrymen won first puli of deciding rubber
in 47sec and second in ]osee., thus getting away with
first money (£35) and premiership title. Each side turned
n 8 ? l ; ttle ? hort J °' a to "> and had men over
17st. Cockatoo shaped a bit green; they've onlv been
ninn a fe T n vee n 8 ’ b « ( 1 ttill do better next time. Cham-
winnfng a g t id h e. PU Cr R * VR “ WaS ° ne ° f the bi » ’ uns of the
* • • •
“Barney”: Haven’t known a tug-of-war worth
a cent to go through without wrangle. Never met anv-
one who had even heard of such a happening. Why, last
bt. Patrick s day tug m Sydney was all row till the con-
cluding day, and then the Irish Rifles drew out huffed
The tug promoted by L. Foley collapsed because no two
teams could agree upon conditions. Latest Rekerkr
champion tug went well till semi-final when Waverley.
after being drawn against Cockatoo, refused to toe the
mark, averring as an excuse that they had met same team
before. Waverley was then one of three left in and third
prize was consequently a “moral.” hut as things turned
out. first money might have come their way, for Cockatoo
got it, and Waverley had previously beaten Cockatoo.
Afterbeing beaten in one pul! of final heat on Saimdav
night A.U.S.N. wanted to put a fresh man in their 10 and
wrangled over it for 10 mins.r but bounce didn't go with
Judge “ Bill Corbett. .
* * * *
The Gaffney-Cnllen fight at Melb. Democratic
Club, last week, proved a shabby affair for a few minds
and ended in a fiasco. Gaffney travelled from Sidney
1° [ ao f local lii;ht weight for a decent purse.
Both boys have reputations as stubborn sluggers,
and when the books were found to be demanding 6 fo 2
on Cullen patrons scented mischief. The visitor fought
open and obvious foul from the start, was threatened by
the ref., and kept it up till his own second skied the
towel in disgust. The fight was declared off, and Cullen
stepped up, exposing his wounds, and declaring that
Gaffney had taken pieces out of him in the various dust-
scumes. It will probably be a cold evening when the-
bydney boy gets another battle at the Democratic
* • * •
, “ Timer ” : They’re going to benefit the-
burly Redfern (Sydney) b’acksmith, Tom Taylor, at-
Golden Gate A.C., Monday night next. Poor Tom struck
hard going some time ago, and lias been on it ever since
If he could be prevailed upon to tell a few of his ring
reminiscences, they’d be- a bigger draw than fighting.
For instance, how he and Steve O'Donnell, possessed of
that dangerous “little knowledge” and carrying a big
load of conceit, went down to Peter Jackson's room at
the “ Lighthouse,” Batburst-street (Sydney), ostensibly
to learn the game, but in reality to show the big black a
point,; and how Peter, dropping to the game very early
smilingly dealt out sledge-hammer thumps, causing two-
limp, stiff, and sore men to leave the building that, night
without an atom of starch in their make-up. Botli looked,
upon the big West Indian as a marvel ever afterwards.
Later, Taylor became Peter’s pet pupil. Though he
scored several successes, his avocation made him muscle-
bound, and prevented that freedom of limb and quickius*
of movement so essential. Jim Fogarty broke Tim's,
jaw (a mighty stiff task) many years ago, and a promisin”"
pupil did the same less than two months back.
* • • *
“ F.” : Saw a great take-down at Seale’s Gym-
nastic Club last week. Heavy-weight pug. Albnry Jack
O’Brien "had ’em on” with rotund, ill-conditioned Con.
Sullivan, now past holding his own at the game. Flaslh
Jack appeared to take advantage of Con's bad fix, andl
accompanied each punch with “ Whatßort! ” “ How did!
that go?” &e. Onlookers, among whom was the rough,
un from M.L., Otto Cribb, got disgusted, and soon
stopped Jacks little diversion. Whereupon O’Brieim
waxed arrogant, and talked about, belting the soul-case
out of any man his poundage on top of the earth..
“Have a go at this chap?” asked someone, indicating
Cribb, who was unknown to O'Brien. “What! that
hoy?” sneered Jack. “ Garn ! ” Ultimately they
persuaded Alhurys pride to take the job on, hut
only after laying 2to l against him. Then the big
fellow wanted two or three hours “ spell,” he said, but,
the others guessed it was a “get-out ” and wouldn’t stand
any postponement. Small “ mitts” were provided and at.
it they went, Cribb making the pace. It was. a furiousi
fight. The first round lasted five minutes and.o-Bri.en sat.
down with a mound of flesh over one of his optbes. Three-
minutes in the second round settled him—he wasn't tak-
ing any more. That go pricked a pretty big bidder, and
no one felt sorry—except the bladder. Cribb s methods
are 200 years more crude than those of his old. time name-
sake, hut he’s game, stiong and Joe GodUard.-like in.
aggressiveness ; besides, he simply loves battle: What,
other-man would have taken on such a job in view oft’
having to fight a match three or four days later as was:
the case with Cribb ?
* * * •
Half-mile running championship of N.S. W., aitfc
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday, was won by a J>..
Barter, who beat H. C. Holden (prerious holder) by tw©
yards after a tough finish ; time, 2min. Bsec. Holden,
easily annexed the mile supremacy a week prior in 4min.
45sec., accounting for Robinson,' winner of three-mile*
event the day before. This was at Parramatta, where
also “Stan.” Rowley annexed the furlong title by lUyds.
in 23 3-ssec. A
* * • m
Australian premier swimmer Fred: Lane, the'
cable tells, bested English champion Jarvis in a quarter-
mile scr. race last Saturday. The finish was desperate,
Lane winning by a touch (badly used up) in 6 min. dead.
This is 30 3-5 sec. faster than Lane’s time for tfie English,
championship over same distance, Aug. 25, at Blackpool.
His best quarter in Australia was 5 min. 54 1-5 sees, at
Bronte Baths (Sydney) Feb. present year. World’s
record (5 min. 43 1-5 sec. put up five years’ since) stands,
to credit of J. H. Tyers.
**. * *
H. C. Pritchard, who designed and built the
8 footer Zephyr, which carried all before her in Port.
Jackson last season, is out with a 10-footer. The Prooella,
a i she has been christened, lias 10ft. beam, and will carry
3)0 feet of sail-area as against 200 of the ordinary 10-
footer. Ihe skipper will be Miss Irene Pritchard, who-
last year at the tiller of the Zephyr beat the boys badly
at their own game.
• • • •
The Australian five-miles amateur cycling
championship, decided at N.S.W. Cyclists Union Meeting
on Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday, went to C. A.
Cameron (Redfern 8.C., Sydney), who beat, Shrimpton
(Melb.) by little more than a wheel ; Rickards (Brisbane)
bemjf a (food fourth. Time Ilinin. 9sec. I’ace was slow,
but the mush proved exciting. Cameron was looked
upon as the most likely of the N.S.W. representatives to
s mke the visitors up, thomrh trouble was expected from
the Bananalander. The Victorian’s riding in work at Syd-
ney did not make a great impression; albeit he came well
accredited—the slowness of the race probably suited him.
lhe winner has come on well during the past two seasons,
and a week previously gave evidence of top-notch form
“f'"! 1 Clubs (Sydney) meeting. Cameron always
has a brilliant finish up his sleeye and can stand plenty
or pace. J
* • * *
P'.’int of_ interest dtisky-hued Steve Gordon
JSUSdVr «?• h0 r ‘ 8 pnde of ~laeP £Um),l k the cracks en-
of Wheelmen’s Carnival begin-
and^h.."|d^ y * K ?■ has wonderful sprinting capabilities,
and has been beating them all badly on Melb. tracks.
• • • •
Last Saturday Sydney Pirates sprung a big
culm™! hy Wallaroos (10 to nil) in final for Agr£
cultural Society s football trophies. This is the third
&\VI~u Slon P lrfltes have secured same prizes. In
9S they got theni by protesting against Randwick play-
mLmv ! ns u and last year Sydney went under. The
marsupials have been particularly unlucky in these
th». nt8 ’ '• U ,n /.t ot ,! nfco finals of ’ 94 > ’ 9s > and ’99, and
then “ missed the bus. ’
• • • •
Central Cumberland Cricket Club will, in all
probability, play minus Howell this season. It is
believed he will quit cricket upon his return to. Sydney
and settle down at a farm outside Penrith (N S W.)
• * * - * '
The Sydney premiership cricket matches,
started on Eight Hour Day, almost simultaneously with,
the departure of the Australian XI. from England,
otiangely enough not one of last year’s premier team.
North Sydney, was in the N.S.W. representation in the
XI. ; indeed, with the exception of R. A. Duff, they were
unrepresented in Interprovincial cricket, and in conse-
quence they will have a pull over their formidable rivals
Paddington (whose three best men, Noble. Trimmer and
Kelly are ini the team) and Waverley (who will be without.
Iredale and Gregory) for four or five weeks to come.
* • • *
Cabled last week that an Anglo-Australian l
howling association, with Earl Jersey as president,, bad 1
been formed for purpose of promoting international
matches. Interviewed “down-under ” Aug. 24, president
John Young (N.S.W. 8.A.) said teams from this side
would arrive Ome about May next vear and stay till
Sept , playing 40 matches. He thought Australians;
would, as at cricket, hold their own against the “flower”
of the old country, and felt confident of seeing at least
3000 spectators at- each big match. Josephson, Harris;
(N.S.W), Sims, Chidden, and Major Watdill (Vic.) were
mentioned as five likely ones in the team. The most,
amazing part of the business is that J.Y. appears to be
doing all this “on his own,” associations here being in
blissful ignorance of the why and wherefore.
• • * *
The Musketeer, one of the many hole-and-cor-
ner tips for Caulfield Cup, was heavily hacked to win a.
lVjj mile race at Melb. Hunt Club meeting, but he
finished nowhere. On paper the son of Enfilade has
little ehanceto take a big event, and it was surprising to.
find such a commonplace animal backed on Saturday to;
beat Scorn at a difference of only 51b. The Maribvriion*-'
Plate winner proved quite good enough for Saturday’s
contract, so with him blooming again in the Spring, and
Revenue and others coming along nicely, and the move-
ments of Cranberry under his control, W. R. Wilson’s;
fancies for the Cups ought to be worth considering.
After Merman’s many English successes, it;
would he only tft-for-tat if the ’Ome-bred Voyon (Ben-
digo -Barley Water) were to capture this year's Melb.
Cup, for which race he has undergone a careful prepara-
tion ; he is certainly not overburdened with a level Bst.
• • • *
The man at the corner has it that St. Alban’s;
“darkey” Auric (Bill of Portland—Aura) is lbs. better
than his stable mates. Scorn and Revenue. Should this
he so, considering Scorn s good performance last Satur-
day, V.R.C. Derby will go to the half-brother of Aurum
and Auraria.
* * * »
Betting on the two Cups ha 3 been brisker and
better both in N.S.W. and Vic. than for many a long
year, and already several candidates for each event have
been backed straight-out by the stable connections to
win big amounts. There being no pronounced public
fancies such as Carbine or Newhaven, it is pretty certain
that Ikey and co. will do well whatever wins.
••' * •
In the great race for proud position of leading:
winning sire Lochiel has already begun well, but the-
running at Caulfield and Flemington may put a new
• complexion on the affair. The imported Bill of Portland!
looks like scoring heavily.
* * * *
With Gunga Din (Carlyon-Brown Alice) and!
■G’Nullo (St. Swithin-Black Rose) it is quite possible that
Mr. J. Crozier, of S.A., will play a strong hand for his;
province in the southern racing campaign—commencing;
at Caulfield Oct. 14. Cranberry, Auric and Scorn,,
together with the remaining crack 3-year-olds, willi
have to be at theii; best to beat Gunga Din in
'Caulfield Guineas and V.R.C. Derby, whilst Q Nullo
•with 7.11 should figure in Caulfield Cup as it is not often
this handsome mare is indulged with such.a light weight.
* * '* •
Among the best-backed ’uns for Melb. Cup
last week was Contrast. Last May she got away with
Adelaide Elder Stakes (9fur.) at weight-for age, Le Var
running third. Later, Contrast appropriated Adelaide
Cup (1 in. sfur.) carrying 7st. ; Merry Pilgrim (6.7) and Le
Var (9.2) being second and third respectively. Saturday
last, in Narre- Warren Stakes at Flebiington, Con-
trast again accounted for Le Var by a head at weight-for-
age, finishing strongly. On this form, Contrast’s'chance
of annexing the big prize of the year (she is weighted at
■Bs t.) looks rosy.
* * * *
Australian-bred Maluma’s win of Prince Ed wajid!
Handicap at Manchester (Eng.) meeting, Saturday weak,
recalls that last year another Australian, Georgic, bred
and owned by Mr. H. C. White, of Havilah (N.S.W.),
annexed the same rich stake. Mahima carries Mrsl
Langtry’s colors, and has won for her in stakes aJone
aiearly £4OOO.
* * * *
Ex-Australian Merman, with 10.4 up,, ram
second to the crack French three-year-old Fouriere for
the valuable Grand Ptix’-de Deauville. - The cable in the
Sydney papers recording the event disguised Merman's-
•dam as “Geomain.”
**’ • •
A pacing race that will interest Australians-
by reason of the winner being John R. Gentry, the hors©,
which was spoken of as likely to be matched!
against Australian trotting.chanipion Fritz, came off at
New York (U.S.A.) recently. John R. Gentry won two-
straight heats in Zinin. Slsecs. and 2min. 3jsec. respect-
ively. Australian Fritz’s best time is 2.13, made on a
halt-mile grass track, while John It. Gentry paced on a.
specially-prepared kite-shaped track. Fritz would have-
to knock off iMsocs. to' tie John It. Track and all thrown'
in it would he a wonderful reduction, as it works out in.
plain figures a start of over I33yds.
*V*/ * ’ *
Re (Bulletin 30/9/’D9) carrying money about
on racecourses. Writer of this par. once put £lO on a.
horse for its owner on a Sydney suburban course, getting
Bto 1. Horse won, writer drew the £9O from the bag-
holder, and handed same to owner in t he members’ enclo-
sure. That, night writer’s house was burgled and ran-
sacked without disturbing the inmates. The thieves •
took writer's watch and chain and the money in his
pockets. It may only have been a coincidence, hut it
iooked as if writer had been shadowed and marked down
for that t*9o which the thieves must have believed to be
-still in his possession.
Our recent visitor, J. Green, has been the most
successful professional rider in England this season, his
record (on Dunlop tyres) comprising 10 firsts, nine
seconds, and four thirds, including the Quarter-mile
English Championship and several world’s records.*
• * * *
Arrangements have been completed by the
N.S.W. League with the Dunlop Tyre Co. for the first
public appearance in Australia of the Dunlop de Dion
pacing tandems. The machines will be used in Sydney
next month at the League’s carnival in the Grand Paced
Tournament, in which event the Australian cracks are
likely to get more pace than they can take.*
• • • •
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Boer scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sydney Safe Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable scrip either in office
safes or private residences, and (here have been large
numbers of visitors to view the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street, (back of Baling and Co’s), off George-street.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depbt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
“Tom ” Slattery was going for Booroowa,
but a labor-candidate arose, and Tom came in out
of the wet 1
In view of the solid fact that a strong corps
of Transvaal Germans has been organised to fight
against the British, it’s rather late in the day for
that pretty little cabled romance about Johannes-
burg Teutons “ petitioning Great Britain to deal
sweepingly with the ignorant oligarchy of the
Transvaal.” The German capitalist, no doubt,
will stand-in with his brother Fatmen, but
•common Hans, to a man, will be glad of a slap at
the “ pig-dog ”of a Britisher. To all the French-
man’s dislike of England the German adds a
business-jealousy of which the Gaul knows
toothing.
The firm of W. H. Glen and Co,, estab-
lished in 1857 by William Henderson Glen, has
long been immensely popular with the music-
loving public of Australia. In music, the firm
has a magnificent up-to-date stock, and much
store is set on the firm’s Federal Music Books—
Nos. 1 to 53, attractively printed, containing a
•grand collection of standard songs, dances, and
pianoforte music, and costing only one shilling.
Band instruments by all the leading makers, at
•greatly reduced prices, form a big inducement to
newly-organised bands. The firm’s pianos—the
Bluthner, Albert Fahr, August Heide, and Rud
Brehmer, rangingfrom <£3-1 to ,£250, give intending
•purchasers a beautiful range of selection. The
Bluthner, with its remarkable quality of tone
and its wonderful sympathetic and singing
•capacity, is famous with pianists and musicians
the world over; while the Albert Fahr and
August Heide pianos are perfect for their price,
••and possess a sympathetic and pure quality of
tone rarely obtainable in other pianos of medium
•grade. The Brehmer piano, the cheapest stocked
by Glen and Co., is specially constructed to their
•order to withstand the trying climate of the
•colonies, and this piano is a marvel at .£34. Visi-
tors to W. H. Glen and Co’s, can always be sure
•of every courtesy and attention.
Adelaide Critic speaks severely about
Lyne’s folly in not making “John Lee” Treasurer,
and adds that John Lee was one of the best
N.S.W. Treasurers on record. N.S.W. is so
badly in want of a good Treasurer that John Lee
had better be advertised for at once.
“ Mr. Slattery will preach in the Pro-
testant Hall to-morrow.” Which bald announce-
ment would almost justify a certain N.S.W.
politician in being out after Sydney D.T. with a
libel-writ. Be not unequally named together
with unbelievers !
Curious that the recently-shot Melbourne
Dr. Fraser should himself have instructed his
wife in tli9 management of the weapon she was
afterwards to use against him. The case is also
otherwise remarkable as throwing some light upon
the sensation of being shot in the head. The
wounded man, after hearing the report of the
pistol, “felt himself going up towards the top of
the building and turning round and coming down
again.”
The British may have to fight the Boers
for supremacy in South Africa, but the supremacy
of the London and American Supply Stores is
already won and will be maintained I>y their up-
to-date methods, which, like their goods, combine
all the most desirable merits. Write for cata-
logue to London and American Supply Stores,
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Stylish suits and all
men’s wear of the latest fashion at the most
reasonable prices.*
No silence within the last 10 years has
been deader than the silence which the Tasmanian
press kept until the very last moment about the
awful scandal which has gathered round the name
of Captain Miles, the new Minister for Lands.
That widely disrespected salt looks about the last
man that any sane Premier would take into his
Ministry, and Braddon’s appointment of him
will ever remain a conundrum. A select com-
mittee has “sat on” Miles - despite the most
energetic efforts to keep down the scandal it
would persist in raising its head, and at last Tas-
mania’s Parliament had to become aware of its
existence. The committee found that Miles ob-
tained the position of Master Warden of Strahan
Marine Board, by something so very like bribery
that the name might be applied to it in a
hurry without doing great wrong to anybody.
That while he held it nominal firms, which
were really Miles’s family (Miles’s family being
presumably a thin disguise for Miles himself),
were got up to tender for expensive harbor works,
and that Miles, as boss of the Marine Board, sat
there to receive what was practically his own ten-
der and to cordially recommend its acceptance.
The committee s report was an amazingly sultry
document for peaceful Tasmania, and Captain
Miles, short-lived Minister for Lands, leaves the
Cabinet with the plain impresj of a boot on his
coat-tail—said boot being that of Premier Brad-
don. And still the mystery of his ever being
Minister for Lands remains as unsolvable as
ever ; in fact, why Braddon should have taken
special risks (and Miles was certainly a
special risk) to secure Miles’s services passes
comprehension. The captain had never saved his
country or otherwise made himself indispensable.
The only thing that valiant seaman is known to
have saved is a good deal of money.


Oom Paul says the Lord has instructed
him to fight. That’s the sort of a God to liaVe :
one who tfedls you to keep a stiff upper-lip.
lk My Lxpteriehce As a ChaHty CarnivAl
brgartiselr,” ah .interesting , l'O-Jjage dljustirateu
bamphleV, pul>li,sl)e(l by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plicatiph. Send post-eard to A. S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution. Perth, W.A.*
, Item from the Cootauiuiidra (N.S.\V.)
tiJBEKAL j— , , . | ,
r In regiird to politics it is a noteworthy fact that on six
consecutive occasions when the Cootaimimlra Lihkßal
told N.S. W. Opposition they had not a suttieienlly strong
case against the late Government to turn them out the
censure motions failed. When, on the contrary, the
Liberal said the case was good enough, the Keid Govt,
went down. "
Moral: Keep yOUr eye oil Cootamundra LIBERAL
And it’ll See yoti through. .
Aniusements.
’ER MA.I KSTY’S Tl I KATIt R, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
' ~ ‘ ’. B. Moutrie.
Treas., j.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Every evening, at 8; wed. afternoon, at 2.
Will be Repeated
“TN€ CHRISTIRH.”
Adapted frpm Hall Caine’s famous.novel, by Sir. Wilson
Barrett, and re-arrant;ed for Messrs. Williamson and
I Mr.sgrove by Slr.i Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 3»., 25., and Is.
fej ItId'ERION THEATRE, SY DNF.yT
Lessee and Manager .. Sir. GEO. RIGNOLD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS
CALLED BACK.
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as “ PAOI.I MACARI.”
Miss LILIAN WHEELER as “ PAULINE.”
W~ SATURDAY, Oct. 7-LiGHTs H’ LONDON.
Prices3s., 25., Is. . Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55.
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.46.
SfJIHE WORLD-RENOWNED SOPRANO
Mdlle. TREBELLI.
NOW TOURING THE COLONIES.
ADELAIDE—EarIy in October.
BROKEN HlLL—Early ih October.
SYDN’EY-End o! October and November.
YCEIJM tI.TEAtUE, SYDNEY.
■* Sole Lessees and Managers ;
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Andersori.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
£lOOO REWARD.
Presented by Messrs. Holloway and Anderson’s Famous
Dramatic Company.
Sitiirday, Get. 7 —lVhen the Lamp* are TAf/htcfl.
feox Plah at Nicholson’s. FliicES : 35., 25., Rnd Is.
ifflOWN HALL,
SYDNEY.
Tnesrinj),
10th October.
(Uhder Distinguished Patronage.)
Miss FANNY BAUCR
(The Brilliant Young Sydney Soprano)
GIVE HER FIRST CONCERT^
~ Assisted by Sydney’s Leading Artists.
hok Plari at Paling’s. JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
PAL A C E THEAT It E. SYDNEY.
Mr. Harry Rickards Tivoli Coy.
Reappearance for a Farewell Season of the World’s Marvel,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
3Yli*. Gr. "W. Hunter.
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, Paul Pelham, George C. Dean,
Florrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard Chambers,
Neva Carr Glynn, Jas. Mooney,
CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling's. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
■DUOU Til HATH E, M KLHOU If NIC.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
First Appearance in Australia of England’s Greatest
Character Comedian, Mr. TOM COSTELLO.
, Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, VIRTO and IRENE,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Arthur Hahn, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries; Little Fannie Powers, Frank
Rowen, and all our Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Theatre royal, mrlrourne.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
FRIDAY, October 6th, LAST NIGHT of
A. Soldier and a. Man.
SATURDAY, Oct. 7, First Time in Melbourne,
The Merciless World.
A Play of Thrilling incident and New and Startling
Mechanical Effects.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s
■piMNCESS THEATRE, MELROUHNE.
* Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovb
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING! .-. EVERY EVENING!
“ lOLANTHE.”
By W. S. Gilbert and Sir Arthur Sullivan.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUA IiIUM !
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10-5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children-STXPENCE.
THOMAS McINERNEY,
Metallurgist, Engineer, etc..
etc.,
39 REGENT STREET, PADDINGTON.
Written Credentials may be had at a moment’s notice.
Personal reference kindly permitted byThos. Buckland,
Esq., Equitable Buildings; Dr. R. Read ; W. Longworth,
Esq., Rushcutter’s Bay; Thos. Longworth, Esq., Cobar.
WHYFOR
JZk. WATCH ?
CAN YOU READ THIS ?
I A | S*L"D | S*LV*R | \v*T*H | I | G*»N I
*FII| OU*SS j R*C.*T | & | B*Y | A | CII**N |
In order to introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia, we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver
Keyless Hunter Watches,
LADIES’ or GENTLEMEN’S, to every reader who sends
the Correct Reading of the above puzzle.
CONDITIONS. —That your answer to the Puzzle is
Correct, and that you further undertake, if correot, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER SINGLE OR
DOUBLE CHAINS. Send Stamped Addressed Envelope
for reply.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Carnival.
Stainer $ go.
?
.MELBOURNE.,
VISITORS to the MELBOURNE RACING
CA KNIVAL will find us replete in ALL
DEPARTMENTS with the CHOICEST
Exclusive Novelties!
Personally selected, for the CUP SEASON by
our Special Buyer.
MAGNIFICENT GOWNS . , , ..
STAINER & CO.
EXCLUSIVE MILLINERY ,
..ii . . Stainer & co.
DELIGHTFUL BLOUSES
, ■ STAINER & CO.
ELEGANT LACE ROBES ,
STAINER & CO.
STYLISH PARASOLS
1 . StAtNER & CO.
CHARMING blouse fronts
STAINER & CO.
CHOICE FEATHER BOAS
STAINER & CO.
DAINTY TABATS and RUFFLES
STAINER & CO.
Exquisite CHIFFON and LACE .SCARVES
STAINER 4s CO.
CHASTE BELT SRTS\ i. STAINER & CO.
NEW TINTS IN GLOVES
\ ■ ■' STAINER & CO.
NOVELTIES IN HOSIERY
STAINER & CO.
STAINERT& CO.,
LADTES’ OUTFITTERS,
DRAPERS and COSTUMIERS,
33, 35 Swanston-sti, Melbourne;
BESSOH S GO. LTD.,
Manufacturers dip
Brass Band Instruments.
Trade Mark Prototype.”
BANDS and BANDSMEN residing in the
Colonies of
VICTORIA
TASMANIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Westeßn Australia
Ate hereby NOTIFIED that they can obtain
SUPPLIES of the abovementioned cele-
brated
“ Prototype ” Instruments
from the undersigned, who is the Authorised
Agent of
Besson & Co. Ltd.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
Catalogue forwarded on Application.
A P. SYKES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
tar Suparior Boarding E B tablisliment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(nee HO LG EE).
COMFORT IN WALKING.
fife
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/Is, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FULTON, GUIMWADE & CO., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Horn to be Beautiful!
LADIES are
deli Khted
when they
receive the BOONA BEAUTY BOX. Price 10/-.
Which contains a 5/0 Bottle of Beauty Cream, a Box of
Beauty Powder, a Bottle of Rose Bloom, a Tube of Lip
Salve, an Eyebrow Pencil, and a Silk Pocket Powder-
puff, with a Book of Directions and a Treatise on AIDS
TO BEAUTY. Packed free from Observation. No
advertisement on outside wrapper. Send P. 0.0., stamps
or Postal Note for 10'-. Address: EUROPEAN
IMPORT CO., Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
Albert aubery thomas majory,
formerly of New York, or London. Left
in schooner named Verd, bound to Tasmania or
New Zealand, about 1870 or 1871. Anyone know-
ing his whereabouts kindly communicate with his
mother, Mrs. Majory, Fawn-street, Brisbane ; or
Miss Ross, P. 0., Woollahra, N.S.W.
RIDERS
WHO PUT THEIR MONEY AND THEIR
FAITH in a “PERFECT” Bicycle
Will never be betrayM
Buyers of the “ DOMINION ”
MAY SAFELY REST IN
HOPE OF ENTIRE SATISFACTION, and devote
the £6 saved td thai
which begins at home; and stays there
£he “ PERFECT ” anid “ BOMJNION ” Bicycles may be obtained through
any Dealer or Agent who is free to haiitile the best.
FRANK GRIMLEY
{
263 & 265 CLARENCE
. • SYDNEY . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Of
Bicycle fcroods, Carriageware, Saddlery and Harness.
Business Announcements.
bIVH
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction i 3
secondary id
it..
If your hair
is too thin or losing its lusterj
get—
Growth
becomes
vigorous
and all
dandruff is
Removed.
M&in
visor
It always restores color td
gray or faded hair. Retain
your youth; don’t look old
before your time.
t)r. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
■ Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.* Lowell, Mass,, U. S. A,
COX ON & CO.'S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell's Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24. s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, Ss 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, ' 21s 6d ; ditto
Blow Aceordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST.. lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church). SYDNEY.
Warner’s
H.H WARMER & C9LXP
Melbourne; aust.-
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarssness.
"MOTHING so quick!v cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whoopingcough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION. —Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold's Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the' proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By. jjost 1/6 and 2/6, if not obtainable locally.
Business Announcements.
THE BEST
WEDDING GIFT
The
Artist
model
(Allan’s Patent)
Price* £3 10s«
A Tripod Stool of beautiful model (olir
registered design), and obtainable
onlv at our warehous'd.
MUSIC STOOLS
In Brass, with plush seats, from 4?h
Bentvvood, with cane seats, from 25/-
Walnut or Black & Gold, with leather
seats, 35/-, 73/6
Organ Benches, in Walnut, at 25/
Illustrated Lists post free.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary
Limited,
276 & 278 COLLINS SI&EEf,
Melbourne.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
K
MEDICATOR
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to tiie head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
si\e, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing- through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness*
Headache, Neuralsria, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, Lai
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrh* COrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
STOPS COLD
Thi3 Well-known Remedy -for
COUGH, COLD, BRONChITIS,
ASTHSVJ \, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives imme ia'e relief and rest.
Sa;e and pleas mt for children.
twaaßß
“ I us"! a good deal, giving it to se: vants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had AVhi oping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung ; Duerdin ;
A. DrastCo.; Felton; Faulting'; Falk.
CURES COUGH
FOREIG-JM STAMPS
*
OETS 4 Soudan (Oamee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gaut.einala(l i,d)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 13 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
(id ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s Cd ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNE, 546 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.


Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
s i />\ e y ma beet :
The Principal Selling Centre in ALtistralasia ,
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
JET MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
tUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEYLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
VVYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
. C. YOUNG & CO.
RTIFICIAL TEETH.
FULL SETS, £2 lOs.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Thorough Masticating Power and beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
AMTHOS«'-HAIR
Discoverer, Christopher Mudd, f. 1.5., Prince of Wales’ Botanist
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Dr. J. Robert Lee, M. 8.. B.S. (Melb University),
’/TnlKbs ’IFoV fht r
non: ot€§\
is m 11 pa ssr[anjs"
liar aliiAc
I ottie 2& A
Va/o Shil inks ai
p( r post
'samplebotfle or^Anthoß/'
Colonial Representative for the Proprietors:
Fred. J. B. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne.
ne 1
c ujm it
c f the
Ant
pi :ve nt
ta:io
d/th
belo
you
0
*3
W/l/rA
'ew
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NQTK—Our ONLY Australian Address —9O KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interrogation)
18c., set with 11
First-water Diamonds,
£8 and £9 10s.
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from £3 to £35.
Solid Gold
CURB KEEPER,
15s, 20s.
mini
o
Solid Gold, 10s, with
Amethvst Pendant.
(EB
; 18e., 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies, 27s 6d.
¥
Solid Gold and 3 Opals,
25s ; Solid Gold and
1 Opal, 15s.
;
Diamond, 18c. Gold,
40s, 60s, 80s.
18c., Novelty CROSS
RING, 21s; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 ss.
[ ■■■ ej
Carved HALF-HOOP,
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each.
tf.
Any Initial, 9s;
without ditto, 7s 6d.
2 Diamonds, 3 Rubies,
from 55s to 4310.
14 Diamonds and
Ruby or Sapphire.
18c. Gold, £4 4s.
EMU CHARM.
Solid Gold,
12s 6d
i
SOUVENIR
OF
SYDNEY.
Stamp Charm.
Finest Enamel
on Sterling
Silver Gilt.
3s 6d each.
Real Amethyst
SHAMROCK
CHARM,
3s 6d ;
With Gold Pin
and Chain, 7s.
KANGAROO
CHARM.
Solid Gold,
12s 6d
1 Diamond and Ruby,
or Sapphire,
18c., £4.
2 Diamonds and Opal,
18e. Gold, 755.
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, £7 10s.
0
Any Name or Motto.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
S 3
18a, 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies, or 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires, 45s ;
smaller, 30s.
MV
1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires or Rubies,
18c., 355.
1 Diamond, 1 Sapphire
or Ruby,
18c. Gold, £ll6s.
Mia,
SISPK
6 Opals and 8 Small
Diamonds, 255.
Fine Diamond,
18c. Gold, £4 ;
15c., Ruby or Sapphire,
21s.
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s;
15c.,205, 22s 6d, 27s 6d;
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
With any Name or
Motto, Is extra.
Lovely Opal,
18c. Gold, 355.
18C?
Diamond and 18c. Gold,
40s, 60s, 80s.
OUR WEDDING RINGS AND KEEPERS^-*-
ARE ADMITTED TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALL MARK.
9-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths ... 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d each.
15-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths ... 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d each.
18-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths ... 15s, 20s, 255, 32s 6d each.
SEND SIZE OF FINGER BY A PIECE OF WIRE OR A HOLE IN CARDBOARD.
Please Send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Articles Sent Post Free
to any Address.
A FEW “POINTS
»
if*
\
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT,
AND
Soothes the Aching Part,
and wherever pain is present Homocea or
Homocea Embrocation should be used.
Sold by ail Storekeepers, General Dealers, and Chemists.
THE
CUT RA.TE
Consulting and
ip
a
o
§0
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
- - >
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cut Price, 18a. 6d.
Dn. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
A Concentrated, VITA USING, NEKVE, BRATN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT: a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonic for the NERVES
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
BEAD Til FACTS.—Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REIN VIGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
vigor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of. nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON’S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working'
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLACY.—PeopIe run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR.
£lOO. —We still offer £TOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Electric Belts. No more COLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFICALLY MADE.- This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanic current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH AND LIVER.-The remedy most re-
quired to afford speedy and effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Elecl ro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BEETS. —Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Pos! pone oIcT age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Pr. NU<SN€S’S FITSEPIL6P.
PYRAMID PILE CURE.
This Celebrated REMEDY - FOR EPTT/FPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the atre.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
This is the latest specific for CTJRINO HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic
INWAItD or OUTW \ liD IT PKS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character ot
Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADYICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE.
On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Deduction.
dress:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDER RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.


Nfrr RaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfalioc Herbal Remedies-
TVTore marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOU EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain
Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
iilillslill
■
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago..
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified m3 1 blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that- of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness—Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMTJSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST
OFP|
mLUjaujmujmu'i'i'Ji'i' amaum
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A LFaline VITALITY FILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A LI aline BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches anti Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Eass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
■persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Eassmus-
sen, or Herr Eass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Eass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Eemedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Eassmttssen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSen?
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Kassmissei’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SIIBEi,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z WELLINGTON , 7 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... Shenton-street (opposite P. 0.)
Henry-street (near High-street)
FREMANTLE


Government Notice*.
PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD,
60 Young-street, Sydney,
l9lh September, 1899.
i*PPUtOATIONS sire invited for tire position of
ENGINEERING CADET, Professional Division, in the
Department of Public Works. The esriuiated number of
appointments to be made difring the enduing year is Four
Senior and Eight Junior Cadets. Candidates lot the
position of Senior Cadet must hot be less than 17 nor
fnore than 25 years of age, and for the position of Junior
cadet not less than 17 nor more than 21 years of a ire. A
competitive exainination ill be held as soon as possible
after the application's have been received, and candidates
Will be duly notified of the dale thereof, the subjects of
examination Will be as follows :
ENGLISH (Seniors and Juniors) —
(<t) Composition, parsing, analysis, derivation of
words.
fl) Dictation.
(c) Hand writing. Judged by examination papers in
dictation and arithmetic.
Mathematics—
(oj Arithmetic (Seniors and Juniors). The full course
ds is usually contained ill a standard treatise.
(V) Algebra (Juniors). Up to and including quadratic
equations. (Seniors.) As for Juniors, together
%Vith proportion, progression, and theory and USe
Of logarithms.
(e) Geometry (Juniors). Books 1,2, and 3, With easy
exercises. (Seniors.) Books 1,2, 3,4, and 0,
with easy exercises.
(a) Trigonometry (Juniors). Up to and including
solution of triangles. (Seniors.) Solution aud
properties of triangles, and simple problems.
(e) Mechanics (Seniors only) Elementary statics.
SClENCE—(Seniorsand Juniors). One of the following:
(а) Elementary Physiography and Geology.
(б) Elementary Physics.
, ('■) Elementary Chemistry. (Inorganic.)
ELEMENTARY PLAN DRAWING(Seniors and Juniors)—
Plan copying and enlarging, tracing, use of Scales.
USE OF INSTRUMENTS (Seniors only)—
v Knowledge of instruments used in surveying.
Senior and Junior Cadets will be appointed for the first
three months at a salary of £26 per annum ; and at the
expiration thereof they will, if their service be satis-
factory, he entitled to receive salary at the following
rates :—SENIOR CADETS.—A salary at a rale not ex-
ceeding £75 per annum for nine months, and the following
twelve months at a rate not exceeding £125 per annum.
At the expiration of the period of two years they will
cease to rank as cadets, anti will be eligible for promo-
tion to the ordinary professional staff, as vacancies occur.
JUNIOR CADETS.—A salary not exceeding £5O per
annum for nine months ; for the second year, £7O per
annum; third year, i9O pet annum; and fourth year,
i 100 per annum. At the expiration of the period of
four years they will lie considered eligible for promotion
lo vacancies on the ordinary professional stuff, as
vacancies occur.
Applications to attend the examination must be made
bn a form which cart be obtained at this Office, and must
teach the undersigned not later than 31st October.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of Candidates (male
and female) for ADMISSION to the CLERICAL DIVI-
SION of the PUBLIC SERVICE of the COLONY will be
held in Sydney, and at various country Centres, on the
18th December rtext artd four following days. Candidates
will be allowed to attend Who are not less than 16 years of
age on the first day of examination, or not more than 21
years of age oh the 31st July, 1899. Persons already em-
ployed in the General Division of the Public Service will,
however, be admitted to the examination provided their
age does not exceed thirty years. Application to attend
the examination must reach the undersigned not later
than the 20th November. The signatures of persons
willing to superintend the examination held in centres
outside the S.vdnev radius should be forwarded to the
Secretary of the Board of Examiners, 7, Richmond Ter-
race, Domain, Sydney (from whom forms for the purpose
may be obtained), not later than 20th November, 1899.
Further particulars respecting the examination, rates of
pay, &0., may be obtained on application to the office of
the Public Service Board.
The regulations regarding the examination, and copies
of the papers set on the last occasion, can be obtained at
the Government Printing Office and the principal book-
sellers.
By order of the Board,
9a 23. J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
Legal Notice.
N THE SUPREME COURT OE QUEENS-
LAND.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
Mr. Justice Chubb.
1899-No. 96.
Between THOMAS HERBERT BELPTTT
Plaintiff SARAH ANN BELPITT De-
fendant and EDWARD JOSEPH
CAHILL Co defendant.
TO the abovenamed defendant ar.d co-defendant
who when last heard of were residing at Morri-
son’s Bore Camp near Wiloannia in the Colony of
New South Wales hut whose present whereabouts
is unknown to the plaintiff
TAKE NOTICE that Thomas Herbert Belpitt
of Elmina in the Colony of Queensland the above-
named plaintiff has commenced an action against
you Sarah Ann Belpitt and K lward Joseph Cahill
in the Supreme Court of Queensland by filing a
petition on the fifth day of May 1899 and issuing
a writ on the same day by which he claims a dis-
solution of his marriage with you Sarah Ann
Belpitt and that you Edward Joseph Cahill may
be condemned in the costs of and incidental to
the action. And further take notice that the
Court has ordered this notice to be published three
times in the Bourke Banner the Western
Grazier and the Sydney Bulletin and that upon
proof to the Court that reasonable efforts have
been made to effect personal service of the said
petition and writ the publication of this notice
shall be deemed to ho substituted service thereof
on the last day on which the advertisement ap-
pears and you and each of you are required to
enter an appearance to the said writ within one
month from that date. And further take notice
that within twenty one days after the time limited
for your appearance you and each of .yon must file
your statement of defence herein otherwise the
said action will proceed against you as for default
of appearance as appears by the endorsement on
the said writ.
Morris and Fletcher,
George Street, Brisbane,
Town Agents for Samuel S. Pegg,
Solicitor for plaintiff
Cunnamulla.
A (aood Way - - - -
- - - To Make Moi)€y
i
IS to give Public Exhibitions in Halls, Churches, Schoo
Houses and Opera Houses with our Panoramic
Stereoptieon Exhibition Outfit, illustrating the Spanish
American and Filipino wars, with both Stationary and
Motion pictures. Many are making £6O to 1120 per
month, and some exhibitors much more. We furnish
everything ready to start in business. £l2 10s. buys the
Stereoptieon Outfit, and the Motion pictures can be
added at a small cost. The work is easy, strictly high-
class and requires no previous experience. Write for full
particulars now, this advertisement may not appear
again.
Tlie Enterprise Optical Mfg. Co.,
56 FIFTH AVE., CHICAGO, U.S.A.
EAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Business Announcements.
THIS IS IT!
TWO IN ONE.
T HE PRIMUS CHIEF
Cooking & Steaming Apparatus.
FOR KEROSENE OR GAS.
Brice— 7o - & 80/-
Primus Chief Cooking' Apparatus
without Steaming Utensils.
35/- 40 - 55/- 62 6
As shewn at Sydney and Melbourne Agricultural Shows.
Watch Melbourne and Sydney dailies for Cooking
LiXhiuiliuns al our respective warehouses.
WitON'T SWALLOW MICROBES
when you can get a good
- Dripstone Filter -
1
10/6
2
14-
3
17/6
4
21/-
5 gallons.
25-
IF YOU HAD NOT ONE LAST SUMMER,
GET ONE THIS.
ICE SAFES
65/-
€5/-
70-
to £lO.
ICE CHESTS
30/- 50'- 70-
UraT THOSE FLIES 1 KEEP THEM OUT l
Try The
Auto Ventilated Jug Cover.
6d. and 9d. each.
Opens Automatically. Fits any Jug.
HAVE YOU TIMED
THE KEROSENE CANDLE
Price, 1/-; posted, 3d. extra.
IF NOT, THEN SEND FOR ONE.
NO GREASE—NO DIRT—NO SMELL 1
2000 Sold in less than Six Months. Cheaper than ordinary
candles. Lasts for years.
DON’T GET WET!
FOR TnTS SUMMER
GET YOUR
GARDEN HOSE & FITTINGS
KROM
menu Bros.- nice m.
THE UP-TO-DATE
HARDWAREMEN,
Elizabeth-street, MELBOURNE)
George-street, SYDNEY.
HOW TO PRESS WELL
BT A SMALL COST.
AYANY Books have been written showing how ladies
- L ’ x may dress well on £5O a year, £lOO a year, £l5O a
year, and so on.
But to be dressed well does not depend so much on the
amount of money spent, as the place where it is spent,
ami the taste of the spender.
Some ladies will dress as well on £5O as others on £lOO
or more.
You may see a lady with a three guinea hat or bonnet
which, instead of improving, simply disfigures her appear
ance.
A lady who wants to dress well, has first to determine
what amount of money she can afford, and then the best
place to spend it, that is, where she may he sure of
getting the greatest value.
The first question is easily answered ; the second often
perplexing and troublesome.
Thousands of ladies—and the number is constantly
increasing—have, however, already made the discovery ;
and, when the new seasons come, they go at once to C.
G. Hatte’s. at Newtown.
At Ilatte’s they find all that is brightest and best, and
at prices only half what City houses charge.
The superiority of Hatte’s MILLINERY is now a house-
hold word. This department is under the supervision of
Mrs. Hatte, who has mad.e a special study of millinery in
Paris, so that every article hears the stamp of elegance
and true art.
Hatte’s shipments of SPRING AND SUMMER DRESS
MATERIALS are one of the largest in the colony; the
goods of the latest fashion and design and the selection
so large as to suit every taste.
Hatte’s READY-MADE CLOTHING department is
stocked to repletion, every article well finished and made
of seasonable and durable materials; and the same re-
mark applies to the HAT, MERCERY and HABER-
DASHERY departments.
Hatte s SUITS TO MEASURE at two guineas (with
extra pair of trousers given in) mark a revolution in
tailoring. There is a big selection of materials ; and the
workmanship is all that can be desired. Patterns and
self-measurement forms supplied free.
Hatte’s BOOTS AND SHOES are noted for their wear-
ing qualities, fit, style, and superior finish. He keeps
none of the rubbish, known as “tripe” sold at many
shops.
Hatte’s BUILDERS AND HOUSEHOLD IRONMON-
GERY Department contains every article needed by the
trade and for domestic use.
Hatte’s PRICE AND FASHION BOOK for the Spring
and Summer Seasons is just issued, and will be posted
free on application.
Remember that MATTE’S is one of the biggest estab-
lishments in the Colonies—the People’s House, where jou
can get everything you want at half the usual prices.
You can save time, trouble, and your purse, by going
for everything you want to
C- a. NATT€,
-^NCWTOWN.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S CtybrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n)brocatioQ-
per- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their b neficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
faciured only at 78 Nnw Oxforu-st., London, Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street, London, they ara
spurious.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DTI3?Y COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sto.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
MgS
O’
S*nNEFF£CTIVECuBS
Buchf!hfiamed EyfsH®s|
Weak Eyes Dimness E 7
H AROSE;}
551 GEORGE ST
SYDNEY.
JTABUSHSO 185*
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&.C., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooten and Professional Men of all Claiieti
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Kyes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold bv all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
MOIR’S
PURE PICKLES.
Assorted kinds in Pint Bottles.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, UMITKD,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD ’
General Gordon.
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
a
mm
m
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c., &e.Use
O S ‘ FRUIT SALT
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER'S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
•1 INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.
COLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most. Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
eUNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOE THEE”
Words by Edwaiid Oxkxford ; Music by E. J.
Emmkrton. In Three Keys— E flat, E, and G.
Of all Music Dealers. W. PAXTON, London
and Melbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” P E.
By Willie Pate. Played by special command of
their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
p ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
-Ll and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diablo,"
“Crown Diamonds.” “Luciezia Borgia," “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “ Un Ballo in Masehera,” “ II Trova-
tore,” “ Les lliuruenots.” Is. Cd. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swahston Strbkt, MELBOURNE.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
m
SPECIAL VALUE k RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH&COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONS BUUK,
000 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever Douna
together between the covers of on e book. Rational
Songs of every country, including WAR, I ATIUOII ,*
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Man} old*
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memofies, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. 1 his
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. fld., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMEBlfiitl PUBLISHING CO, ''afr
erloo Clumbers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, ca
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for‘ t u
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when wilting.
HE WAYS OF MANY WATERS.


D.S .MAI R
B P
A S
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated nml Guaranteed 1 year, 26.
English Ma'nspi'iiu.'S, first quality, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Rotherham Knglish Lever Watches,
apped ami jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated.
Guaranteed ft years, 35 -
D. S. Mair for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Kings. Best
quality Opal. Solid Gold, 12/6.
D.S. Mair for Heavy Soli I Stiver Pocket to rocket
Vlherts, Knglish Hall Marked, 10 6, 12 6.
Note address—634 George Street, Sydney.
tli'L.. *y*:)*£ 1
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phonograph
(Albert & Sox, 118 Kiny-st., Sole Agents)
Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RRCORDS of the TTiyhest Stan-
dard. Host. Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Recording, or making' your
>\vn Records. Easiest machin ■to Dictate Letters or Sintf
'tto. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
■T ALBERT & SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
! heapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
•dison-Bell Phonoirraphs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
OKAIG & AITKEN,
080-082 Gkorob
SYDNEY.
St.,
New South Wales’ Hnrbers’ Supply House.
d I
THE ACME of Mecha
nical Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Uox and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid .(Nickel, ornamental
Brass Eront, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains Of “ Home, Sweet
Home,” “There'll Come a
. Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/-; Carriage tin id in N’.S. VV., i 2 extra
any other Colony, 22. Sent, on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, money refunded.
11- POTI.ER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent, in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address— L. Edwin Wesiey 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address ,to
'“E. H.,” Box l(i(i, Sydney, lie will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but lias nothing to sell or
u'ive ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EVESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Saykks, Ai.i.I'OKT Sc Pottkk, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with iiOO tears reputation.
SiNSUTON’S EYE OINTMENT curesall eve
dtsord is. Get a genuine pot trom anv Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GKEEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tbe B. aod N.Trcatn>€i>t
Numerous testimonials have been received cert ifyinsr to
the efficacy of this medicine in restorin'.' Nerve, lirnin
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Eoss of Energy, Anemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most, reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAfiG'S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affection's of the
Stomach, Rowels, and oilier Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and (jive it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, RIARRIKEA, INFMJENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a l’revcntative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and U tores.
and LOZENGES.
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
The pstraliai (Poms’ Fond [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
r FIIIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
1 which issues Special Policies granting^.
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
1L A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. If. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £315,000
Offices: 263 GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Important to Parties Furnishing"!
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers . . .
Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD'ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL'S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL'S give Value for Value— 2os. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. HALL AND"COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for; Probate cr Assigned Estates.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
RMIIRACIKO
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. K. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young:and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in arid out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imfonnulion etn-
btaced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
H. t h covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
p si t d for only 7s, Od.
SrKKCMKS and Toa- ts ready-made for all dn-.isions and
everybody : public speaking- made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Du. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post, is 3d.
Hkai’ty’s Skorkts. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. Tim
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Lovk and Parkntagk, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Lo\ e, Press, etc. Is Cd post.
Every Man llis Own Sciioolmas',er, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is (id posted. Clog hanging Tutor, Is.
Alisr. Miner s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s Gd.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer's
Sure Guide : price Is. post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets ok Ancient a xi) Moperx 5} agio. Is Gd post free.
Art ok Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 iihis. Is 6.1 posted.
Lover's Better Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and llis Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gor.viax’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Ur-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), lsOd post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
OtiEVASSE's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Won’derkiil Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
I G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
I How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
1 Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons fold and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
1C'?? WILL
ill; ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
IMPORTER
CHEAP BOOKS
!iw
PLAIN HOME TALK.
13v Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest nnd Best Edition, 2>o Colored Platen awl Kmirarinfln, 1000 pages, post
lixfi 7s C<l - This wo,k contains information for MARRIED and
UNA! ARMED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Con.iuhing Ventriloquism, Magic, Caiji> Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller the
Doml s Own Y\ izard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Sfebciibs and Toasts, ready made, Is fld, post..
E\ kry Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or. Howto Educate Oneself, post 1/0. Tim
Kki.ljY Oano fillns.) post, 1 (i. Australian llanubook of Midwikkry (illus.) 20-
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is; post Is 2d. *
I.kaltiiy Motiik**" ...i. Sturdy Children, 2s (id ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post la 3d. Five Hundred Ways ok Marino
Money, Od. fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb bells, Indian Clubs, etc. Is 3d
How to BkiiavE, Etiouetto of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining-, etc., Is.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WIBTj awdrade,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE
Medical.
oußorLoiHLouoruiounr dllifor
GENTLEMEN,sSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
'Vo jrra.nt evprv purchaser of onr ELECTRIC BELTS
nml AI’I’I.IANCES a trial of 3n days before payment,
which is fnilv explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electro Belts will
cMre a)! .Venous and
ot.h e r D-i a.si s in II
8' ages, how im r caused,
iiiul restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEAi.TIt.
Our Marvellous Electric
lielts give a steady, .sooth-
ing current that can he felt
iy the wearer through
ail weak parts. RKMKM
1 1C I!., we give a wri'leii
guarantee with each IC.ec-
lrie Belt lhat it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
leturn the fill I amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say. and do pre-
cisely w hat we promise.
N 1 'TICK. Before pur-
.chasing we prefer that you
send for our KI.IiUTRIU
ERA and Price hist (post
free), “injtir jlinstr.aions of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
G 3 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Not Heavy to Him.
The man on the elephant’s back is nothing tc
the elephant. The big beast doesn't mind him
any more than one of those immense dray horses
you see in London minds the brass ornaments or
his harness. Yet on my back or yours the mar
would be a load ; and, if fastened to a lark’s wings
the little brasses would hold him to the earth.
Thus, we are reminded, my thoughtful friends,
that there are no absolute facts. The burden de-
pends on the back. Albeit Samson walked off
with the gates of Gaza, an ordinary garden gate
would, lam sure, prove all that we should want
to lug. It follows that weight or heaviness can,
as the advertisements say, “be supplied in a
variety of styles.”
When, for example, Mr. Sidney Challanger
mentions in a letter that at a certain period he
was “heavy,” he does not mean that he tipped
the scales at a stone or two more than usual. His
horse would have felt that, in case be rode one;
but the truth is that at the time referred to lie
was actually under his proper weight by several
pounds.
What he wants us to understand is that he was
heavy to himselj ; it was not an increase of weight
but an increase of weakness, having practically the
same result. His explanation is that in the early
part of 1800 he began to feel ill and out of Sorts.
He went about in a mazy way, feeling badly with-
out knowing what the trouble was or how to
account for it.
“ i had, ” Mr. Challanger goes on to tell us,
“a nasty taste in the mouth and no relish for
my meals. ” But eat we all must, cr starve ; and
oat he did. Hot much, though. At best it was
| a forced business. tasted natural or
good, and he took just enough to keep him going
until the next meal time should come round.
“And even for that i had to sutler, ” he says.
“ After getting it down I had, almost immediately
a sense of fulness or distension at the stomach
and pain at the chest as if a bit of food had
lodged there—which couldn't be. ”
iNo, nothing lodged anywhere. What there was
of it went straight down into Mr. ChalJanger’s
stomach, where it at once began to ferment "and
produce a gas which caused the feeling of fulness,
while the irritated nerves set up the pain. It
was not too much food, but food not digested
food turned sour in tbe stomach—with the whole
body belli ml it failing of tbe needed stimulus and
nourishment of food, and wondering what the
matter was. It was this state of matters that
made him, to use his own words, “ heavy, drowsy,
and languid. ”
Any river in England, after a long drought in
summer, looks just as Mr. Challanger fe t —heavy,
drowsy, and languid. And for ail identical reason
—the lack of necessary supplies. Wait an instant
though ! Don’t miss the point.
Ihe rain, when it comes, tills the river by a
thousand little channels falling directly into it.
so as to food and body. Between them is a
process ; a mechanical, chemical, and vital opera-
tion—digestion. Mark you that, and act accord-
ingly. Whether in the sky or on the ground water
is water —the same thing.
But food and body are not the same thing. The
first must be transmuted into the second by the
miracle called digestion ; for of all God’s ways in
nature none is more avvtul, more amazing, more
glorious. And, when impeded or overborne, none
\\ Inch punishes the interference mure certainly and
swift.
( “I got little or no sleep, ” continues our friend
“and awoke in the morning tired out, as after a
hard day’s work. Presently I cou d hardly walk,
for very weakness, and from time to time bad to
give up work altogether. JNio medicine helped me
—and I tried plenty.
“After three wretched years of this, Mrs. Bird,
of Tallistorn, told my wife about Mother Seigel's
Syrup and through her, advised me to try it.
She said my ailment was indigestion and the
Syrup would cure it. And it did. One bottle
greatly relieved me. I could eat freely and food
agreed with me. I persevered with the remedy
and got strong as ever. All the pain and heavi-
ness left me, and I felt light and energetic, al-
though I have gained in weight. ’’—(Signed)
Sydney Challanger, Gladstone Villa, Cwin near
Waunllwyd, Mon, August 30th, 1808.
OIVRN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
° GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Desien
rptail would cost lIALF-GUI.NEA, to further introduce
DR. YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One trial
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is (id, for which we
will forward von post free one box tthree tablets) of DE-
VON MULLER S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap to atleastsix
friends. You can have any name desired engraved on
the brooch. Numerous testimonials
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydnej'.
ILLUSTRATED,
A VALUABLE BOOK of absort>-
injr interest to every MAN
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 162, G.P.0., SYDNEY


CELtUtSR ‘HERTEX’
For Base,
Health and
Comfort
UDDERiUEDR
sa- DURING SUMMER, tk*
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
&sr CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agen-ts :
jjauid graham go.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between Georpe and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNO.
X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Kook of Conjuring
Tricks, Klrtndyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket ami
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed). Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address In Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and'7lB Georjre-street, SYDNEY.
11. L. lICTC HIXSON, Mnnatrer.
u
The
FRIEND
RAHERVEY.
171 C LARENCE ST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Shin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore F.ves, Chapped Hands, Karaehe, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat/ Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGS POTS, Is. each.
(English Rato )
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
USB
Spooler's
~00
iROYALNAVY DRESSING
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPIIONS
: DIRLC I lONS FOR USE
iHiunum^
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Clean inir and Polishing Roots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Rest Hressinj; for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOHEKEKPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
p 0. Box 185, Melbourne.
“Common Sense
« * Ear Drums ”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. T. lie oni..y t»cientiiic
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO Arent,
CIILMEuS, 229 CollinsSt Melbourne
THG ORUM
IN POSITION
(invisible)
Mention "The Bulletin” when writing.
DRUNKENHESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED RY AD-
MINISTER! NO
EUCR.ASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND SAF*E, SURF AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
U can be given in Coffee, Tea. or Food withou . <jejec-
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address „ TTMTPn
HEADQUARTERS: THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
071 Onlllna-streot. Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND,—^
The Tliermal Springs District*
THE
Grand Hotel, ROTORUA.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
in Kew Zealand.
IT. V. Gardner
(late of the P. & O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
S. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
A Beautiful Fabric.
THE
‘louis*
VELVETEEN.
NOTE WELL !—Each yard of
Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L O UTS
and in no other way) and is
stamped with a guarantee of
wear.
Business Announcements.
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, I Os. (i«l.
Sole Agents :
\
The Result
Craig & Aitlsen. 680-632 George-st„ Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “ gureka ” Qas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The .4 astral ian C.astiyht Company by payment
of £l Cash and lO.s. Monthly, until paid off.
If iras is in the room the Cooker will be connected TREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
jpfe - " Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TIIK
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, evory Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Cramps f i
l Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup,
Coughs ,
Tooth-
ache,
V
A
Cuts, \
Burns, }
i Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles Is
PainKiUev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
1 Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cu e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
1 prepared to abide by the result.
| A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
S CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
\ H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSIEIGHGDNS.,LONDON,ENG.
“As One Dead.”
BROUGHT TO LIFE ACAIN.
On the Verge of Total Collapse.
ALWAYS PRAISING CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Case of
MR. WILLIAM CAMPBELL
(Reported for “ The Rockdalt Advocate.”)
Between Rockdale and Hurstville, lying
to the right on hilly ground, is the pretty
suburb of Bexley. It was here our reporter
found the home of Mr. William Campbell,
& well-known identity of the district, and a
man of sterling integrity and wide experi-
ence. Mr. Campbell was at home, and
received our reporter with great civility.
“ I hear, Mr. Campbell, you have had an
almost astounding recovery from a dreadful
sickness ; would you object to giving me
the details and confirming the statements I
have heard?”
“With the utmost willingness,” replied
Mr. Campbell; “ for I was as one dead
brought to life again, and my thankfulness
and gratitude make me speak of it continu-
ally. I am, as you may judge, naturally a
strong, robust man, with what 1 thought
an iron constitution ; but the climate of
India, where I lived for some years, found
out my vulnerable point. Without doubt,
it was the excessive heat of that country
that affected my digestive system and
caused me for thirteen years to be a martyr
to chronic dysentery and diarrhoea. No-
thing I tried would cure or even give any
lasting relief. For nine years I was com-
pelled to live on bread and vegetables ; the
least morsel of meat was intolerable to my
stomach, and was immediately vomited or
purged away.”
“Such a continued strain must surely
have left you very weak, Mr. Campbell ?”
“ I can assure you I arrived at the last
stage of exhaustion —to the utmost verge of
total collapse. I had griping cramp-like
pains in the stomach, with a constant roar-
ing and rumbling—this when I exerted
myself in the slightest, or strove to walk a
little distance. At intervals, a pressure as
of a large, heavy substance came on my
chest, compelling me to gasp for breath and
lie down. A dull pain pressed between my
shoulders, not constant at first, but gradu-
ally increasing in duration till, during the
last days of my sickness, it never left me.
My heart palpitated loudly, so that you could
hear its movements like the ticking of an
old clock. Pains in my head made me dizzy
and affected my heating, so that I was
nearly deaf and could not hear the noise of
a dray passing close beside me. Then my
eyes suffered, a mist floated before them,
making me nearly blind, like a man groping
his way in a dense fog. I had only sight
enough left to prevent my running foul of
things in my way. Sometimes my head
pains were so intense that the head would
swell ; and my outward appearance got so
aged-looking, as the neighbours round here
will tell you, that some of them said I must
be at least eighty years old.”
The reporter here took a good look at the
broad, athletic form of Mr. Campbell as he
stood up, and it may be said with certainty
he would pass at the present time as being
under fifty.
Mr. Campbell continued “ I became
that weak 1 was not fit to walk. My limbs
got stiff and dragged after me. I hail no
hope in life, no energy ; only all day, and
every day, a dull, aching misery. I thought
my only chan e of peace lay in death, and
I prayed to ”
“ But sure./ you did not arrive at this
fearful pass, Mr. Campbell, without seeking
advice?"
“ You may be sure I did not—l sought for
years and years ; all the time 1 was getting
steadily worse. Pounds and pounds, in
money that I could ill spare, I have paid for
all the remedies I could hear of or that were
suggested to me. I had tried more drugs
than I can count; then I went to Sydney to
consult one of the herbalists that make so
much fuss about their cures, and I bought
some pills the herbalist recommended as
certain to do me good. But, as I expected,
my old experience was repeated, and herb
pills, like homoeopathic globules, did me no
good. It happened when I was in Sydney
that a lad in the street gave me a pamphlet
about Clements Tonic, and I put it in my
pocket and took it home with me. I was in
that state I would have tried anything, for
no change in me could be for the worse ; so
1 bought a bottle of Clements Tonic, and
took it with just the same hopeless fear
that I had tried scores of so-called remedies
before.”
“ And what was the result ?”
“Thank God ! I had relief almostatonce—
relief that I had never found in all the past
thirteen miserable years of my life. It was
after taking three doses of Clements Tonic
that I noticed the change for the better;
and step b} r step, as 1 continued taking
Clements Tonic, my serious symptoms left
me. The despondent, hopeless feeling of
the mind, the cramping pains in the
digestive organs, w ith the sound of rumbling
wind, the palpitations of the heart, the
oppression on the chest, and all the head
pains, with the accompanying deafness and
blindness, passed away ; but what surprised
me most of all, with thankful amazement,
was the cure of my chronic dysentery, for
this, as I have mentioned, had alllicted me
for thirteen years and defied all remedies,
that I had come to never hope to escape
from it.”
“And you are positive Clements Tonio
cured that ? ”
“ Yes, I am positive, and more than
thankful to say it cured me and made a man
of me again. My digestive 'powers are
quite restored. Meat, that had not passed
my lips for nine years, I now eat freely ;
and from being an old man, helpless, blind
and deaf, doubled up with pain, and praying
for my coffin as speedily as might be, I am
now strong and hearty, willing and capable
of doing the hardest physical work. You
may judge of the truth of this when I tell
you that after taking three bottles of
Clements Tonic I signed for a trenching
contract on stiff ground, and carried it out
with perfect satisfaction.”
“ Have I your consent, Mr. Campbell, to
make this testimony public?” asked the
reporter.
“ Of course I am willing, and most freely
consent. A man saved as I have been by
Clements Tonic can never forget it or the
obligation it has placed him under. Nor
can he miss an opportunity of telling its
merits wherever the occasion calls for it.
Believe me, I am always talking to my
customers of Clements Tonic and recom-
mending it, and shall continue to do so in
simple gratitude for what it has done for
me.”
STATUTORY* DECLARATION.
I, William Campbkll, of Bexley, near Sydney,
In the Colony o( New South Wales, do soleciiuy
and sincerely declare that, I have carefully read the an-
nexed document, consisting of five folios ana
consecutively numbered from one to five, and that
it contains a’ d is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure bv Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any wat ,
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment, conscientiously
believing the same to he true, and hy virtue of, the
provisions of ail Act- made and passed in the hint
vear of the reign of her present Maje-ty, ml't" l *"
’“An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made iii the varioti
Departments of the Government of New South
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, for
the suppression of voluntary and extra judicial oat
and Affidavits.*'
Declared at Arncliffe. this 2fit,h day of June. om>
thousand eight huudrvd and^itwtj-nuie^^hite
Baron Berzelius’ Report. 1
Head What Medical Bleu Say About Them .
BTFRKIN M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses.. has jLraneed.
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting i w 1
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness. wholesome
D ECKSTROM, M.D. BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wfl. ® {ore
Tonic, being pure and strengthening; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Diges ion.
thus recommend them. over the
G. B. WOOD, M.D. : —lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar
Liver.
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the VTorld
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
&
ligl
skv
I
II
H
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
This is the Latest Type
Gh'amophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own liome.
Nothing - to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
gra plies, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ' (ONLY).
IP. >T. If. Olderahme, Nan tiger.
THE BRAND
ASK FOB
Y/HISKY
D.C-k’
FROM ALL HOTELS
8t SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
D.C.L. ONE QUALITY ONLY
iiimSU
BaaEl
OF MEFPIT
HSL
09531
ASK FOR
O.C.L^ 1N
THE PUREST SPIRIT M)E
THE BEST.ALWAYS THE SAME
Barits’ Foot Steanj Power P|acbiQ?ry
EogiimrS’ Tools.
Drilling- Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
ENGINEERS’ and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney and Miellbourzie.
A Gay Deceiver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bahtap was 48 ; be had a pretty young wife ; he
was miserably jealous, and a commercial traveller.
This was an unfortunate combination of circum-
stances.
When Bartap’s business carried him to distant
places ho was an unhappy man ; he tortured him-
self with doubts all day long, and lay awake in
his lonely hotel bed at night, casting over the
harrowing possibilities. Yet Mrs. B. was a good
woman ; one of those wives who never even find
faith inconvenient; she was good psychologically
and good physiologically —which is safer.
One night Bartap returned to Melbourne from
Albury a day earlier than he was expected. He
reached his suburban villa a little after 12 as
usual under such circumstances trembling on the
eve of a discovery. Before attempting to open
the door he stood for nearly a minute with his
latch-key in his hand, listening intently. Ab
first he thought he heard a stealthy step in the
hall, and dropped his ear to the keyhole, his heart
drumming a muffled quickstep, his kuees shaking
weakly. Sure enough, somebody was moving
within. A hand placed on the knob, and Bartap
had only time to retreat under cover of a shrub
before the door was opened, and a man carrying a
black Gladstone came forth.
The stranger closed the door after him very
gently, and then stepped briskly down the path.
He was a young man, tall and well set-up.
Bartap dashed at him.
“ You damned scoundrel 1 What are you doing
in my house? ’’ he cried. .
They struggled fora little while, and in less
than a minute Bartap knew himself to be beaten.
He was jammed down against the gate, one reso-
lute hand at his thror.t, the other crushing the
flesh of his fat arm ; but he clung desperately to
his enemy, spluttering abuse.
“ Who the devil are you ?” asked the villain.
“I am the man you have dishonored, curse
you ! ” cried Bartap. “That woman is my wife.”
The young man loosened his grip, and looked
down on Bartap in meditative silence for a
moment.
“ So help me Heaven, I did not know she was a
married woman!” he said.
B irtap spat bad language, and kicked viciously
like a trapped school-boy. Then they heard foot-
steps, and had only time to move apart when a
policeman appeared at the gate.
“ That yersilf, Misther Bartap? ” said the con-
stable, recognising him in the moonlight.
“Yes, Ryan,” answered the wronged husband.
“ It’s all right.”
Bartap’s effort at nonchalance was nob clever,
but it satisfied the policeman, and he moved on.
The stranger had picked up his bag, and the two
men faced each other again.
“I didn’t want to cry my disgrace in the
streets,” said Bartap, “ but you and I have to
settle this business.” He was properly fierce, and
yet conscious of the f.act that any attempt at
violence on his part would be inept and ridiculous.
The grip the man had given him tingled like the
bite of a dog.
“ My name is Harry Rockford, I am an archi-
*eot!> my offices are in Hume Buildings, King-st.
j do not know yoU- For all I know you may be a
scurvy blackmailer. Get out of my road. If you
want me you know where to find me.”
He Hung Bartap aside, and passing through the
ga te walked quickly off in the direction opposite
to that which the policeman had taken. The
wronged husband gazed after him stupidly for a
few seconds and then turned and stumbled into the
house. He had thoughts of a sudden and gory
ven g eanC y_ be was in a mood for murder. The
l, o nge was in darkness. Lighting a lamp, Bartap
stole upstairs. In his wife’s dressing room lie
paused. The place was in the greatest disorder,
drawers were pulled out, and their usual contents
]ittered tbe floQr> Not a BCra[) o{ jewellery was to
be seen any where. Bartap had prided himself on
b ; g w ife’s jewellery. In his own room the same
disorder prevailed. A good sum in cash that was
usually kept in an old desk was gone as also
was about a hundred pounds’ worth of Bartap s
possossio ' ns
j n ber own roon)) on a smooth and snowy bed,
little Mrs. Bartap slept the sleep of peace and
innocence, the untroubled sleep that comes of
good living when accompamed by a good liver.
EDWARD DYSON.
Land of the Crocodile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About 30 years ago, in the vicinity of
Warwick, a small boy armed with a shanghai
was out after tomtits and other dangerous
game, when he was suddenly confronted by
a paralysing vision. The thing was between
the handles of a plough, had two bare hairy legs
like those of the bygone troglodytes, wore a
short petticoat, a long and tangled beard, and a
wild head surmounted by a Tam o’ Shanter
bonnet, and spoke to the horse in a strange and
unknown tongue. The small boy gave one
terrified glance and fled. That small boy is now
the lion. Arthur Morgan, Speaker of Q. Leg.
Assembly, and the awful vision is Donald
M‘lntosh, M.L.A. for Cambooya.
Donald wore nothing but the kilt for years
after he came to Warwick, and when he rode up
on a bare-backed steed to the local post-office, his
mount and dismount sent the ladies flying behind
trees, and the men into hysterics. He also went
to church in Celtic garb, and, when kneeling at
prayers, playful youths would stick pins in
Tonald’s calves, producing a loud “ tarn the
poys ! ” in the midst of a solemn silence. Then
good old Father Cani, with fiery Italian emphasis,
would denounce “ de Irish ” of his con-
gregation.
* * * *
The first tracker at the scene of the Gatton
murder wasanold aboriginal known as “Paddy Per-
kins.” On Gov. Norman’s first visit to Toowoomba
Paddy stopped him in the street to observe : “ I
hear you gran’ man, very lib’ral man, and great
frien’ of the ’boriginals—not like the plurry mon-
nrels been here before ! ” Norman gave Paddy
ss. as a proof that he was not one of the “ mon-
grel ” Governors of previous days, some of whom,
by the way, had done the ungrateful P.P. many
a good turn. Once, when Paddy’s missus had a
daughter, Paddy had the piccaninny baptised by
turns at the R. 0., the.C.E., the Congregational,
and the Wesleyan churches, assuring each clergy-
man that that was the church of his choice. And
as he received ss. from each, he is satisfied that
religion pays.
• • • *
On a Burnett River station, where a black
boy’s nominal .£1 a-week is always balanced off in
the books with “stores and sundries,” Billy
became incredulous about the whole of his salary
being gone in “tea, choogar and plonr,” and
demanded an explanation. The storekeeper told
him that “ sundries ” accounted for the deficiency.
Billy thought hard for a few minutes, turned at
the door as he was walking out, and significantly
observed—“ Look here, boss ! No more plurry
chundry! ”
• * *. *
When Dick Newton was contesting the
Burnett with Ryott-Maughan, the bulk of the
Hibernians, remembering a deliverance of New-
ton’s about Home Rule, would have cheerfully
seen him assassinated. At an election meeting one
night an Irishman asked to have Newton pointed
out to him. When this was done, Patrick gazed
hard at him for a minute ; then, spitting con-
temptuously over his left shoulder, remarked,
“ By gobs, Oi think Oi’ll go home, or else Misther
Maughan 11 be left widout anny opposition 1”
* * * *
Jim Williams, of Helidon, a well-known
horsey man, once talked horse at a dinner in Too-
w’oomha until the local bank-manager suggested
sarcastically that Jim should change the subject
to “ecclesiastical potentates.” “Well,” said
Jim, “ I dunno nothing about Cleesiastics ; lint
old Potentate ran a blanky good ‘hurdle’ at Roma
three months ago.” There was no further attempt
to drag Jim off the track.
. * * - » *
Old Paddy Nolan, of Ipswich, claimed to be
a “gintleman,” and once when the late good old
cold-tea John Macfarlane vvason the bench Paddy
was a witness, and on entering the box said
“Good morning, your Worship.” “Good morn-
ing, Mr. Nolan,” returned the Bench. Where-
upon Paddy, turning triumphantly to a friend in
court, remarked, “Doesn't that prove Oi’m a
blanky gintleman 1 ”
* • * *
Paddy G , another old-time Ipswich
celebrity, was once fined £2 for “drunk and dis-
orderly.” The latter charge be resented and laid
a plot to get square with the police. Ho left a
suit of his old clothes on the bank of the Bremer,
and then strolled away 14 miles to Peak Moun-
tain. The police did two hard days’ work drag-
ging the Bremer for Paddy’s body, and then
Paddy cathe along and asked them if they were
tired! For long after it was an unsafe thing to
ask an Ipswich trap if he was tired.
* * * *
“ Let my name perish so that France be
free,” said Miraheau. In the referendum election
crowd at Brisbane an Irishwoman had her hat
knocked off, and in answer to the apology ex-
claimed, “ Ooh, shure you can knock in & head off
if it’ll do anny good for Federation ! ”
• * • *
The late Sir Ralph Gore didn’t like the
omission of his title in addressing him, and once
showed so much annoyance at an American
visitor’s repeated “Mister Gore” that the next
time the Yank entered Gore’s office he made an
obsequious burlesque bow, and said, “Good
morning', my lord ! ” Whereupon Gore, in the
choicest Australian, told him to “Go to
out of this 1 ”
* * * *
Out on the Paroo recently I saw on a gate-
post, on the road to Thargomindah, an announce-
ment which had read—“ Anyone trespassing in
this paddock will be prosecuted by the under-
signed,” but which somebody had altered to
“ prosecuted by tbe bastard who owns this
run.” On the same route an unconscious Hiber-
nian humorist had a notice on a gidyea-tree to
announce, in reference to an old and very plain
track across a paddock, that “This rode ain t no
rode at all 1 ”
* * * *
In the now notorious Gatton district there
once lived a fine old Caledonian, who, though
true-blue Presbyterian, was disposed to see good
in all churches. Yet he found it hard, he said
to a friend, to see anything but evil in the R.C.
confessional. Travelling by train, later on, a per-
fect lydy annexed £7 from his overcoat, when he
was asleep—a terrific calamity to a Scotchman!
The lydy went afterwards, it turned out, to the
confessional, and the priest promptly refused ab-
solution until she returned the <£7 to its owner.
This she did, giving, at the same time, her reason
for the restitution. Pawvid at first nearly fell
down dead with astonishment; then caught a
horse and rode into Gatton to tell his friend that
the confessional was the “grawndest institution
on the face o’ the earth, m.on.” Later on, a son
of Dawvid’s, who had engaged himself to an R.C.
damsel, approached the old man in fear and
trembling on the subject of bis beloved’s religion,
but was agreeably astonished to be told : “ That s
a’ riclit, my lad. The Catholic religion canna be
a bad one, for, if it badna been for the confes-
sional, the dei 1 a bodle wad I hae ever seen o’ ma
bonme seven pun!
MAROOGALINE.
Yic. civil-servants of the old regime
are superannuated at the age of GO, and re-
tire on liberal pensions, usually to start a cut-
throat form of competition with their neighbors
who do not enjoy the advantages of a State
bonus. (The pension system was abolished
16 years ago, but the claims of the pub-
lic servants appointed before 1883 still
hold good). The competition of pensioners
in a score of businesses is filling, .hundreds
of Melbournians with bitterness. Suburban pri-
vate schools are now nearly all iri the hands of
pensioned ex-State-schoolmasters. Premier Tur-
ner offers worn-out workers pensions at sixty-five,
providing they are impossibly respectable and
moral and sober within the meaning of; the Act,
and there is.howli.har all. over the shop, especially
from the class with ■ which civil servantsare identi-
fied. The shocking injustice of compelling the
fairly-well-to-do to fork out for old-age pensions is
provoking impassioned language and a suspicion
of tears. A poll of Yic. pensioners and pen-
sioners-expectant would damn: Turner’s old - age
scheme out of sight; A national, general old-age
pension without invidious distinctions'is a noble
idea; class pensions paid bv the State are
damnable,land in the case of the Yic. civil ser-
vants have seemed to widen the division between
the curled darlings and the people, and to
strengthen the belief of the former that they are
the chosen people of this hemisphere and deserve
the privileges they enjoy by reason of their divine
right.


Proof!
»
Proof!
“ You can’t fool the public all the time,” and they have been fooled too often
Sydney people have been asked to believe the testimony of strangers from far awav
places, lliey have accepted it heretofore because it was the only proof they could o-et
ear after year they have been humbugged by false statements until patience has ceased
to be a virtue. lhe only evidence accepted now is the endorsement of people they
know, of friends, neighbors, and Sydney citizens. A man with a bad back can’t afford
to experiment. It is not necessary he should. Plenty of the right kind of proof that
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
will cure backache, lame back, weak back or any kind of bad back that comes from sick
kidneys. Here are three examples of the hundreds we have :
Mr. William Greenland is by occupation a
printer, and lives at No. 22 Forsyth-streefc,
Glebe, this city. He says:—“For some
considerable time I suffered from backache
and kidney complaint, having a heavy aching
pain in the small of my back just over the
kidneys, which troubled me a good deal.
The secretions were very much disordei-ed,
containing a large amount of sediment. I pro-
cured some of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and I
have now pleasure in stating that they did
me a great deal of good, completely remov-
ing my trouble and putting the kidneys in a
healthy state. Although I had previously
tried other remedies I failed to get any bene-
fit. I have recommended these pills to a
number of people, some of whom I know
have tried them and have derived great
benefit from them.”
Mr. John Allan, of 127 Woolloomooloo-
street, this city, writes the following en-
thusiastic letter “My kidneys have been
out of order for two years, and my back has
been aching more or less during the wholo
period. The pain was located in the small
of my back, and sometimes just between the
shoulders. A white sediment appeared in
the secretions, which were generally' much
discolored. Various remedies were recom-
mended to me, but I got no relief until I
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which I
obtained at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. 1 hey went straight to the kidneys
without affecting the bowels, and conse-
quently caused no weakening, nor incon-
venience or interference with my work.
Ihey have effected a cure in my case, and I
have no hesitation in recommending them to
other sufferers. ”
Mr. J. Bickell, living at No. 12 Chapel-
st., Woolloomooloo, this city, says : “Being
a sufleier from kidney trouble, I was recom-
rnended to try Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills by Mrs. Mullins, of 49 Hunter-street,
this city (this lady was cured of a similar
complaint by their use). I bought some,
and 1 am pleased to say that the result has
been very good indeed. Previous to taking
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I had terrible
pains across the small of my back and down
my loins, and at times I could scarcely
move. These were accompanied with a
urinary weakness which was annoying.
Jno secretions conttiined a sediment.
But Doan's Backache Kidney Pills have
benefited me in every way, and I cheerfully
add my testimony to that of the many
others who are endorsing this wonderful
remedy.”
S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may be bad of all Chemists and Storekeepers generally throughout thp
smk&sswt" -* w-Ok-jiSflßSWwcfts
BUT BE SURE THEY ABE DOAN’S.
The Land of Laissez Faire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far beyond the City’s bounds,
And its tidal swells ami sounds—
Voices of the Street and Mart,
Throbbings of its mighty heart—
Far from sordid noise and glare
Lies the Land of Laissez Faire.
There the days in joy are born,
Fairest eve brings fairest morn ;
And, like shadows o’er the grass,
Silently the sweet hours pass :
Rose-and-poppy wreaths they wear
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
Through the deep blue summer sky
Snow-white clouds go sailing by,
Like to Ships of Dreams in quest
Of the Country of the Blest—
Ah ! it lies below them there,
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
Years ago, in that bright land,
Lovers twain walked hand in hand
Under that blue summer sky—
Surely they were you and I ?
Surely We were that fond pair
In the Land of Laissez Fairo?
Yea ! . . . Your eyes were blue, I wis,
As the sea at dawning is
In the zones of Pearl and Palm,
And you sang a pagan psalm
To a sweet old pagan air—
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
And your brow was smooth and white
As a lily’s leaves of light;
And your mouth was red—ah, me,
As a red anemone ;
And a vine-wreath •hound your hair,
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
All around our fair domain
Like a grim, grey mountain-chain
That doth some green vale in-wall—
Ran a rampart magical.
Shutting out the World's Despair
I rom the Land of Laissez Faire.
From that sad world, all around,
Never tidings came, nor sound
Of the anguish and the strife
On the battlefield of Life :
For the winds were debonair
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
Builded by a dreaming Celt
Was the House wherein we dwelt :
Fast and West and South and North
On a pag ant it looked forth—
Ah, we had a mansion rare
In tile Land of Laissez Faire 1
What could make our hearts forlorn
lii the crimson-bannered morn ?
\V hat could come our hearts to griove
In the purple-pennoned eve ?
What at night our souls could scare
In the Land of Laissez Faire ?
Ah, there came a night at last
When an army, marching fast,
With its buttle-Huga all torn,
By our l am parts swept in scorn—
AV hile the lightnings stabbed the air f
lu the Lund of Laissez Faire.
And the leader of the Horde
Smote our gate with ringing sword,
Crying with a scornful cry—
“ Hero they live—who dare not die.’*
And I cowered in my chair
Iu the Land of Laissez Faire.
Then against the black of night
Rosea form, with visage white,
Clad in steel, and crowned with flame,
“ Duty ” was her awful name—
What the Devil brought her there,
In the Land of Laissez Faire ?
Swiftly then against the Fates
I‘ inn and sure we barred our gates,
Lit the lamps in bow’r and hall,
And with music bacchanal
I frowned the brazen trumpet’s blare—
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
Night went by, and in the morn
Twin white roses without thorn
Breasts as white I placed between
Saying— “ If he saw this scene
God Himself would surely spare
Our sweet Land of Laissez Faire.”
In the sunlight—o’er the wall
Crashing came a horseman tall,
Riding on a steed of black,
Trampling all our world to wrack.
And he said his name was “ Care”
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
Sweetheart! All too well we know
r I hat was years and years ago
A nil amidst the world of men’
We have fought our fight since then.
And you often ask me, “ Where
Is the Land of Laissez Faire? ”
Listen low ! Beyond the tall
Ruin of the western wall,
There remains a little spot
Covered with Forget-me-not,
Ami a little house is there
In the Land of Laissez Faire.
Dearest, neither you nor I
Now can turn the earth and sky
Into gardens ; into seas ;
Into frames for fantasies—
Yet shall we find room to spare
Iu the Land of Laissez Faire.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
According to a statement by N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department, all new-laid and infertile
eggs cold-stored at the Government export dep6t,
Darling Harbor. Sydney, were found perfectly
sound and fresh at from four to nine months from
date of storing.
One of the oldest houses in Sydney, if not
the has been ordered by Mayor Harris to
get. ’ 1 lie old house lias in a lane running
between Pitt-street and Macquarie-place, and is
still known as Reibey House, having been built
by that ancient co onist early in the century.
The Artistic Temperament.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ J'! 1 fl* nt ' h «9 part I ” Oh, dreary lie of lies :
Jus lire that parts us ; callous and supreme
It w ilts the freshness of young love’s surprise,
And chokes in commonplace a fairy dieatn.
If you should vanish now, oh, laughing faoe,
Retained within my heart your smile would be;
Upon a Him of pain sad death would iraee,
»voui<l fix for evermore, your memory. '*
AnTHUK Bulmoue read over the lines before him
With the relish of the self-satisfied progenitor. He
was perfectly conscious of his aloof position out-
B'do the workroom, admiring as a benevolent
critic a thing of beauty, the finished article that
had none of the scraps and the dust of toil cling-
ing to it. Yet it was not so bad at all! And now
for the third verse.
But he did not find it an easy matter to get
back into the shop again. lli s ego was distinctly
refused admittance. The creative cells of his
brain, where conception, enthusiasm, and all the
rest of them were languorously recuperating from
the late effort, remained locked.
“ Deuce take it ! ” he muttered, fidgetting with
his pen. “ I can’t get into the right vein now.”
I here was a knock at the door of his study.
“ May I come in, Arthur ? ”
“ What is it ?” he asked impatiently. His wife
possessed a perfect genius for disturbing him at the
most critical moments in his work.
A fluffy head of hair peeped cautiously through
the half-opened door, and then a lithe little shape
followed, somewhat timidly, as if doubtful of her
reception.
drimd’t/ 1 ’? CI ° SG tIIG door after y° u ! I hate
Site flushed, and did as she was told But it
seemed an irrelevant interruption to 'the spon-
taneity of the impulse that had driven her into
her husband s presence, and it rendered the open-
ing difficult, bile hesitated.
“ W'-'D, what is it?” he repeated.
“Oh, Arthur—l—l »
“ For goodness sake speak out and have done
with it. .Now, what do you want ? ”
Worse and worse! It was quite impossible to
tell him now that she had suddenly succumbed to
a necessity which could not be put into words
which could only be insinuated—code-signalled
from instinct to instinct.
T.ioy had quarrelled that morning at breakfast
and lie had gone to Ins room without kissing her!
And they were only three months married i" It is
the proportion of events, not their actual size, that
determines their value.
The tears gathered in her eyes as she stood awk-
wardly twisting her fingers in the middle of the
room. I hen, with a great gulp, for her husband
was opening Ins lips again to speak, she stam-
mered : I only I you went away without a
kiss this morning, Arthur.” There was a world
of simple pathos in her voice; but the strings of
Arthur’s heart were not tuned to re-vibrate to this
particular note just then. He looked surprised
and disgusted.
“ And is that all you .”
Oil, Arthur! cried the girl, the tears streaming
down her face. AncJ she took a step forward as if
to fling her arms about him. But he waved her
back determinedly.
I have told you at least a hundred times,
XjUcina, ’ he said, with cold distinctness, “not to
disturb me when I uiri at work. You are not a
child, are you, to come running in and out with
Such absurd——
“ Arthur I ” whispered the girl.
“ Absurd tomfooleries as these I ”
“Oh, I only wanted to make sure—I did not
know.”
“In short, you know now what I mean. So
please have the kindness to remember for the
future.”
He turned to the desk again, before he had
finished the reproof; for, even as he spoke, he
felt the locks yielding and his consciousness
diffusing among the creative possibilities of his
brain. Carefully placing the sheet of paper in
fr V’’ t him, he dipped the pen into the inkstand.
J he girl stood looking at him, with wide open,
piteously-imploring eyes. He smiled, but she
guessed he was not thinking of her. He was, how-
ever. It had just occurred to him that, after all,
it was this scene that had attuned him again to
the pitch he required. But, that task performed,
she became superfluous. The creator cannot afford
to consider the things that are. Perhaps that is
the reason why God seems so cruel.
“ Arthur,” whispered his wife once more, in an
undertone of hopelessness. He did not hear. He
began to write, for he had scrambled back into his
highest self again.
, 1<J turned slowly away, and, vainly endeavor-
ing to force back her choking sobs with her hand-
kerchief, she left the room, just as he put down
his pen, with a sigh of relief, banging the door on
Ins mental workroom and re-entering the public
gallery of appreciation.; And slowly, with feeling
expression, he read :
‘ Jill death us part? Oh sweetheart, oh my wife,
I’ray that it nih'v he spared to you and me,
This sordid tragedy of daily life—
Tiiat death may bind us for eternity ! ”
VON KOTZE.
An enterprising English widow produced
six consecutive infants the otlier week. They
were a five months’ litter, and still-born, of course.
though dead, they will not be soon forgotten,
i lie local doctor embalmed tlm half-dozen bodies
and sent them to the Anatomical Museum,
London.
A Charlton (Vic.) father was summoned
lately for neglecting to send his child to school the
statutory number of days. The youngster, it was
shown, had some time ago had one leg amputated
and part of the bone of the other taken out, and
was still seriously ill. Promptly the P.M. ordered
the fool-dept. to pay the father ss. as expenses
incurred m coming to court.
It’s just the weather for soft, cool shirts,
and you will find we stock “just the thing.” 500
dozen is a big quantity to carry, but we find it
necessary to do so, our prices sell them for us so
quickly. Tennis, boating, cricketing, cycling,
and knockabout shirts for 3s. (three shillings), and
we pay carriage to any post-office in N.S.W. (send
us postal-notes for three shillings). Queensland
residents will find it will pay them to send to ns
for one or more of these shirts, they are most
suitable for Queensland summer wear, and the
value leaves a big margin for duty. Anv reader
oi 1 he Bulletin who is not in possession of one
of our Summer fashion Books (ladies’ and gentle-
mens ) should write and secure these latest free
publications. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205.
20i, 200, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*


“Given up for Dead.
Restored to Perfect Health”
Only three bottles cure severe lameness from
rheumatism, flesh is regained, eyesight improved,
and natural health returns.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
is
m.
i
“I have been a great sufferer from rheumatism and liver complaint, and
was very lame.
“My brother, who was very ill, was given up for dead by the doctors. But
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla put new life in him, and he and my father, hearing I was so
ill, recommended this medicine to me. Before I had taken three bottles I felt
improved. My lameness began to leave me and I began to feel like a new
wo Am. I also regained much flesh which I had lost. Strange though it may
seem, my eyesight, which had become weak, gradually became stronger, until it
was perfectly natural.”
This testimony from Mrs. Mary Bright (whose portrait is here given), of Cor-
nish Town, Cobar, New South Wales, must strongly impress all who read it.
It tells of the wonderful power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to drive disease out of
the system.
How could a testimonial tell more? How could a remedy do more? Put
your confidence in Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because other medicines have failed should not discourage you. One great
medicine is left for you—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It acts directly on the blood,
takes out all impurities.
AYER
Sarsaparilla
That'Cures.
It Makes the Blood Pure, Rich, and Red.
" 1 "
Ayer*s Pills are Gentle Laxatives, Produce Natural Action.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curingr
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No !Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
j For outward application, instead of
( poultices, use
'OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottles, at Is'. l|d., 2s. 9'/., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores. & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
Have been before the Public for more than
5° years, and have now the greatest sale of
any Proprietary article. This has been achieved
without the publication of testimonials,
the convincing fact is, that Beechain’s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSEEVES.
4
FOE ALL
BILIOUS * NERVOUS DISORDERS,
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired ingestion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments.
Annual Sale, SIX MILLION ifOXES.
Sold everywhere in boxes, 9id., *.Jhd
and 219 each.
The Standard of Excellence
The Perfection of Art
The Favorite Instrument
Every Buyer Pleased!
TH€
ROHISCN
PIANO.
CASH OR ON EASY TERMS.
SOLE AGENTS: NICHOLSON & CO.
SITDKrEY. BRISBA.3XTB. 3PBRTB.
[-SEN
V
K
mMMtf
r
! Sen-Sen (». \
EARRIKGPOHAV'itiUE]
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
, SIHGEBS & SPEAKERS
m
m
STOP THAT COUGH!
HOW CAN YOU STOP IT?
TiKB WHERE IS THE REMEDY*
Bopoipgtop’s Irish Moss
Another Voice from Hilly rove,
Messrs. BONNINGTON & CO. 26th July, ’95.
Dear Sirs. —I have been recently afflicted with a severe cold in my head, throat, and
lungs. Four bottles of your Bennington’s Irish Moss have completely cured me.
Yours truly, MARY T. GIBSON.
BooQiOgtoi)’S Pills-
GREAT CURE FOR BILE, INDIGES-
TION, AND . ALL LIVER
DISORDERS.


SOME POINTS.
ABOUT OUR
Waterproof Coats.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUTELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-CUT and SILK - STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL' ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
ROBEBTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
OTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
The (Dost powerful Driving Belt in the DJorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working*
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
Immm
m
m
m
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
10 PJTEIIT SECTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
beware of inferior
IMITATIONS.
Agents: „„,n ■—n.
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
Represented by
BENNIE, TEAJRE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, and Coolgardie.
Pump.
PASTEUEIbii-iD ie san3e remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
BUTTER ©• • C-ieam, consequently the butter has a, tine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
+ _ 1 .. fl y ea /f: to , sa -’ °\ ] - y *l?™' not convinced of the value of the process but it is satisfactory
1 ld , ? OSG getting daily. The diilerence in price between Pasteurised, I} ©ailtiflllly-fiavoreel felltter and the
ordina.tj_n.ake is only ? d. per lb. _lt would pay consumers well to.give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that, then giocer supplies 1 asteunsed butter, and if he will not, sent! yotlP Orders to Us, and we will deliver it at your doors.
G-ood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordi
tlliy pi ice. dhe famous Berry brand .Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
PARKE
f
GATES’
KOCKB REAKER
Company Limited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
AJjT ■ KI3XTI3S OF MODEiR 3NT MACKEIKTBRY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, U.S.A.
60 CLARENCE STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS LANE,
London, E.C.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & JV-ttwood, Sole Proprietors.
INSOLVENT E STATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co ,
Melbourne, Gunmakeis, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Sheets. The Trustee's otter to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OE THE STOCK :—l4 14. B. Breech-loading' Guns, best twist- bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
18, reduced £2 17s'6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrets,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 1 10 10s, reduced 13 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 I).B. Breech loading Guns, enyine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent iinprovomen!4, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price .114, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Br Guns, special quality,
solid' bar action, highly finished, with all Ihe latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price 21, reduced 17 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s Cd per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in uny of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial gi veil with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
B.S.A.
-|"HE LONDON SMALL ARMS CO MPA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
■ MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Mickle, Perry’s; 3/C gross), Nipple's, 2 0 gvoss. Steel
Balls (1/C gross), Rim Washers (Od gross), Dunlop Valves (10,- doz.), Brakes (complete, 0/0), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 0, Brooke’s Saddles 6/0, I’.leumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs). Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/0. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over Pern’s
8 3 gross. {3T” SEND EOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LiST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYKE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, 'B, ft), £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED—GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
sxivoßsonxr brothers,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WOKi'H u.CTON
tr|ade mark.
BOILER
FEED
ruiir.
for Ev,ery Service,
both v
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH f
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
