

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
H FRY’S MALTED COCOA
G-UARAJarTEEiD 3F»XT3E*.DE3 COCOA A.3NTID EXTRACT OF MALT.
R. G. WATK.IJVS & CO.,
107 lESZom.'fc Street, Sydney, ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
E^jlkoS , lVES ’ BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOE PRICES AND PARTICULARS
sm,
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss ntt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & 0 0 . t
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
BOCBNTMIC TJEIMASiaSJJGr JMEACHUXTES, 53. A.-W BENCHES, &c.,
&c
THORNE'S
M WHISKY.
Kiiminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilniinster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
■ f 9
HOBART.
ffi*
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
(SECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND'
.SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
“* 1023.
60 YEARS DYEING
for the ladies.
W_ c. IEinLIDIRIIDGKE & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 \ Oliiv SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by p out irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
a// j
oo
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durabiiitv and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Governntfent.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICffc SON, LTD.,
IX7 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Blest Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
. CIGARS
t
'^'•AYtfnr
nmaKMr
smoke
MKH
©E* 8
» Is.
The Bulletin
Vol 20.—1\0. 1019. J
[Saturday, August 26, 1899.
Bps-’tiered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.


Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is 6d each.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
£6®
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Or from the PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland,
for Postage Stamps of any Province.
SYDNEY AGENT: S. TAYLOR, ,5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
jJ®" They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
THE RED PAGE.
FROM PHILISTIA.
( With apologies to a host of perjervid appreciatovs.)
I have read what I could in my short life—
Run wild, and had plenty of rope :
I have tasted impossible court life
With ingenious Anthony Hope';
With old Verne I have fathomed old ocean,
Been turned into goose-flesh by Poe;
And (with singular zest and devotion)
Been faithless with Manon Lrscaut.
With writers inspired—and pedantic—
I have wandered ’mid all sorts of scenes . . .
Now (the problem is driving me frantic),
Can you tell me what Meredith means ?
I have sampled sweet savours with Herrick
In meads where no moralists are;
And in bed (with no mate but enteric)
I have done the wrong thing with Faublas.
I have walked in the purple with Dickens,
And in grey with the bore Adam Bede ;
And by Kant, after tentative pickings,
Been quite unaccountably treed.
But I’ve struggled devoutly with Beauchamp
From the days of my earliest teens :
Ah ! pity poor sduls, ye who teach ’em,
And tell us what Meredith means !
With Crebillon (a regular bad ’un)
I’ve wooed, with my tongue in my cheek ;
I have looked on bare bosoms with Braddon,
With Petronius I’ve hugged the antique.
I have hobnobbed with Kipling’s wild creatures,
And quipped with his highly-strung dames ;
I’m acquaint with the sins and the features
Of the heroes of G. P. R. James.
I have stood with young eyes all a-goggle
While Grammonthas thrown down the screens;
But say, Gods of Blurr and of Boggle,
Can you tell me what Meredith means ?
I have snuggled to comfort with Maupin
While the minutes have passed like a song,
Gently lulled by rich music of Chopin
Played by Mabel, who thought the book
“wrong.”
I have hunted the Latest Sensations
With decadents of various schools ;
I have yawned through the dull lucubrations
Of a hundred variety of fools.
If I’ve sinned —Lord ! the penalty’s horrid
As no non-Meredithian weens . . .
Ho ! wise Imps of the Nether-gloom Torrid ! —•
Can you tell me what Meredith means?
Gath, Aug. 16.
E.M
The Forest.
IN the clearest-c.ut type and on the whitest
of papers *“ chosen ” words are still to the
mind blurred and stained with the associa-
tions of the past:
“ not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory'do they come.”
And of these “picked” ones the word “forest ”is
to me especially rich in glories ; shadow and airy
colour ; savage spell and delicate romance ; lost
love and sacred parting. And only from a race of
tree-lovers could have sprung my passion for the
breath and murmur a blowing forest land.
Through, what of the aead survives within I seem
able to trace my way back to a far-off time wiien I
dwelt with the oak and the beech and knew their
secrets. In my earliest dreams my ideal pia.ve of
refuge was a tiny hu‘t hidden in the f hi aged
depths of a mighty tree. There, in the daytime,
I watched the animals playing in the hot sun-
shine, and in the night trembled with delighted
fear at the winds and the noises that haunt the
wild heart of an immense woodland. From this
leafy hermitage my tales of adventure excited the
admiration and the envy of my less fortunate
companions. A shallow sandy cave, a hollow
hedge at twilight, a firelit tower of loose bricks,
were the favorite crouching places of this small
narrator of forest happenings. How small and
distant he is—this narrator: it is a farewell, a
detachment, to look back at him !
Some German fairy tales, read by the winter
fireside, greatly influenced the growth of his
enchanted .forest. The murmurs of the haunted
Rhine filled its lonely roads ; black robber castles
grew from blacker rocks ; fearful gnomes guarded
.unearthly treasures beneath torn and fantastic
and'from afar came the rush and the cry of
the demon hunt. To this solitary boy, listening
intently to the wind’s efforts to force the glowing
room, these homely folk-tales were full of charm
and sweetness.
Later, his mind opened to the wonder and
terror of ,the blood-stained woods of the Ohio. He
was the noble Indian, a statue of living bronze,
uttering the melancholy cry of the whipp-o-will to
summon the pale-face maiden to the forest tryst.
How delicate, how reticent, was the courtship—
just a clashing of the hands and a bending of the
proud, eagle-plumed head to the lovely face look-
ing up to him in the moonlight. Or he was the
lone scout and Indian fighter tracking the wily
red-skin with marvellous insight; rescuing whites
from the burning stake, or smoking a quiet pipe
before a fire hidden in a cave. Ah, the romance
of the dark and bloody‘ground of old Kentucky !
Where are ye now —Delaware, Pawnee Loup,
Iroquois, Wyandotte, Mohican—with whom Eng-
lish youths were wont to do desperate battle m
the days of long ago, when Zenda was not and
Mars unknown !
Pierce Eagan’s Robin Hood—a book breathing
the forest air—brought the boy back to England
and the oak. Th’is was life: in the pure air of
morning, under the broad summer leaves, to feel
the blood stir with the sparkle of steel through the
green, to chase king’s deer through thorn and
thicket, to close round the evening blaze at the
trysting tree ! And still in poignant dreams the
man’s heart becomes a boy’s again, and echoes
witfi the long-drawn sweetness of Robin’s bugle-
call. Love walked under the roof of forest boughs.
'How did Maid Marion die, and where was she
buried ? Keats, with a tang 'of saßness, 1 tells us
tflat Robin and Marion are sleeping in the under-
wood. Surely something of my being lies under
the stone whose place was marked by the wavering
arrow shot from the fatal shade of the fair
Kirkleys.
With Evangelineithe boy passed away to “the
forest primeval of murmuring pines and hem-
locks.” The writer counts it a glad thing that he
read the tale in youth. At that poetic time pure
beauty easily slips from the encumbering form and
becomes a possession for ever. Many were the
voyages taken with the gentle Evangeline on the
moonlit forest flood.
* * * *
As time went on „the youth suddenly found the
dream-forest a reality. There is, is England, a
certain river called the Ribble, sweet and musical
as becomes its name, and on a long slope of it
flourished for a brief season the green bowers of
love. For the first time to be alone with the
beloved in the shade of old Sympathetic trees, with
shafts of golden light piercing the leafy roof, and
long blue shadows lying on the keen sward—the
joy of these can make paradise grove out of the
barest of straggling woodlands ! Again the forest
became a dream. It was steeped in Celtic twi-
light. On the grey uplands, were tombs of for-
gotten kings. Immemorial ruins—the heart was
touched with a great regret. Armour-clad knights
rode through its shadowy ways. When colour
slanted between the mighty boles it was wet,
vivid, jewelled, but for the most part the light
was grey and forlorn, yet full of a pensive’ charm.
One lonely knight wandered and lingered in the
long green glades ; at times, to his dreaming eyes,
the forest flowers were a drift of fays—exquisite,
white-limbed ; his lance, keen and strong, flung
his foes to the dust ; and his talk at the castle fire-
side was of Arthur and Merlin, Launcelot and
Guinevere.
But Rosalind’s merry laugh dispelled all this
wan light and sadness. The sunshine poured
down on the broad-spreading oaks ; the white
morning vapours vanished in the golden quivering
light : and down the forest alleys strolled those
loving lords of loyal service fleeting the careless
time.
Orlando,_ Rosalind, Celia—beautiful names,
beautiful lives—joyous creatures playing with
lowly occupations ; forester, shepherd, shep-
herdess, marring trees with love-songs on their
bark, hanging odes upon hawthorns, and elegies
upon brambles. The whole forest philosophy is in
Amiens’ little song, “Under the greenwood tree.”
The courtiers passed to the court; but the youth,
with that love of solitude and regret so character-
istic of this somewhat sickly spiritual time, sought
out with Jaques their abandoned cave, not with-
out a sigh for the silken life gone from the forest
bounds.
* * * *
The huge peace of antique woodlands has often
been desired by the anguished ones of the earth.
Even Christ fled the full light of .the passover
moon and suffered in the dim shadows of the
olives of Gethsemane. From his mattress-grave
Heine yearned for the “ melodious tomb of the
enchanter Merlin, which is in the forest of Broce-
liand, in Brittany (of the Dream), under high
oaks whose tops shine like green flames to
heaven.” We are sick for tne Forest of the Dream,
for the. blue twilight of morning, the broad, silent
sunshine of noon, the slanting red rays of evening,
the ineffable odours of the earth-born. We seek
the old leaning boles ; we dream of long glades
and brown pools and glittering streams —the
towers of fairyland above the billowy heights ; we
desire with a great desire the shadow of the leaves
of healing peace.
Alas, we have lost the Master ! Louis, the
well-beloved, could in a few words give us a sense,
direct and penetrating, of the heart and mystery
of a great woodland—witness that wonderful
vision of the lost princess in the dawning forest,
stepping fearlessly, “ splendidly arrayed and piti-
fully tattered ; the diamond ear-drops still glit-
tering in her ears ; and with the movement of her
coming, one small breast showing and hiding
among the ragged covert of the laces.”
Have we a living writer who can bring to our ears
the infinite murmurs of leagues of waving .green,
and give us beautiful adventures down never-
ending alleys, under arching boughs? Yes, we
have Maurice Hewlett. When Prosper le Gai
sticks a sprig of green holly in his cap, puts on his
armour, takes horse and sword, and sets off for the
wilds, our hearts beat with expectation—this is
the true way of beginning. When we learn about
the fresh wet air abroad, the thin blue of the sky,
the dew and the gossamer heavy in the hedges, we
laugh with Prosper. But when we hear of Mor-
graunt, Morgraunt the Forest, deep, dark,
“haunted with the waving of perpetual woods,”
infested with outlaws and wolves, we know that
we have struck “upon the right vein of savage
life.”
Under a spell we ride through Morgraunt with
Isoult La Desirous—black-haired Isoult, with
white shape shining through jher rags, slim, with
a pale face, and two grey eyes a-burning—fight
with Dom Galors, sleep in the forest, and finally
learn why Isoult was called La Desirous. It is in
that sojourn, that sleep under the shadow of the
beech, vyith the strange loveliness and complexity
of the situation, and the shadowy background of
gloom and death, that Maurice Hewlett “touches
upon forest glamour.
* * * *
How has this dim but effective sympathy be-
tween us and the trees arisen ? Is it not a sur-
vival ? As the dog .turns round and round before
settling down, keeping a memory of an ancestral
abode in the tall jungle grass, and as in other
animals primitive habits are ineradicably fixed, so
in man this sigh of relief on entering the forest,
may be the gratitude of the spirit of the old tree-
dweller in the core of our being for ancient salva-
tion, refuge, and shelter.
Or, it may be a trace of that primitive awe
which associated with dark and waving groves the
intimate presence of Deity. Or again, it may be
a sense of relationship, of descent from one remote
common origin, so that in the huge wistful pre-
sence of our Brother the Tree we find an escapal
from the pressure of things, and live for a moment
a fresher, simpler life.
_ As I ride through the bush by night there are
times when I seem about to surprise the great
secret. The vast dumb souls pass their bounds
and watch and over-gloom the wanderer. While
we have night and the forest we are still sure of
some lingering relics of romantic dreams.
When we have received the wound from which
sooner or later we must die, it is a wise habit in
the disenchantment, the revision of values, that
ensues, to spend much time in the woods. To
watch in quiet the sunset glow fade up the leafy
wall, leaving one in green twilight while the dis-
tant hills are still a delicate purple, is to loosen the
bands that tighten on the heart.
* * * *
How feeble are the words used by an unprac-
tised writer ! By their aid I have endeavoured to
show something of the beauty of a dream that has
haunted me through life, and lo ! the words are
grey and cold, and there is no hint of the tranquil
joy of the vision, no cadence of its singing birds,
no touch of its infinite brooding mystery. Yet
within, gathered from things seen and lit by the
indwelling spirit, lies Broceliand, Morgraunt,
Arden, Sherwood, what you will, a forest of oak,
beech and elm, not of slender stems like those
beloved of Puvis de ChaVannes, but squat, gnarled,
moss-grown, hoary.
It is no slight to the land of my adoption that its
trees grow not there—the trees we climbed in
childhood are the trees of remembrance. It is
very beautiful here in Tasmania as I write:
Autumn now, and instead of dying colour
and. melancholy rustling leaves, a feel of
spring in the air, the violet .blowing afrdsh, the
open gold of the drocus, the heath hanging its green
spire with crimson bells, the wild rose flowering
beside its full-filled fruit, and a light of p ea f
blossom against an old stone wall; but. . . but
Like a wave of the sea that floods and breaks in
failin'),
My heart flows to thee, O England of my dream, '
Floods and breaks with a cry when I hear thy voices
calling,
And see in the spring light thy wet woodlands
gleam.
Here in this pleasant isle I rest from my sad roam-
ing,
Soft is the wind, and green and sweet the earth;
But it is not the land where I would fain be homing,
Whose dust and whose passion came forth at mu
birth.
Tasmania.
J.H.
Balzac and His Coffee.
“I have discovered,” wrote Balzac, “ a horrible
and cruel system, which I recommend only to men
of exceeding vigor, with heavy black hair, a com-
plexion of ochre and vermilion, solid hands and
legs like the balusters of the Place Louis XV.
I speak of the use of coffee, ground, distilled,
cold, anhydrous (a chemical term signifying with
little or no water), taken fasting. This coffee
drops into the stomach, which, as you know from
Brillat-Savarin, is a bag of velvety interior, up-
. with papillae and capillaries ; finding
nothing,, it attacks this delicate and voluptuous
lining; it becomes a sort of nourishment demand-
mg its juices; it wrings, it compels them like a
pythoness adjuring her god; it maltreats those soft
walls as a waggoner abuses his young horses. The
flexuses inflame, they blaze and send their sparks up
to the brain. Then, all at once, everything stirs.
Ideas move like the battalions of an army on the
eve of battle, and the battle begins. Memories
charge with banners displayed ; the light horse of
comparisons deploys in a superb gallop ; logic
brings up its ■ artillery with cartridge-boxes and
tram; witticisms come as sharpshooters; figures
of rhetoric take form ; the paper is covered with
ink, for the watch begins and ends in torrents of
black liquid as does the battle in its black ammu-
nition.
“I recommended this beverage taken in this
way to one of my friends who wished to accom-
plish a task to which he was pledged for the
morrow. He believed himself poisoned, went
back to bed, and stayed there like a married
woman. He was tall, fair, with thin hair, and a
stomach as frail as papier mache. I had certainly
shown great lack of discernment !
“In certain conditions, coffee taken fasting pro-
duces a sort of nervous excitement resembling
anger. The voice rises, the gestures express un-
natural impatience. All things must succumb to
the passing idea. You are fierce, quarrelsome
about trifles ; you assume that variable poetic
temperament so much condemned by grocers ;
you attribute to others your own clearness of
vision. A wise man should then avoid showing
himself or permitting himself to be approached. I
discovered this singular condition by chancing to
lose, without working, the state of exaltation that
I had produced. Some friends with whom I was
staying in the country saw me surly, irritable and
unreasonable in discussion. The next day I ack-
nowledged my fault, and together we sought for
its cause. My friends were scientific, and we
soon found it. The coffee would have its prey ! ”
... “All things have their price,” said Na-
poleon, and Balzac was about to pay the price of
his three hundred thousand cups of coffee, his
forty volumes written in fevered haste, his thirty
years’ breathless struggle for genius and love. At
Ylerzohovnia, where he had taken refuge near
Mme. Hanska, hdffelt the urgency of his danger.
In vain did this embodiment of energy struggle
against death, in vain he cried :
“Lbelong to the Opposition, and it is called
Life ! ” •
He married Mme. Hanska, his debts were paid.
“Les Parents Pauvres, ” received with enthusiasm,
proved that his genius was younger, fresher, more
fruitful than ever. It mattered nothing ! 'He died
at fifty-one years of age. Had he not written in
“Albert Sawarus,” with a presentiment startling
in its truth :
“To reach the goal dying like the runner of
old ! To see fortune and death cross the threshold
together; to obtain the beloved one at the
moment that love is extinguished ! To have no
longer the faculty to enjoy when the right to be
happy has been won ! Oh !of how many men
has this been the destiny ! ”
The Gum-Tree Poet.
Possibly the solitude of bush life has much to do
with this poetry (Davitt declares that “portry ” is
the chief gaol product), but as far as my New
England experience goes, the smooth bark of the
trees and the bushman’s custom of carrying a
sharp knife account for some poetry, and a good
deal of publication. The clean, soft bark of the
white or red gum is a great source of inspira-
tion. Our camp cook, a most practical man, was
troubled by the mealtime arrival of non-paying
guests, and when some of them threatened to be
regular visitors, we noticed the following lines cut
into the tree that supported the back of the
sage :
Again, at a point in the New England Range,
looally known as “ the Lighthouse,” whence can
be had a glimpse of the sea, this almost Tenny-
sonian verse is carved on a great white gum :
Gharactoii'istic of the boundary-rider and his rows
with the boss are lines scratched on trees along
boundary-fences, such as
Such sentiments, more or less unprintably ex-
pressed, may be seen along any boundary-fence.
Nor is it the stockman alone who indulges in
rhymes Near the head of the Peel, there is much
evidence of deep alluvial prospecting, also the re-
mains of an old house and garden, which probably
date from an earlier time. In the garden is a fine
old aloe, on a leaf of which is scratched
are specimens of bush poetry from, the hands of
bushmen of different types.
TWIG.
He who eats and goes away
Might be asked another day—
But he who eats and wants to stay
Will be lucky if he get away.
Certain lines most characteristic of the typical
bushman I found cut in the door of a deserted
hut—
goodby me lads with and an art
all uses takes jack mullers part.
A sail, a sail.
The shipwrecked mariner beholds
With beating heart and hope, half fear
Lest t were but the issue of an anxious eye and bralo,
And so he looks away and looks again.
So even I, with object all unlike,.
But instinct just the same—
I look away—and find it all were vain.
Old Hogan’s nose is long,
Old Hogan’s nose is strong,
’T were no disgrace to Hogan’s face
If half his nose were gone.
Or
I’m goipg away,
Hip, hip, hurray.
I’m sure I can’t do worse ;
But I hope when I’m gone
It won’t be long
Before he takes a ride in a hearse.
They are graves that you see down yonder,
A man’s hopes are buried there—
He dug them, seeking his fortune,
But he only unearthed despair.
These lines, with a coffimshaped border—
Curse the man who sent me astray—
Curse him from now to his dying day.
and
Me and my dog
have tramped together
In cold weather
and hot.
Me and my dog
don’t care whether
We get any w< rk:
or not.
Reprints.
THE VAMPIRE.
A fool there was and he made his prayer
(Even as you and I!)
To a rag and a bone and a hank of hair
We called her the woman who did not care,
But the fool he called her his lady fair—
(Even as you and I!)
Oh, the years we waste and the tears we waste
And the work of our head and hand
Belong to the woman who did not know
(And now we know she never could know)
And did not understand !
A fool there was and his goods he spent
(Even as you and I!)
Honour and faith and a sure intent —
And it was n’t the least what the lady meant,
But the fool must follow his natural bent
(Even as you and I!)
Oh, the toil we lost and the spoil we lost
And the excellent things we planned
Belong to the woman who did n’t know why
(And now we know that she never knew why)
And did not understand !
The fool was stripped to his foolish hide
(Even as you and I !)
Which she might have seen when she threw him
aside—
But it is n’t on record the lady tried,
So some of him lived but the most of him died—
(Even as you and I!)
And it isn’t the shame and it isn’t the blame
That stings like a white hot brand —
It’s coming to know that she never knew why
(Seeing at last she could never know why)
And never could understand.
Rudyard Kipling.
THE VAMPIRE.
A woman there was who heard a prayer
(Even as you and I !)
From flesh and bones and a lock of hair —
He called her the woman beyond compare;.
But he only used her to lighten his care
(Even as you and I!)
Oh, the walks we had and the talks we had,.
And the best of bur heart and hand,
Were sought by the man who pretended to care:
He didn’t —-but why he pretended to care
We cannot understand.
A woman received the flowers,he sent,
(Even as you and I!')
Honour and faith she thought his intent,
But God only knows what the gentleman meant,
Yet a man must follow his natural bent
(Even as you and I !')
Oh, the vows we spoke and,the vows we broke;
And the various things we planned,
Belong to the man who said he was true;
(But now we know that he never was true):
And we cannot understand.
One favour she asked —but it was denied
(Even as you and I !) '
In some way or other he might have replied,.
(But it is n’t on record the gentleman tried,—
Her faith in him faltered and finally died,
(Even as you and I !)
And it is n’t the shame and it is n’t the blame,
That stings like a white hot brand,—
It’s coming to know he would n “ver say why,
Seeing at last she could never know why,,
And never could understand.
Mary C. Low.


Medical.
<kfAin Wkea6e6.
tfTleu) Wkcotiery
”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY s—
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for "the face of a young lady suffer*
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says :
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
5a- and 7a. od. Eacla.
.AV - ' Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney:
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
Cramps,
\ Colic,
Croup, \ \ cuts,
. . Toofhf’W Burns,
Colds, \ \ ache\\ Bruises
\
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
PainKiUev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
“ a LOZENGES.
Cures Without Medicine.
A RE you Nervous, Weak,
Despondent, 111? Have
you tried drugging the
stomach until almost ready
to give up in despair? If so,
'why not try Electricity?
Hundreds have been perma-
nently cured by this wonder-
ful remedy as applied by the
great American Invention—
„ “Dr. Pierce’s Galvanic
Chain Belt. Scores of grateful letters like the fol-
lowing are constantly being received
From Africa : “ Somerset East, Cape Colony, South
Africa, A*ug. 15,1898. I am much pleased to say that Dr.
Pierce’s Galvanic Chain Belt acted like a charm with me.
I am now cured and strong.—Yours-truly, T. E. Wise.”
From England : “ I am extremely pleased to be enabled
to say that your Belt has had a wonderful effect in curing
me of varicocele.— Thos. Bannister, 13 Richmond Road,
Montpelier, Bristol.” From Australia : “ I am now a
new man, after taking tons of medicine which did me no
good. I was hardly able to walk before I got your Belt.—
D. Cameron, 1 Stewart Place, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.
Wales.” From America : “ Co. H, 18th Infantry, U.S.
Army, Camp Merritt, San Francisco, June 9, 1898. Last
October, while in garrison at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas,
I sent for one of your famous Dr. Pierce’s Electric Belt's
for Rheumatism, &c., and after wearing it only about two
months my complaints entirely disappeared, and I have
not been troubled with any pain or discomfort since.—
Yours gratefully, John P. Anderson.”
Call at Sydney Agency, or send 2d. in stamps for
~--- v “ Booklet No. 2." It gives price-list (in English
and American money)and full information. Address—
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market-St., San Francisco, U.S. A., or Washington
H. Soul & Co., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
N!
MRS
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrobrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST.. As unscrupulous persons ar#
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
o
V
&
aeS
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes j,
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Go.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
(m
&
i"-
«L
The Best Player
will occasionally miss
a very simple shot.
Not so the remedy that
has become a symbol
of prompt, effective
action.
Allceck^
Porous Plaster
is sure, speedy, safe. You can bank on it every time. For
all sorts of pains that can be reached by an external remedy
—and they are more numerous than many suppose—it is
thoroughly reliable. Stiffness of the joints or muscles, lame
back, cold in the chest, sore throat, weakness and soreness in
the liver or kidneys, it relieves and cures at once.
REMEMBER J when you need a plaster
Adcock^
POROUS
vusm
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S.
price9 d SHAVING
,postage 2? SOAP
WASHINGTON. H.SOUL & CO.
l6O PITT ST SYDNEY
■maiiiiiiiM
fa
BRUSH'S Celebrated Harness
m
Brush’s Pair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Hade with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Pads,
complete—No. 1, £5 10s.; No. 2,
JE6 10s.; No. 3, £7 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s.; No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.— A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2. —A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, ±4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3. —A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4. -The “Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
We send, f ree ot Onarge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55/- ud
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining- colonies. Remittances can be sent by cheque or
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange Extra 2iV dis
allowed if you send this advt. with order.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Co.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 George-street, Sydney
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing: in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, i 63 3/-.
To Measure, capital'Trou'sers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, JES. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/H. Rainproof Tvveed
Cycling Suits, 32, 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing. in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 ’-, trimmings included.
<nn
C_ruu\.
m
FOREIGN STAMPS.
OETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis*
° Id ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs,
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Egypt, 0d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
.Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACELAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from' 3/6 eaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 6/8, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 3/6 per oz.
We are Che cheapestln Aof>
trolla for all Uair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W:H.‘Wigz«ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prloe Li§V \
Prompt attenfcion'given to Country Order*
FREW
The Reform Price
Jewellers^.
Watches Cleaned and Regulated, 2/6
Best English Mainspring - - -2/6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jewellery Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
Jh'R TR^TVTnTT’S 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
I WHEN - YOU 8UY....
! Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
•> OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNK ENNESST
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Arnold's Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
TvrOTHING so quickly (hires Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
•T’ Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold's Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Hilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
gjCD
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears.as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
£«" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street. London, they are
spurious.
WiM
SEE
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 william street. Melbourne
CnAWEORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREcT, ERISiANE
H 3CH-GRA DE TARM !
J J! 1 11 l I=4:l™


TATTERSALL’S.
Address s Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Metropolitan S. September 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Add ress ;
Demonstration H. October 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALLu
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name.
s
*
Address.
CAULFIELD C. October 21.
Please allot me _ shares in the
Address
£ • *
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares In the above.
Name
Address
£ f s
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Metropolitan S.
Caulfield C.
Melbourne O. ...
... 25,000 at 5
... 100,000 at 5
... 100,000 at 5
TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me Shares
the Special.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
/ * , : ' ; 4 , • - ' • ' " '* ( : _ • . «>
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


Anthony
FOR EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get . .
THF. BE!ST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in ...
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US! AND TASTE OUR
SEND FOR
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney.
©
PMR oT
B*6NE>
cs^ a t'j^v
«>P*AINS \VoONDf
(OVGHS (OL°5
[Beware op*
Imitations
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
IS
* -ua~viS:\
N
\
\\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
jgaflgjgH
&O TO HBLL-
I(jor-ANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagel),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Tup AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY is prepared to LEND in any amount*
M Jr wV-j? current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES; oj.
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bo?ia /ides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 16#.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3T Send for Price List IBft
H. HILLIEU, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send lor a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAG-SIMILE OF
ROYUTESTIMONIAL
tRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL""I
Sa
'“for 2 S'% /??&.
<U: hujjfso c fra. -taaik <2^-^,
- < iaJJLa^JC
<\r**
W-&/1/.
/
typrrHtLU
KOKOi^HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dan-riff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and its
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation I £? ,r -
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool,* Invigorating, i -, 26 & 4'® sizes, of all Chemists,
Stores *c. THE KOKO WIARICOPAS CO.. LTD.. >*. Bev.s Marks, LONDON, ENG^
;
G/X
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
1717 HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
VV LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge-20 years’ expenence-of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere Igo I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
was quite bald on Restorer'a you'must^or-
S* ™ f ~ 5 jKrr a
rade pRIOE per Bottle Is ’, S 6 L, 10s 6d,VslTd* (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
am*
E. HOLLAND,
HA IB SPECIALIST
193 Collins-st., Melto., VICTORIA.
THE
‘ plum’
THIS
‘ Plum*
GENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
r-ine-s like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
pvact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them m use for a number
of 'vears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
°* y ’ "The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
(Sinele Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, Zla.
Price f g{ n oje Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
v ° ’ Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
feole
Agents
.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Mlanf. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you_ want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying-from us. _
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring . S dkie B , £7 ,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, fill.
Timible Buo-gies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. (single and double). Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order 0 HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
-fu-a.'sswsr Jrtsfa
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
DsHrered at any Tfharf or
Tf.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Sandgroper :Re steam boilers. I hay©
been for weeks working here (W.A.) close to a
boiler (photo, thereof enclosed) which has its
safety-valve tied down with a 2in. rope made fast
to the clamp on the man-hole door and over the
valve-lever, and twitched tight with a fin. bolt.
By a peculiar paradox certain far Northern
M.’sL.A. at Cairns and other towns advocate
Federation because it will “save the North from
the dominion of Brisbane,’’ while the Rockhamp-
ton legislators curse Federation, saying that xt
will place Rockhampton more than ever “under
the heel of Brisbane.” The truth is that the
Northern men feel that union is a big, broad move-
ment that appeals to big, broad men, while the
small Rockhampton soul quakes in deadly fear at
the mention of any scheme beyond the renovation
of the town-pump or the inauguration of a new
sanitary system.
Sinking.
I had often faced a seeming
Certain death without a shiver,
And I boasted of my valor
In the pride that courts a fall —
Boasted vainly, little dreaming
That the Death-fear soon should quiver
Thro’ each nerve, and stamp the pallor
Of a quaking heart o’er all. . . •
Lightning flashing, thunder growling,
Queensland rain in torrents pouring,
As the midnight shift makes ready
For the eight hours’ work below ;
Fierce wind, thro’ the whim-drum howling,.
Shrieks thro’ poppet-heads, and roaring
’Cross the shaft’s mouth, drowns my “ Steady I
Right, old man ; now let her go ! ”
Standing upright in the bucket,
Legs astride its mounted handle,
With my right hand tightly gripping
The old rope Jack feared to trust
With our joint weight, by bad luck it
Chanced a drip put out my candle,
And past slimy slabs I’m slipping
Down in darkness and disgust.
Full three-hundred feet beneath me,
Like a star, I catch the glimmer
Of Jack’s light, and hear him singing ;
But the powder-clouds that hang
In the shaft, and now enwreath me,
Make the distant light seem dimmer—
When my bucket, in its swinging,
Strikes a slab-ledge with a bang !
And the rope between my fingers
Turns from taut to slack instanter,
And I know my weight is resting
On a quarter-inch of pine ;
And each second that it lingers,
With the whim-horse at a canter,
Brings a coil of slack, suggesting
That it’s time to free the chine.
“ Steady ! Heave-up ! Ho ! on top, there ! ”
But my voice is lost in thunder,
And the slack comes coiling round me,
Reaching knee, and thigh, and hip :
And I curse, and scream out “ Stop, there !
Heave-up 1 Jack, lad, stand from under ! ”
For the stranded coils surround me,
And I feel the bucket slip.
As the end draws near and nearer,
All my bones seem turned to marrow,
And with fear and rage I’m choking ;
For the drop means death, I know.
But one piercing shriek of terror,
Shooting upwards like an arrow,
Finds the braeeman calmly smoking ;
And he drawls, “ What’s wrong below ? ”
“Heave-up ! May ten-thousand cancers
Rot your leprous ears for ever! ”
And my brain is fairly boiling,
For I hear the splinter crack.
“ Lower? Right you are! ”he answers,
And I rave as one in fever
As the slack comes coiling, coiling
Round my armpits— tons of slack !
As the bucket disengages,
Head and hands alike are busy;
Still I shriek a malediction
As I gasp, and drop through space !
And the seconds seem as ages
In that downward rush and dizzy,
And I feel the fiery friction
Of the air against my face.
Then a sudden jerk that almost
Tears each arm from out its socket,
(But not death itself could sunder
Such a death-grip) brings relief.
Now ’tis Jack must fear the fall most,
For I hear the unhooked bucket
Crashing down below like thunder,
While I’m trussed up like a sheaf.
Yes, the sturdy hempen strands that
Stood the fearful strain so stoutly
Still encircle me and save me.
After God, I thank the slack ;
And no doubt He understands that
I would thank Him more devoutly
For the lease of life He gave me,
If He'd steered the cask off Jack /
BENDEE.


Sure Cure
for Colds
When the children get their feet wet and
take cold give them a hot foot-bath, a bowl
of hot drink, a dose of Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral, and put them to bed. The chances are
they will be all right in the morning. Continue
the Cherry Pectoral a few days, until all
cough has disappeared.
Old coughs are also cured; we mean the
coughs of bronchitis, weak throats and irrita-
ble lungs. Even the hard coughs of consump-
tion are always made easy and sometimes
cured by the continued use of
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
Your own doctor will explain this to you.
He knows that wild cherry bark is the best
remedy known to medical science for sooth-
ing and healing inflamed throats and lungs.
You may rely upon Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
stop your cough.
Beware ot worthless Imitations. The name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Is blown in the glass of
each bottle. Put up in two sizes.
THE FINEST TONIC
PER 6RATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
PER BRAVAIS
FER BRATAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthe constitution
to resist climatic
Influences.
Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
i for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “1 beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'*«fc<*# all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS ALL THE WOULD OYEB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rne Lafayette.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this •well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRH(EA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Meredith, M.H.R. (in Maoriland Parlia-
ment) : “So long as I sit on the floor of this
House I shall stand up for the rights of the people
of the colony.”
Related that the mate of a “ deepwater-
man,” trading to Sydney, happening to notice in
the skipper’s log the entry, “ Mate drunk to-day,”
retaliated by entering in his own log, “ Captain
sober to-day! ”
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
“The application of one Clark, a dental
surgeon,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “ for a judicial separation from his wife
on account of her persistent cruelty to him augurs
well for the future of the male race. Thank
goodness, there is. one man with sufficient pluck
to go into court and swear how brutally his wife
treats him. Certainly Mrs. Clark had done well.
In the honeymoon she dug her fingers viciously
into his chest, wearing a fiendish expression ;
she presented him with three black eyes ; she
kicked him until he had to wear Wellingtons to
protect his shins;'she would pretend to kiss him
and kick him saying, ‘I do like to see you
squirm! ’ As his right leg became a mass of
bruises, he squirmed all right, it is supposed. This
was plaintiff’s story; but a large-eyed, auburn-
haired beauty entered the box as defendant and
denied everything. Yes, she did pull his whiskers,
and locked him in the bedroom, because he wanted
to go home to his mother, but she didn’t manu-
facture all the black eyes ; he ran against her
elbow once and that caused one, and so on, &c.,
till the jury said * Not guilty ! ’ and Mr. Clark
fled for safety into the wilderness.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
During the prolonged absence of a
southern dame hubby beguiled the tedium of his
grass-widowerhood by entertaining a select assort-
ment of friends—male and female ; and when an
acquaintance drove up in a hansom one night
with two plump and pleasing damsels the fizz was
brought out and the girls told to “ look in any
time they were passing.” They used to come
pretty often, and the fun would be fast and
furious. But after the lawful mistress of the
establishment had been home about a week the
servant opened the door one day to two stylishly-
dressed young ladies whom she ushered into the
drawing-room. They knew their way about well
enough. One brought the tantalus from the next
room, and by the time the lady of the house
appeared to receive her visitors, they had their
ankles on the mantelpiece and brandy-and seltzer
in their hands. Not having expected to see a
woman, they were a trifle surprised at first. Then
a light broke in upon one of them. *“ Ah ! ” she
cried, “you’re dear old Charley’s latest mash, I
suppose. Well, never mind, we ain’t jealous—are
we, Tottie ?—though Charley’s a real duck.” The
yarn breaks off right here.
In a Hibernian country district of Victoria
there is trouble over a horse-deal. A local Pro-
testant bought an amiable carriage-horse from a
local Catholic, who had reared him in his own
faith. A guarantee of good conduct, docility, and
all the virtues went with the horse, and he was
found to be just full of good humor until be was
harnessed into the trap, and set to haul the family
to church on the blessed Sabbath. Then his one
fault was discovered. He would not pass the
Catholic church (to which he had regularly
drawn his former owner) for cajolery, threats, or
brute-force, and, when hard pushed, simply lay
down in the mud, and defied argument and com-
pulsion. He did this on three consecutive Sun-
days, and the family never got to church. As
there is no approach to the Protestant house of
worship for this family, excepting via the R.C.
establishment, the pony is useless, and litigation
is resorted to. It will be interesting to find
whether or not the law holds that religious bigotry
in a horse renders a bargain null and void.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buver of all other Australian gems.*
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely -for Toilet Soap was obtained by
tFRAHgAISjr
A.a F.PEfiRS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000-
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
tttt— (ETMTTED),
DA-PXO (Lake Illa/w arra.), near SYDnSTBIT.
SMELTERS
REFINERS.
PROIDUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
R
Hi
mm
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
.REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
By using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash whioh beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/6 and 21/- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEN,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E V.FINCKH&COB3 YORK ST. SYDNEY.
FORBIGrKT STAMPS
ymim
a
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, Is 6d; 16 Roumania, 6d ;
8 Bosnia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 10 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d; 6 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
6d; 50, Is; 100,256 d; 150, ss. Re-
mit by P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
OF BEAUTIFUL LIFELIKE APPEARANCE,
LIFELONG DURABILITY,
AND PERFECT MASTICATING POWER.
DETECTION IMPOSSIBLE.
OTHERWISE NO FEE.
PULL SETS, £2 10s. COMPLETE.
Up-to-date Modem Dentistry legitimately practised.
American Plumpers for thin faces. Artificial Teeth
without plates or wires. Gold and Porcelain Crowns,
Bridge and Pivot Work, Gold Fillings. All fees strictly
moderate. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Also, ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS and
STOPPINGS, OTHERWISE NO FEE.
Telephone, 2167 Consultation Free.
J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon
(The Original and Old-Established Firm),
28 Wynyard Street (Only), Sydney
(Two minutes from G.P.0.)
A FEW “POINTS”
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT,
AND
Soothes the Aching Part,
and wherever pain is present Homocea or
Homocea Embrocation should be used.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General Dealers, and Chemists.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
‘ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June', 189 S. ' Faringdon.
AG-EN rs— Elliott, -ffoffnung ; Dtierdin •
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Paulding; Falk. ’
curbs co Ugh
BLAKE STEAM PUMPS,
For EVERY PUMPING
, , PURPOSE KNOWN
wm
SOLE AGENTS IN
AUSTRALASIA
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney and. Meltjonme.
Important to Parties Furnishing-!
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. TT A LL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers .. .
tST Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL’S give Value for Value — 20s. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Publio to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. HALL TSd^COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
[ OUis’ Velveteen.
VAAA AAAAAAAAAA
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“'U“I“S and In no other!
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. (
.FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
THE BRAND
OF MERIT,
ASK FOR
DC.LOTN
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
D.C.L.one quality only
THE BES’H ALWAYS THE SAME
POPULAR, MEDICAL, and SOCIAL SCIENCE.
PLAIN HOME TALK.
lO Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations,
A Sensible Book for Sensible People*
By the Most Celebrated
Medical Author,
Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
fl)en $ Women
Married^
AND 1
UNMARRIED
Are tempted to ask thousands of questions of their physi-
cians, but are deferred from so doing by the expense.
This work answers just such questions so fully and
clearly as to leave no one in doubt. Remember, it contains
nearly 1000 pages and 200 illustrations. A well-made, clearly
printed, finely illustrated and substantial cloth-bound book of
inestimable value. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Com-
plete, unabridged, cloth-covered edition of this great work,
Plain Home Talk, for only 7s. 6d., post Free.
EM
PMMON
EBFoole
r :
rwhilV
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous. SPECIALLY INTERESTING- AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of, which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised m his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
SYDBIEY-
16
PARK ST.,
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloahed 10/0
, t „ Patent „ 10/6
„ Glaoe-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
m All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
* All Ooze Tan Calf ... ... ... 10/6
By Bail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
. . SEND FOB . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OE OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . 07 . .
LadiesGentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOUIIKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
COXON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTE ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d;
ditto -Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s - *
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, Ss 9d; ditto Faunt*
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18a
6d; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4/6,
6/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
Publications.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
or RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If naturehaa not gifted you with worda and manners that
win hearta, The Lovera’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love la to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocka the gate and you hare only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, persona) appearance, cure for baahfuiness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Beproductionsof curious lore
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 3s. 6d. < stamps, 2d. extra).
Will bring you the book by mail, post free, ana incidentally
happiness with one you lore. Anglo-Asibkiosn Publish in*
to.. Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing,
RUNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
° VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOR THEE”
Words by Edward Oxr.vford ; Music by E. J.
Ehmbrton. In Three Keys—E flat, F, and G.
Of all Music Dealers. W. PAXTON, London
and Melbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” P.F.
By WILLIR Pape. Played by special .command of
their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
"OENRY FARMER’S Operatio Selections for VIOLIN
- LX and PIANO. “ Martha,” " Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia," “William
Tell,” “ Faust," “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “ II Trova-
tore," “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For I>overs of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Money Order. Beware poor imitations
of my High-class Art.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
Books! Books! Books!
Having the Largest Stock of SECOND-HAND BOOKS
in New South Wales, namely, Educational, Scientific
Agriculture, Poetry, Ficton, and other subjects, kindly
make me your Book Agent, and let me know what you
may require, and I will at once advise you as to price of
same. I have also Three Choice Book's (can only be pro-
cured by post), Is. 6d. each. All books sent post free.
Second-hand \
Book Arcade, /
R. W. Skinner
/105 Castlereaffh-
\ street, Sydney.
VALUABLE BOOKS
No. l.— Man, Know Thyself.
No. 2.— Woman, Know Thyself.
No. 3.- Boyhood and Youth ; Its Snares and
pitfalls. The simple truth.
No. 4.— Nature’s Mysteries.
Cheap edition of any one of the above valuable books
posted for 6d. in stamps of any colony. Write for'
particulars and catalogue post free.
W. H. JENKINS, 41 Stephen-st., Melbourne.
Written by leading
practitioners.


&
SPECIAL
CYANIDE PAINT
.
1.
3
l IJ3l J 3 CHEAT TO /
P.T.N.-Write for list of mines in West Australia which are
using l this special P.B. Cyanide-Paint with entire satisfaction
GENERALLY
USEFUL
IN MINES.
ftCCNTS : E. RICH « CO. LIMITEP, SYPNCY.
TatterSall’s Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. J. Adams, Manager*
Four Minutes to Leading
Theatres and G. P. O.
This Hotel has been built for
this purpose: To give
Visitors to Sydney the best
Cuisine, A ccommodation,
A ttention, and facilities in
the Southern Hemisphere.
T*al3i.leaa Dentistry.
Institute
Dii. 8. T/EVEU, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists,
{y Modern Dentistry in all its .I {ranches
her/itimately Practised.
Vie guarantee to tit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble! Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY-98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN—
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from 6/- per Day. D. Swiss-Davies, Prop.
Telephone 781. (Member Com. Trav. Club.)
SMOKE
>5?
<5?
NOBEL-6 LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
a
fwm
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
ETJSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
Alili CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTIC.
Perfectly Sir. Useless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
fey
MOISTURE.
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPO2J.TIKTG - SAJjXalS s iri!i?il won over .£6OO at Gun Club, Hotting Hill, in November
and December, 1893; or more than all other powders combined. — Vide Field, 14th Jan., ’99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: “ Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp.”
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
TRY
OUR
TER
BV.Enn\NG sooxvs
SYONI.Y-
Onr Teas (Just arrived)
are chosen with care from
young leaves of the spring
crops of India, Ceylon, and
China. We are making a
special feature of first-rate
Tea for general use, beside
the highest grades procur-
able for special use.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
“ Fair Girls $ Gray Dorses/’
OVER
N€ Million Lbs. Tobacco
450
TONS
Is the OUTPUT of
PIXSON & SONS’ Sydney
factory for year ending 30th June,
being tons more than any other
manufacturer
DIXSON’S Leading Brand is
Yankee Poople
Yankee Doodle, dark, is mild smoking and the richest
flavor.
Yankee Doodle, bright or gold leaf plug and cutis increasing
by great strides with those who formerly smoked only the
well-known American and English brands.
(Dixson’s leaf purchases in America this season reached £25,000).
CHAMPION —the choicest gold leaf plug or cut.
CONQUEROR the working man’s great favorite for
smoking or chewing; rich and good, always the same.
BONANZA CIGARS— a marvel of cheapness—retailed
4 for 6d, yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco,
Sumatra covered, made with the latest machinery.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1019.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1899.
Prick 6d.
TWO MORE LAPS TO GO.
THE MAP OF UNITED AUSTRALIA NEARS THE FINISH.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'* Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ••• Dob
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other pari of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<fe Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. — The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— ll. A. Tnompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Toivn, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, ivith 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No neivspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to Tiie‘ Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljci. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
i^ztlZeZz/n.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1899.
Treasurer Carruthers’ Balance-Sheet.
Treasurer Carruthers, of N.S.W., delivered
his first financial statement last week, and the
worst that can be said about it is that it was
very like some other balance-sheets of the Reid
Government. Carruthers himself has just
taken over the bag from the previous Iscariot
(t hat historic character is the earliest Treasurer
this paper remembers), and he isn’t in any
sense directly responsible for the unclean finan-
cial doings of his predecessor. These doings
were very unclean indeed. George Reid
proved himself, in his five years custody of the
cash, probably the worst and most shufflesome
and most unscrupulous Treasurer N.S.W. has
ever possessed. His whole scheme of finance
was that it mattered nothing how bad things
were so long as they hoofed reasonably well, and
he had nothing but unutterable scorn and
abuse for his predecessors who tried to put
things right in reality, and didn’t trouble so
very much about mere appearances. The com-
parative straightness of these predecessors
filled G. Reid with loathing and derision. But
the new Treasurer, Carruthers, makes him-
self responsible for these past doings by brag-
ging about how his Government has reduced
the public debt, and cut down the expenditure
of loan money, and paid its way, and provided
surpluses, and put the finances on an honest
footing, and otherwise done everything that it
hasn’t done.
* * * *
Apropos, in the first place, of the Reid
Government’s claim that it has introduced
economy into the expenditure of loan moneys,
and done something to alleviate the borrowing
curse in N.S.W. : The following is a statement
of the loan expenditure during the lifetime of
the present and the last Governments, the sin
being charged in each case to the man who
supplied the estimates and planned the expen-
diture for the year :
Dibbs. Reid.
1892 ... £3,014,680 Jof 1895 ... £659,125
1893 ... 1,929,580 1895-96 ... 1,279,098
1894 ... 1,330,046 1896-97 ... 1,477,318
1897- ... 1,644,769
1898- ... 2,102,192
The Dibbs Government inherited a vast mass
of unfinished public works from its predecessor
Parkes. Parkes went in for public works on
such a gigantic scale that in his last year of
office, 1891, he spent £4,750,167 of loan moneys,
and he left some 300 miles of railway for the
next man to complete ; therefore his successor
had to spend a lot of loan money in his first year
—or else abandon these partly-executed under-
takings, and let the cash already spent on them
be wasted. But Dibbs systematically cut
down loan expenditure, and when he went out
of office he left it almost at the lowest ebb,
and bequeathed practically no unfinished
contracts to his successors. And Reid
systematically increased loan expenditure again
until, in the last year of his Treasurership, it
was £772,000 more than in Dibbs’s last year.
Yet Treasurer Carruthers has the unfathom-
able cheek to allege :
Whilst this Government has been in office the expen-
diture of loan-money has been DIMINISHING at the rate
of £1,100,000 per annum.
There has been a steady increase every year,
and the figures showing that increase glare at
the public for everybody to read on page 946
of Coghlan’s “ Wealth and Progress of
N.S.W. for 1897-98.” And George Reid’s
Government of bluff and bounce has the
effrontery to call its persistent undoing of
Dibbs’s good work a diminution of loan
expenditure.
* • * *
On the same page of the same volume it is
set forth that, at the end of 1894, when Dibbs’s
reign came to an end, the fixed public debt of
N.S.W. was £55,058,846; and that, at 30th
June, 1898 (only 3J years later), Reid had in-
creased the fixed debt to £60,119,156. Between
June, 1898, and June, 1899, there has been a
further increase of about £2,000,000. And
Treasurer Carruthers said, blandly, in his
financial statement of last week :
We have not only met the current expenditure, but
have paid our own debts, and paid off nearly a million of
old debts.
* * * *
The Reid Government has not only increased
the loan expenditure very steadily ; it has also
steadily demoralised in the manner of its expen-
diture. In the early days of Australian borrow-
ing it was understood that loan moneys were
to be applied to works which were permanent
and directly reproductive—not to be used for
purposes of ordinary expenditure in order to
lessen the apparent outgoings and enable an un-
scrupulous public financier to say he had a sur-
plus when he hadn’t one. This virtuous resolve
was departed from almost as soon as made ;
yet in spite of all departures and extravagances,
the loan-money dealings of N.S.W. were
moderately honest till the leprosy and dry-rot
of the Reid regime set in. No previous
Treasurer carried his honesty to the extent of
making it a disease, but none of them aban-
doned financial decency altogether—till Reid
arrived. The following are some interesting
figures on this point:—
Loan money spent on
Loan money unproductive works
spent on re- which should have
productive been paid out of
works. revenue.
State of affairs at
31st Oct., 1894 £48,668,917 ... £6,377,100
Reid.
1895- 711,346 ... 559,552
1896- 985,447 ... 562,658
1897- ... .. 992,353 ... 650,514
1898- 1,318,969 ... 783,223
The first set of figures is taken from Coghlan’s
“Statistical Survey of N.S.W.” for 1893-4
(page 314). The figures for 1895-98 are taken
from the same official’s annual “Statistics of
the Seven Colonies” and though the totals don’t
quite agree with the previous set, taken from
Coghlan’s “ Wealth and Progress,” they come
near enough to it. The figures for 1899 are
based on Premier Reid’s loan estimates.
• * » •
The lesson they teach is this. Reid’s prede-
cessors in the Treasurership were moderately
honest, though their probity didn’t amount to
an incurable complaint ; and, while professing
to borrow for reproductive works they spent
11-4 per cent, of the loan moneys on works
which were not reproductive, and which should
have been paid out of revenue. They did this,
presumably, to swindle a trusting people into
the belief that the public accounts were square
when they weren’t. And George Reid, whose
want of political probity amounts almost to a
distemper, misapplied nearly 40 per cent, of
the loan money in like fashion. 'ln 1895-96,
under the Reid Ministry, N.S.W. spent more
borrowed money than any other two provinces
of Australia, and it also spent more borrowed
money on unproductive works, which should
have been charged to revenue, than any other
two provinces. In 1896-97 it spent more bor-
rowed money than any other province, bar
Westralia; and it spent more money on un-
productive works than any other Australian
province, bar Westralia. In 1897-98 it again
spent more loan money than an}' other pro-
vince, bar Westralia, and it spent more money
on unproductive works than any other Aus-
tralian province. The Reid Government has
put up some very fine borrowing records.
* * * *
It has been one of the loudest and shrillest
boasts of the Reid Government that it would
never—never—never have a deficit like its
wicked and shiftless predecessors, but would
walk in the ways of strict and almost frantic
economy all the days of its life. The following
table, from pages 24 and 25, Part 1., of Cogh-
lan’s “ Statistical Register ” for 1898, shows
how the last two Governments walked in this
respect up to 12 months ago ; the remainder of
the statistics being from Treasurer Carruthers’
statement of last week :
Dibbs Ministry.
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1892 ... £10,173,567 £9,931,411 £242,156
Deficit.
1893 ... 9,499,252 9,931,658 432,406
* Surplus.
1894 ... 9,300,743 9,178,706 122,037
Deficit.
£28,973,562 £29,041,775 £68,213
Reid Ministry.
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
Jo! 1895 ... £4,478,515 £4,844,299 £365,784
1895- ... 9,074,778 9,673,057 598,279
1896- ... 9,107,208 9,440,350 333,142
„„„„„„ Surplus.
1897- ... 9,304,263 9,219,940 84,313
1898- ... 9,770,393 9,757,800 12,593
Deficit.
£41,735,147 £42,935,446 £1,200,299
Estimate. Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1899-900 £9,782,643 £9,909,371 £126,728
According to the Auditor-General’s report the
famous deficit reached its maximum under the
Reid regime. At all events the expenditure
is rising very materially, and this is the second
year in succession when the Reid Ministry has
asked for extra taxation. And even with the
extra taxation it expects to go £126,728 to the
bad in the year ending 30th June, 1900.
* * * *
In one respect, however, it must be admitted,
the Reid Ministry has practised economy. It
has been as moderate as possible in paying for
public works out of revenue (and has charged
them to loans instead, thereby making the
accounts look better on the outside). In the
three years, 1892-3-4, Premier Dibbs paid
.£3,251,321 of the public works expenditure out
of revenue—an average of £1,084,000 per
annum. (His predecessor, Parkes, by the
way, paid even more.) And in the 3J years
from 31st December, ’94, to 30th June, 1898,
Premier Reid paid ,£2,899,617 of the public
works expenditure out of revenue—an average
of <£829,000 a year. In the matter of saving
£255,000 a year by paying things out of loans
instead of out of revenue, George Reid has
always been an economist of the highest order.
These figures are to be found by anyone who
wants to look at them on page 31, part I, of
Coghean’s “ Statistical Register ” for 1898.
* * * *
And in addition to all these other sins and
dodges and political frauds, the Reid Govern-
ment invented the great Gash Basis. In for-
mer times not only the actual cash outgoings of
the year, but also the unpaid liabilities existing
when the financial year closed, were charged
against the year’s revenue. Premier Reid
saved himself about .£700,000 on paper at one
fell swoop by enacting that the unpaid liabilities
at the end of the financial year should not be
reckoned as liabilities at all—that nothing
should be said on the unpleasant subject. The
principle is cut so fine that a sum of nearly
£200,000 due for interest on part of the public
debt for the half-year from Ist January to 30th
June is not reckoned a liability for the financial
year which ends on 30th June, because the
money isn’t actually paid over to the public
creditors till next day, Ist July ! The Treasurer
has paid it away before the financial year closes
to the Bank of England on behalf of the public
creditors. So far as the Treasury is concerned
the money is both due and paid. But because
the Bank of England hasn’t parted with it till
24 hours later the Reid Government reckons
this money, which it owes and has paid away,
as money that it doesn’t owe and which is
actually on hand. Another huge mass of
interest falls due in October. But though half
of this is owing at the close of the financial year
it isn’t treated as a debt. Premier Reid is the
inventor of this great device for making things
look better than they are, and he ought to be
proud of it.
* * * *
N.S.VY.’s new Treasurer also says that “ the
railways have been paying their way for some
years past.” What they have really done for
the year just closed is as yet uncertain, but,
according to the Auditor-General’s reports,
things “for some years past” have been as
follows :
June, 1895 year) ... Loss £186,135
„ 1896 (year) ... „ 321,690
„ 1897 ( „ ) ... „ 38,545
„ 1898 ( ~ ) ... „ 57,129
The same painful public officer further reports
that the accumulated N.S. W. railway losses to
30th June, 1899, are £7,773,758 !
* * * «
And, in addition to all these things, N.S.W.
Treasurer Carruthers has this specific griev-
ance about the great accumulated deficit:—
The same state of affairs existed in Victoria, where they
have an old deficit, and have issued bonds to redeem that
deficit. The same state of affairs exists in New Zealand.
Nearly all the other colonies have accumulated deficits,
and yet we do not hear of their public accounts being
constantly ripped up as if these deficits were new.
Apart from Treasurer Carruthers’ remark-
able ignorance of the fact that Maoriland has
no accumulated shortage, these remarks are
quite true. And as to why the deficits of the
other provinces are not perpetually ripped up
—well, Kingston and Braddon and Turner
and Nelson were more or less gentlemen in
their manners. They didn’t yelp day and
night with sickening iteration about the
“Downer deficit,” or the “Dobson de-
ficit,” or the “Patterson deficit,” or
the “MTlwraith deficit.” They didn’t
brag constantly about.the great things they
were going to do in the way of putting the
finances straight, nor assume an attitude of
“ me and God” ; nor did they issue mean and
shabby slanders in which they tried to repre-
sent their predecessors as vastly worse than
they were. They didn’t proceed to go from
bad to worse themselves, and meanly try to
saddle their own shortages on their predeces-
sors. They never invented a Cash Basis, nor
did they do strange juggles with the accounts
while boasting with horrible persistence of
their absolute straightness, and throwing jibes
at their much-more-honest predecessors. They
didn’t aim mud for three years at a stretch. In
fact, being gentlemen, more or less, they
thought their mission was just to put the
finances straight, while the amazing George
Reid’s mission was to be a cocky political gut-
tersnipe running after his predecessor and ask-
ing him where he got that hat. None of the other
Treasurers ever placed before the Assembly a
garbled document which they called “a piece of
cold iron for their opponents to chew,” and had
to humbly crawl down with the document after-
wards. Nor did any of them offer to Parliament
a crooked statement about their predecessors’
Civil Service appointments and have to back
down and withdraw the slander. The main
reason why the N.S.W deficit has become an
open sore has been Premier Reid’s unspeakable
want of political decency. If Treasurer Car-
ruthers can’t understand why the N.S.W.
shortage is a ghost which is perpetually rising
amid streaks of lurid language, a perusal of his
chief’s speeches in some bygone Hansards and
elsewhere may enlighten him. And if he
wants to know why it is likely to keep on being
a ghost, the answer to that is also easy. A
Government which for three solid years did
nothing but shriek “ Dibbs deficit!” and which
rises in tearful complaint when its own short-
ages are mentioned and asks the enemy it
jeered at so long not to hit it, doesn’t inspire
much respect. It looks so mean that people
hit it as a matter of course.
A True-Born Briton.
Stand forward, John Norton ! formerly
Heron, never Newton ; editor and proprietor
of Truth newspaper ; transit commissioner and
alderman of the city of Sydney; member of the
Parliament of New South Wales ; influential
pressman and politician ; linguist and master of
bad language ; denouncer of “ Tattersall,”
“ Tooth,” and “ Toohey,” but never (on your
Oath) blackmailer; hero of squalid amours,
deserter of the heroines, but never (on your
Honour) anything worse ; drunkard aforetime,
but for eighteen months (on your Thirst)
as sober as any of the Judges who have
acquitted you ; exposer (0 Sacred Boomerang !)
of concupiscent politicians and lecherous
Governors (Holy Platypus ! aid us and defend
us !); champion of public virtue, guardian of
the public morals, jealous pillar of the Church
of England, typical true-born Briton—stand
forward !
* * • *
Yes, typical Briton ! though you may exag-
gerate the type. You have valiantly lusted,
canted, and fought; and Lust, Cant, and
Eight are the glorious birthrights of that great
race which is devouring the earth and populat-
ing the heavens and the hells. Humanity’s
unparalleled hybrid of Teuton, Scandinavian,
and Celt, wherever he goes the true-born
Briton begets children,. erects churches, and
sheds blood. You, the individual, sum all the
aboriginal qualities of your dominating tribe.
You fought on board ship, you fought your
landlord, and you have fought at intervals all
through your lurid career—sometimes because
you had to, but often because you wanted to;
and, if you carry a revolver now, it is because
your pace has been fast enough to kill any
man’s nerve. You have enjoyed to the full the
Briton’s splendid privilege of uniting moral
status to immoral contract; you have laid your
offerings, like any British deacon, on the altar
of religion and the altar of the servant-girl;
you have schooled archbishops while you were
tutoring mistresses ; and expounded at the same
time the blessings of the Thirty-nine Articles
and other articles which could not be men-
tioned in the same breath, if the Briton did
not worship them in the same respectable
home.
» * * *
And the true-born Briton casts you off,
renounces and despises you ! —though in the
sixteenth century his soldiers were robbers, his
sailors pirates, preying on friend and foe, and
in the nineteenth his instinct to fight and
plunder is merely veneered with a “civilisation”
which does not prevent a British general from
securing, like a Dyak, the head of his enemy
for a trophy—though the Dyak does not dese-
crate graves. The true-born Briton is ashamed
of you, is shocked at you, while his missions
depopulate the South Sea Islands and his
syphilitic Indian army yells for the reintroduc-
tion of its overthrown system of licensed and
State-regulated vice 1 Wonderful past all
whooping ! —and not wonderful in the least;
because so beautifully characteristic, so
eminently just. The Briton hoists you with
your own petard. How would you froth and
declaim if J ohn Norton were only John Smith !
What an “ Open Letter ” you would write
John Smith ! under what mountains of alli-
terative indignation you would smother him !
how you would expose John Smith to the
scorn of men and moral Britons ! You are
soused in your own sauce, John Norton ; you
are frizzled in your own fat; you are served in
your own canting and hypocritical gravy.
Truly, the gods are very just.
* * * *
You have done much good and evil in your
time, John Norton ; you have fought against
public abuses, even if you nourished private
abuses of your own ; and it is the contrast
between your paraded principles and your per-
sonal practice which makes the gravamen of
your sin to-day. Lusting and fighting are
natural; if our ancestors had not lusted and
fought they would have left no posterity to
extol the ascetic virtues ; the true-born Briton
is none the worse man because he is the better
animal. Throughout the scheme of Nature
stronger devours weaker; and rose-water
ethics avail nothing against the savage
moral of Life: “Eat, or he eaten!”
It is the cant of brutality denying
brutality which is brutality’s damnation.
A good brute, Briton or other, fulfils
the law of his nature, and his brutish-
ness may be borne with, even countenanced,
occasionally admired; but the brute who
masquerades as saint is an object for all the
Universe to detest.
* * * *
Stand back, John Norton ! your strength is
becoming a little too strong for us ; you exag-
gerate a little too much the qualities of your
British type. The best Briton is good to his
enemy, when he has thoroughly beaten his
enemy; he is true to his women and pro-
tects his children; his brutality is an
honourable kind of brutality, and he does
not cant more than his blood and tradition
make inevitable. Take him all round, the best
Briton is as good a man as humanity has bred.
But the inferior Briton is an abomination, and
there is no reason why we should endure him
longer than Australian apathy compels us.
Stand back, John Norton, in the shadow of
your past ; of —since none of us can cast stones
—stand forward, if you will, and live your past
down.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Woe of Kidston, M.L.A.
Up in Rockhampton (Central Queensland) one
Kidston, M.L.A., has struck a grievance
against the Commonwealth Bill which is all his
own. It is quite an original grievance. His
trouble is that the proposed Federation covers
all Australia —at least he thinks it does—and


his complaint is this :
The area of Australia is 2,946,000 square miles. Under
the constitution the 123rd and 124th clauses will cover
the whole of this area, if all the States adopt the
Commonwealth Bill, and consequently there will not be
a single acre left under the Federal Parliament for sub.
division in the future into self-governing States as settle-
ment increases and the needs of the people demand.
The area of the United States is 3,490,000 square miles,
which is divided at present into 45 States and five
territories. A provision similar to the 123rd and
124th clauses of the proposed Australian constitution was
included in the constitution of the United States, but it
covered only the thirteen original States, whose area is
about one-tenth of the whole. The remaining portion
was placed under the Federal Legislature, and in the
course of the last hundred years thirty-two districts have
been carved out of it and erected into self-governing
States, while a portion nearly as large as New South
Wales and Queensland combined still remains under the
Federal Government in the form of territories, to be
divided into States in the future as occasion arises.
The exact nature of the grievance is none too
clear, but Kidston, M.L.A., is in deadly
earnest about it, and illustrates it with big dia-
grams in the papers. Yet Kidston seems a
trifle upside-down in his grief. The Aus-
tralian Commonwealth will almost certainly
start with a very large piece of Federal coun-
try—the Northern Territory, which is purely
British property now, though S.A. administers
it in a temporary sort of way : S.A. is simply
caretaker of the Territory, and makes no secret
of its willingness to hand it over—in fact, if the
Federal Government won’t take it, Britain will
probably have it thrown back on her hands
before long. And the U.S. started with prac-
tically no spare Federal territory, and no pros-
pect of any. Its little scrap of ground was
shut in by the sea on the east, Canada on the
north, Spanish Florida and French Louisiana on
the south, and Louisiana on the west —in those
days, Louisiana extended from the Gulf of
Mexico to Canada. And, behind Louisiana,
the territories of the Viceroy of Mexico
filled two - thirds of the west, and the
allegedly British province of Oregon occupied
the rest. The United States bought or con-
quered much territory afterwards, just as
the Australian Commonwealth may absorb
Papua, Polynesia, Java, Celebes and other
places, if it feels hungry, and has the chance,
and wants more soil and more niggers and
responsibilities. But if there is any special
advantage in a Commonwealth starting with a
bit of spare country to make new States out of,
Australia makes a better beginning than the
U.S. did.
4
Victoria’s Old Age Dole.
The Victorian Old-Age Pensions Bill pro-
vides, in a small way, something after
the M.L. fashion, for persons over 65, or
younger people who are infirm through
following unhealthy occupations. The appli-
cant must be of good character and have
lived in Victoria 20 years out of the last 25 ;
he must also have put in five years continuous
residence before applying for his pension, unless
he is a sailor, in which case special exemptions
are allowed. Chinese and Asiatics are shut
out. Maximum pension is only .£lB a year—
it ought to be £25, but there are hopes
that it may increase later on. If the
applicant has no private means, or his private
means don’t exceed £lB a year, he gets full pen-
sion ; for every £1 of income above £lB a year,
he is to receive £1 less pension. The residence
qualifications are pretty hard, but it is difficult
to see that much better can be done. So long as
only one or two provinces grant Old-Age Pen-
sions they must have a stiff residence qualifica-
tion, else they will have to pension the aged
poor of all the neighboring provinces as well as
their own. When the Federal Government
takes the matter over and applies the system
to all Australia, then so many years’ residence'
anywhere in Australia and Tasmania will be
sufficient title, and the nomads who have
drifted from province to province till they have
lost all chance of qualifying in any one province
can be provided for. But while the matter is
attended to by the States separately no one
State can take the risk of having the venerable
wanderers of all Australia loaded on its
Treasury. Federation is the only thing that
can put the Old-Age Pension business on a
satisfactory footing. Till it comes along the
itinerant one must apparently fall between two
or more stools, and come down heavily on the
cold, hard soil of impecuniosity. By way of
postscript, it may be mentioned in the mean-
time that in one respect Turner’s Bill is utterly
and incurably bad. It provides that nobody
who has put in six months’ gaol sentences dur-
ing the five years before he reached the quali-
fied age shall be eligible for a pension, no
matter what the sentence was for. And
Victoria, which is the most utterly bowelless
province in Australasia in its treatment of the
poor, is full of decent, sober, absolutely respect-
able old fellows who have done six and twelve
months and more for being found swagging in
the country in search of work ; and of old
people who were gaoled for long terms because
they were friendless and sick, and the J.P.
didn’t know what to do with them. Turner’s
Old-Age Pension Bill absolutely shuts out
the class which most wants a pension
—the decent, aged person who is friendless and
has no assets at all. The respectable old Vic-
torian man or woman who is past work, and
has no friends or assets, is almost dead sure to
have done at least six months in gaol inside
the last five years. The disgraceful Victorian
J.P. has attended to that.
+
Big 1 John, the Apostate.
“Cornstalk” writes from the land of the
camel and the wild cat:
Dear Bulletin. —You are right in saying (29/7/’99)
that the local Federationists are badly in want of a
leader, yet this is scarcely our difficulty. It is as if you
said that the Outlanders were badly in want of a leader.
That is, if Kruger or some other prominent Boer were to
lead them, they would speedily get the franchise and all
that they wanted. So, if Forrest, or, better still, if
Hackett, M.L.C., editor of the West Australian— who
is the David Symb of Westralia, only more so—were to
declare for remitting the Commonwealth Bill to the
people, there would be an end of the local federal diffi-
culty, for three-fourths of the electors favor union in
terms of the Bill. The position is peculiar. Forrest at
heart wishes W.A. to enter the union at once, as an
Original State, principally because he is becoming tired of
his long lease of power in Westralia, and considers that
he is fitted for the larger atmosphere of Australasian
politics. In May, 1898, after returning from the Conven-
tion, he addressed (for the first time in his life) a public
meeting in Perth, on Federation, and posed as an ardent
Federalist. “In my opinion,” he said, “the Bill is a
thoroughly good one, and quite as good as we are likely
to get if we had to go over the work again. There are
many parts of the Bill that I do not approve of, and at
the Convention I voted accordingly, but, taking the Bill
altogether, as I have said, I am now fairly content.
Then he explained several minor objections to the Bill.
The chief reason which had been given why the Bill
should not be adopted was that the time was not oppor-
tune. “My own opinion,” said Forrest, “is that this
is a matter for the people themselves to judge of.
I would ask those persons (who say that the time is not
opportune) to carefully examine their own minds and
ask themselves whether they are in earnest in their pro-
fessions in favor of Federation. In my opinion the people
who say that the present time is not opportune for
Federation will have to wait a very long time indeed
before they will ever be convinced that the time is oppor-
tune. . . . Now that the Bill has been decided upon,
and we have done all that we could to obtain the fairest
terms possible, I see no reason to be other than satisfied
with the result that has been obtained.” He dismissed
the objection that W.A. should not enter till a rail-
way to S.A. had been built, because—“ in a very
short time we ourselves could construct a line from
the end of our present railway system to the S.A.
border, a distance of only about 400 miles. . . . Com-
paratively, that would be an insignificant work.” And,
finally, he said (it is in the speech which he was so proud
of that he had it specially printed and circulated): “I
tried to get the fairest terms I could for the colony, and,
that being the case, I can’t make myself believe I should
be acting properly or honorably if, after we had finished
our labors —after I had taken part in the discussions and
influenced decisions—if I were to come back and say to
the people of this colony that t he Bill we had passed, and
to which I had given my acquiescence, was such a bad
Bill that I would not even allow it to be submitted to the
people of this colony. . . . My duty is to try' to obtain
the verdict of the people upon it calmly and delibe-
rately, and when there is no other excitement.”
Now Forrest thoroughly believed all this, and was
sincere in his intention to submit the Bill to a referendum.
But Hackett came on the scene, and decided that our
“infant industries” and the local cabbage production
would suffer by interprovincial freetrade. His plea was
that although we have five years of fiscal grace under the
special sliding scale, yet the Bill provides merely that we
may re-impose the duties if we want to take advantage of
the sliding scale, and not that they remain in any event,
and that the duties are so obnoxious that Parliament
could never be trusted to re-impose them so as to take
advantage of the concession, but woul t be content to see
them disappear right off. Well, Forrest was given the
choice of fighting Hackett, losing the support of the
West Australian, and having the old hands stirred up
against him, or giving in to the anti-federalists, and
countenancing their log-rolling. He did the latter—he
had to. He had to move as he was told; to refer
Federation to a select committee, which is to find reasons
why Westralia cannot join the Union under present con-
ditions. He had to declare that he considered we
could not join without some amendment of the Bill ; and
he had to support the doctrine that if Parliament did not
approve of the Bill it should not let it go to the people.
This was to intimate that if the Lower House passed a
Referendum Bill in spite of him, the Upper House, where
Hackett is, might with impunity throw it out. He had,
in fact, to swallow his speech of May, 1898. Two mem-
bers of the Government who had declared for the submis-
sion of the Bill to the people and in favour of federation
have returned to the anti-federal camp —Hackett
whipped ’em in like stray hounds. As to the future, the
will of three-fourths of the population—and those
three-fourths mostly people who are not backward
in expressing their opinions, and making a noise when
they are thwarted—cannot be flouted for long. Their sheer
weight must tell. We have leaders, but their value is a
cypher. One of them is the Government’s tame-cat
Opposition-leader Leake ; another is the awfully-con-
ceited Little-boy James, M.L.A. ; another, boomster
Matiiieson, who is trying to graduate for a Commons
seat. The erratic Voster of the Long Hair has seceded to
the anti-Federalists. No, the want of a leader is not the
particular trouble just now, unless it were a leader who
would talk fight, and perhaps scare the old Gropers a
little, as they were scared at the time of the alluvial
trouble —just enough to show them that the will of
three-fourths of the community cannot with impunity be
made subservient to that of the other fourth. A redistri-
bution of seats would do good though—or Hackett's
funeral.
MTntyre’s Mistake.
Vic. Full Court nearly took Melbourne’s breath
away last week by upholding the conviction of
lawyer MTntyre, although Chief-Justice Mad-
den, who “ sat ” at the long-warded-off trial of
Mac., had evidently thought him certain to
wriggle out of danger. Judge Madden’s read-
ing of the Law took a turn for the better under
the guidance of brothers Williams and
a’Beckett, and he gave forth the judgment of
the Full Court as though it were exactly w hat
he had expected all along. On behalf of the
learned trinity, he stated that lawyer M‘ln-
tyre’s criminality lay in his having presented
himself with certain property contrary to his
client’s instructions. There was no need for
this fraudulent transfer under the circum-
stances, and as a stroke of policy it was a dis-
grace to the legal profession. “The document
he had prepared was simply a means by which
he might appropriate Cocidon’s property,” said
Full-Courtecl Madden. Now, simple appro-
priation of a client’s property is the biggest
mistake a lawyer can be guilty of. The proper
professional way of robbing one’s victim is to
hold his property in trust and stick to it.
There was a suspicion of contempt in his
Honor’s accents when he said, “If MTntyre
had pursued the instructions given him, and
prepared a settlement creating himself a trustee,
his position would be very different in respect
of the transaction. But he had not done that,
for instead of drawing up a mere settlement, he
had made an absolute transfer of the property
to himself, without being created a trustee, or
assuming any of the duties, obligations, and
rights of a trustee.” Judge Madden, in his in-
teresting deliverance, did not suggest that
MTntyre’s transfer of the property to himself
by fraudulent deed, instead of appointing him-
self sole trustee of the same property under the
deed he was instructed to draw up, could have
made any real difference to his client, who
stood to be equally well robbed either way.
But it made all the difference to M‘lntyre by
putting him in a position to be convicted.
“ Their Honors (the Full Court) considered that
MTntyre had prevented himself, by his own
wrongful act, from being a trustee.” Hence
his liability to imprisonment. MTntyre had a
fair chance offered him for getting possession
of the property as a trustee, but he “ had
feloniously made himself the apparent owner of
the property,” and the lawyer who chooses to
be a felon when he might just as well appoint
himself a trustee is not entitled to any protec-
tion from the Law. So M'lntyre, who was
due to receive sentence on Tuesday of this
week, will have to repent his tactical error in
a dungeon cell, the Bulletin supposes.
4.
Melbourne’s Sweating 1 Tramway
Monopoly—Once More.
On Sunday, 6th Aug., 200 Melb. Tramway
employes met in the local Temperance Hall
and unanimously agreed to support M.L.A.
Bromley in his effort to obtain for them the
working hours agreed upo.i in the Tramways
Act. Several letters from employes were
read, showing that the men generally had been
warned by the co.’s officials not to attend under
pain of being “ marked men.” In view of the
unspeakable co.’s well-known methods of secret
observation and underhand coercion this was to
be expected, but it is important to note
that the co. which so forcibly objects to the
men putting their case before the public has
bombarded Melbourne royally with observa-
tions about the iniquity of the new Bill and
with raucous cries about “ repudiation.” Hav-
ing circularised every local municipality and
petitioned Parliament, it finally rounded up its
shareholders to protest in strenuous fashion —
against the co. being compelled to keep itsagree-
ment. In its circular the co. states in an airy,
off hand manner, without going into particulars,
that the effect of the proposed Amendment Act
will be to increase its wages bill by <£27,000 per
annum. It is difficult to see how these figures
are arrived at, as the increased annual cost of
employing 480 men at 425. per week (the pre-
sent average wage) for 48 hours instead of 60,
would only be ,£13,000. The above-men-
tioned circular further goes on to talk largely
and vaguely about this awful co.’s responsi-
bilities. Just here is might be well to remark
that its responsibilities don’t amount, literally,
to a brass farthing. It has a paid-up capital of
£lBo,ooo—a good part of it not subscribed by
the shareholders, but accumulated profits. The
lines were built with money (£1.650,000) bor-
rowed by the municipalities on their guarantee,
for which they—not the co.—are responsible,
and should the co. default in its payments to
the interest and sinking-funds, not one farthing
of its uncalled capital can be called up to
make good the deficiency ! The circular also
reiterates the old lie about the paltry 5 per
cent, dividend, though the shareholders, work-
inglines built by the people’s money, received
dividends of 12 and 16 per cent., besides
bonuses of 20 and 60 per cent. (! !) in the good
times of ’B9 and ’9O, and all through the de-
pression of late years they never received less
than 9 per cent, on their original capital, or 5
per cent, on their capital and accumulated pro-
fits. Furthermore, the co. competes against the
State railways, which pay their employes a liv-
ing wage and work them 48 hours. The Tramway
Co. asks for special concessions in the shape of an
extended lease and a lot of other things, on con-
dition that it leaves off breaking the law by
which it is pledged to give its_ employes an
eight-hour day—which is much the same as
granting a burglar a bonus to leave off burg-
ling, instead of giving him seven years for the
burgling he has already done. Also, it wants
special concessions before it will establish
penny sections on its lines, which is also pure
bluff. According to its agreement, the State
has power to revise the fares after 1898 with-
out asking the co.’s permission or granting
it any concessions at all. Suburban councillors
lately held a conference on the whole “ fares”
question, and requested Premier Turner to
take advantage of the power he possesses, but,
though the demand for penny sections is loud
and general, Turner replied that “ the Govt,
did not see its way to revise the fares as re-
quested,” whereupon the conference carefully
dissolved itself and left matters in statu quo.
On the whole, there is a great deal too much
statu quo about the business. It is nearly a
year now since the Tramway Commission
reported on the matter, and the Turner Govt,
has carefully declined to move ever since, and
the councillors and their Tramway Trust refuse
to take the concern into their own hands.
Wherefore it is quite time Parliament stepped
in and forced the company to keep its original
agreement, or else shut down on it for breach
of agreement, and let the Trust run the city’s
trams itself.
♦
One Destiny, and One Shilling.
The A.N.A., which was started in Victoria as
a modest benefit society and small-talk associa-
tion, and gradually expanded into a valuable
Federation agency, is just now trying to make
up its mind on the matter of its annual shilling
fete. Said fete is, as everybody knows, chiefly
a bicycle meeting, and now that public interest
in Bill Martin has got down to low ebb,
there wouldn’t be much f6te left but for the
lottery associated therewith. Thousands of
people pay a shilling each for tickets represent-
ing a penn’orth or so of chance to win a £lOOO
gold vase, but comparatively few people use
them as tickets of admission to the fete. In
short, the A.N.A., like the Ancient Druids,
and the Eight Hours Society, invites the
general public to partake of a gamble from
which the promoters reap a sinfully large
profit after paying fat prizes to sundry bicycle-
riders, and meeting a lot of necessary and
unnecessary expenses. It is not a respectable
gamble in either its speculative or political
aspects, but it seems to be tolerated by the
same Leg. Assembly that prohibits the respect-
able Tote on alleged high moral grounds. The
question now before the A.N.A. is—shall the
Lottery be cast aside as an unclean thing, or
shall a high-sounding Association continue to
figure in the character of Ikey Mo ? There
still remains some good work for the A.N.A. to
encourage before it dies a natural death, but if
the voice of Young Australia is to ring impres-
sively on any future occasion the annual
Demonstration lottery will have to be discarded
in the meantime. The “bob” swindle—for
practically it is a fraud on the average investor
who doesn’t realise how little gambling value
he gets for his money—has acquired an
unpleasant notoriety. The arguments advanced
in its favor are quite despicable. They breathe
a national aspiration for boodle—very paltry
boodle at that. Also, the arguments urged by
A.N.A. opponents of the lottery are mere snuf-
flesome echoes of church cant, and, there is no
health in them. As a matter of regrettable
fact, the young men who whooped so elo-
quently for the great Australian cause, now
seem incapable of criticising their “ art-union ”
from a political standpoint. The essential per-
niciousness of their financial device is what they
seem not to understand. It is left for the more-
or-less-unfriendly newspapers to state the case
properly, and whilst the A.N.A. committee
wrangles about its illegal shilling flutter, the
Age, which is jealous of the Association’s in-
fluence, and the Argus, which dislikes all
young, un-English creeds in a general way, are
making preliminary efforts to laugh the Asso-
ciation into contempt.
♦ -
The dreadful Hogan, M.P., who poses as
member for Australia in the British House of
. Commons, has written to London Times pro-
posing that Australia should, do as Canada did—
let the Queen select the Federal capital. Surely
even sucli a dull dog as Hogan ought to know
better. The greatest difficulty in Australia is
to select a reasonably central site where there
is water—water enough to let the people of the
future great city have a bath in the morning;
water to mix with their whisky; water
to make their daily tea with, and to boil
the potatoes in, and a little over to wash
the family dog with, and some for irriga-
tion, and to supply electric-light and power
with if possible. Canada, like England, is a
,splend : dly-aWered country, and when the
Queen se.e-.e.d a central-looking place on a
river she could hardly go wrong. In Aus-
tralia, if the Queen selected a nice, central-
looking spot on a river it would probably hap-
pen to be a map-river only—one of those
streaks in the sand where there is a trickle of
water for a mouth in every two years, and a
raging torrent for a day and a half every ten
years. If Hogan, M.P., had suggested that '
the Queen should come out here personally,
with boring apparatus, and select a site, the
idea would have something in it. Otherwise
The Bulletin would suggest as an amend-
ment that, if there is a deadlock over the
Federal capital, the Khalifa be made referee.
He knows something about deserts. Victoria
was brought up in a country where they have
the delusion that a river is a place with water
in it.
>
Toowoomba (Q.) Chronicle publishes this
among a long list of reasons why Queenslanders
should vote against the Bill:
Because it will ultimately mean a land-tax which will
fall heavier on Queensland farmers than on those in the
southern colonies who have no Divisional-Board taxation.
The Chronicle evidently never heard that
Victoria, Tasmania and S.A. all have local
government systems, and that their farmers
pay local taxes just as the Queensland ones do.
Groom’s paper, it would seem, really believes
that Queensland is the only province which has
a local government system. The Queensland
farmer pays one land-tax—to his Divisional
Board. The N.S.W. farmer pays one—to the
State. The Victorian, S.A., and Tasmanian
farmers pay a tax to the local authority, and all
except the very small ones also pay a second
land-tax to the State treasury. So if the people
of these provinces vote for a Federal land-tax
as well, that will leave Queensland and N.S. W.
with two land-taxes, and Victoria, S.A., and
Tasmania with three each. And if Groom’s
silly paper at Toowoomba thinks that the
people of these provinces are going to put all
these taxes on themselves if they can help it,
then Groom’s silly paper ought to be sent to
an asylum for weak-minded publications.
♦
Despite the plain, emphatic statement in clauses
8 and 30 of the Commonwealth Bill that at
elections for both Federal Houses “ each
elector shall vote only once,” Brisbane Tele-
graph rises up every now and then and tells
the public that “ plural voting is not abolished
by the Federal Constitution,” and the present
plural voter will be able to vote a dozen times
just as he does now. There is no ingenuity
and no thrill in this kind of mendacity. Now
and then, in a bush pub., you meet a man who
tells a really interesting dog-lie, and you feel
that it is Art. And then the coarse, unimagina-
tive person, who envies that dog-lie but hasn’t
the gift to invent one of his own, rises up and
says, in a thick brown voice, that he once
knew a blanky dog that was eight feet high
and two yards round the middle. And he only
excites scorn and disgust, and the audience
throws the heel-taps of its beer at him, because
his lie isn’t Art. That is just what is the
matter with the paper run by three ex-sin-
shifters at Brisbane. It has all the lightness
and grace of the domestic cow dancing, but it
isn’t Art. It is only a mixture of prejudice
and ignorance and dull venom and foolish old
woman.
“ Old Stoney ” on an hitherto neglected sub-
ject :
Considering how town employers are forced to attend
to the sanitary arrangements of their premises, why
should the squatter—the largest employer of labor for a
portion of the year—be allowed to utterly neglect the
health and comfort of his employes ? Properly to ap-
preciate the aroma of a shearer’s hut a visit should be
made to a certain N.S.W. station, the property of a rich
and old-established company, about four weeks after the
start of the season, by which time the hut, killing-yards,
and piggery, all within 50yds. of each other, will have
their respective stenches in full blast; or to , where
the drainage from the huts runs into an open tank used
for drinking purposes. As exemplifications of space-
economy, many of the huts are worth inspection—
four tiers of bunks in some of them ; the top-tier resting
on the tie-beams, immediately over the dining-table.
Spare food is stowed promiscuously under the lower
bunks, and the cook usually camps with the bread and
cooked beef 1 The whole hut, about big enough for six
men, has often 30 stowed into it. The reason this
abominable state of affairs has not been more noticed is
that shearers, being long-suffering and healthy animals,
after getting knocked over at one shed, soon recover and
cut in again at the first opportunity. Any complaint to
the squatter is, as a matter of course, promptly met with
the “ sack.” But the very best argument in favor of the
extension of the Factories Act to stations, lies in the fact
that to a man the squatters oppose such extension.
♦
Legislative Councils claim to be revisers of
proposed legislation ; yet, though special atten-
tion was given by the N.S.W. body to the Coal
Mines Regulation Bill, on the ground that it
was sent through the Assembly while most of
that House was asleep, this clause was passed :
“No person not now employed as a coal-getter
shall be allowed to work alone in the face of the
workings until he has had two years’ experi-
ence of feuch work under the supervision of
skilled workmen.” The intention undoubtedly
was to keep incompetent new hands from being
entrusted with dangerous work without due
supervision—to make it impossible for un-
skilled workmen to be put in the faces without
skilled men beside them. But it is now pointed
out that, though an unskilled man may: not ,be
eniployed alone, there is apparently nothing to
prevent two or more unskilled workmen being
employed together 1


The IS suitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.0.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
331
1.
«t|||i 1!
ati
JENNINGS
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
For TAILINGS, SUCTION DREDGING,
ALLUVIAL MINING,
IRRIGATING, &C.. &C.
DEMONSTRATED
to hold
FIRST PLACE
for High
EFFICIENCY
and Remarkable
ECONOMY.
Sole Manufacturers
for N.S.W.,
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
o-td.) GRANVILLE
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “Secret Service.”
Royal. ..; “The Gay Lord Quex.**
Lyceum “ The Shaughraun.”
Criterion “ The Kelly Gang.’’
Tivoli. Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ A Stranger in New York.”
Theatre Royal “ The War of Wealth.”
Bijou Rickards' Variety Co.
St. George’s Ha 11.... M'Adoo’s Georgia Minstrels.
Alexandra “Faust.”
“(Saturday Afternoon)’ Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
Exhibition Building. .. The Aquarium.
The above remarks are intended to indirectly con-
vey the fact that this is the last week of the
“ King's Musketeer ” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
“ Secret Service ” follows on Saturday. This play
is new to Australia, but certain encouraging
rumors have got here ahead of it, and there is a
general impression that Sydney will give it a great
reception on spec.
*.'#*■*
The pretty and clever, and altogether
pleasant comedy of “Lady Ursula "’ is revived,
for one week only, at Sydney Royal. Persons
who wish to see the lady who put on her brother’s
pants and coat from the purest and noblest
motives, and went out into the wicked world in
these compromising garments, and was slapped
on the back by coarse, ungodly men, are reminded
that to-night (Thursday) and to-morrow night are
their last opportunities. In addition to these
other inducements it may be worth while to
remind the public that the lady is complimented
on her legs, and urged to bury her adorable little
nose in the wine-cup, and cordially invited to
light up the long clay pipe of friendship. Every
well-brought-up female who wants to know how a
perfectly respectable girl should conduct herself
under trying circumstances ought to see “Lady
Ursula ” and derive a lesson therefrom. Some
years ago a very dreary paper started a series
of articles on what a lady should do in em-
barrassing circumstances—say if she unwittingly
offered ham to a Jew, or if an unexpected visitor
came in just when she was falling downstairs with
the coal-scuttle in her hand, or if while she was
smiling on a favored guest in front the dog bit
her from behind. But it never rose to explaining
what a lady should do when circumstances that
have got beyond her control compel her to put on
her brother’s clothes, and drink with four reckless
bachelors late at night in their own bachelor
apartments. “ Lady Ursula ”is a valuable lesson
on feminine deportment in a tight place, and there
is a lesson hidden in it somewhere.
* *
“ The Gay Lord Quex,” by Pinero, makes
its first Australian appearance at Sydney Royal
on Saturday. British rumour speaks well of
“Lord Quex ” as a play wherein a woman comes
so very near to losing her character that the hair
of the audience stands up in pleased and horrified
anticipation. And yet the lady doesn’t lose her
character after all, consequently the audience can
lay its hair down again with the knowledge that it
has had a- beautiful thrill without lending its
countenance to anything in the least degree
immoral.
** * *
“The Shaughraun ”is to'be staged at
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday for one week only.
This sixpenny paper hasn’t been disturbed on its
midnight couch of late by any loud or unusual
demand for Boueicault’s old Irish drama, or if it
was, it mistook the same for the male fowl next
door; and it passes no opinion upon the advisa-
bility or otherwise of the proceeding.
*# * *
The present is Cinquevalli’s very last week
in Sydney, unless he has two or three farewells
later on. The marvellous Paul has had a long run
at the Tivoli, and even at the burnt and ashy fag-
end pf his season business is so good that he may
possibly feel called upon to farewell a little more
before leaving Australia. The very last week in
this country of Bellman and Moore is also an-
nounced, and the community which has lovingly
watched the somersault of the little brown-haired
lady for many months will deeply regret
her departure. Australia in general is pre-
pared to swear that no other brown-haired
lady who ever came this way has done a somer-
sault so gracefully and modestly and promptly as
Lottie Moore, and the spot where her curly head
used to rest on the floor while she went over is
sacred for evermore. The next lady somersaulter
is requested to put her head on some other part
of the floor while her feet are in the air.. That
particular part has become enshrined in the
tenderest feelings of this great country, and to
see any other lady’s head on it would be
sacrilege.
** * *
“ The Kelly Gang ” is in its sixth week at
Sydney Criterion, and to all appearance this crude
and boshful horror may run for some time longer.
* sit * *
Alfred Dampier, who has been laid up by
a severe illness for many weeks, is sufficiently well
again to get into harness, a fact which will
gladden the hearts of innumerable friends. Next
week he leaves Sydney on a tour Northwards with
“Robbery tinder Arms,” “Three Musketeers,”
“ Richard III.,” &c, The Dampier co. is due at
Brisbane by 16th September, when it will open
with good old M’Ginnis and O’Hara at the Opera
House.
** * *
At St. George’s Hall the Human Frog
goes on his way contorting, the cake-walkers still
perambulate in couples, and the female imper-
sonator makes the females in front of the house
feel rather unhappy. It is hard for a woman to
find delight in the imitation of her winning ways
by a man when she considers her own awful
inability to retaliate. Also, the performance
comes rough upon Angelina’s best boy, who has
been enslaved by the little tricks and manners
which he thought peculiar to the sex until he saw
them given away by a man comedian. The gaiety
of nations gains nothing from female imper-
sonators. Woman, alas! is a cheap theatrical
animal in her merely alluring aspects, but man-
kind feels none the better for knowing that the
course of true love is a matter of stage business.
#* * *
“A Stranger in New York,” at the
Princess’s, frivols around an invisible French ball
with moderate results. Further consideration of
the frothy cock-tailed entertainment in three
acts reveals no cause for giving it a hearty
welcome. As a comedy it is weaker than even
“The Belle of New York,” which left a pleasant
taste in the mouth, anyhow. This narrative of an
inane struggle for a “good time” leaves a bad
taste in the mouth. The characters are an
unwholesome crowd, and the people who fill the
characters don’to furnish a smart enough variety
show to keep one from wondering what’s the
matter with ’Murkan life among the gilded
classes.
*# * *
The return of Cinquevalli is understood to
be nearly due at Melb. Bijou, but meanwhile
Richard Douglass, about the most popular atom
in the bill, delivers a temperance address to fellow-
drinkers. Douglass dances, too, in one of his new
turns, and his breezy suggestions of legs harmonise
with the rest of the little man’s humor. Another
very abbreviated joke, little Spry (of the firm of
Spry and Austin) leaves Melbourne for Sydney
this week.
** * *
On Saturday the Alexandra will open its
doors again, and a season of grand opera—short,
or long, according to how Melbourne takes to the
idea —will start with “ Faust. ” Miss Bertha Bird,
Louis Luscombe, Rebottaro and Ernest Sullivan,
said to be a beauteous tenor, are cast for the prin-
cipal parts, and the opera, which has had long re-
hearsal, will be conducted by James Ure.
** * *
Marshall Hall’s second orchestral concert
happens at the Town Hall to-night (Thursday),
but owing to a horticultural show Scherek’s usual
Saturday afternoon concert will be given at the
Bijou this week. Mdlle. Trebelli starts her song
recitals at the Town Hall on the 31st, and Amy
Castles will give a farewell warble there on
Wednesday, Sept. 6th, skipping for Europe next
day.
** * *
Rev. Father Robinson, the present guide,
philosopher and business manager of. Miss Amy
Castles, published last week a return showing the
amounts “realised,” i.e., nett profits from the
damsel’s boom up to date. It seems that the
three Castles concerts promoted by public com-
mittees in Melbourne, Bendigo and Ballarat
brought .£944 (average £315), including £lOO, or
more, privately donated to the fund: apart from
donations £2Bl per concert. The 13 concerts pro-
moted by Father G. A. Robinson have brought
about £3lOO, estimating the Brisbane receipts at
£3OO (average £240). Melbourne people are particu-
larly struck by the fact that four Robinson-managed
concerts in the Adelaide Exhibition building appear
to have realised only £475, although hundreds
of people, said the Melb. press pars., were turned
away from each concert. The Bendigo committee
had shown £204 for one concert, and the Mel-
bourne committee netted nearly £5OO by its one
concert for Miss Castles. Again, there are the
Sydney figures of £1036 from three concerts en-
gineered by Father Robinson and others in the
great Centennial Hall, which seats between
four and five thousand people (£345 per con-
cert). Considering the rush for five-shilling
tickets for the first of those three concerts
and the reported crowds at the other two
concerts, many people are surprised at the finan-
cial result. It would seeir, that the Castles Boom
has been extravagantly managed on tour, or else
that it wasn’t anything like the Boom it appeared
to be in Melbourne press pars. The publication
of full balance-sheets showing gross receipts and
expenditures would be interesting.
** * #
Item No. 4 in the winter series of
“wonderful talent ” from Bendigo arrived at
Melb. Town Hall on Saturday. The novelty in
this case was a Miss Alice Crawford who elocutes
with more than ordinary effect, and is altogether
a very likely angel to achieve distinction as an,
actress, if she wants to go upon'the styge, and will
be prepared to go slow at the start. Miss Craw-
ford recited an assortment of pieces successfully.
Other girls can do as much as that, and the world
is not very anxious to hear them make the
attempt in a Town Hall. The Bulletin has no
enthusiasm to waste on Miss Crawford’s mere
recitations, but if she would like to know whether
she possesses the necessary charm, strength,
dramatic instinct, aud magnetism to make an
important actress in the future this journal’s
opinion is Yes, with a capital Y. Miss Crawford’s
show included three or four vocalists, also
Benno Scherek at the piano, and the gem of the
entertainment was a speech by Scherek apolo-
gising for his evening appearance in the frock
coat he had worn at his afternoon orchestral con-
cert. He intended to wear a lovely dress-suit for
the occasion, he said, but somehow his dazzling
claw-hammer and continuations had been mis-
carried by the train. However, he managed to
play the accompaniments as beautifully as usual.
Among the singers, basso W. G. Barker, being in
good form, took first honours because he has a fine
voice and a finished style of producing it, and
would be an almost great artist if he didn’t wear
a tall stiff collar and an inflexible aspect. He
warbled of the damp, rolling deep as though he
were a bank director reading a lot of dry statistics.
Miss Lili Sharp gave four songs very creditably,
and a Miss Iva Lynne appeared as a new con-
tralto. The one thing wanting in Miss Lynne is
a large musical voice. Gifted with a nice new
organ of sound she’d be an interesting young lady,
but under present conditions she labours in vain.
Why not learn to play the violin, or something ?
** * *
The theatres are mostly getting along with
the same old bill as before. At the Royal, the
evil designs of a bad bank director continue to be
furthered by the night watchman for the imagi-
nary sake of his child, and the wall of the strong-
room is laid low by nitro-glycerine six times a
week regularly. Also Miss Gill persists in wooing
Bland Holt by storm, and Miss Ireland relent-
lessly ensnares the inebriated youth from New
Guinea, and Mrs. Holt captures the bank manager,
whilst Walter Baker is putting Miss Ross to his
credit. The “War of Wealth” altereth not.
This afternoon (Thursday), at 2 o’clock sharp,
Miss Sophie Osmond, a penlady who looks plump
and pleasing in her advt. photographs, will take a
benefit at the Royal. The programme promises to
be amusing, and inasmuch as the average jour-
nalist dies without having dreamed of a benefit,
enterprising Miss Osmond deserves credit for
arousing the tired fraternity and sisternity of
puff paragraphists to a sense of what they want.
In a land of chivalry and dreams, the France of
auld lang syne
(We see it through a gorgeous haze of beauty, love
and wine)
King Louis had a motley guard of drinky warriors
three;
Their arms were long ; their hair was long ; their
swords were long and free.
They sang and laughed and drank red wine in
taverns old and grey;
They hugged fair women as they passed upon their
careless way.
They left big footprints down the vale of many
dusky years,
We drop a tear upon their bones —King Louis’s
Musketeers.
They fought against whatever odds might chance
to come their way;
They didn’t ask the reason why, but went into the
fray.
They loved whatever girl might come if she was
young and fair;
And never asked whose girl she was because they
didn’t care.
They gaily stepped on Cardinals who got into
their road;
They stepped on kings as well—in fact, they
nearly stepped on God,
They were but spectres in a book, and yet three
husky cheers
We give them even now—King Louis’s gaudy
Musketeers.
At Poverty Point.
“ The 500th night of the ‘ Belle of New York,”’ writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ was another
triumph in audacity of the phlegmatic and imperturbable
George Musgrove. Right in the larynx of all English
precedent no souvenir of any kind was given to the
audience. It is a sensible and exceptional innovation. As
the theatre will only hold so many no souvenirs could get
any more in, and the ,‘ Belle’ draws like Phil May at his
best. There is only one B. of N.Y., and that’s Edna
May, and I never pitied my country before until a sub-
stitute was ‘ rung in ’ on ‘ you below.’ For E.M. is the
‘ subject of all the town talk,’ and may be later the wife
of Mr. John Cavendish (nephew of Duke of Devonshire).”
“ D.J.” : Some of ‘bese nights there will be murder at
Sydney Theatre Royal. i'Le last night of “The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray ” about three hundred tons of female hog
hauled itself along the darkened corridor and rustled its
silk petticoats, and shuffled its large flat feet, and
wheezed, and discussed Mrs. Brown’s bonnet and Mrs.
Smith’s opera cloak in the dressing-room in a voice that
drowned the play.
Amy Castles struck Adelaide just when half the holy
city was making imaginary piles out of the Westralian
jump and Far North telluride specs., and the artless little
thing went away £475 to the good. But Amy’s perform-
ance was just crude enough to encourage thoughts of
exporting a couple of locally-grown prodigies—Lulu
Gillespie and Meta Buring. The former is, alas 1 noto-
riously married, and so can’t be put into short frocks
and starred as 16 or under ; the other, who hasn’t com-
mitted matrimony, is already being made the subject of
a fund. It was Amy Sherwin who claimed the discovery
of Miss Buring—“a pure contralto,” she told a Sydney
interviewer, “who ought to go to Europe for training,
for she has the makings of a fine singer.” But not till
the Castles boom showed what things are possible did a
European training seem anything better than a dream.
Miss Lulu Gillespie, the S. Australian soprano, who will
shortly go to Europe for training (with a little public help
perhaps; though in this ease it is understood not to be
absolutely essential) owns to 22 years of life. Though
Mrs. Albert Fairbairn in private, she has kept her girl’s-
name for amateur-theatrical purposes. Burra copper-
field was her birth-place; it was Mdme. Albani who
encouraged her to look much farther afield than that.
Assuming that Amy Castles were the possible “ future
Melba ” she was said to be when the Boom started, the
apology offered by the Rev. Father Robinson for taking
her raw marvellous voice round the country is very
amusing. Says the damsel’s musical and ghostly adviser :
“ During the whole of this time Miss Castles and her
friends have had the services of a throat specialist, and
the greatest care has been taken to see that the young
lady did not appear on the concert platform under con-
ditions that would by any possibility be injurious to her.
The limit has now, however, been reached.” Apart from
everything else, what did Miss Castles’ friends want a
throat specialist for? Even if they were all as hoarse as
crows, the public isn’t interested about their throats.
“Ada Colley,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “ is perhaps the most eclipsing star of music-
halldorn ever ejected from the Southern Cross. She has
paralysed Europe—Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg—puzzled,
at a high price, London, at the leading hall —the Empire,
and, doubtless by now, mortified the country that let her
go—because it couldn’t ‘ keep ’ her. Maybe she was, and
is, only a freak vocally, but her success and salary are such
that every flap-eared, reputationised critic is frothing to
convince his ‘ swearers-by ’ that Ada is really (‘cut “me”
throat if I lie’) a genuine vocalistio genius. To Will
Crackles, who (in certain senses of the word) steered her
here, Miss C. is indebted much, but Will is feeling feeble
just now for fear he should be tempted once more to the
Land where it’s never so sunny-hot as in London o’ June
days.”
“Of others known to Bulletiners,” continues our
correspondent, “ Bert Gilbert goes to the ‘ Palace,’ fol-
lowing in the tracks of his best pal—and wife —AdaKeeve,
who, as you rightly recently pointed out, has an enorm-
ously enhanced reputation since her return from Aus-
tralia. Increased vitality, appearance, and nous are the
secrets, however, of such balloonjstic. leaps after Aus-
tralian tours. Harry Gribben, the much-buried, abso-
lutely refuses to keep his shroud on, and gets among the
‘ quick’ from the dead with much more fat —financial and
fizical —than the worms had formerly a hope of cutting
their eye-molars in. He is flourishing like a banana-tree,
and has too much grip on the earth to ever get off it.
Finally, the Permans have transplanted the‘old folks’
back to this bone-sown soil, and accepted engagements
so far into the twentieth century that the name of the
trio is to be changed to the Permanents, to give the
agents a chance of getting their commissions. All the
Florries (Young, Forde and Esdaile) are ‘flourishing,’
more or less ; and A. G. Poulton is still the marvel of
Australia abroad.”
“Constance Clyde”: The Bulletin theatre - man
laments that Sydney crowds go to see the dreadful
deeds of the “ Kelly Gang,” and probably scents blood-
thirsty tendencies in that lamentable fact. Let him be
calm ; it is merely the localism that attracts. Recipe for
writing an Australian novel: Mix in plenty of casual
allusions to Woolloomooloo and Burragorang, and things
like that, and there you are. Similarly with plays—lug
in the chronic bluegum, and get the characters to say
things about Manly, and likewise remark that the Aus-
tralian girl knows how to take care of herself ; which is
just what the Australian girl doesn’t know'—she knows
everything else—and there you are again. That is the
explanation of Young Australia’s dreadful rush to the
Criterion, not any sentimental sympathy with the unfor-
tunate gang who only asked to be allowed to make off
with their neitrhbors’ cattle in peace and quietness, but
whom a remorseless law persecuted into the tomb.
Re present “ Kelly Gang” boom. The first dramatisa-
tion of this classic subject was produced in Wellington,
M.L., in 1880, within 60 hours of the gang’s burst-up.
It was written by Jack Utting, then on N.Z. Times staff,
and “ Ned ” was played by R. Love, now of Harmston’s
Circus.
Culchawed Prof. Tucker, of Melb. University, lecturing
recently on the “Supreme Literary Art ” : “Music, too,
we are told, can interpret the action of war; but the
action is usually found on the annotated margin of the
programme.” At hearing which, an unmistakable wave
of Philistine approval passed over an audience wearied of
Marshall Hall’s wire-drawn transcendentalism—of the
“prophetic bar,” and the “unsounded note,” which by
its awful omission spells Fate 1
Royal and Princess managements might, had they
chosen, have worked off an interesting little experiment
on the public during the run of “The King’s Musketeer”
in Melbourne. Henrietta Watson, at the Princess’s, was
so like Elizabeth Watson at the Royal, that it would have
been worth while to make an exchange of leading ladies
for one consecutive night, just to see if the patrons
would discover the fraud.
“There were kings before Agamemnon!” When
Cinquevalli was a boy, 30 years ago, a French juggler,
named Agoust, was the talk of Europe. With the scanty
paraphernalia of 4 bottles, 4 oranges, and a small square
of board, he astounded audiences in all the big cities of
Europe and America. He eventually joined the Hanlon-
Lees, and with them produced those pantomimic sketches,
such as the “ Voyage en Suisse,” which became so popu-
lar in London.
The superior musical critic of Melbourne Herald re-
marks that “ two young ladies joined in a pleasing ren-
dering of the ‘ Gavall'eria ’ Intermezzo, ruthlessly and
irreverently tortured into the shape of an ‘ Ave Maria.’
This outrage on sacred words has surely never been
sanctioned by Masoagni.” Why, the Intermezzo music
was written for an Ave Maria ! The dropping of it into the
opera as a link between the first and second acts was an
afterthought of Mascagni’s.
Possible that Adelaide Theatre Royal will have another
lessee in 1900, as Wybert Reeve contemplates retirement
at Xmas. Adelaide’s only other theatre, the Bijou, now
leased by Hudson, will shortly be tenantless. A chance
for Rickards.
What has become of “ The Christian ” ? Its production
in Australia was promised months ago ; in fact, it was
pronounced almost ready for production when Wilson
Barrett was here. Where is the hitch ? Asa matter of
fact, Barrett told a friend, when he was in Melbourne,
that he had not even started on the dramatic version, but
meant to begin it in Adelaide.
“ Medi-cuss” : The long-haired “ Oliver Bainbridge ” is
not a native of Toowoomba, Q. The distinguished
pitcher of fairy-tales was born and raised in Grafton,
Clarence River, where his father is a civil servant.
“ Bainbridge ” once astonished Grafton Bench by setting
up a unique defence when charged with assault. The
only Oliver, having been born tired, refused to work for
his keep, so his father “gave him the bounce.”
However, as fast as the old man fired his hopeful
out of the front door he would slip in at the ba<k.
This game went on till, at last, “ Bainbridge,” Esq.,
proceeded to urge his views on the sire with a club. At
the Police Court he calmly asserted that, as he was only
18 years old, he, therefore, was in the eyes of the law an
infant and his father was bound to provide for him. A
bowelless P.M. refused to take this most reasonable view
and Oliver had to pay the piper. The young man has
really excellent natural talents, a good public school
education and elocutionary powers far above the aveiage.
He also sketches fairly well and has a memory in a
thousand. This scribe had the distinguished honor of
entertaining the wanderer for a few days just prior to his
starting on his pilgrimage, but at that time he billed him-
self as the “Marvellous Boy Orator.” One of the most
apropos things ever seen was one of his programmes
stuck on a bellows in a local store.
From “ M.A.P.” : “ What is Sarah Bernhardt’s secret!?
What is it that keeps her up? What makes her the
wonder of her sex, her profession, and the world? Here
she is well past her prime, a youthful grandmother, arid
still an inexhaustable force. She is always playing, never
rests, never tires, and does the eternal round of her
‘ repertoire ’ without ‘ ennui ’or fatigue. How does she
do it? Well, to begin with, Sarah is an enormous eater.
She will sup ‘ en prince’ with her friends, but when they
have gone, and the lights are out, and she has at last got
to her own room, she will set to work feeding again, and
will cook four or five eggs hard, and devour them before
she retires for the night! ’’ But, after all, it is not merely
because Sarah eats so enormously that she is so strong ;
the secret is in her splendid digestion.
“ All husbands are alike, only some are better—liars—
than others.”— "The Brixton Burglary.”
The “ gods ” are your true critics. Heard at a Perth
(W.A.) show during a particularly bad “turn,” a long
groan and “ Why didn’t I commit suicide to-day ?”


Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during- the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
The Insukance News, London, writes: “The
whole position of the Colonial Mutual, as revealed by the
latest report, is calculated to Rive the utmost satisfaction
and confidence to the members.*
Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet.—The copper-
silver number of the Clarion describes the mines and all
about them —profusely illustrated. Posted to any address
for Is. 3d. in stamps. Address —The Publisher, the
Clarion, 25 King-street, Melbourne.*
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires m the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others tor Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
an d particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
q Smoke the Latest g?
VANDYCK
CIGARS < IIOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR 1/-
C/C/i/fs
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st. 9 Sydney; 68 Currie-st. , Adel. ;$7 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lamb ton Quay , Wellington ,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Three provincial Treasurers have now issued
their estimated revenue and expenditure for 1899-1900.
This is how the three look forward :
Estimated Estimated Estimated
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
Maoriland « £5,300,000 £5,059,729 £240,271
Victoria „ 7,156,225 7,136,755 19,470
Estimated
Deficit.
N.S. Wales .. 9,782,643 9,909,371 £126,728
Seddon’s is the only attempt at respectable financing
among the three. He has no old deficit to pay off, but
he aims at having a little over for public works purposes.
The only mistake is that he ought to aim at having at
least half-a-million over ; or, better still, he ought to pass
a law making the annual payment of something between
£500,000 and £1,000,000 into the public works fund a
fixed and absolutely cast-iron charge upon the
revenue. N.S.W.’s expenditure includes a payment
of £150,000 a year off the old deficit, so if
things go as Treasurer Carruthers expects he will pay
£150,000 off the old deficit and have a new deficit of
£126,728 —therefore he will really reduce the accumulated
shortage by only £23,272. In Victoria there is no fixed
annual payment in reduction of the old deficit—the Trea-
surer simply applies to that purpose whatever sum he
thinks fit out of his surplus, if he has one. And Turner,
by reducing the income-tax and the railway freights, and
providing no new source of revenue in lieu thereof, leaves
himself in such a position that, if his estimates pan out as
expected, he will have only j 19,470 to reduce the old
deficit with. His only hope of paying anything off the
venerable burden lies in the chance that he may have
under-estimated the year’s receipts. Why Turner doesn’t
make a payment of, say, £200,000 a year" towards the old
shortage a fixed charge on the revenue passes under-
standing.
* * * *
Premier Reid, of N.S.W., lately had the ghastly
effrontery to write to Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, that
“ the new system of finance and fiscal policy inaugurated
by the present (Reid) Government in 1895 has shown in
every one of the four years since a credit balance
after paying in reduction of the deficiency sums
amounting to about half-a-million.” And the Auditor-
General, who is the last court of appeal on N.S.W.
finance, sets forth on page 154 of his report for 1898 that
Premier Reid had a huge deficit (over ±400,000) in 1896,
and another big shortage in 1897. Also, that, so far from
paying half-a-miilion off the deficit, that burden was
larger at June, ’9B, than when Reid took office. And tw'o
or three days before this report appeared, George Reid
fled from the Treasury, and took refuge in the quiet
billet of Attorney-General. The Attorney-General isn’t
audited.
» * * •
The Victorian [Government has decided to face
the problem of its insolvent irrigation and water trusts.
When the Gillies-Deakin Ministry took to irrigation with
a rush in the boom t mes it put its headjdown and ran at
the problem bull-fashion. Labor was expensive then ;
materials ditto ; management was ditto and loose into
the bargain ; and for want of sufficient knowledge the
works were built at great expense all round. Very few of
the trusts have been able to keep up their interest pay-
ments, and the money they owe the State is, largely, a
bad debt. Out of £1,024,552 capital advanced by the
State to the trusts £535,217 is to be written off or “sus-
pended” indefinitely; and out of £332,707 arrears of
interest £332,627 is to be written off, leaving only £BO
recoverable. But as regards the balance, the trusts are to
be made to walk a relentless chalk-line. When a trust
falls in arrear hereafter the Audit Commissioners are
bound by law to put a bailiff in, and levy a large enough
rate to meet the interest and arrears, and otherwise wake
up the defaulter in a most violent fashion.
m m m *
A feeble attempt was recently made in Maori-
land Parliament by a private member (Millar, of Dunedin)
to pass a Bill providing that no new life insurance co.
should be allowed to start in the province without a paid-
up capital of at least ±lO,OOO. It went where it de-
served to do —into the waste-paper basket. All attempts
to make life insurance business safe by providing that a
co. must have so much paid-up capital are only a feeble
buzzing round the outside of the problem. A co.
with a small business and £5OOO capital may be
safe ; one with a large business and £lOO,OOO capi-
tal may be rotten. A life assurance co. with
£5OOO capital intact and safely invested, and
with perhaps £lOO,OOO of assurers’ funds also safely
invested, may be splendidly sound; one with £50,000
capital invested in shaky mortgages and £lOO,OOO assur-
ance fund mostly in depreciated freeholds may be utterly
rotten. Moreover, there is very little good in providing
for the safety of any assurance offices which may start
hereafter, when Maoriland has already the most lament-
able assurance co. in Australasia on its hands. What is
wanted is a rigid State audit and valuation of all assur-
ances offices, present and future, and an enactment that
no assurance office shall base its estimates on a future
assumed interest rate of more than 3£ per cent.
* * * *
Clara S. :It is quite a new office. Whether it
will ever be any good no one can yet say. Anyhow, pre-
sent writer wouldn't touch it while there are so many
old-established and sound offices to choose from.
* * * *
Anxious : The annual meeting (so-called be-
cause the last one was held 18 months ago) is supposed to
be just about due. Writer has applied vigorously for
a copy of balance-sheet and hopes to get one before long.
Shares have no very definite value just now, so far as The
Bulletin is aware.
* * * *
J.C. : The co. which Mr. Sheridan managed
was the Mortgage, Guarantee and Mercantile Finance
Corporation of N.S.W.” Don’t remember having seen
any accounts since 1897. It still has an office in Union
Bank Chambers, 68Pitt-street, Sydney, where informa-
tion can, no doubt, be obtained.
* * • •
The First Sydney and N.S.W. Tontine Invest-
ment Fund (whose head-quarters are at 20 Vickery’s
Chambers, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney), is an interesting
gamble in life and death. The idea isn’t new in these
provinces, there being already two such institutions in
Maoriland. The principle is simple enough. A certain,
or uncertain, number of members insure their lives for
any sum not less than £250 or more than £5OOO, each,
and assign their policies to the Fund. (The Perpe-
tual Trustee Co., a most reliable institution with a
large capital, is to hold'the policies and all' other assets,
so the safety of the cash ought to be sufficiently provided
for.) When the amount of the policies assigned
reaches £250,000, the fund closes. Then it sits
down to wait for 20 years dating from Ist September,
1899. All that each member has to do is to pay
his premium regularly and pray for the death of
the other members. During the 20 years, whenever a
member dies, the Trust collects the amount of Ins policy ;
pays back to his representatives the sum which he paid
in premiums, but without any interest; and keeps the
balance, which will be either invested in good-looking
securities or in endowment policies on the lives of sur-
viving members. Said endowments will be arranged to
expire before the close of the Tontine, so that all the
assets can be turned into cash for division. And, at the
end of the 20 years, each member then living gets back
his own policy', which becomes his own property again,
and also his share (according to the size of his policy) in
the profit made out of the premature death of his part-
ners.
* * * *
Everything seems to depend on the unhealthi-
ness of the members. If, out of the £250,000 worth of
policies held by the fund, £125,000 worth fall in by death
during the £2O years, there will probably, after handing
back to the represents ives of the deceased members
the full amount of the premiums paid by the late
lamented, be from £60,000 to £lOO,OOO to divide among
the survivors when the fund closes. This is assuming
that the fund fills, and that the money as it comes in is
well invested. If, by any utterly incredible ill-luck,
none of the members died in the 20 years, there would be
no profit for anybody—only' the loss involved by working
expenses. If very few died there wouldn’t be much profit.
If the bubonic plague broke out, and the members all
died except one, he ought to strike immense wealth, no
matter how small his policy' was. If the plague was so bad
that the members all died it doesn’t seem to be explained
who would get the cash—presumably the heirs of that
last man would take it all. If the Tontine is nearly
closing, and there are only two survivors, and one dies
suddenly under suspicious circumstances, the other
will probably be arrested right there. If the man
who died suspiciously had a £5OOO policy, and the
other a £250 policy, then the £250 man, by dropping a
brick judiciously on the head of the £5OOO man, would
get the whole fund instead of less than a twentieth of it,
which would make the death of the £5OOO policy-holder
all the more suspicious. If the fund was £200,000, then
the small policy-holder would have rather over £190,000 to
gain by murdering the large one.
It is provided that every member is to insure
his life on the “ 20-year limited payment plan with pro-
fits,” and on every £lOO of insurance he has to pay 2s. per
annum to cover expenses. The Bulletin doesn’t know
in what investments the funds are to be deposited, but
they are specified in the Trust Deed which intending
members can inspect. If the investments are safe,
then the Tontine seems an innocent gamble in
the diseases of one’s fellow-man. Every healthy
young man who joins should dissuade all other healthy
young men from joining, and urge all the people whose
health he has doubts about to go in for large sums. Only
it needs to be clearly specified who gets the money if the
members all die. And The Bulletin, while noting that
Mr. H. G. Scott is “general agent” for the Tontine, re-
grets that it doesn’t know that gentleman from a crow
(not that that is anything to his discredit, for most of the
people The Bulletin knows are anything but respectable,
and Mr. H. G. Scott isn’t responsible for this paper’s want
of knowledge of him, and it is only this paper’s beastly
ignorance, anyhow. The fact that the sound and emi-
nently reliable Perpetual Trustee Co. is mixed up with
the affair should be quite sufficient guarantee for Mr.
Scott’s bond-fides). Still another item is that “ all
policies are to be effected through the general
agent of the fund, Mr. H. G. Scott.” If that
means that he gets the agent’s commission, then
it seems to this paper that he will make a
very handsome sum of ± 5000 or more. And if he doesn’t
get the commission who does? Of course, there is no
possible reason why Mr. Scott shouldn’t get the commis-
sion as well as anybody else—still, if one of the big
Trustee Co.’s would start a Tontine on its own account,
and arrange that the £5OOO or so commission on the
policies should form the nucleus of the fund for ultimate
distribution among the survivors—well, at the end of 20
years, with compound interest, there would be from
£lO,OOO to £20,000 the more to divide among the sur-
vivors. And that is a point of some little importance.
* « * *
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of New
York sends along a little book in which is detailed every
separate mortgage which the society owns (location,
value of property, and amount lent); all its bonds, stocks,
and securities, with the book-value and present market-
value of each, and the interest which each investment
produces ; its office properties—in fact, every asset down
to the very smallest. As a guarantee of the soundness of
the investments this is a valuable idea. And it would be
a very valuable shock to old imported British prejudices
if Australian societies would take the public into their
confidence in like manner.
* * * *
A company, capital JJ170,000 in 170,000 <£l
shares, is being formed to buy up the sole rights for Aus-
tralia of the Dunlop pneumatic tyre. The Australian
branch of the Dunlop tyre business was formed in 1893,
and the profits in 1897 were £11,975. In 1898 they were
£14,708. The public is offered 80,000 7 per cent, prefer-
ence shares, on which the dividend will be cumulative.
The price to be paid for the business is £135,000 —£45,000
cash ; £20,000 in 20,000 7£ per cent, second preference
shares on which the divirlend is not cumulative ; and
£70,000 in 70,000 ordinary shares. The fact that the
shares held by the public have an absolute first claim on
the profits up to 7 per cent is a good thing for
the public. Also the fact that the vendors are
willing to take the bulk of their money in shares
which have no claim whatever for dividends till the
public has got its 7 per cent, looks as if they had plenty
of faith in the venture. It is provided, by the way, that
the dividend on ordinary shares is not to exceed 9 per
cent. The 7 per cent, dividend to preference share-
holders (£5600), 7£ per cent, to second preference ditto
(£1500), and 9 per cent, to ordinary (±6300), would absorb
£13,400 a year, and the highest profits, so far, have been
£14,708. It is intended to set aside one-fourth of the net
profits, after payment of dividends on the 90,000 pre-
ference shares, to form a reserve-fund of £40,000, and the
co. certainly ought also to make provision for writing-off
the goodwill, which u'ill be a huge paper item among its
assets, for all that goodwill w'ill be dust and ashes some
day—no one knows how soon —when some new invention
makes the Dunlop tyre obsolete.
* * • *
Two English companies are negotiating to buy
up the antiquated private horse-trams of Adelaide for
£214,000, with the promise to abolish the attenuated
plates of meat that now haul the vehicles along and estab-
lish an electric system. But they ask that the State
shall give up all rights of compulsory purchase for at
least 21 years, and if the State knows what it is about it
will refuse to have any dealings on these terms, and will
prefer to take over the business itself. The example of
Melbourne’s private tramway co , with its long hours and
miserable wages and evil repute generally, should make
every other capital swear off tram syndicates.
* * * *
The Ashton Magazine Rifle Co. (Lim.) seems to
have dispersed a cloud of mystery which was beginning
to excite suspicion. This is the little co. formed two
years ago for the purpose of selling Victorian inventor
Ashton's patent-rights in Europe, and the shareholders
naturally wanted to know what had happened to their
subscribed capital (±2500), their agent Pudney, and
Ashton himself in the meantime. At the recent Melb.
meeting a rather extraordinary course of business came
to light. The whole £2500 seems to have been placed to
the credit of airent Pudney, who was followed to England
by inventor Ashton. “A certain amount of ill-feeling
arose” between the two men, and for about 18 months or
so they snorted at one another whilst the shareholders in
distant Melbourne were waiting anxiously for results.
The “ directors” of the 00., who have no visible power in
the matter, are now able to report that Ashton and
Pudney have “settled their long-standing differences”
and are again playing speaks “ in the interest of the com-
pany.” If they don’t resume their quarrel, and if certain
alterations in the rifle are carried out, and if nothing
occurs to prevent some public trials of the weapon as
arranged by Pudney aforesaid, the shareholders are not
unlikely to 'hear of something to their advantage. Any-
way, they seem to be the lawful owners of patent rights
in a rifle which is possibly a valuable invention, seeing
that Ashton’s first trials of it in Melbourne made a favor-
able impression. By the way, Detective Dungey has re-
signed his little seat on the board.
* » * *
Silver ton Tramway Co. proposes to throw a sop
to Cerberus —-Cerberus in this case being the Broken Hill
people, who have begun prodding their members to bar-
rack harder for a Govt, line to compete with the Silverton
Co.’B. Adelaide-Broken Hill merchants requisitioned for
a reduction of the goods tariff ; and the manager’s reply
was almost effusive—the directors, he felt, would be
delighted to oblige. The vast bulk of the co.’s freight is
ore and mine requisites ; and, as it is not proposed to
touch these, the huge profits will not be affected to a
degree worth mentioning. Last year 600,000 tons of stuff
passed over the line, of which only about 20,000 tons was
merchandise of the classes now mentioned ; and it has
just been announced that so far this year the figures of
1898 have been exceeded.
• • • *
For the first time in its history the Mnama and
Deniliquin Railway Co. passed a half-yearly meeting
without a div. The experience was due partly to drought,
partly to the introduction of the Westinghouse brake —
from which latter it may be inferred that the co. is be-
coming riotously extravagant. Still, despite all this, 3j
per cent, profit was earned ; but railway shareholders in
Australia would only be insulted by 3J per cent.
* * * *
' “ Ginger ”: You were wrong in your last week’s
estimate of the quantity of tailings at the Occidental
mine. There are at present over 60,000 tons awaiting
treatment. Of course, this means that the management
will not go for all the clean sand at once, but will have a
fair amount of slime mixed in. Should the directorate
not work on the lines indicated above, they vi ill have a
successful run for, say, six months on clean sand, and
then worse than misery, or be compelled to spend a few
thousands on a slime plant.
* * * *
B. H. North Central, which looked like dying
any time up to a few months ago, kicks again more vig-
orously than for years past. The directors “ congratulate
the shareholders on the improved prospects ” and think
there is “ much better hope of success than at any pre-
vious period.” This is on the strength of what is called
an indicator vein ; anyway it is “ exactly similar to the
indicator in the Gonsols mine when in transition rock.”
But whatever it is, it is some guide to prospecting ; before
they fell in with this they were groping blindly. There
may not be anything in the shape of payable ore shoots
along its course ; but the Consols experience encourages
them to see. Certainly it would be foolish to throw up
the prospect at this stage. The co. has about £4OOO to
get along with, though it isn’t all available at call.
* * • •
Mi*. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., mining engineer, of 434
Oollins-street, Melb., is about to visit Western Australia
to report on a newly-discovered copper property. While
there he is open to investigate other properties.*
* * » *
Mt. David, N.S.W., 400 tons for 1340 z. The
last crushing with the 10-head mill was about the worst;
the new 20-head mill started last week. Is history going
to repeat itself in N.S.W., where, too often, battery and
mine are finished together ?
• * * »
Hillgrove, N.S.W., is a long-languishing gold-
camp which has seen good days, and isn’t likely to see
any better. There is no disguising the fact that the
Eleanora is in a bad way from want of development and
from want of a little more gold to the ton. It only
manages to pay its way under great difficulties, and
another reconstruction is far more certain than another
div. The Baker’s Creek is on fairly good stone at
Nos. 7, 11 and 12 levels. Vein in bottom much
pinched, but the mine manages to squeeze out an
occasional div. Baker’s Creek Consols has dis-
charged nearly all hands for the present; putting
in a new boiler and erecting pumping-plant prior
to sinking that main shaft for another lift. West Sun-
light has shut down ; trying to raise fresh capital while
resting. The energetic manager Martyn, has resigned ;
is said to have tried to keep the show going out of his own
pocket, but jibbed at last. Sunlight : Still grinding
away at very low-grade ore, thus managing to evade
calls without any prospects of a div. Hillgrove Proprie-
tary has got over 160 ft. into the gorge with the crosscut ;
making for the Golden Gate reefs. This co. must have
spent upwards of £20,000, and would no doubt like to see
its money back.
» * * *
Gallymont (N.S.W.) tributors are still working
the mine at a profit, and want an extension of time to
sink the main shaft, which would imply that they are
only doing well by following narrow shoots of ore, and
that the mine is what writer said of it years ago—made
up of narrow shoots with considerable intervening blanks.
Bimbimbie, another of the Anglo-Australian alleged great
mines, is also being worked by tributors. Another at
Florida, not far from Cohar, has been shut down, pro-
bably for a long rest. In fact, outside the Gibraltar, the
A.-A. Co. seems to have got terrible knocks.
•*• * *
The Wilfley concentrator has only been a short
time before the mining public, but has already demon-
strated its superiority, over 1200 being sold within the
past two years. -This machine has a capacity' of from
25 to 30 tons per day, and will save more sulphuretts,
float gold, amalgam or quicksilver, and make a cleaner
and better separation than any belt concentrator made.
It can be easily' and rapidly adjusted while in motion, and
requires no expert attention. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Coy., South Melb, have been appointed sole manufac-
turing agents, and are now engaged constructing machines
for the colonies. The price of the machine is £ll5.
* * * «
North Nymagee, N.S.W., an ever-promising and
never-performing copper-show. The very latest: “ Gre.v
ore, from 30 to 40 per cent., going down in the winze, and
strong underfoot.” Australian Star seriously requests
the management to follow it. Our colonial oath ! Shares
2s. 3d.—with 30 and 40 per cent, ore 1
• • * *
Great Cobar Copper Mine, N.S.W., has become
a colossal affair. Weekly production from four furnaces,
nearly 80 tons of copper, 300 oz. gold, and 3000 oz. silver.
A fifth furnace is being fitted for pyritic smelting.
Monthly tonnage, between 10,000 and 12,000 tons : mine
working three levels (54, 74 and 90 fathoms), and prepar-
ing for the next.
® « • * *
Five tons of ore from a certain mine was re-
cently sent to the burlesque N.S.W. Govt, metallurgical
works and another five of similar quality to Dapto. Result
from the Govt, works a little over 50z., and a report that
the ore was only suitable for smelting. That sent to
Dapto returned lloz. per ton and a high percentage of
copper. The mine-owner used much blue language at
the Govt, works.
» * * *
Of 500 or so claims exploited in Broken Hill dis-
trict during the past 10 years only two off the main lode
have paid divs.—the Consols and the Little Broken Hill.
In earlier day's, with silver at 4s. 6d., half-a-dozen others
made a trifle; but that was mostly from rich surface
stuff. The Little Broken Hill has just paid its first; it is
owned by an unpretentious little local co., which has a
fair lead body in the Rockwell Paddock to work on—the
district which was once broken-up by a huge English co.,
that spent £5OO on reports and £3OO on a prospecting pit,
and then liquidated. The most remarkable thing of all
about the Little Broken Hill, though, is that it got a
grant from the Prospering Vote, and paid it back—the
first instance on reoord of a silver-lead mine doing suoh a
daring thing.
* • • *
Overflow (N.S.W.) : Thirty hands discharged
“pending a meeting of shareholders.” This co. must
surely face reconstruction, and the sooner the necessity
is recognised the better for everybody. Mines of this
sort, however well handled, need lots of money, and
thousands seem to have been frittered away in this par-
ticular instance.
• * • *
Green Hills rush (Etheridge), which during ’96
and ’97 turned out somewhere between 10,000 oz. and
20,0000 z. of gold, mostly in slugs, is now almost deserted.
Pubs, closed, police removed, and the last of the women
and goats about to leave.
A cheerful young bounder, describing himself
as the sub-editor of The Bulletin and a son of a wealthy
Vic. M.L.C., is buzzing around lately with gorgeous gold
mining schemes up his sleeve. When last heard of he
was in Tasmania, inviting Victorian acquaintances, by
wire, to send their cheques for shares in a mine which
Tiie Bulletin —so be represented—had sent him to report
upon. Australia seems to be full of bogus Bulletin men,
and this paper, in a general way, is too tired to protest
against the imposition.
• • • »
David Auraria James, who made such a lucky
start at Broken Hill—he was up that way with his teams
when Hasp pegged out the big mine—now owns, with two
partners, the Kapunda copper-mine. For many years
this one claim marie Kapunda about the most prosperous
S.A. town outside Adelaide. Then, after 22 years’ life,
water poured into the mine in a tremendous flood ; and
soon afterwards the copper-market was knockel-out.
The partners make no stir to get the water under;
most likely J. Bull will be invited to do that.
* * * *
At a meeting in London of the North Mt. Lyell
Co., Mr. Wm. Jacks, who, by the way, is a Doctor of Laws,
stated the co.’s steamer North Lvell had been sold to the
U.S.S. of M.L. at a profit of a few-thousands. When the
steamer was built Mr. Jacks said the directors expected
to ship 1600 tons of ore a week, but now 1000 tons a day
could be raised ! Taking copper at £5O a ton, they had
±6,000,000 worth of orein sight. The chairman thought the
reason shareholders had not taken up the debentures was
because they thought the shares a safer investment at 6!
A certain Mr. Hennessey who had just returned from his
sixth annual visit to the North Lyell, then made a few
three-star remarks about the modesty of the directors in
stating the value of the mine at £6,C00,000. “ Oh !” said
Brother Jacks, “ that is just the ore in sight calculated at
£5O a ton. THERE WILL BE 20 TIMES THAT BEHIND
IT!” Great Zadkiel Jacks! Hennes-y retorted that a
scientific man told him there was £13,000,000 worth of
ore in sight. Surely these birds study astronomy and
get their figures mixed.
A nice row brewing between New Brothers’
Home and the Briseis Tin co.’s. Mr. Mackenzie, C.E., in
an elaborate report to the former co., advised it to
spend £41,159 in hydraulic sluicing to get at tin-drift
worth, at £lOO a ton, £167,078. Inter alia, Mackenzie
stated there was 400,000 cubic yards of payable drift to
be taken from the Briseis side of the Brothers’ Home
eastern boundary, and he advised arbitration before
encroaching on the Briseis ground. Now the Briseis
directors say they will strenuously oppose any entrance
on their ground by the Brothers’ co. Further, they don’t
want any interference with their tail-race, 1200 ft. long
through basalt.
* • • •
Up to date the Great Boulder mine has pro-
duced 91 tons of gold.
m • • •
Said now at Kalgoorlie that the Associated’s
mysterious call-up of £50,000 for unissued shares was to
set a new co. to work the Iron Duke, one of its leases, on
to its legs. In that case, presumably, present Associated
shareholders will get all the shares in the new concern.
Record to date of Lady Shenton, Menzies’
boss mine : 59,0780 z. from 21,899 tons, exclusive of gold
from tailings ; divs., £BB,OOO. First-rate, seeing the
mine’s handicap until the railway was open. But pre-
sent yields are not up to that average ; last month 1800 oz.
from 1250 tons. Mining cost 12s. 2d., and milling 15s. 4d.
—which will read queerly to, say, Bendigo men, who are
used to mining costs three times heavier than the milling.
* * * •
The cussedness of mining. Fraser South Co.
bought the Fraser South Extended because there was a
chance of finding the former’s lode in it. Prospecting
for it they found another more promising body ; so they
have gone back now to the Fraser South to see if they
can find the Extended’s lode there.
Though for the first half of the year 18 Wesfcra-
lian mining co.’s were on the div. list, Lake View Consols
and Ivanhoe between them contributed £575,000 of the;
gross total of £996,500. Next—Associated, £90,000,
Boulder, £BO,OOO ; Horseshoe, £75,000 ; and Brown Hill
£73,500.
* * * *
Great secrecy was observed as to the departure
of Messrs. Mellor and “Joe” Syme, of Mt. Lyell Co., to
America. It is said the co.’s copper contract expires this
year, and it is proposed to make a fresh contract with
U.S. instead of British metal-buyers.
* * * *
Dicky Bumble, one of the old aboriginals who
haunt Albany, W.A., showed in that town pieces of coal
which he said he had obtained 40 miles away to
the eastward. He offered to show where he got the coal
for £2O, and a resident took him at his word. Dick a.nd
his woman and the resident drove out to the scene of the
discovery, and sure enough from some holes coal was got,
but, singularly enough, in stray pieces. As there was no
appearance of it being a coal district, Dicky was charged
with salting the holes, and, after pressure, owned up to
having got the coal on Middleton Beach and having
placed it in the holes. The resident, though he had been
taken more than 40 miles on a fool’s errand, laughed
heartily at Dicky’s idea of salting a coal-mine. As a
punishment, however, he allowed Dicky and his woman
to find their way back to town as best they could. Pro-
bably the first case on record of salting a coal-mine.


d
A NEW DEPARTURE
Irient Suit to pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
&3T We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board, in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVI® JONES & COMPANY,
-GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Opposite j
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
MONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
J
I
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
The fuss continues in Tasmania about the
enormous number of letters and wires sent free by
M’s.P. It is also said that members’ wives (who
get free railway passes as well as their husbands)
send their passes to lady friends—which is likely
to be rough on poor hubby. A shareholder in a
mining co. has written one of the papers saying he
had just got free franked circulars from two mem-
bers, asking him to vote for them as directors of
the co. He says there are 700 shareholders, and if
they all got circulars from the two members the
State lost £5 on the transaction, as members are
entitled to post and wire free only on public busi-
ness. A member stated in the Assembly that
“leaders” were wired free from Hobart to a
Launceston paper. Thirty years ago a row was
made about the Government postage-stamps in
Vic. Parliament, and it was found on inquiry that
one of the largest illicit consumers was James
Palmer, President of the Leg. Council. Just at
that same time Palmer prosecuted a man for steal-
ing a few penno’th of firewood from his back yard
at Hawthorn.
* * * *
When in criminal cases a jury disagrees
and a re-trial is set down, should the same Judge
“THE STRAIGHT TIP,"
ATTORNEY (to lady client applying for information) after reading over to her the legal
grounds for divorce : “ Has your husband been guilty of any of these acts? If
so, you could get a divorce.”
THE LADY: “ He's a young man I don’t like; but there’s nothing there I could get a
divorce from him for. Rut there’s some things he could get a divorce from
me for. ”
re-try the case ? That has been treated as a puzzle-
question in Sydney during the past week. The
i obvious answer is—The same Judge should be as
. incompetent to preside at the second trial as the
. same jury to sit in the box. Judge and jury will
necessarily have formed opinions at the first trial,
-and. neither would come to the second trial with a
•'•wholly-unprejudiced mind —a right to which
accused is entitled.
•' Disagreeing juries have handicapped liberal
vlaw-reformers ever since the introduction of the
system. In Henry ll.’s time 12 constituted a
jury, but another 12 were sworrl, and if the first 12
disagreed, six were withdrawn and six of the
sworn sent into the box, and so on till a verdict
of 1-2 was secured. Even still in English grand
juries and in trials before the Master in Lunacy
20 jurors are often sworn, a verdict of 12 being
accepted. In 1492 juries were liable to be tried
for their verdict by other juries of 24, and were
punished if decreed guilty of returning a wrong
-verdict. Later, if one juror disagreed with 11,
that one was fined.
The precedence question at issue between
Primate Smith and Cardinal Moran is somewhat
different from such a question in England, and
different now from what the question was 30 years
ago. In England there is an Established Church
which confers precedence ; in Australia no such
ground for precedence exists. But 30 years ago
the Pope was a temporal ruler, with power to
make princes just as Emperor William made
Bismarck one. These princes were necessarily
entitled to their rank everywhere, not in virtue
of being bishops of a church, but because they
were raised to princedom by a valid king-Pope.
That is not the case to-dav, as the Pope is now an
Italian citizen and a subject of King Humbert.
Therefore, Primate Smith lacks a valid claim for
precedence, and so, it appears, does Card. Moran.
Seniority in holding the Sydney see, as proposed
by Gov. Jersey, is the fairest way out of the
difficulty. In the early days, Australian Gover-
nors invited the spiritual heads of the Protestant
and R.C. communities to Govt. House on alternate
dinners, and the R.C. and C.E. prelates said grace
in turns.
* * * *
The St. Mary’s Cathedral requiem, the
other day, denoted the 16th anniversary of the
death of Archbishop Vaughan. Nearly every
ecclesiastic prominently connected with the Arch-
bishop’s first requiem is now dead. John
M‘Elhone, Eorster, Greenwood, Walter Cooper,
John E. Kelly, and a score of others , prominently
antagonistic to the Archbishop are also dead.
* * * *
A N.Q. hubby, coming home unexpectedly
the other day, found wifey and a batch of other
she’s hanging upon the utterances of a greasy
“ palmist ” ; ordered him out, and, when cheeked
by the ladies’ favorite, smote him violently in the
eye, slung him down the front-steps, and ducked
his head in the water-butt. A lot of approving
house-fathers have pooled to pay any fine that
may be inflicted upon the summary-jurisdiction-
man, but so far the seer has made no sign.
* » * *
A Mel-
bourne
lady:—
How’s this
for English
ideas of Aus-
tralia? Have
just received
a letter from
an English re-
lative of my
husband, in-
quiring anx-
iously what
color the baby
is ! I opine he
thinks I’m a
black gin.
“M.Tur-
lutu ” on a
delicate
subject:—
Yes, some
women are
sudden.
Years ago, a
Melbourne
b e a u ty, a
brid e of 12
months, was
con tributing
by her bril-
liant talk to
alleviate the
dreary before-
dinner wait
at a society
magnate’s
house. The
men admired
her splendid
svelte figure—
the tight pull-
back skirt
was then in
fashion and
the women
only smiled
very faintly.
The butler
announced
dinner and
the host was
preparing to
lead his beau-
tiful guest
downwhen she suddenly sank into a chair and turned a
look of blank amazement upon the family doctor, who
happened to be one of the guests. The hostess, a tactful
woman, hastily shook her husband into activity, and the
guests filed off, leaving the lady, the medico, and the host-
ess, who had hastily deputed a relative to act in her
place at table. The reason of their detention arrived
with the dessert—a strapping boy, whose health was
enthusiastically drunk, and who probably had the
record number of godfathers and god-mammas—or has,
for he adorns an adjacent province at the present day.
But that is long ago, and the modern woman is, per-
haps, not quite so hasty. Writer (a medico), however,
has assisted at an impromptu accouchement in a London
’bus on Ludgate Hill—the lady’s sixth. She was apolo-
getic, but distinctly proud of the feat, subsequently
informing this scribe that her second saw the light half-
way up the steps of the Monument, while the third inter-
fered for a while with the progress of a procession in the
Strand. At big maternity institutions the doormat is a
favorite place for scratch obstetrics, discreet nurses
screening the place off from the gaze of an astonished
cabby, who drives off thanking his stars that she had got
out in time. The moral of all this is that ladies in a
certain condition should never leave off their wedding-
rings. One never knows —and the mercy of lovely woman
to her unringed sister in the time of trouble is as the
loving kindness of the crow to the crippled lamb.
Writer knows a Melbourne man who kept
a little pet monkey, of which he was very fond,
a.nd to which he permitted
many liberties. One
night the man was read-
ing an interesting book,
and the ape crept to his
shoulder, and began pro-
specting amongst his
hair. The monkey
browsed round for an
hour, and then the reader
discovered a certain irri-
tation, and found his
head bleeding in places.
Result: Blood-poisoning,
erysipelas, and a long,
tough and expensive
struggle for life. That
man is off monkeys now
and for ever.
• * •
Piece of Mel b.
police-court evidence :
“Sure, he sez, sez he, ‘all in favour of Federa-
tion,’ sez he, ‘hold up both hands.’ I put up
both hands, an’ jist then he hit me a divil av a
punch on the nose.”
* * » *
There is one side of the policeman’s-
revolver question that no one seems to touch—the
legal side. Nobody has a legal right to use a
deadly weapon, except in defence of his own life
or property, or to prevent the commission of a
felony. A constable may lawfully kill a man
charged with felony if all other means have been
tried for his arrest without avail; but he may not
so kill a misdemeanant. Similarly, a constable
may kill a prisoner escaping from custody when
all other means of detaining him fail. Uow, no
man who fires a bullet at another can be sure it
will not kill. Therefore the policeman who fires
at a fleeing man before he has used all other means
to take him is a murderer in intent, if not in act.
* » * *
Henry Hockings writes (in S.M. Herald)
that on the allotment on which Herald office now
stands a hut stood in the early days, and an old
woman’s washing used to hang on a line where now
is the front of the office. Verily a HERALD-like
retrospect.
* * * *
The Sydney axiom, “ If you love me, show
me your revolver,” received new demonstration
last week when the usual young man who was
determined to marry the girl whether she would or
no, called round and insisted on coming in to
worship at the shrine where he wasn’t wanted.
A male friend who happened to have called in on
his way from work pushed him out, whereupon he
is alleged to have rushed off in a cab, bought a
revolver, returned, knocked at the door and when
the same young man attempted to prevent him
entering the house a second time, shot him dead.
He then, it would appear, proceeded to shoot in-
discriminately and wounded the two sisters of the
girl he wanted to transplant to his bosom. He is
said to have tried to shoot her too, and in the door
is a hole which looks suggestive. The world is
full of cranks who are ready to shoot women
because they won’t marry them, and six months
after they do are ready to shoot them because
they did.
* * * *
In the case of the man Griblett, who lately
shot one Williams at Pyrmont (Sydney), one
local paper has introduced a new feature into
the “trial by newspaper” which always follows
such occurrences. Giblett’s account of the affair
is that it was while being man-handled by
Williams he fired the fatal shot; and though, of
course, this may not be true, it is nothing short of
iniquitous to practically contradict the man’s
story by publishing an imaginary view of the
occurrence, in which Giblett is represented as
deliberately “ potting ” the other man at a couple
of yards’ distance.
* * • *
In recent Sydney case, a man, who was
medically advised, on his wife and family’s ac-
count, to leave an unwholesome tenement, took
with him his poor £5-worth of furniture ; where-
upon, as he owed a few weeks’ rent, the landlord
was down upon him with the “ fraudulent - re-
moval” charge, and had him fined £lO, or six
months’ gaol. The law is worthy of Botany Bay
that permits such punishment for an act in which
—as proved by the ex-tenant’s interim offer to pay ,
off the landlord by instalments—there was no
felonious intent.
* * * *
Maoriland law brought up the other day,
with a shock, against this problem—is a man
entitled to kiss the girl he is engaged to? The
girl admitted the engagement, and also acknow-
ledged that she refused to' let him kiss her. She
didn’t twine round him, or crush her ruby lips
against his moustache, or let him playfully bite
her ear. And when at last he tried to kiss her by
force she resisted, and in the struggle her two
small feet flew up, and she fell in the mud and
lost her hat. She charged him next day with
assault, and produced the muddy clothes in court
as evidence, and the court said that it didn’t
know what to do—it had never before met an
engaged girl who refused to be kissed. So it
found a non-committal verdict—something to the
effect that it didn’t think the clothes were much
damaged, and hoped the mud would brush off
when it was dry, and that it expected the hat had
blown away down the street.
* * * *
A Sydney C.E. clergyman recently de-
clined to marry a pair, one of whom (the man)
admitted that he had not been baptised, and did
not value the rite. The girl was C.E., and the i
man was accommodating enough for marriage, but j
kicked at baptism.
AT THE CORONER’S COURT.
CORONER: “ You told the servant to go when you
discovered that the house was on fire, and you
say that she refused! ”
WITNESS: “Fes, your Worship; she said she
wouldn’t leave unless I gave her a week's money
or a week’s notice !”
London, July 19.
At Manchester Assizes the Judges closed the 'Court
early so as to permit of attendance at the test-match.
God saw the world grow w’orse and worser ;
And so He called His Chief-Arch-Purser :
“ Hey ! Gabriel ! Let blow the trumps ! ”
The angel turned around offended :
“Oh, Lord, the test-match isn’t ended ;
Pray wait till they have drawn the stumps ! ”
VON KOTZE.
Recent returns show that there are nine
members of the Clifton family occupying high
positions in the Westralian Govt, service. One
is Principal Under-Secretary for Lands, another
is Warden and R.M. at Lawlers, while others are
in the Customs, Railways and Education Depts.
Warden Clifton was in the milk business in a
Perth suburb when the Coolgardie goldfields were
discovered. Another family well represented is
Roe. The eldest is chief P.M. of Perth, another
is Sheriff, and a third is Warden in a N.W. dis-
trict. The service is stuffed to repletion with re-
presentatives of the early ’Gropers, but as it is a
certainty that the Public Service Board to be ap-
pointed will consist of men of the same class the
system will be perpetuated rather than otherwise.
* * * *
The whole of the Hobart Water Police
force has been disabled. It comprised one sergeant
with no men under him. When all the municipal
and Govt, police were amalgamated this year the
new commissioner saw the fun of the Water
Police Force and squashed it ; took the stripes off
the sergeant, but left him his pay and put him to
work in the streets.
A WELL-FED HORSE.
JACK O'ROO : “Spot Regan shoot in’ off ter tucker
’is moke? ”
TIM TAWNY: “ Where’s his feed-bag?”
JACK O'ROO : “Pooh! ’E don’t want no feea-bag.
All ’is poor moke’ll git is in ’is ’allow tooth.”
That recent disturbance among Melbourne
Spiritualists suggests one thing in particular—the
‘'meejum ’’ought to have sense enough to learn
the simple art of the “ quick-change ” variety
man. It is an easy art, and even the average
clumsy and unconvincing “meejum” could
acquire it. In the late trouble the lights were
turned out as usual; the ghost-raiser was sup-
posed to be in her cabinet, and the disembodied
one was stepping about on the floor in the usual
purposeless, shadowy manner that proves nothing.
Then a young lady snatched at the spirit’s
drapery as the spirit prowled past, and the
drapery came of, and the spirit committed assault
and severe smack on the young lady’s ear, and
pandemonium raged. It took several minutes to


Personal.
The man or woman doesn’t live who by the aid
of Warner’s Safe Cure cannot cure himself or her-
self of any form of liver disease. No failures. No
trouble. Cases slight or serious, of a day’s or
year’s standing, are promptly benefited, and
ultimately cured. Who makes the claim?—The
proprietors. Who proves it?—The united voice of
thousands in Australia. Easy to prove it. If
your liver is wea'c, try it. You too will praise it.
‘'lt affords me very great gratification to be
able to testify to the excellence of Warner’s Safe
Cure. For years I suffered from a sluggish liver.
I tried pretty well everything without getting any
relief, but when I was induced to try Warner’s
Safe Cure it cured me. Now I feel better than I
have felt for years.”—FRANK WARD, General
Commission and Theatrical Agent, Maryborough 4
Queensland.*
Sore Throat.
“ You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MOBELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
Condy’s Fluid,
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
CoNDY’S FLUID’* can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
S“SP Oil C^e
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout,
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Korins on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARO WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering- or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Lungs, Neuralgia and Headache. Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Senior’s
Famous Pharmacy
All Business Communications to be
Addressed
FRANK SENIOR,
Chemist, 246 George Street, Sydney.
get a light, and the clumsiest quick-change artist
would have been fully dressed before it came.
But this medium wasn’t. The circle found a
large, hot woman considerably unclothed in the
cabinet, and wildly denying everything, and it
broke up in disorder. The medium who can’t get
into her clothes and do her back-hair inside two
minutes should leave a profession where so many
emergencies are liable to arise.
» » » *
But that spiritualistic exposure doesn’t
seem to have much shaken the faithful. In
fact, it appears to have acted as a sort
of tonic, for the following Sunday the be-
lievers rolled up in hundreds to their meeting-
place. Much attention was attracted by a closely-
veiled young woman who, it was whispered, was
the detective that capsized the other show, and
had received a very material “one in the eye ”
front the disconcerted medium.
* * * *
The recent Melb. spiritualistic kick-up
recalls the story of an interview, per medium,
between a widower and his “dear departed.”
“Are you ’appy, ’Arriet?” “Yes, very ’appy,
William.” “ ’Appier than you woa with me,
’Arriet?” “ Yes ; a lot’appier !” “ Where are
you, ’Arriet ?” “In ’ell, William !”
* * * •
Ramsay Smith, whom S.A. Govt, brought
out as senior physician during the Adelaide Hos-
pital rumpus, declares that they don’t useanti-toxin
at the institution, yet it has not lost in his time
a single patient from diphtheria. The method
adopted is one which he credits to Dr. Cockburn,
now the province’s Agent-General. Also, under
similar methods of treatment, not one of 69 cases
of measles and 115 cases of scarlet fever have been
lost.
* * * *
S.A. Govt, is still bringing medical men
from England for Adelaide Hospital. Their en-
gagement was kept so quiet that the arrival at
Adelaide last week of Dr. Prior, one of the three
engaged, was the first intimation received locally.
The Adelaide medicos have at last grown so tame
that new importations are not boycotted socially
now as were Napier and Smith when they arrived.
* • * *
The Kingston Govt, has advantaged itself
of Dr. Whittell’s resignation to appoint Dr.
Ramsay Smith, the bete noir of Adelaide striking
doctors, Inspector of Schools of Anatomy and
to superintend the University School of Anatomy.
“ This,” as one of the surgical antagonists of the
Govt, acknowledged, “ will give Smith an oppor-
tunity of being damned nasty,” which perhaps
was what he and the Premier wanted. Who
knows!
* • * *
The latest N.S.W. police absurdity was an
escape from custody. A prisoner in charge of a
single constable was being taken by coach at
night from Hillgrove to Armidale. The coach
broke down, whereupon prisoner blew out the
light and bolted into the bush. Constable blazed
away with his “squirt” into the darkness, then
went in pursuit and was lost all night in the bush.
About 24 hourslater the man way re-taken 160 miles
away, and the absurd part of the business was that
he hadn’t run off at all, but simply hung about in
the darkness while the constable was emptying his
revolver, and then, when the coach started,
climbed up behind and rode to Armidale, where
he took a cab to the railway station, jumped into
an empty compartment in a train just starting,
and travelled unnoticed over 150 miles. When
detected, he jumped out of the carriage-window,
and might have got clear had he not mistaken a
policeman in plain clothes for a railway-ganger.
Another “smart capture,” of course !
• • * *
The path to Lee Weller’s “grave” at
Glenbrook is not much used now—the pious pil-
grims go elsewhere for excitement. For months
after Butler was hanged Glenbrook was a favorite
picnic-ground with holiday excursionists from
Sydney ; and local cicerones made a good thing
out of them. “ You see, missus, Butler ’e stood
’ere; and Lee Weller ’e was a-bent-up there
diggin’; and Butler ’e shot ’im just there. Hi
didn’t ’ear ’im myself; but they say ’e groaned
horful.” Then the ladies —they were mostly
ladies—would goggle their eyes, and gasp, and
boil the cheerful billy on the edge of the ex-
cavation, before settling their skirts and
squatting to discuss the “tragedy ” till the
train went. Of course, when the body was
removed, Govt, filled the hole up—it wasn’t
a large hole, for Butler was an impatient
man, and sparing with his holes; but
the pilgrims opened it again ; and so
many ladies took away handkerchiefs full
of sand for keepsakes that you could almost
get a horse and cart in before they were
done. And in many suburban homes now,
when visitors have “ seen the halbum,” the
hostess proudly takes down a “ lovely
vaws ” from the drawing - room mantel-
piece : 11 There! That’s sand from Lee
Weller’s grave ! ”
One morning about (say)
six of seven years ago a notori-
ous jury-squarer in a certain
Australian city, strolling lei-
surely down to the law-courts,
met a legal ex-employer, who had
been lately raised to the bench.
A half - friendly, half - surreptitious
nod was met by a haughty stare of non-recog-
nition. “Hm ! ” said the squarer to a pal,
a little later, “ got the straight tip this time,
anyhow. Met Judge X just now. Looked me
straight in the eye and never moved a muscle. If
ever I come before him for ‘ arranging a verdict ’
I’ll get 10 years, sure’s death.” “Why,” said his
pal, “ I thought you fixed up a case for him not
long ago?” “So I did. And he hasn’t forgotten
it. That’s why.”
* * * *
“Our daily leper,” up North, is some-
thing of a novelty this time, being, it is said, a
kanaka woman, discovered in a Brisbane suburb.
“ F.C.F.” : Pathos
sometimes hits you in
the eye when least
expected. Writer
was recently in a
Melbourne shop
when a middle-
aged, well-dressed
man entered, lead-
ing a ragged, bare-
footed urchin of
about nine. Wri-
ter menaally de-
cided that the
man had brought (
the lad in out i
of compassion,
and as soon as
the couple had
left he said to
the proprietor,
“ Benevolently-
disposed man, I
suppose; young-
ster- picked up
in the street ? ”
“ Oh, no,” was
the reply, “that’s
a well-to-do busi-
ness man and his
only surviving
child. He has
lost three others
and his wife—
through too
much coddling
and doctoring,
he says ; so he
is bringing that
boy up on con-
trary principles.
He is never better
dressed than as
you saw. Yet he
seems happy
enough, tnd the
father is greatly
attached to him.”
* *
A recently-widowed
South Melbourneite, finding it
impossible to give adequate expression to his
grief through the in memoriam columns and
the usual trappings of woe, tied great bunches of
crape about his chimney tops, and let them remain
there for seven days.
* * * *
On the eternal lodge-doctor question,
“ M. 8.” to The Bulletin
If “C. 0.” (5/8/’99) doesn’t “approve of the present
lodge practice of insuring against ill-health,” why doesn’t
he “ contract with the doctor direct ” ? It is a better
arrangement for all concerned, and he will find that
almost any reputable general practitioner will be only toO
glad to have him. With regard to other matters, the
assertion that the single fee may include perhaps
20 persons is not nonsense, for the writer once had
to attend 22 under these circumstances. As for the
amount of premium, the chemist’s whack amounts
usually to one-fourth, often more, and the doctor gets
the remainder, which in many cases is even below the
14s. quoted by “ C.C.” But it is only too true that
these things are made possible by throat-cutting medical
competition. The fight is growing even harder, and
“C.C's” suggestion that the struggling young medico
should advertise his willingness to form a private club
under improved conditions is not far off its fulfilment.
There are man3 r private clubs in existence, and they work
well; but the advertising would rouse the big lodges to
use every effort to crush private associations. In addi-
tion, the poor rag of “ medical etiquette ” is all that the
young doctor has to cover the wounds of his dignity.
Advertising deprives him of it, and relegates him to the
MOTH AND RUST.
THE NIPPER (to benevolent old lady, who has j ust
given him, a penny): “Say, old girl, if yer’d
kept that brown any longer it would er turned
green. ”
ranks of the “young man’s friend” class, for ever out of
the running for the top place to which every young
medico aspires—while he is young. “ C. 0.” has strength,
but his science is lacking—he judges from the outside.
Still, there is growing up a generation of young doctors
who think much as “ 0.0.” does. The age of direct
medical advertising is not far off—and the big lodges
recognise and fear the fact.
THE BARITONE.
S HE: “ Sorry I can't pay the rent this week. My
’usband’s out o’ work. ’E ’as lost ’is voice.”
HE: “Sorry to hear that. But I did not know
your husband was a sinyer.”
SHE: “Ow now; he sells rabbits!”
From Norfolk Island :—“ These people
are very religious ; attend service two or three
times a day. Won’t do a hand’s-turn on Sun-
days ; if they see a man smoking on that day
think he is going straight to hell. Not too moral
—that is, among themselves ; but they are very
strict with outsiders, and suffer no liberties.”
(Writer is 70 or so.) “ They are very lazy.” The
island has, it seems, one lawyer ; they tax him
specially. Which, anyhow, doesn’t look like a
bad idea.
* * * *
A fair Australienne “ doing ” the Islands
recently was slightly embarrassed at Apia by the
attentions of a stalwart native, who followed the
lady and her party all over the place, chattering
his own lingo the while. He had a war-dance
executed for them, took them to various points of
interest, and when the time came for re-embark-
ing and the lady shook hands with him, he mur-
mured in English (the first he had spoken that
day): “Me handsome feller ! ” It was the re-
mark she had made herself on first seeing him !
* * * *
The Aug. sittings of the Mackay (Q.) Dis-
trict Court were held at a novel hour. There were
but two cases for hearing—an application to quash
a conviction and a case of indecent assault, to
which accused had pleaded guilty, so that the sit-
tings would be over in a very short time. Owing
to the tides the tender was to leave the wharf at
5 a.m., and the Judge wanted to catch than boat.
The court had, however, been gazetted for 15th
inst., and so had to be held on that day. The sit-
tings were therefore opened at one minute after
midnight, and closed about Bmin. later.
* * * *
The quickness with which the Victorian
referendum poll was published outside the
Argus office recalls the Melbourne posting of
the results of last N.S.W. referendum. The
Argus was in direct communication with the S. M.
Herald so that the results were wired direct to
the office while a certain other Melbourne paper
had to depend for its results on the ordinary press
telegrams through the Government office. But
that paper’s jackals were not to be “ done.” They
had a man posted outside the Argus office, and
as soon as the Argus hoisted, say, “9,ooo’’the
jackal scooted down the street and got 11,000
hoisted at his office ; and this at a time when the
figures of (say) 11,000 were not even known at the
Electoral Registrar’s office in Sydney. The Argus
was too proud to paragraph the fact, but it
tumbled to the sharp practice all the same.
* * * m
The trial of Anastatia Butler, at Melb.
Criminal Court, resulted in a decisive defeat of
the ’tectives. Perhaps it was well for the woman
that she was actually put on her trial for
the “ murder ” ; and, anyway, the failure of the
police attempt, to get incriminating statements
from the scared spinster is a matter for honest
satisfaction. Old man Butler’s body was dis-
covered under circumstances which suggest that
daughter Anastatia had made an attempt to get
rid of it, in accordance with her allegation of its
having “gone away” on its live legs. The case
against Anastatia began and ended there, but the
detectives introduced a certain spade into their
evidence without mentioning the existence of an-
other spade, also a “shos'el,” both of which
tended to make the first spade look inno-
cent. Moreover, after “ obtaining a state-
ment ” from Anastatia Butler, and getting
her to sign it, they asked her brother to
question her on their behalf, and when the wor-
ried woman had upset their calculations by saying
nothing to justify her arrest, they arrested her.
This was prior to the inquest. The coroner’s
jury found no evidence of old man Butler having
been murdered, therefore Anastatia was set at
liberty. A month or two passed, nothing arose to
cast new suspicion on Anastatia, but the detec-
tives swore a new information to the Crown, and
arrested her some more. And now a Criminal
Court jury has voted Anastatia not guilty with-
out waiting to hear the Crown case ridiculed by
the prisoner’s counsel. Unfortunately the jury’s
hasty acquittal of the prisoner saved the police
from the “ roasting ” they richly deserved. With
several theories to choose from they chose the
least reasonable theory, apparently because it was
the only one by which they could hope to get
Anastatia hanged.
* * * *
Broken Hill municipal council has been
having another good time. Ordinarily it consists
of six Labor men and six others ; but Buzaeott,
M.L.C., having to resign so that he might come
to Sydney, the “others ” were for the moment six
to five. Led by Aid. Jabez Wright, the Laborites
resolved to block things until the equilibrium was
restored. Two midnight sittings were held, and
another which lasted a whole morning, all inside
five days ; and the Laborites stonewalled all the
time. One proposal was that, as Gov. Beauchamp
was going up that way, the town should grant the'
Mayor an extra J2lOO to spend in entertaining
him. To this scores of amendments were moved
—including some that the Mayor (who isn’t a
Laborite) be allowed “30 pieces of silver ” for the
purpose; that he be allowed Is,, then Is. Id., and
so on. On the shilling proposal (a fair sample of
the proceedings):—
Alderman Wright: You can’t stop an alderman from
speaking. I want a division.
The division was taken.
Alderman Warren seconded the amendment.
Alderman Wise supporied. They would not he able to
supply the Governor with champagne arid turkey for a
shilling, but saveloys were not. too bad and
Alderman Waugh (indignantly): Are there any saveloys
before the meeting, Mr. Mayor?
Alderman Wise : I wish there were. I could do with a
saveloy and something else just now.
The Mayor ruled Alderman Wise out of order.
The closure was at last applied wholesale, and in
a pandemonium the £lOO proposal was carried.
Of the three meetings held in five days two
broke up in disorder, and the third was only
ended by the arrival of Sunday morning. The
Laborites will, no doubt, have their way; under
the circumstances it is quite unlikely the
Governor will visit Broken Hill.
E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.
Roderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers.
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
—“Margaret”—will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number. >
Australian XI. won all test-matches played
to a finish. This is a sufficiently brilliant record.
But Australians are always putting up brilliant
records, among the best of which are those of the
London and American Supply Stores, Bourke-
street, Melb. They have scored a win every
time for supremacy in style, quality, and all-round
distinctive merit. Send for catalogue of all wear.
Prices moderate, satisfaction immoderate. L. and
A. Supply Stores, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
The last test-match ended in the usual draw,
but Zetz Spa Water is proving the greatest draw
throughout Australasia. Once tried, always
wanted. Chronic indigestion cured by drinking
Zetz : see analysis. Nothing to touch Zetz Spa.*
We sell for export everything of American
manufacture, including bicycles at 355. and up.
Sewing machines, 345. and up ; Buggies, 70s. and
up. Over 10,000 illustrations and 100,000 quota-
tions in our big catalogue. Lowest prices ever
known. Cut this notice out and mail to us, and
we will send you the catalogue by first post, free.
Sears, Roebuck & Co., Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
It will be to your advantage to read Fisher
and Co’s ad vt. on page 29.


Tbe Inevitable Ending
of MARK FOY’S FAIR
Can>e on SATURPAY LAST.
THE FIRST W€€K IN SEPTEMBER
Will be devoted to
A SPRING SHOW!
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
■ I\unning
MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
Nature intends to make every woman’s
figure beautiful, and nature always succeeds when
oircumstances and conditions are not too adverse.
But of a million different forms of feminine
loveliness there is not one that cannot be improved
by the P.D. corset. The P.D. is worn by, and
adds charm and grace to, all the “ naicest ” of
Europe and Australia.*
What can be more uncomfortable in a house
than the continual messing about in the trimming of
kerosene lamps? This is entirely avoided if you use the
“ Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires no trimming,”
after the first time, emits no smell, gives a better light,
all you have to do is to keep the well filled,*
Rcn?en)ber! _
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS hare wo ***
Atcherley & Dawson Dimited, 257 Greorge-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 22, 1899.
My Dear Myee,—
I believe it is too funny for aphorisms to see
certain people scanning the list of the V.R. Even-
ing Parties, and enunciating reasons why This and
That had no claim on a card. It must be some of
these uninvited ones who were heard describing
how “ She went up to spend the evening in her
hat, and she said in the dressing-room, ‘ I can’t
take my ’at off, my ’air aint done !’ ” And how a
gentleman from No-where-at-all wore brown
gloves in to dinner, and spread them out by the
side of his soup. And many other stories. But,
after all, which would be jollier ? For Darling
Point to have the choosing? Or for His Ex.?
What do you think ?
If you can go by what the people who
have been left out say, there would be
nobody but themselves to dally with the V.R.
strawberries if they had the asking. Awfully
jolly for His Ex.! But wouldn’t it be a little
quiet for them ? As for the people who will never
put their patent toes inside Govt. House—no, not
even if they are begged by His Excellency to do
it —their names are— —. But that’s telling a lot.
And now comes this awful extract from an
official notice: “As writing a name is not
only an act of courtesy to the Governor, but still
more a mark of respect to the Queen, whose repre-
sentative he is, His Excellency is unable to invite
anyone whose name is not written in the book,
but it is evident that writing a name does not entitle
anyone to an invitation ” /
Buried word for the ladies of Potts Point. “If
it is evident that writing a name does not entitle
everyone to an invitation, it must be evident that
something else does.” Find the Something Else.
The Society of Artists had their picture-show
opened by Lord Beauchamp on Saturday. It was
wet, as it always is at picture-show time, but a. good
sprinkling of visitors, and patrons who always know
agood tiling when they see a regular daub, responded
to the S.A.’s invitations. Evidently our private
views have not begun to be the occasions of the
weird night-like robing of the old country shows.
All the lady artists were in fine feathers, sartori-
ally. Miss Theo. Cowan’s violet tulle hat, worn
with a white lace veil, was snappy enough to com-
pete with the millinery of any short-haired circle.
Pretty Miss Theo. Proctor, whose elongated
studies of women have attracted a good deal of
notice lately, and were rather fancied by His Ex.
on Saturday, sheltered behind a big brown hat.
Miss Alice Muskett was in black. The Premier
and Mr. Hogue represented the Ministry. At 12
His Ex. mounted the dais, and opened the show
with a particularly nice sentiment. Said he : “I
do so want to urge on you the evil of buying what
is not beautiful. ” At which the Society of Artists
smiled and thought of—well, their thoughts did not
go very far down the street. By the way, the Art
Society is nearly next door—but of their pictures
anon.
Little Sid. Long then took his Ex. round the
show, and the crowd scattered, and you had the
opportunity of observing what a boyish-looking
lot most of these S.A. artists are. Long, Lam-
bert, Howard Ashton, Garlick, are all striplings
to look at. I believe they only boast two beards
in this fraternity: thosp of Tom Roberts and Van
der Velden.
Here you’ll find our picture of the year, “ Across
the Black-soil Plains,” by George Lambert.
The Art Gallery snapped it up for a mere
hundred guineas. The picture is a ten-
feet -by - three panel framed in dull green
wood. Thirteen horses dragging a wool-waggon
struggle realistically along its length. Every
horse nas a personality—or animality—of its own.
To many people the canvas is intensely pathetic.
There is such a forlorn, hopeless never-never feel-
ing about the long team and the country and the
atmosphere generally. And the spirit and
action and grip of it are splendid !
Other pictures bought by the Gallery are Sid
Long’s poetical woman rising from the rushes;
Tom Roberts’ “ Jeptha’s Daughter,” in which you
will recognise at once a pretty Sydney Hebress,
although there’s no fieur de riz on the picture;
and an entrancing “Old Man’s Head ” by the little
newly-arrived Italian, Dattilo Rubbo. Tom
Roberts shows a quaint portrait of Grace Noble in
Rose Trelawney’s clothes. Brown predominates ;
she wears a hideous little brown felt hat with a
flying veil, and a brownish-green jacket over
crinoline skirts. It isn’t a flattering picture. The
same artist puts in a portrait of Mrs. W. A. B.
Greaves, a most masterly study of white hair and
dignity. Longstaff’s full-length lady is reminis-
cent of his charming Gallery picture, “ The Lady
in Black, ” but the piercing fascination of the older
picture is missing. Many people are interested
in Miss Meston’s picture of Prof. Anderson Stuart
with the edge off. But what does a prominent
art critic mean by reporting this as a “ youthful
and flattering likeness?” Just to show that it
wasn’t, the Prof, hovered round conspicuously on
Saturday. Also, while asking questions, what is
the name of the garment Julian Ashton’s waking
maiden in “ Dawn ”is wearing ? I ask because it
was unknown to all the women at the Show on
Saturday. It seems to be a kind of robe-de-nuit
cut low and adapted for the balls you go to in
nightmares.
Another opening disclosed itself on Monday
when His Ex. made public the Art Society’s
Annual Exhibition. Frank Mahony was widely
admired in a top hat, but otherwise there was
little dressing. Again it was pouring heavily, but
the long narrow rooms were densely crowded, and
His Ex. had to work a difficult passage along the
walls when he started to do the rounds. His
admiration of Mrs. Stoddart’s miniatures, which
he had observed at the smoke-night on Saturday,,
resulted in a commission for Lady Mary’s portrait.
Though this isn’t the place for attempted criticism,
let me ask you in passing to glance at a strange
oil called “The Light Beyond the Gloom.”'
Whether it is well-painted or not I cannot say,
but I do know that when I was fifteen and in love
with a sunset, I was continually painting that,
identical picture in the eye of my mind. In the
distance was that same sunset and the city leaning
dimly silhouetted against it. Nearer were those
lonely fields, and that desolate, windy hillside,
with just that long, weird, shapeless figure
sweeping impossibly through the gloom. My
heart gave a great leap when I looked up and
saw all those things recorded there. _ But I
don’t offer this information to you with any
deductions. It may be the sort of picture
everybody dreams at fifteen. I can only say that
it fascinated me, and I know of others who have
been similarly attracted. I would not dare to live
in the house with it, any more than anyone would
like to live with their dreams, but I would be glad
to know what becomes of it, and get an entree to
visit it occasionally.
The Art Gallery hasn’t patronised this old
Society very liberally. Only one picture, Joe
Wolinski’s kitchen-scene, animated with a small
boy eating. Many of the artists put this parsi-
mony down to the much-abused trustee who
belongs to the rival Society. Of course they have
to put it down to something, but I hear that this
same trustee refused to sell his own big picture
to the Art Gallery just because he is a trustee.
In looking through the catalogue to find out the
author of “ The Spirit of True Love Leadeth Up-
wards ” (it turned out to be by Moore-Jones, and
was attractive because the man and girl were both
refreshingly good-looking), I came upon some in-
comprehensible notices at the bottom of some
sketches of pictures. Are these advts. ? Because
there’s something rather dangerous about a state-
ment like this : “It was first exhibited in ISB9,
and has always been regarded as one of the best
pictures he has yet painted.” And now it’s 1899 1
The Fair and the weather were the only topics
last week; just as in the old three-bottle days.
Then all the fair were women, but this one is
largely managed by men. Business is doing
moderately well—up till Saturday they had taken
£3OOO. The latest innovation is a bar and a grill-
chop room, run in connection with Mrs. Willie
Mitchell’s cigar-divan. The prettiest women and
frocks are on view about here. Miss Maud
Gowlland and Miss Wade Brown assist some
days. Grace Noble was running raffles on Satur-
day in a little grey toque with violets bunched up
on one side, a chine violet blouse, and short,
ignoble skirt, for she generally trails yards of
well-cut material after her. Mrs. Mitchell was
adorably dressed that same day in a cream frock
with an open lace yoke, and a lovely hat with
white and rose-tinted feathers sweeping round the
face. These stall-holders change their dresses
frequently. In fact, only half-a-dozen women in
the bazaar keep to their original liveries.
Did you see Mrs. St. Hill’s reading of Lady
Mary’s handsinthe Pkess News? It runs candidly,
thus “ Very refined; fastidious; sensitive.
. . . Conventional and very correct in ideas. . . .
Action very circumscribed. ... Not fond of
society, and very difficult to please. . . . Cold-
hearted, and without enthusiasm in her affections,
but very constant and true. . . . Very clever head
in its own line, but not versatile.”
The Press News, by the way, is the Press
Bazaar newspaper, published at the Fair twice a
week. Lady Mary edits it conscientiously, reads
everything herself, and goes to no little trouble.
Her sensible, rather stiffly-written, article on
Part Singing bears out her reputation as a music-
lover. Mrs. Aronson contributes bright Fair
gossip every week. Mrs. Brough has recorded her
deep affection for Paula Tanqueray, her favorite
part, and Brough fires off some comic verses. A
special editorial room is a feature of the Fair, fur-
nished cosily for Lady Mary’s use.
Apropos of the Fair, somebody confides to the
Telegraph his grief because drinking bars exist in
the Press Bazaar (fancy any Press affair without
one), and likewise because little boys are lured to
the penny dip at the risk of eternal hell fire.
Curious the modernity ot this crusade against
gambling. A 30-year-old number of the “ Sunday
at Home ” gives a story of a woman who has faith
in God that her lottery ticket will win the prize,
and it is even so ; likewise in those days the hero
of the Sunday-school yarn could be a brewer with-
out having to give up his vats in the last chapter.
Yet those were the days when fiction reading and
light conversation were reprobated with a horror
hardly known nowadays, Evidently no genera-
tion has time to be good all round ; but we must
give the Deity a lot of trouble sometimes keeping
up with us.
Have you heard of the quiet wedding that came
off in Sydney last week ? Mr. J. C. Williamson,
of the “ Firm, ” ex-husband of Maggie Moore, to
Miss Mary Weir.
A brilliant Jewish wedding, that will have come
off yesterday when you read this, happens at the
Synagogue to-morrow (Wednesday), uniting pretty
Miss Moss-Davies (from Maonland) with Mr.
Robert Lionel Moss. Next week, I will tell you
all about the reception at ‘ ‘ The Australia, ” and
the gorgeous wedding-presents now pouring in.
As a graceful tribute from one Miladi to
another, Lilian Wheeler gave a little tea last
week for Henrietta Watson. Mrs. Brough and
Miss Temple, the Misses Hollander, Mr. Leo
Dobbin and Mr. Cyril Keightly were among the
tea-drinkers who foregathered at the Art Dep6t in
Vickery’s Chambers. By the way, these two
Miladis are as unlike as possible in looks. Lilian
"Wheeler is a tall, slim woman, with golden hair
and large soft blue eyes. Henrietta W atson is
not nearly as tall as she looks on the stage, dark-
eyed, with a dark complexion, peculiar, flexible
mouth, and that sinuous grace of movement which
•characterises her sister Elizabeth.
It seems that these Thespians will even go to
hear recitations in their off hours ; I saw many
theatrical people—Mr. George Rignold among
them—at Mrs. Hannibal Williams’ recital of a
“ Midsummer Night’s Dream ’’ last week. There is
also a Mr. Hannibal Williams who recites whole
plays, and appears to be favorably known in the
States. Mrs. Hannibal is from New York, and has
a broad Yankee inflection that rather takes the
cream off her work for an Australian audience.
But, still, she never offends the intelligence of
anybody who brings along that commodity, and
her memory acts excellently. She was frocked in
white brocade with a rose-pink fold along the
bodice, and had a big bowl of violets aesthetically
arranged on a tiny table. After that, lam afraid
I have exhausted all the admiration points. The
recitress was too smileful for a soulful Shake-
speare audience, whereas for a giddy pleasure-
evening house there wasn’t enough personal
•charm to help out the lengthy recital. Miss Edith
King chirped behind the scenes, and Miss Minnie
Daniels and Signor Podenzana and Mr. P. M.
'Carter brought in some well-rehearsed incidental
music.
At Rand wick Races, on Wednesday, the New
Woman was seen as comic artists have beheld her
in dreams for a long time. That is to say, I believe
she was the New Woman. The only doubt per-
taining to the matter rests on the query: Wasn’t she
a man ? The personage in question wore a grey
sac coat, a white shirt, a grey pot hat, and a
simple sort of skirt that didn’t invite you to look
at it, and thereby shatter the delusion that, take
her for all and all, she was a man. She drove out
in a dog-cart, and walked the lawn with a calm
nerve that was really splendid if she wasn’t a
woman after all. As for the women who
couldn’t be mistaken for anything else, the
grounds were sprinkled chiefly with little fawn
coats and bright-colored toques. It wasn’t a well-
dressed day by any means. Potts Point was all
at the Fair. The only stallholder whom you
would have expected to dress hugged a long tan
cloak with a shaped frill, but unwisely wore no
veil in the face of a cutting wind. Only one
woman in the world could do this without mixing
the cream and carnation in a horribly unbecoming
manner. Lily Langtry used to be that woman,
but even she can’t do that now.
Our popular Madair a Kellerman goes off on a
concert tour with-New! u y and Spada in October,
and takes a well-deserved benefit concert at the
Town Hall on October 4th.
And a new soprano i 3 Miss Fanny Bauer, at
whose private recital last week several connois-
seurs were convinced that her voice would be an
organ worth looking after. She gives a concert in
the To wn Hall early in October.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ His Excellency is very ‘touchy’ nowadays on
the subject of ‘falling-off.’ The last time he
made an unpremeditated descent from his fiery
steed the calamity was ‘ suppressed ’ by the news-
papers, at the urgent request of Lord Richard,
who rushed round to the editorial sanctums, says
the story, with anxiety in his eye and a finger to
his lip. The other day Lord B. got a nasty spill
from his noble bike on Toorak road. Some work-
men ran to pick him up (fortunately he was un-
broken), and the inevitable ‘kind lady’ came
upon the scene and dusted him as though he were
a bit of old Dresden, but the solicitude of the
Samaritans was not very graciously accepted.
Grumbling the glad tidings, ■ I’m not hurt, ’ the
reckless acrobat mounted his ‘ safety ’ and wob-
bled off.
“ The first concert of the present Marshall Hall
series drew a comfortable crowd to the Town Hall.
There was rather more of a musical heavy brigade
to the fore than at Scherek’s fixtures, also, maybe,
a thicker sprinkling of Naicest. Taking into con-
sideration the higher prices, the Marshall Hall
venture looks like safe financial sailing. The
magnetic director has a strong personal following.
Then there are conscientious people, Germans and
others, who subscribe to a course of ‘good
concerts ’ for the same reason as they read a daily
portion of Shakespeare and Schiller.
“ Scherek’s patrons drop in for an afternoon’s
‘nice music’ when so inclined, but are influenced
only by a wish for pleasure, not by a sense of duty
to themselves. Some slaves groan under the yoke
of alleged ‘duty.’ ‘No! I don’t read Australian
authors ! ’ they’ll tell you. ‘ There isn’t even time
for the books one ought to read ! ’ Ail the same,
Marshall Hall instils some of his own fire into his
orchestra and their renderings reflect the glow.
“Elsie Hall, to whom the first concert was
tendered, wore all white and played like her poeti-
cal, intellectual self. The Castles boom makes
one feel sick when noticing the comparative lack
of general appreciation of this fine Australian-
born artist. Castles, at best, is utterly immature,
a girl with a voice, who, since great artists
are made as much by their high intelligence
as by their voices, may possibly never attain any
important rank. Elsie Hall is a first-class inter-
pretive artist,_ whose equipment is the result of
years of laborious study combined with natural
aptitude. Writer has heard Stavenhagen,
Sophie Menter and Leonard Borwick —all first-
rankers in Europe—play Beethoven’s ‘ Emperor ’
concerto, but in respect to delicacy, beauty of tone,
and pure poetry, gives the palm to Elsie Hall. If
her name were Hallistovsky —or something
like that—the great public would rush and say,
‘ How wonderful ! ’ As it is, the best judges
say that she is the finest Australian pianist up to
date, and one of the best of her time.”
“ The people who came late, and those who went
early, at the Elsie Hall orchestral concert, had a
bad time. Marshall Hall won’t go on with the
music till every one is seated, and on this occasion
he just turned round and kept on hammering with
his baton upon the conductor’s desk till the
offenders had subsided. A woman in a red opera
cloak blushed a deeper shade than her garment, as
she felt every eye in the place riveted upon her.
A youth who left with his fiancee, or sister, before
the end, amid a cannonade of baton taps, had to
return to fetch a shawl left behind in the scared
exit. It was like facing a Maxim gun in operation.
A thousand eyes were directed towards the
unhappy youth, and the baton banged at the desk
furiously. But he coolly fetched the shawl, and
didn’t even turn red. Nor did he put his tongue
out. Such unabashed coolness deserves the Vic-
toria Cross. Nevertheless, people earn the gib-
betting. Music is spoiled for those who are
disturbed by late comers or early goers. Marshall
Hall is teaching good manners to his audiences—
though he adopts a very rude way of doing it.
“ Three different varieties of the Amy Castles
costume at the Town Hall last Satur-
day night. First came Una Bourne in her very
abbreviated sample of the ‘infant phenomenon’
garment, and a brave display of white stocking.
Brainy, blonde-haired Una is getting on for 18, or
thereabouts, and the frock, being four years
younger than her age, which is fully five years
younger than her face, gave her the appearance of
a serious humorist. Alice Crawford (from Ben-
digo) elected to recite under the absurd disadvan-
tage of a white frock that fitted her nowhere, and
was too short to give her graceful bearing a fair
chance. Miss Crawford is a tall, dark and decidedly
pretty girl. of , nqt more than 21 or 22, and the
reason why she didn’t let herself go in a full-sized
platform gown would have been a painful mystery
but for the Castles boom. It is believed by the
Bendigonians that a short frock spells a Melb.
triumph for debutantes. After the handsome
Alice had retired with a cargo of floral tributes
and all the dignity possible (considering the length
of her skirt), Lili Sharp came forward. The garb
of early innocence sported by Lili at her first
concert, a few Saturdays back, had given place
to a primitive salmon-pinky frock, which fell
a trifle short of her ankles; and she looked the
oldest-fashioned young damsel of, say, 22 to 25,
ever seen outside a comic opera. Her ingenuous
smile has been toned down, it is true, since a cer-
tain ‘ scurrilous rag ’ passed remarks upon it, but
the excitement of getting her voice discovered
seems to have aged Miss S. for the present, and
she might as well be 35 for all the difference that
a juvenile rig-out can make to her. Even her
voice is settling down into a sober mezzo-soprano.
, “The female committee at Melb. Women’s Hos-
pital has trouble again—this time because the
medical officers will not turn out of bed before
about 10 a.m. How to get them up is the problem.
The committee, being very married, should be able
to manage a little thing like that.
“The Annual Bicycle Club Ball in Masonic
Hall (Aug. 10) was a cheery, unstarched hop.
The dancers were nearly all active young things,
long-winded and light-heeled through much up-
hill pedalling. The Mayoress, in pale-green
brocade and transparent sleeves, looked quite well
again. Mrs. Jack Parsons wore shimmering
jetted net over electric green, slipping off the
shoulders, snake-fit above, massed frills below.
The only thorn in the rose of the ball was a
draped, ever-revolving whirligig, by way of
decoration. It giddied the observer like the
heroine whose ‘ life was turning, turning in mazes
of dizzy sound.’
“The calamity which has suddenly befallen the
husband of a well-known Victorian pen woman has
excited a wide-spread feeling of the deepest
sympathy.
"yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


IMEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BETESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa, Limited, Sydney.
Greater Sydney has yet to come, but Zetz
Spa Water, the greatest natural mineral water, is
running at the rate of 1500 gallons per hour from
a depth of 650 feet, and is going all over the
world. Insist upon Zetz.*
Roderic Quinn’s charming selection of
verses, “The Hidden Tide,” has been warmly
welcomed everywhere. The price is Is. 9d., post-
free from The Bulletin office.
The “Encyclopedia Britannica ” on time-
payment, as issued by Melb. Argus, is neither the
wondrous bargain that the Argus represents it to
be, nor the “ take-in ” suggested by the snarling
Age. Every likely purchaser of an Encyclopedia
is supposed to know pretty well the merits and
shortcomings* of the work, as a book in 24
volumes, the 25th volume being a not very neces-
sary index. Information under letter Ais about
twenty-three years old, and the Z end of the
work is about eleven years old. Many matters of
recent interest are not touched; on the other hand
there is any amount of reading matter which is
none the worse for having been written long ago.
The real question at issue is the price question.
Letters in the Age would make the public believe
that the Argus is offering for 17 guineas a publi-
cation elsewhere offered for about a third of the
money, and the suggestion i's contemptibly unfair,
for the Yankee photographed edition is no
cheaper at the price than the more expen-
sive article. Paper, printing and binding of the
Encyclopedia offered for sale through the Argus
are satisfactory enough. The half-morocco ’’
edition at 22 guineas is the usual order, and,
granting that “ half-morocco ’’ is a bookseller’s
term, meaning more boards than leather, the 25
volumes are undoubtedly fair value at 18s. each,
and the 3-guinea cabinet! to put them in is a good
honest piece of time payment furniture.*
It will be to your advantage to read Fisher
and Co’s advt. on page 29.
I'PHE LATEST FASHION and ALL THE RAGE.’; Gold
Wire Name Brooches. Anv Name or Initials made
like Design for ss. post free. Travellers wanted. Illus
trated catalogue free. R. SIMS, Gold-wire ‘Jewellery
Dept., Cole’s Book Arcade, MELBOURNE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Banjo” Paterson has written a “bushy
book (in prose) of about 120,000 words, and is now
revising it in his less tired moments.
Why doesn’t John Norton write an “ Open
Letter ’’ to himself, telling John in simple allitera-
tive language what Norton thinks about him ?
You may say what you like against ,
but there's this in his favor : he never accused any
man of any crime that he wasn’t game to go and
commit himself.
J. T. Bennetts, who stood around and
cheered while the flag was run up at the “ pro-
clamation ” of S. Aus., died a week or two ago in
the south of the province.
There is a member in an Australian Par-
liament who prosecuted his servant-girl for using
butter when she was ordered to use dripping. The
magistrate fined the girl Is. and paid the fine
himself.
There are still in the N.S.W. State-aid-to-
Religion pension list, 17 C.E., 10 R.C., 4 Presby-
terian and 5 Wesleyan Methodist clergymen.
Total of the 36 pensions, .£5868, or an average of
about .£163 each.
Attorney-General R. W. Pennefather, of
Westralia, is son of a Melbourne police officer who
got big compensation and a substantial pension
for having his skull smashed by a shovel in the
hands of a prisoner.
That somewhat pantalooney politician,
John M‘lntyre, has been created, at his earnest
request, an honorary colonel of the Melb. Scottish
Regiment. This realises the dream of his exist-
ence—to wear a kilt in defence of his adopted
country.
“ S.” : Is not Colonel “Bob” Ingersoll’s
agonising death-bed repentance just about due in
clerical circles ? When it comes it will no doubt
include his last despairing speech, a heartrending
cry, and various details of pre-visions of “ the
burning ' ”
■Ppp*'’
\n r i ro)ors.fe -•-
3 \
ttsSMiRSfeTO
JoVy\x\u^-3)
IMo
f
j from uo\x. -*^
/ J f-4 uouv^-
VcAws
—
\ ovaVuVovaXYv*.
\ ‘w o\& evy^?
l sweet VV\\v\a _
v *
f'w' }\)eci.m\vva_^ Vb
.'-n.] &<A\ G>\.ov\qA?~
\ •AlLr. \\ev^eavi®o(vcX\>tv*
l' cJusf
coup.
<* style.
|>°>4-
/A-#
I Nice, f
lirrte^
rnmjßr^
/°°
tii j°wfe l
s fj°°
. ......fer /»
’ W i
, f/
It/"
fe*
'Yov ar. aw fvsr
I . oTv\ q\ v\ Q—r '
IWevigy V-novum Vo Tocvv
1
V* / I
es tl/
■
,t> its^\M/
fc u . ...••-vs&>
£jfJ *
if/
J J&&&6
p' > V/
.« 1 "!-*'....
»^v
AT THE SYDNEY PRESS FAIR.
E. A. Rennie, N.S.W. Auditor-General,
whose figures cannon so disastrously against those
of ex-Treasurer Reid, was born in 1820. He
draws a salary of =£92o. It is an open secret that
Reid has for long manoeuvred to oust the ancient
with the object of putting Statist Coghlan in his
place. A further card in the same hand is the
introduction of Edward Pulsford, M.L.C., to ah
office in the Statist’s Department. But Rennie
declares he won’t retire, and Reid can’t maihe
him.
Just died at Coolgardie a well-known ex-
Queenslander, 5 -Hume Black, of dropsy. Black
started his career with pastoral pursuits, but
finally drifted into the sugar industry at Mackay.
In ’Bl—’B3 and ’BB he represented Mackay in
Parliament, and held the position of Minister for
Lands under MTlwraith. For a time he prac-
tically Headed the now defunct Northern Separa-
tion movement, but finally accepted a Govt, billet
to go as lecturer and commercial agent to the old
country. An able man and, bitter partisan.
The other day relationships to Carbine
were being established. Well, here’s another.
Insolvency Judge Molesworth, of Melbourne,
hW«
jq; s am bition was to wear a wig, without curls,
hali but nfbody has seen it
ye t.
A movement to erect a memorial to Hori
Grey in the rich) paw k y c ; ty of Dunedin, M.L.,
met with the miserable response of £3! Which
seems to indicate that had Maoriland s greatest
man asked for bread in the streets ot Dunedin the
carefu’ burghers would not have even given him a
stone. “Mon! but a stattie costs a lot o’
siller
Thomas Broughton, the oldest living ex-
._* , o , ° , ’ , ~• om-i, iG*fL^io,T
Mayor of Sydney, celebrated his 89th birthday
last Sunday. On Monday he celebrated the 61st
anniversary of his wedding day. The members of
the council over which he presided in 1846 are all
dead. Broughton was for years a member of
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, and until recently it was
the custom of successive Premiers to offer him a
seatl tk e Leg. Council. He is a native of
Windsor (N . S .W.), a district notable for long
ij vers
_ j _ __ m n ,
Lately, R. T. Maurice, a well-known
Northern Territonan, set out to try and discover
tree on the shores of Van Diemen’s Gulf
where M ‘Douall Stuart planted his flag about 40
years and if possib le, to recover the tin box
containing documents buried under the same tree,
He found the st of whafc is suppose d to be the
tree> but could get no trace of the box; he
assumed that the sea-water had rusted it away.
But surely Stuart wouldn’t deposit the box where
it was likely to be destroyed ?
Q ne Q f J U( Jge Redmond Barry’s whims
was to insist or ‘ his monogram, R. 8., in big
letters, being let into the centre of the pavement,
in Melb. Public Library entrance hall. To avoid
offence, he prescribed that the letters should be
covered with a big mat while he lived, and un-
veiled after he was laid at rest. All of
which was and is done. The letters are a daily
puzzle to visitors.
One grave mistake was made by G. Lam
bert, the young artist whose splendid dashing
picture, “ Across the Blacksoil Plains,” is now the
talk of Sydney : He catalogued his picture at
£lO5,- at which price it was bought by N.S.W.
National Gallery. Had he ticketed it at .£3OO, or
even <£4oo, the trustees would simply have had to
buy it.. Lambert gets less than mere laborer’s
wages for what is one of the landmarks of Aus-
tralian art.
For years past the Melb. office of the
A.M.P. Society has had on one of its walls a
bronze plate testifying that John Batman built
the first house in Melbourne on that spot. Re-
cently, however, the society hauled down this
tablet and supplanted it with another advertising
the virtues of the A.M.P. Society. There’s no
maudlin sentimentality about a business man.
In N.S. Wales M.’sP. are never served
with subpoena or writ within the sacred precincts
of Parliament House, though this privilege,
which applies to British law-makers, does
not legally extend to “the colonies or In-
dia.” Nathless, the “profession” pre-
serves it. M.’sP., to a greater number
than any well-assured party now existent
in N.S.W. Assembly, were subpoenaed
to give evidence in the Norton-Smith
case. But no one was served at the
House. Some were not visible at their
offices, and carefully cabbed it to Par-
liament. Speaker Abbott, however,
unguardedly strayed into King-
street, and was promptly appioached
by the pamphleteer. Mi;. Speaker
was “not taking any” blue paper,
particularly Norton - Smith blue
paper, but Smith was pressing,
and, finally, persuaded Mister S.
to partake. Mr. John See (one of
John Norton’s political sponsors)
was sighted leaving Randwick
tram at King-street. He cast the
subpoena to the pavement, and,
having squashed it with both feet,
kicked it with emphasis over the kerb
and into the gutter. Wonder why? Some-
body, less careless of court orders, picked
it up and preserves it as a curio of a
sensational case.
Gov. Brassey, circularised, to-
gether with other local celebrities,
by Melbourne Bookloveb, supplies
a list of books read by him during
the present year. His note is
quaintly characteristic :
Having once commenced reading a book I rarely
lay it down until I have read it through. It is some-
times a weary task.
What a plodding old fellow ! Having bought
a book he feels bound to get his money’s worth
out of it, even though it be “a weary task.”
How can a man who thus confesses to boring
himself, be expected not to bore other people?
R. C. Bishop Torregiani, of Armidale,
N.S.W., who scales something over 20st., is set
down as the heaviest bishop in the world. Church
of England Bishops, taking them all round, only
reach middle weight. Dr. Torregiani, too, is a
monk who fasts, prays long hours, and suffers
under a vow of poverty.
Re The Bulletin's recent notice of bar-
rister J. B. Gregory’s case, a correspondent writes
that during the three consecutive years that
Mr. Gregory has been in a Lunatic
Asylum he has been allowed to retain the
Government office he holds, and -his family to
draw the pay, , Mr. Gregory is certifying officer
under the Friendly Societies Act. Another
Government official, connected with the G.P.0.,
is allowed to act as warming-pan or locum-tenens,
but without extra pay for doing so. Curious, if
true !
E. C. Westlake, who died in Sydney the
other day, was one of the trio who endeavored to
set fire to Melbourne with a little semi-political,
semi-literary sheet over a dozen years ago. Editor
Short, now of the Leader, another of the three,
did practically all the writing. Westlake, copious
anecdote-monger, used to tell how, when the
necessary obituary of the paper had to be written,
the boss penman put the pathos of the situation
into the brief phrase, “Short was its life.” To
which Westlake surreptitiously added, “ and
Short was its death.’’
J. W. Sutherland, just appointed to the
Golden Horseshoe, is the most juvenile manager
of a front rank Westralian (or any other ’Strafian)
mine. Hard work took him up the Broken Hill
Prop.’s metallurgical staff by leaps, and then
going West he remembered the Barrier experi-
ence and forthwith wrestled with the sulphides,
and was rewarded with the post of metallurgist
to the L.V. Consols. He has got the big sulphide
plant running there, and now steps over to the
Horseshoe. To two men more than all others
Broken Hill seniors point by way of encourage-
ment to the youngsters fresh from the mining
schools—Sutherland and Savage, the latter of
Cockle Creek works.
A Far-Northern correspondent :
Harry Ricketson, now in Cairns gaol charged with the
murder of a kanaka on Mulgrave plantation, is a son of
Riverina squatter Ricketson, famous for his 20 years’ law
fight with Barbour. Ricketson, jun., came to Queensland
some months ago, and has had a battle for existence ever
since. He comes of fighting stock, however, and did not
hesitate to tackle a job of scrub-cutting at 255. per acre
(some of the scrub was 6ft. thick). By working night and
day he just managed to make tucker. Luck seemed to
turn at last, when he got on as plantation overseer, but
it was only to play him a more scurvy trick. On his first
day the kanaka *‘set him,” thinking to show his courage
before the new-chum overseer. On the second day a
crowd rushed him over into a 30ft. cutting, hut as he
rolled down he took his ..principal assailant along with
him. At the bottom three of them piled upon him, but
he arose with the darkies clinging to him like bull-ants,
and threw them off. The leader rushed again, and
Ricketson fired, but failed to stop his enemv, who,
though mortally wounded, continued on the offensive]
and literally died fighting in his slayer’s arms. Ricket-
son is a fair, broad-shouldered, blue-eyed, square-jawed
man—one of the prompt sort—and no doubt he owes his
life to his promptitude. By the time the expenses of his
trial are totted up he will owe a lot more, as bail has
been refused and he cannot get out to earn even his food.
Maurice O’Rorke, who was first returned
in 1861, and has sat through 40 sessions, is the
father of Maoriland House of Representatives,
with a large margin to spare. “Dismal Bill”
Rolleston, first elected in ’6B, and with 28 sessions
to his credit, comes next, and may be called a sort
of uncle to the House,
V’Y DIDN'T HE?
STERNSTIN: “ Got any property here?”
FATTENBERG: "Rather ! I built a place that cost
£20,000.”
S.: “Vat! Really? How much is it insured
for ’”
F.: “£40,000.”
S.: “ Vat? Cost £20,000 and insured for
£40,000?”
F.: “ Yes.”
S.: “ Veil — v’y don't yer? ”
The “ Mr. Tarleton, a former member of
an Australian Legislature,” who chaired the much-
talked-of meeting of Australians in the Transvaal,
is a man whose misfortune it is to have the
initials R.A.T., and who all the time used to
make one think of tliem. Originally a Congrega-
tional parson with a pulpit in Tasmania, he got a
taste for finance, went to S. Australia, became a
squatter, entered the Leg. Council, was a director
of the Commercial Bank of S.A., and left soon
after that unfortunate concern got into difficulties.
Mr. Tarleton had a large family connection round
Adelaide, and has drawn several well-known
families to S. Africa—among them that of Harry
Turner, long one of Adelaide’s best-known
financial men-about : town.
Friday (Aug. 25) marks the centenary of
the birth of patriot, politician, and divine John
Dunmore Lang, the vital principle of Australian
Presbyterianism for nearly 60 years. The Langs
were stubborn Scots, who hated the Stuarts and
fled into exile, returning to their native heath
with William of Orange in 1688. The first
imported slip of the stock landed in Syd-
ney in 1821, and the sturdy young “meenis-
ter ” followed. He died in August, 1878,
at the age of 79. The bronze statue standing
in Wynyard-square, Sydney, is a good likeness in
pose and feature, but old identities miss some-
thing as they gaze admiringly at it. Where’s that
gamp—the doctor’s inseparable weapon of offence
and defence ?


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNT CASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SPECIAL
CORN
SOLVENT
NEVE II FAILS TO
Made only by
Newman, Chemist,
82 Kino Street, SYDNEY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
o. £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
There is no hotel in Austra-
lasia that does not recognise
“ The Australia ” as the first
of Australasian hotels.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
FLOOD TIME ON THE DAWSON.
SWAGGY (in tree): “’Ow yer gettin’ on, Bill?”
DITTO (in water) : “Oh, swimmin’!”
“ Greengum ” : He snakes living without
food. I was splitting posts on the Darling and
felled a belar. The first three lengths were solid,
but the fourth was a “pipe,” which when halved
disclosed a carpet snake —a mere skeleton,
but still alive. There was no sign of any opening
to the outer air, and I reckon that snake must
have been imprisoned at least seven or eight
years—possibly 15. It must have entered at root,
as its head was upwards and there was no room to
turn. The tree must have taken to healthy
growth and closed in on its tenant.
* * * *
People living in the vicinity of the Western
Tiers (Tas.) have of late been scared by explosions
and subterranean rumblings similar to those heard
in the hot-lakes districts of Maoriland. Dr.
Thomson, of Launceston, attributes the phe-
nomena to escapes of carbonic oxide which he says
has killed nearly all the trees in the vicinity of
Lake Echo, which were supposed to have been
destroyed by an exceptionally severe frost. Also,
he thinks a couple of young men who were mysteri-
ously lost in the Lake country have been killed by
this gas.
» » * •
An aboriginality with a vengeance :
“R.A.F.” : In the early 50’s I took 1000 head of cattle
from a Richmond River station to one on the Upper Mary
(QA Just after arrival one of the bullocks was killed for
rations for the station hands, and noticing a lot of niggers
about, the boss offered them the head and offal ; but,
strange to say, they refused this, saying they had plenty
meat of their own. After supper, the boss took me over
to the blacks’ camp about 400 yards away, and never
shall I forget the sight that met our eyes. On about a
dozen fires, besides wallabies and ’possums, were roasting
human arms and legs ! and it turned me sick to see an
old gin, squatted on her haunches, gnawing at the toes
of a foot, and then passing it on to another to have a
bite. The men were moving about from one to another
as if to partake of each dead enemy in turn. They
offered us some, causing us to clear out quick. I smelt
burnt blaekfellow for weeks after. These nigs, had killed
about 40 of another tribe, and were making their way
home up river.
Ihe boy had that day returned
from the “ ticnioal college,” and Donnelly
gave a party in honor of the event. About
89 couples rolled up to dance in a room
18x24, to the accompaniment of a broken-
down mouth-organ. Donnelly was anxious
that all should enjoy themselves, but
after fixing up a couple of sets, there
still remained a fair sprinkling of “wall-
flowers.” The host looked a bit disap-
pointed, and walked into the yard ; then
he poked his head round the door and
said, “ Don’t know what the divvle people
as can’t danch want going to dandies for.
Some of ye women there, widout min,
had better come out and have a fly round
on the old grey mare that's here on me
arrum. That’s the best I can do for yis.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Very question-
able, after all, if ’possum does eat gum-
leaves. Used to do much professional
’possum-shooting in the Blue Mountains,
and took trouble to investigate the
matter. In groves of young gum or
apple trees, which are much frequented
by the ’possums, I have shot a dozen or
more out of one tree ; yet, on examining
the foliage closely by daylight, have never
seen even a leaf broken, although these
spots so abound with the animals that, if
they fed upon the foliage, the trees
would very soon be completely stripped.
Also, the frequent examinations which I
made of ’possum-stomachs never revealed
anything but grass. The ’possums we
ate we found d-ry and insipid enough,
but having no more eucalyptus-flavor, or
odor, than the flesh of wallaby.—J.P.
* * * *
Re the unfenced state of M.L.
railways. On July 17, a mob of lambs
got on an unfenced part of Taranaki line.
Train came by, caught them in cutting,
and killed 53. Strange to say, speed of
train was not even checked.
“ Waipero ” : The Maori knows a wrinkle
about the accursed der-rink. In Wellington
(M.L.), recently, met a tanyata very drunk, who
asked me for something to get another drink.
Enquired how much he’d had, and he said, “ Only
one ! ” but explained that that one had been a
mixture of whisky, brandy, gin and rum, at a cost
of 6d., whereas it would have taken shillings’-worth
of beer to produce same effect.
Another Maori put me up to this dodge : Takes
two small flasks of same size, one of which he
fills with a colored fluid, like unto brandy ; goes
into pub., asks for Is. worth of brandy, and
tenders empty flask and cronk shilling. Barmaid
serves him, and then discovers cronkness of coin,
whereupon Maori, having exchanged the flasks in
his pocket, passes back the fake-stuff, receives
back his pewter shilling, and goes on to repeat at
next pub. !
• * * *
“ C.E.” : Re cockies’ hours. When a
mate of mine was once harvesting for a farmer
near Orange (N.S.W.), work lasted from 4 a.m.
(with two 20-minute spells) till 5 p.m. Mate
turned up five minutes late one morning, and the
cockie wanted to know “ where he’d bin dawdlin’
all the forenoon ? ”
* • * *
“ C.H.W.” : I sometimes go long trips
over the Queensland plains, and as soon as I start
a few crows will start, too, and keep with me the
whole trip. Have also known the ominous devils
to follow a party for weeks, with an eye to possi-
bilities.
Dear Bulletin. Police
are sometimes called “ blowflies.”
On the Condamine (Q.) I heard
—“ Going to kill the brindle steer
to-day, father?,” “No, Sonny ;
the blowflies are too bad.” I
asked Sonny what his father
meant, and he explained that
“ the old cove must have heard
that the police are about! ”
I then understood that the brin-
dle was a “ cleansltin.”
Slang.
* • *
“ Wolfang ” : On Alice
Downs (W.Q.) 18 months ago
was a big wether goat
which had chummed up
with a mob of emus. He
had evidently been yarded
with the lambs and treated
with same. After emascu-
lation, he seems to have lost
all affinity for his hairy or
woolly kind, and kept away
from them altogether. In a
hard race with his feathered
mates be would come in,
tongueing, a very bad last. This strange mate*
ship lasted for two years, and may exist yet. But
to think of that emblematio bird chumming up
with a goat 1
e * • *
H. : Quaint marriage-proposal recently re-
ceived by a Tasmanian damsel:
Dear Miss. lam wery sorry to say to keep you so long
time waiting and expected a answered on Saturday
never mind you are alright yet so far as present to spare
us now I want you to look out for a easy work from the
old farming work that is to say to try to get a place for
me. lam very sorry to say to keep you wait. I want
you, will you have me say yes or no I leave you to fixed
a day you like that is to get married I like to get.
married in this month. I think Three party wait the
money for me I want to live in Town. I will borrowed
some money to carried me down Town come meet me at
the Station please to answered Quick no letter on
Wednesday night I sent my love to you and all, I am
your true Lover. My Mother she has complaint and
murmured for my' goodness sake do take me away from
them don’t forget me I hate the farming here.
• * * *
“J.C.G.” : In the bush at night I have
been hearing for years a low “ Hoo, hoo, hoo”
sound repeated rather quickly, from about 15 to
30 times, at about 2min. intervals. Pitch about
“ middle-O.” I have never been able to discover
the producer, and do not agree with bush opinions
that it is quail, pigeon, iguana, or frog. Can any
reader name it, for certain ?
* * * *
“ Yar ” : He recent Grabben Gullen items.
I once stopped a night at a pub. in that district.
At tea there were five eggs for three of us, and
SUBDUING THE FLESH.
THE REV. GENTLEMAN (notorious for not encouraging his horses in the deadly sin of gluttony) to
carrier summoned to take away the carcase : “ And what should you say he died of? ”
CARRIER : “ Well, sir, I should say he died for want of a blanky feed!"
w'hen presently more bread was called for, a big
red-faced woman, with sleeves rolled up, bounced
in. “ Where’s arl thim eggs garn?” said she.
Explained that they had been eaten. “ Then,”
said she, “ you don’t get any more bread. Ye’ve
had quite enough at a bob a head.” Before we
left the table the “ boss ’’ came in, and wanted to
fight any one of us for five bob.
* * * *
“A.E.G.”: Bob was a terror on bees.
He knew all about ’em, and could “ handle ’em
with any man in the country.” One Sunday as
we were driving along, Bob spied a swarm on a
young wattle ; and, of course, must secure it. He
broke off the branch, and put the lot into box at
back of trap, assuring me it was all right. Result:
One horse killed, and trap and harness smashed to
pieces—about £5O gone for ever. Got home on
foot next morning, praying and taking out stings
all the way.
* * * *
“Nemo” : Knew a bullock-team to get
the heavily-loaded waggon stuck nave-deep in the
mud, and after numerous desperate efforts to make
them shift her, bullocky went back to mate’s camp
for more strength. Returning with eight extras
he was astonished to find that the bullocks had
meanwhile accomplished the task on their “ own,”
and he has actually begun to have doubts about
the efficacy of cursing 1
“Xerxes”: No; the blackfellow won’t
work nowadays. Have endeavored, in vain, for
past 12 months to get a few boomerangs. Tried
one noted “camp” personally and by deputy,
and offered cash on delivery, without result,
though the blacks were ready enough with pro-
mises in return for spot cash. I wrote to various
mission stations, and was told that the blacks
would not trouble to make boomerangs.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin.—lt’s surely time we were
hearing no more of the preposterous bush notion
about the marsupial fcetus being formed in the
teat. A word to “Winch” and his like. In
marsupials the young are born at a very early
stage of development. In comparison with youngof
other mammals they are very minute, quite blind
and utterly helpless ; and in color like an earth-
worm. After parturition the mother with her
mouth places them upon the teats, to which they
at once adhere strongly ; but as even then they are
not able to suck for a considerable time, milk is
Squeezed into them by a special muscle which
surrounds each teat. Now, the bushman, per-
ceiving how helpless the tiny creature is, how
strongly it is attached, and how impossible it
would be for it to reach the pouch of itself, jumps
to the conclusion that “ it grew there.”—D.G.S.
* * * *
“ Crosby’s ” : Re snakes and music
(“Kooka,” B. 15/7/’99). Writer was sitting at the
mouth of an old drive, tootling on a mouth-organ,
when he heard a rustling in the timber overhead,
and looked up to see a 4ft. 6in. brown snake
gently swinging from a beam, around which he
had twisted his tail. When the music stopped
the snake disappeared, but on its renewal Re-
turned.
* * * *
“Groper”: Lying in tent one wet day,
and idly watching small lizard on top of tucker-
box catching flies, I happened to start whistling a
waltz, and was surprised to see lizard, in process
of swallowing fly, suddenly become motionless,
gazing intently towards me. Recalling what I’d
read of snake-charming, I began waving hand to
and fro, keeping time to music and gradually get-
ting closer to lizard, which appeared quite mes-
merised—eyes closed, body rigid, and fly still in
mouth. Stroked the little reptile with finger and
turned it over on its back, but it remained dead to
the world until I stopped whistling, when it
pulled itself together in a dazed manner, s" al-
lowed the fly with a gulp and scooted.
* * * •
A N. S. W. small station-owner was suspected
of running an illicit still, and, one night, the
police raided him, caught him (as they thought)
red-handed, and conveyed him and the “still ” 28
miles to the station. The inspector was then
called in, and wanted to know what the devil they
had brought along the incubator for?
PADDY MINOGUE’S MOSQUITO NET.
'Twas red-hot weather on Croydon field—
The days ere bad, but the nights were worse,
For the sultry nights no respite yield,
And mosquitoes there are a screaming curse :
They’d devour a man in a night, I’d bet,
If he didn’t have a mosquito-net.
The man, or the madman, who sought repose
Without his curtains was courting death ;
Blankets were “off,” and the thought of clothes
Brought stifling sensations and gasps for breath.
We’d lie on the top of our bunks and sweat,
Stark-naked, beneath a mosquito-net.
A cry of “ Murder ! ” rang through the night,
We didn't stir—it was beastly dark ;
And it wasn’t our funeral —let ’em fight,
Or it might be someone having a lark.
Besides it would cause us extreme regret
To have to quit our mosquito-net.
But Paddy Minogue, in the tent next ours,
Excitable fellow ! was not the one
To lie at his ease—“ be the holy powers”—
While murder most foul was being done.
In a moment Minogue was out of his tent
Arrayed in his boots, and away he went.
The cries receded as Paddy neared,
And shortly ceased and the night was still.
The deadly deed had been done, he feared,
He fossicked about the foot of the hill
In his office of good Samaritan,
But failed to discover a wounded man.
Pat’s only apparel was on his feet,
So Pat, in his nakedness, bping beset
By swarms of mosquitoes made haste to retreat
To the folds of his white mosquito-net.
But torrents of “ language” found sudden vent
The moment Minogue re-entered his tent.
“ What are you prayin’ for, mate ? ” we cried,
As the crimson stream of his speech flowed on.
“ Oh ! the black-hearted villains ! ” poor Pat replied—
“ Me lovely muskeeter-curtain’s gone.”
The “ murder ” was simply a scheme to get
Poor Paddy Minogue’s mosquito-net.
JAMES SAYERS.
Cone Over To The E[?]MY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pensively the quid he chewed,
He spat upon his battered pup,
And sighed: “ She fell from recktertood,
An’ then—an’ then I slung ’er up.
“ She did the bleeding deed o’ shame
When none was by to make her see
Her Dooty to her father’s name,
An’ bash her systematiclee.
“ Her ol’ man’s in fer life, o’ course,
So when a stretch her brother did,
An’ when a difference with the force
Was keepin’ me from sunlight hid,
“ Without a guardian’s ’arid to stay,
She went an’ joined the Army. Now
Down Little Bourke in broad o’ day
She’s rescooin’ the slant-eyed Chow!"
WILL I. YAM.


New Fashions for Gentlemen are invented
daily. Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street, Sydney, are in
touch with the inventors, consequently keep “ up to
date.” We cater for all classes. If you are passing
along Pitt-street, have a walk around our Men’s Depart-
ment. No one is pressed to buy. Sporting Men’s
Supplies in Clothing and Mercery are exceptionally well
assorted and Reasonable. We solicit your comparisons,
gentlemen. Hordern Brothers, Federal Clothiers, &0.,
&c., 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney. (N.B.—
Please write or call in for our Gentlemen’s Fashion
Book.)*
SOLID SILVER, 2/-.
The “Fx and R”
Popular Pencil
Is Solid Silver English Hall-marked. It carries an indelible lead that lasts for years, and
can be replenished in any part of the world. There is nothing to break or get out of gear.
They are a marvel of value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY,—
23 Hunter Street (only).
GIVE THAT “TIRED REELING” A REST
AND DRINK
WHITE LABEL LAGER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
BEWARE of the Party offering’ imitations of
MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
Sold by all Stationers. Wavbrley Works, Edinburgh.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
ver’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
Us advertising “D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky so
largely unless we were prepared to convince the
public of its absolute purity, by supplying only an
article which they will ask for again and again,
and refuse all others.*
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser," an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. Gordon, mana*
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W.A.*
It will be to your advantage to read Fisher
and Co’s advt. on page 29.
THE ARTIFICIAL FOWL.
"The council of Sydney Zoo intends to try
hatching out ostrich-eggs by means of
an incubater.”
OSTRICH (to visitor) : “ I see you a-lookin ’ at that
thing. Well, sir, you shouldn't. ’ E's one of
them machine-made ’uns. I’m a real ostrich ;
I was hatched out in the good old way. My
mother wasn't no bloomin’ cookin’-stove !”
“ 0.P.”: Acting as impromptu chairman
of a shearers’-hut debate meeting, I had following
handed to me :
Sir, —In refferance as regards the well fare of the
worker I wish to be discussed among those whom are at
present for the giving or other wise shielding their desire
to over come by their indurance of politacil perversities
the curse of the caucies witch we imployment seeker’s
require, so their for not obtaining the giving facality to
introduce this in person, I desire to anounce my wish
for the motion to be moved to those present at the above
mentioned place, so as it as I have mentioned befor dis-
cussed among those present at the anouncing of the
question, As to weather the squatter should or other
wise should not be aloud to take up any more than 50,000
acre's say in the one colony, gentlemen at the anouncing
of this I wish to thank the Barer and the reader of the
introduction for denouncing the quston and I allso ask
for two to be told off to thrash the matter throughly out
in public and no questons to be asked out side of the two
picked say arguares till the expiration of the motion,
thanking you reader gentlemen one and all yours obedi-
ent. —A.B.
• * * *
“ R.A.” : Last summer at Angledool
(N.S.W.), writer saw a 9ft. “carpet,” in a wilga
tree, swallow a bird about as large as a mag-
pie. The snake had about 2ft. of body coiled
round the bird and started swallowing head-first,
gradually unfolding as the head was worked down.
Also in the mountains between Bathurst and
Hargraves, saw a 12ft. “carpet” up a yellow
box tree, and when I cut the tree down found
the snake helpless. He had swallowed a brown
squirrel about as large as an opossum.
* * * •
“F. P.” •. All bosh about Hindoos
(“6Y.H.,” 8., 8/7/’99) walking 10 miles to work,
working 16 hours, and walking 10 miles back.
Average Hindoo walks two miles an hour, which
for the 20 miles equals 10 hours, which, plus 16
hours’ graft, totals 26 hours. Doesn’t leave much
out of the 24 for sleep and recreation, eh ?
* * • »
“ Bunda ”: In an Australian country R.C.
church I recently heard the priest (a foreigner)
inform his congregation that unless the collection
amounted to ss. he would not give them a sermon.
Sermon was not forthcoming—l presume for
reason stated. No crown —no cross 1
• • • •
Dear Bulletin.— Be the Papuan cus-cus.
Mr. Keating, of the Empire Hotel, Cairns, has a
fine specimen—a male, colored yellow and
white, and in size and shape not unlike a
gigantic ’possum. Mr. K. had also a
female, entirely white in color, which was
unfortunately killed by the other. — Mam-
BAKE.
“ Tamarind ” : The less can some-
times contain the greater. Once saw a
mantis, 3in. long and no thicker than a
wooden match, eat nearly the whole of a
fair-sized frog, which still continued to
cry out even when half its body was con-
sumed. Have preserved in spirits the
mantis and the small remains of the
frog.
* • • *
“6YH.”: Re emus swimming
(“ Rick,” B. l/7/’99), I remember an emu
that used to bathe regularly in a shallow
creek —lying down on its side and rolling
about.
• * » *
The ruffianly libelist! North AM
Advertiser (W.A.) advt.:—
NOTICE TO SLANDERERS.
I HEREBY notify that if I hear any person
slander my character or say anything
more about the Goat that I clipped profes-
sionally, or injuring my professional reputation in any
respect by alluding to the goat aforesaid, I will pro-
secute them with the utmost rigor of the law. ,
Y.S.
Trenwifch on Gillies (Yic. Parliamentary
report):
Mr. TRENWITH: In regard to one circumstance con-
nected with the appointment of the board which had not
been referred to
Mr. GILLIES : We were speaking about it last night.
Mr. TRENWITH : You were speaking about it, but you
would not say anything about it if you were speaking for
a week.
Which sums up Talking Duncan in a sentence.
Tas. Assembly, the other night, passed
the Federation address to the Queen with un-
musical honors. No sooner had the Speaker
intimated that the “ ayes ” had it, than Premier
Braddon sourly called to Crosby Gilmore to
“strike up!” Gilmore, who sings on the
slightest provocation, in public or private,
struck up accordingly, and the dreadful noise
almost shook the Constitution to smithereens.
An old Ballarat resident who claims to
have been the maker of the. “ rebel ” flag which
floated over Eureka stockade, casually mentions
that the insurgents in their excitement forgot to
pay for the bit of bunting. Heroes are apt to be
indifferent to small details. Some of the grandest
fights for freedom have been made under a flag
that was never paid for.
A certain M.L.C. is a choice specimen of
the Perth landowner. He owns three houses of
two rooms each, and a fourth containing one room
only, in one of the lowest parts of the town. The
houses and surroundings are so vile that the signi-
ficant title of the “Cowyard” was bestowed on
them by the police, who brought up some of the
tenants at regular intervals. Of course, the noble
landlord made the usual excuse —“ left everything
to his agent.” That is what another snuffling
W.A. chapel-light pleaded when recently admon-
ished for letting his houses to some of Nana’s
sisters. Only the latter added that he had seen
the young ladies himself, and they were so nicely
dressed that anybody could have been taken in.
WEARY AND HEAVY LADEN.
COOKIC FARMER (to new hand from the “ould sod,”
who is for the second time discovered sleeping
in the lee of a haystack): “Here you , Paddy,
what do you mean by this? You've only done
two hours’ work, and I had you snorin’ like a
fat publican.”
New Hand (drowsily): “ Throth, yer hard on a
work in’ malm in this counthry. Now, in moy
counthry, whin a mahn is toired wid wurk, he
loies down and rests himself for a day, or two
days , or three days, maybe.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
■ - stamped. Name ana address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Muriel 0. : Faint echo of the faint E. B. Brown-
ing ..airy Mae : Hops and lumbers alternately ; kind
of “kangarotamus” verse Whogan (or something):
No time for euniform inscriptions .... Epsilon : Like Mil-
ton’s polemical angels—you “ find no end—in wandering
mazes lost” Treb : No more bell-bird Strond : Thb
Bulletin, as often previously remarked by us, is not run
for the good of its proprietors’ health,, but for the base
purpose of making money. This paper, therefore, is most
grateful to the rev. gentleman who succeeded in having
it removed from the table of your School of Arts, where
it was formerly read free. In fact, the Bulletin proprietary
undertakes to send the paper free for a year to any clergy-
man who, by denouncing The Bulletin, succeeds in bav-
in* it excluded from any public reading-room where it is
now read on the cheap Wil: We can abbreviate, too ;
Sil ... J.T.S. : We slew you and buried you ; you’re dead.
Please stay dead .... O.P. : You’re confusing definitions.
Some “ work” is healthy exercise of faculties to a valued
end; other “work” is a miserable mill-round for the
sake of mere existence. Every properly-constituted
person relishes the first kind and hates the second
L.D. : (1) In England no man who is an alien can be regis-
tered as a voter (see article “Franchise” in Hazell’s
Annual). An alien can’t vote at municipal or Parliamen-
tary or other elections—not- even at school-board elec-
tions. The only way to become naturalised in Britain is
to get a special Act of Parliament, or to put in five years
: ■ the service of the Crown, or to reside in the United
Kingdom for five years, and then to furnish evidence that
the applicant intends to continue residing there. Then,
on payment of £5, he can be naturalised, and have a vote;
but the Government can refuse to naturalise him if it
feels so inclined. Even after being naturalised he can
never become eligible for a seat in the Commons. But an
alien pays the same taxes as anybody else. (2)
The British suzerainty over the Transvaal is just
this : The Transvaal isn’t allowed to make any
treaty with a foreign power —the Orange Free
State excepted without Britain’s consent
Wagonette : There is surely plenty room for hired
vehicles of the sort. In Sydney, a party of four going to
the theatre, or the railway-station, has to take two
cabs ... A.L. : There is nothing in the law or practice of
N.S. W. Parliament to prevent a Leg. Councillor applying
his influence to the interests of any Assembly candidate.
Masto : You and the Heydons, Wants, Slatterys, Hig-
ginses, Nelsons and others will find that a year or two of
the Federal Parliament, comprehensively surveying all
the States, will largely mitigate the jealousies the States
now entertain, one for another Inverell: An un-
diplomaed medical practitioner is no more amenable to
law if his patient dies than is a diplomaed practitioner.
Either is only amenable for gross rashness, or want of
caution. But where the difference comes in is that, if a
diplomaed doctor’s patient dies and an investigation is
held, his brother medicos generally support him, whereas
if an undiplomaed man’s patient dies the profession, to
put it mildly, won’t go out of its way to help him out of
his fix Euko: The law appears to stand just about
thus : If challenged to fight you are legally bound to de-
cline. If you are struck you are bound to run away if
you can. If you can run away and don’t, but strike
back and kill, you are guilty of manslaughter. If, while
running away, your assailant follows, and if, while you
run, you hit backand kill, you are justified. If you cannot
run away, and hit back and kill, you are justified. If
a man attacks you in your house you may hit back, and if
you kill will be justified, for you are not expected to quit
your house; but if the attack be made in another’s
house you are expected to run out; if you can’t
get out, and strike and kill him, you are justified
J.L.C.: “O lovely Sea?” Then why uglify it with un-
lovely verses? Audi: Why shouldn’t newspaper-
reports be copyright ? They certainly ought to be—con-
sidering the way in which one reporter’s version of a
given utterance will differ from another’s... 8.J.: But
then The Bulletin didn’t say “ the Federal Government
can’t acquire or construct railways." Brisbane Street
said it did, but then that small paper wasn’t telling the
truth. What it said was that the Federal Government
couldn’t acquire or construot railways in any State with-
out the consent of the State— which isn’t the same thing
by any means. F. Whit (M. Pt): Here is your
“ chorus” :
Flank and shank, be nude, be nude,
Both foot and hand may hnnger ;
But be stomach imbued with best that’s brewed
By Toohey, Tooth, or Younger.
Which is clumsy plagiarism. Here is the (well-known)
ancient original (from the pen of a bishop’if you please) :
Back and side go bare, go bare,
Hand and foot grow cold ;
But Belly, send thee good ale enow,
Jolly good ale and old 1
As to the other, Giraldus Oambrensis puts your three
rocky pages into a melodious line or two :
If I must die, let me die drinking at an inn,
Hold the wine-cup to my lips, sparkling from the bin ;
Then while angels flutter down to take me from my sin :
“O, Lord, have meroy on this sot 1 ” the cherubs will
begin.
...,6Y.H.: Byrnes yarn old, and others no g00d....Ge0. 8.:
“Unlucky Reformer” declined Yar : You let him
have a bath and he stole your soap. Well, that wasn’t
a “dirty” action J.T.O. : Should think your infor-
mant had been in Amurka 1 How did he out through the
diseased moke’s bones with his “old tobacco-knife
Pad : Yes, too malodorous. Also, if you wish others to
have a chance, you’ll have to make them more legible.
Jackaroo: Not quality enough Doon : Idea
worked before—and to much better purpose Pipe :
None up; though “Bird” and “Letter” evince an ill-
directed kind of power D.8.G.: “Sent to its death.”
Well, sentenoe not yet pronounced H. Arthur P. :
Better; will consider... Xanda: Good touch; will pro-
bably print F.N.R. : “Grady’s Ghost" has been satis-
factorily “laid.”... Novus O. : Excellent style, but
hardly in B.’s line. Will consider CJ.M.A. : Too small
and pale Sydney P. : Not unskilful; will consider.
John M.D. : Clean-cut little thing ; may see the
light Casabianca : Carries its humor, instead of humor
carrying it L.A.R.: When we came to where “he
stoped and wistled gently ”we followed suit Styx:
Feeble in places, and none too strong anywhere
J.D.K.Z. : And, despite those initials, spirit is exactly
what you lack J.T. : Funny enough, but needs
more skill Toolong : Yes—and too thin! Euca-
lyptus : Scrub-oak, rather Turkey : Not realised.
B. : Close of “Elsewhere” won’t do Kallalae :
Worthless .... Curlew: “Song” too flat Gobung : All
dull Plymouth : Not up J.S. (M.L.): Not usably
put Fish-Oh : Commonplace outpouring Amb. G. :
“ To-day” stale L.T. : Weak E.P.M. : Dying bush-
man No. 374,821. Wil: Abjeot .Louis M. : No
thanks....W.L.B. : Can you seriously imagine anybody
wants to read that ?... .Telluride: No gold, anyway
A.R.D. : Dismal Nil: Neither good H.B. :
“Shadows” wants life and interest Win. C. : If any-
thing could stop Australia advancing it would be verse
like yours .. Ganta : “ Give it a good position.” Alas,
it doesn’t deserve even a bad one! Wil: You don’t
begin to “get there.” Carmen : Thanks; but hardly
interest enough Yar: Bullktin isn’t a fisherman’s
Gazette. “Snagging” common enough, anyhow
R.A.: Good little items Jack 0.: Go, and get disin-
feotedCircular: They won’t go round M.O.P. j
Smells mouldy Nanko: Don’t remember it Tan-
gata Mata: Please don’t write on flimsy. We can't
interline it D.S. (Q.A.C.) : “ Should this pass 1 ”
Why, it originated with Tiib Bulletin, ages ago Mar-
garet A. : Impossible to decipher enough of your letter
to make out what your request really is. Please get
letter type-written, or copied by someone else Barry
K.: You send no verificatory clipping, and as your com-
ments contain two potentially first-class criminal libels
(as to the character of the prosecution’s witnesses) we let
them slide ... Federal Office (Townsville): Many thanks
for letter Stangar : Whom are you trying to insult :
Did you ever chance to notice when two dogs meet in the
street?
They square their tails, and sniff, and scratch the ground
up with their feet.
(Next line unpublishable.)
Well, that’s nothing to the how-de-do when two Free-
masons meet.
One sidles down the gutter way discharging solemn
winks
(Next line would probably get us three months' hard.)
Till when at length their hands have met in secret mystio
play—
With head erect and haughty (rest of line cut out in in-
terests of decency).
Yes! our dogs and our Freemasons are very much alike,
Which says volumes for th# Mason, and a little for the
Tyke.
But for genuine amusement there’s nothing that can beat
The serio-comic “ How-de-do ” when two Freemasons
meet.
... C.A.: Unless you area man in a hundred, or possessed
of powerful influence, you would have no earthly chance
as a solicitor. Solicitors are now being manufactured by
the hundred, and 90 per cent, of them are doomed to
lives of wretched struggle ... R.C.: Unusable H.G.W.:
You don’t say the right thing in the right way Nar-
ranghi : Humorless .... Cecil: “Native” too doggerelish.
W.C.A. : Unusable; returned Onlys : “Night”
declined as unskilful and unreal Pearl : Better lay
some foundation for those ambitions .... Solomon : ?? ....
Billjim : Heavens and onions ! did you think we’d print
that? Norman :If it reflects your mind, you must find
yourself an uncommonly dull mate Flotsam : Send
short pars., not long sermons Perce : Poem like cold
feet on our soul S.L.H.: Drop those aspirations down
a crack in the floor W.G.B. : Too vaguely moral
Jeanie: Remorse moves us to offer you the
whole paper if you’ll stop calling us “ creul."
C.H.W. : Indisposed to worry about the thefts of that
paper.. .X. (Bris.) : A paper run bv three ex-parson*
should not, even in its struggles after humorous anti-
AN AFTERTHOUGHT.
JILTED ONE : “Uater think he was professional-
looking with his long hair, hut now I think he
looks like a reg'lar lion."
Federal remarks, parody or brine into ridicule what these
sin-shifters were paid formerly to teach were sacred
writings, such conduct being a breach of good
taste, and a turning-dog on their previous means
of support Walter : Precocious and mercen-
ary youth 1... W.A.R. : Considering “Jim’s Dog.”
Seems a plain kind of dog E.P.O. : Yet the anti-
Federal Hugh Nelson, who is now imploring Queens-
landers to beware of the thieves and robbers in the South,
is the same person who tried to practically give away the
best part of British Papua to an English syndicate.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Eileen : Good artistic feeling, but very bad and crude
drawing all the same. Are they quite original ? This
question because the “natural death” subject is very
old indeed. Dolly: Well, those sketches show little
promise. ...“Red.”: One may serve as idea J.H.:
(?) Resisting-prawn subject will do, re-drawn. J.M.J.
(St. J. 8.): Good subject but hopeless drawing. Will
submit to artist Morris G. (V.): One as suggestion
A.S.M. : Will consider. ... H. Es.: “ Press ” joke too old
and thin Collison M.: Apropos of what are the
sketches? C. Woods, Watt, Sprag, Sam C. 0., J. PhiL
(T.), H.W.C., Casp., Jack Hart. (T), T. Le 8., W.A.W.,
A.S.M., H.J., Rody M.L., E. Roche, S.C.O. (O.), F.F.K.,
Yendys, J.F.C.: Unavailable.


DOUBTFUL.
THE BOY: “ Shall I keep straight on, or turn to the right?”


LIST OF THINGS (CREEPING AND OTHER THINGS) NOT TO BE ADMITTED TO THE ARK’S PASSENGER-LIST.
Jack Want, too, had better be left
behind. He would want to “ resign”
in the midst of the voyage, or insist
on being put down somewhere, in
■Egypt.
The poet-warrior Neild will have to take his
chances. He can’t come on board if Hop.
knows it. A wind-bag will float a long time.
No weather-prophets will be re-
ceived under any circumstances.
The same with regard to the owner of
a certain familiar eyeglass. He will have
to sink or swim.
', L - Vne didn’t sail iiT the same
boat with a Bulletin man. Which "
simplifies matters very much in his
ca se. As an arkist he would be im .
possi I.) 1 e ,-g^SSfa=i=^^=3==Sß=s==3g
No one addicted to the snap-shot habit
will be eligible as a passenger.
The neurotic youth who subsists on
cigarettes and regards cricket as the chief
end of man will not be taken—not even
for shark-bait.
Last Sunday (after church hours, of course) our artist, seriously alarmed at
the continuous rain, laid the keel of an ark in his back premises. He also made out
a list of “ Things not wanted on the voyage.” * ( \
V* ICats will have to take their chances in the general
cataclysm. And, by the bye, the door of the ark will
be slammed in punsters’ faces.
No pets of any #5,
sort will be allowed on board.
The outcast who will suggest “ ideas” for cartoons
to our artist, on Tuesday afternoons, when he is tem-
porarily off the chain, will not be taken at any price
not even among the animals.
Dogs not admitted ; particularly that
dog next door.
All amateur musicians rigidly excluded.
The ark wit; manage to rub along
without this.
* The sun having come out for a few minutes as we go to press, work on the ark has been suspended. For the same- reason the List is
necessarily incomplete.
A THREATENED SYDNEY DELUGE—A “BULLETIN” ARK.


One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney—who own the Willson patents for
Australasia—are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. Thisco. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
Which is the easiest, to know or to find
out? Every sensible person will answer “to
know.” Read on ; then you will know that there
has been another great invention discovered in the
manufacture of kerosene vapour stovps, which en-
tirely eclipses the Primus. Messrs. M'Lean Bros,
and Rigg, Ltd., of Melbourne and Sydney, have
just landed, and are exhibiting daily, the “ Juwel”
vapour kerosene stoves. This stove is constructed
on entirely new lines. The burner is connected
direct from the reservoir. It has no tubes to
choke up, and can be cleaned out in a moment by
the most inexperienced. With each stove are
supplied a duplicate set of washers and screw-
wrench, thus meeting the practical requirements
of those residing in the backblocks and country
districts. For particulars write direct to M'Lean
Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Melbourne or Sydney, the
home of up-to-date hardware novelties. Agents
for Razorine for dull razors, 6d. cake, posted 2d.
extra. The Primus Chief Cooking Apparatus
from 30s. The Royal Bath Heater, 70s. Write
for our new cat-a-log .*
Yic. Postmaster-General Duffy has a
touching story re his efforts to induce the Melb.
people to cultivate a conscience in their dealings
with the telephone. Duffy hoped to make all
who used the ’phones pay for the privilege, but
failed ignominously. The other day an angry
man burst into his office and declared that he
would never more use the telephones. He had
been in the habit of using his neighbor’s machine,
he said, but never again. “ Ah,” said the P.M.G.,
“I am delighted to find that at least one man has
been convinced by the fairness of my arguments.”
“Pooh!” replied the visitor, “nothing of the
kind. I decline to use the telephone because I
have taken to the religious life, and it is painful
to me to hear over the wires the echoes of the sub
scribers cursing your idiotic management.”
Several towns in America are lit up with
Acetylene, which quite revolutionises our present
system of gas lighting. Brandt Bros., lamp
manufacturers, of Sydney and Melbourne, have
been appointed agents for Australasia, and are
busy lighting up several country towns, and are
also making carriage, buggy and table lamps
for domestic use, as well as altering the present
buggy lamps, which burn candles, into Acetylene
lamps, with a light more powerful than the
electric incandescent, at a cost of not more than
that of an ordinary candle.*
Concerning a trick of the theatrical
trade :
Years ago a young English rhymester brought out a
short-lived volume of thin verse, and a large London
critic fell on him with needless fury considering the
smallness of the animal. “ Mr. Smith’s so-called poems, ’
he said, “ are all that such things should not be—dull,
pretentious, lame, halt, and without a spark or gleam of
poetic instinct, and the writer’s obvious and boundless
conceit makes them all the more ridiculous. Plainly in
Mr. Smith’s own opinion his verses are far ahead of Shake-
speare and other bygone gods of literature.” And
Smith’s publisher reprinted this notice quite cheerfully ;
“ Mr. Smith’s . . . verses are far ahead of Shakespeare
and other bygone gods of literature,” and put the name
of the infuriated critic in full. And when the critic
saw' it he burst with rage, or was run over by an
omnibus while going to take 6s. Bd. worth of
legal advice about the outrage. The Firm gets at
Tub Bulletin in a somewhat similar fashion. The
“ Trip to Chinatou'n ” struck this paper’s Sydney critic
in one of his more Christian moments, and'he'Wrote
“ As for ‘ Chinatown ’ itself, this paper feels less critical
than it did in ’96. It has gone through many harrowing
experiences since then. It has seen the ‘Stranger in
New York,’ for one thing, and after that anybody would
feel less critical and more thankful for middle-sized
mercies. It has discovered that American musical
comedy generally contains a giddy old man who amble,
on two unreliable legs after girls, and a divorced females
and a ball, and some girls who stay out all night in short
frocks, and a fat man who swims in cocktails. And it has
learned to take these things as they come, like washing-
day and the coal-bill and other advantages and cala-
mities. By compa..oon, the ‘Trip to Chinatown’
is all that this paper 3aid it wasn’t three years ago—a
bright, clever production full of smart dialogue, and
without a dull moment, or a dull saying, or a
dull character in it from first to last. The per-
son who doesn’t see it will thereby make a mistake
that he will regret for ever afterwards. This isn’t exactly
w'hat The Bulletin remarked in its issue of 4th July,
1896, but it is how it feels now—after seeing ‘The
Stranger in New' York.’ ” And the good old Firm puts it
briefly in its Melbourne advt. : “The Bulletin says a
‘ Trip to Chinatown ’ is a bright, clever production, full
of smart dialogue, and without a dull moment, or a dull
saying, or a dull character in it from first to last.” This
w'riter had a vague idea of retaliating, but owing to the
wet weather and other things he didn’t. He once re-
ceived a perfectly harmless letter from the Firm about
nothing in particular, and by reprinting it with W'ords
judiciously left out here and there he could have shown J.
C. Williamson assolemnly alleging that he wasadoor.and
a newspaper, and a flight of steps, and that he hoped
some day to be a very bad drama in three acts, and other
strange remarks. But out of a sneaking regard for the
cheerful Cassius W. the letter w'asn’t published.
Messrs. Stewart Dawson and Co., the
popular Sydney Jewellers, have lately executed to
the order of Mr. Goouliff, of Batavia, Java, a very
unique watchchain. Mr. Goodliff sent his own
gold, and the design that he gave Stewart Daw-
son and Co. to work out was his own name, with
an Australian animal alternating with each letter
of the name. The watchchain weighs 10J ounces,
and the owner has written to Stewart Dawson and
Co., informing them that he has sent his waist-
coat to the blacksmith’s to have steel buttons put
on it.*
A LETTER from a LADY who is DESIROUS of
ASSISTING OTHERS who may be SIMILARLY
AFFLICTED.
84 Bridge-road, Richmond, Victoria,
18th July, 1899.
Mr. S. A. Palmer,
47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Sir,—
I certify that, for about two and a half years, I was
suffering from inflammation, peritonitis, and lung com-
plaint. I was about five months confined to bed, and
attended by seven doctors at various times; but I was
not improving under their .care, and I was told that the
only means of saving my life was by an operation, as they,
had at that time done all they could for me ; but I was
then too weak to risk the danger of an operation.
I could not eat or sleep, and was really in a very weak
condition.
I need scarcely say that doctors’ and nurses’ expenses
amounted to a considerable sum of money.
As a last resource, I was induced to try “ Vitadatio,”
and, after persevering with eight bottles, I am thankful to
say that my troubles have been overcome, and I have
been cured. I am now able to attend to my business
here, and am willing to give particulars of my case and
cure to any lady who may be suffering.
I consider it my duty to let others know that there is a
cure, because the restoration to health after a term of ill-
ness is a blessing I cannot be too thankful for. You can
use this letter for the good of others.
Yours sincerely,
(Mrs.) ANNIE V. COHEN.
Tobacconist, 84 Bridge-road, Richmond.
A CURE OF HYDATIDS AND GALL STONES.
ACTUALITIES OUGHT TO CONVINCE.
76 Dorcas-street, South Melbourne,
10th May, 1899.
Mr. S. A. Palmer, Agent for Vitadatio,
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in giving my testimony
of what Vitadatio has done for me. I was taken ill two
years ago last November with Jaundice. I was then
living at Kensington, and the dootor who was attending
me discovered that I was suffering from Hydatids. He
brought me through the illness, but, after 12 months, I
was again taken bad, suffering terrible agony at times and
a large lump formed in my stomach, which the doctor
said was Hydatids again, and that I would have to under-
go an operation; but, w'hile arrangements were being
made, I heard of your wonderful medicine. After taking
one bottle, which made me very ill, I threw up three (3)
Gall Stones. I then continued the medicine, and passed
14 more. While taking the medicine, I also passed
Hydatids. I took nineteen (19) bottles of Vitadatio, and
now I believe I am thoroughly cured of both Hydatids
and Gall Stones, and feel better and stronger than I have
done for years. Wishing you every success with your
wonderful medicine, I am—Yours very gratefully,
Mrs. 11. WEBSTER.
P.S.—You are at perfect liberty to make what use you
like of this. My cure took place 12 months ago.
Anybody wishing to see the Gall Stones can see them at
45 and 47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
LIFE-LONG MISERY DISPELLED,
FACTS ARE BETTER THAN TALK,
Castlemaine-street, Yarraville.
7th July, 1899.
Mr. Palmer.—
Dear Sir,—Words cannot express my gratitude to you
for what your wonderful herbal remedy “ Vitadatio” has
done for me.
For years I have not known what health was, and at
times “life was just a misery.”
Doctors and herbalists were in vain, and I was told
there was “no cure" for my complaint, which was in-
some other poor sufferer may benefit by this, I
give you leave to use it as you like. Anyone wishing to
know further can do so by writing to me. My case is of
interest to many, and I will be glad to help by advice
where I can.
I remain,
(Miss) EMMA SPEAR.
7th July, 1899.
m
'O%
a
cmea of cbusiipptibii i
Life was a Burden; Now a Pleasure.
Marvellous Recovery!
“18 Wolseley Parade, Kensington,
“11th August, 1899.
“ MR. S. A. PALMER. *
“ Dear Sir,
“ Feeling it nothing but my bounden duty, I beg to hand you this Testimonial in
grateful thanks for the wonderful effect “ WEBBER’S VITADATIO ” has had upon me.
For the past years I have suffered from LUNG- DISEASE, or commonly called CON-
SUMPTION, and have been under the care of some of the best doctors in Melbourne, also
under Herbal Treatment; but until I met you I had received no relief, and MY LIFE WAS
A BURDEN TO ME. By chance I dropped in to see you, and, as you seemed so confident
of curin'! me, I thought I would give the medicine a trial, although I must say I had very
little faith in it. The first bottle or two seemed to make me worse, but as you advised me to
continue I did so, and gradually felt THE RETURN OF MY HEALTH ; and by the time
1 had finished my eleventh bottle I WAS COMPLETELY CURED, and felt better than
I have done for years. You have accomplished more for me than all the doctors, and have
done exactly as you said you could do—namely, make a new man of me ! For this I cannot
adequately express my gratitude, but will be only too pleased to tell anyone of ‘MY
MARVELLOUS RECOVERY.’ My appetite has greatly improved. Hoping that others
affected as I was will follow in my footsteps and take Webber’s ‘ VITADATIO.’
“ Yours faithfully,
“JOHN OARSON.
“Witness— H. D. VIMPAIN.
(For over nine years employed at S. Coultas, Collins-street.)
“ P.S. —I would be glad if anyone wanted further information to give it. lam home
every evening after 7.80. My place is close to Kensington Station.—JOHN CARSON.”
Vitadatio 5/6 and 3/6 Everywhere.
HEAD INSTITUTE : 47 Bourke-street, MELBOURNE.
Branches at 184 Pitt-street, Sydney; 283 Rundle-street, Adelaide; 481 Hay-
street, Perth ; and 39 Manners-street, Wellington, N.Z.
A NOTHER WONDERFUL CURE BY “ VITADATIO.”
INTERNAL ULCERATION OF YEARS
STANDING.
TREATED BY NINE DOCTORS WITHOUT RELIEF.
362 Burwood Road,
Auburn.
26/7/99.
Mr. S. A. Palmer,
Agent-General for “ VITADATIO.”
Dear Sir, —
Will you please accept my testimony among the many
others you have for ‘‘Webber’s Vitadatio.”
My cure is nothing short of a miracle. I have been
treated by nine different doctors, and have been an out-
door patient of both the Melbourne and the Homoeo-
pathic Hospitals. I was told that I never could get
better, as my trouble was “ INTERNAL ULCERATION.”
In June, 1897, a friend of ours from New Zealand told
us about “ Vitadatio,” but I was like a great many suf-
ferers (who have tried other remedies in vain), and so
had no belief in “Vitadatio.”
During the week of the “ Queen’s Jubilee ” my husband
called to see you, and you advised him to get me to try
“ Vitadatio.” Glad lam that he did, as lam nov in the
best of health, and have been so for a long time. If you
think this letter will be the means of encouraging any
poor sufferer to try “ Vitadatio,” you have my full per-
mission to use it. Any person wishing to know full parti-
culars of my case may do so by calling on me and having
a personal interview, or by letter, if they will enclose a
stamped addressed envelope.
I remain.
Dear Sir,
Yours truly,
(Mrs.) MAGGIE JOHNSON.
Witness to Signature—
J. BALLOCH,
121 Auburn-road,
Auburn.
Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Mr. Stephen Parker, an old resident of Bairnsdale, is
very pleased to testify to the benefits he derived from
taking “ Vitadatio.” He had been ailing for about three
years, and constantly under medical treatment, until his
illness culminated in a complete collapse during the
autumn of this year. The medical opinions were diverse,
one being that he was suffering from “abscess on the
liver,” another from heart disease, another from Bright’s
disease. However, he was reduced to such a state of
prostration and suffering that the doctor did not disguise
the fact that he could not survive much longer, and that
no other medical treatment could avail than that which
had been given. Mr. Parker writes : At this stage I was
induced to try the “Vitadatio,” which I obtained locally.
The first few doses caused great pain, but advised to re-
duce the dose, I did so, with the result that I soon
began to rally and gain strength. I persevered
with the reduced dose, and before I commenced
the second bottle I observed clusters of discs com-
ing from me, which increased in number as the
medicine continued to take effect. This showed
evidently that the internal tumor or abscess was nothing
else than “ a nest of hydatids,” the presence of which
was not suspected by the doctors. I continued, and after
taking six bottles in all am thankful to say that I am as
well as I was ten years ago, and am completely restored
to health. I have no doubt whatever, through the bless-
ing of God, the medicine taken has made me quite well.
It is only right that others who may be similarly afflicted
should be encouraged to make a trial with the same
remedy.
I have great pleasure in subscribing my name,
STEPHEN PARKER.
Witness-EDWARD G. VEAL.
St. John’s, Bairnsdale,
July 26, 1899.
Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Sir.—l know Mr. Parker very well. He is a man of
over fifty years of age, and has been in Gippsland almost
the whole of his life. I can certainly confirm all that he
says about the state to which he was reduced, and to the
evident benefit he received from taking the medicine.
He was anxious that others might know of the recovery
he has, by Divine Providence, made through your medi-
cine.—Believe me, yours truly,
REV. EDWARD G. VEAL.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ T.M.” : A recent Bulletin par. comments on
a postal official, left in charge of an office, receiving only
£75, whilst a subordinate letter-carrier received £l5O per
year. These miserable screws to men in responsible posi-
tions seem to be the rule in Sydney now, the Bull-bossed
banks being the worst offenders. A director of one of
these institutions, lately interviewed, leant back in a
well-padded chair, puffed an expensive cigar, and said :
“We don’t give enough to make a fortune out of, but we give
sufficient to enable a clerk to live in comfort, and to save
money if he is careful. They enter, at 16 to IS years old,
at 130 to £4O per annum, and, in about 10 years, reach
£lOO to £120.” Ye gods ! save money. In one institution
there is a clerk who has served 13 years, and now gets
£7O ; while another, who put in seven months without
salary, is, after another two years, getting £4O. The two
chief tellers in one large Sydney bank receive £135 per
annum ; thousands of pounds pass through their hands
daily, and they are responsible for any loss through counter-
feits, mistakes in change, &c., but, if cash is over —that’s
the bank’s perks. The ledger-keepers get from £BO to
£135, managers of branches £lOO to £3OO, with quarters.
Also, in some of them, an receiving under £2OO
is not allowed to marry. Since ’93, many branches have
closed, resulting in dismissal of least promising officers.
The managers and sub-managers, reduced to ranks, are
entitled to first promotion, and this has practically
blocked all chance of a rise to those lower in the service ;
hence a clerk entering now would be about 40 before he
could hope for matrimony. And meanwhile ?
• * * *
A kanaka lately filed his insolvency-schedule
up North in forma pauperis. Transpired he had settled
two cottages, horse, buggy, &c., on “the missus.” Sun-
day-school boy, of course, Nothing approaches the modern
Sunday-school for sound commercial education.
* * * *
M‘Gregor, M.P., Vic., gives notice of a bill to
abolish the coupon system in business. The coupon
system, he argues, is mostly 50 per cent, plain steal,
since usually only half value is given when the holder of
the coupons goes to claim his goods. The system means
another middleman where there are already dozens, and
the fool customer pays the piper, mainly in receiving
14ozs. in the pound. But as each one argues: “It
would make no difference if I stood out,” legislative
action alone can squelch the evil.
* V * *
“T.A.”: Heard a spieler tell how he used to
“beat” publicans for board-and-lodging. On arrival,
would go into bar and “ shout” for landlord, changing a
fiver, and casually mentioning intention of stopping a
week or so. Would then go to bank and convert his loose
money into fiver again, and in a couple more days change
it in bar. Which appearance of flushness would make
him right for a week or two.
* * ♦ •
“ H. J.H.” : Took disordered watch into watch-
maker’s in a Melb. main street. The dirty little be-dia-
monded person who presided, loq. : “ Yeth” (as he gave the
mainspring a twist with a pair of tweezers —breaking it
before my eyes), “mainthpring broken, thir. Ootht
17s. 6d. to repair.” “ Why, you scoundrel,” I shouted,
“you’ve just broken the mainspring yourself." “ Sh’elp
me !” he returned —“ vat you mean. D’ you think you
can came in here and bluff me like that ! Here, take
your vatch, and clear out kavick or I gives you in sharge.”
Went to next jeweller, who examined watch, and said
sprinsr had just been broken. Told him the facts.
“Ah,” said he, “an old game of his. Go back and
threaten to sue him.” Went back, and by dint of threats
got new'spring gratis. That lasted two weeks.
* • » »
There was an unholy candor about the state-
ment of a witness, in a recent Sydney “ sulky’’-stealing
case, that it was a recognised practice of certain livery-
stable-keepers, after selling a vehicle to a “ tug,” to re-
move the wheels, value perhaps £4, and substitute a set
worth about 10s. The Judge “pointed out the dangers
of such a practice.” Well, there ought to be a lot of
“ danger ” in it.
• • • >
“ Holdar M.”: Redeeming a recent pledge at
“ mine uncle’s,” I found it elaborately swathed in dodgers
describing the efficacy of certain pills. The pawnbroker,
as an advertising medium largely in touch with the public,
seems to have been hitherto overlooked.
* * • •
Re abbreviated trade names of articles. A Mel-
bourneite was in a bookseller’s shop when a customer en-
tered and asked the shopman for a copy of a book called
“ Catholic Piety.” There was not a copy on the shelves,
so the man yelled into a speaking-tube communicating
with the store : “ One cat pie, quick I ”
* * * *
“ R. W.S.” : Re the “tied” pub. evil. Grocers,
drapers, and even book-shops are all falling into the hands
of the wholesale boss. Know’a man who has signed
an agreement to take only a certain firm’s grocery goods,
just as in the pub. system.
* » * *
“8.5.”: In Vic. country districts you can get
beer or spirits in almost any wine-shop. I know a town-
ship in which the stores and fruitshops turn out more
drunks in a week than the local pubs, do in a year. Even
a tailor fills in slack times and Sundays at the game—
within cooee of the loik-up. Where" local-option has a
“ leg-in ” matters are still worse. The Govt, seeks to cul-
tivate a taste for wine, but until it enacts a sane and
liberal licensing-law arid shuts down hard on illicit-gi'Sg
dealers, its efforts will be wasted.
• * * •
The house-removing business contrives to thrive
in Melbourne. One building society lately transplanted
17 houses from Footscray, where they stood empty, to a
block of land at Hawthorn, where they are all let.
* * • •
“ L.” : Recently struck the record mean tnanin
a Melb. dentist’s, where molars are retailed at ss. each.
He was having four large ones put in the space where five
natural teeth had been.
* * » *
“R.W.S.” : Mystery how art-union committees
become so promptly aware of who have won prizes. I
buy ticket in street from man who doesn’t know me from
a crow, and doesn’t take my address. Yet, on morning
after drawing, the papers give names and addresses of
winners of principal prizes, who, by the way, appear
always to live in the country. Under straight manage-
ment, the result could not possibly be known to country-
people until newspapers with result reached them. Does
any Bulletin reader know how the biz. is worked ?
* • * *
It has been asked re the new cab distance-and-
fare recording-machine : Who wants it ? —not the cabby,
and not the cab-owner. But if the public wants the
“ taxameter,” the authorities should make it a compul-
sory appendage to every hire-vehicle.
* * » *
“Ken.” : At an A.N.A. lodge recently I was
disgusted to hear the chief speaker denouncing the A.N.A.
art-union and the idea of only giving 2|d. out of every
shilling to charity, whereas not long before the same man
and his two charming daughters did good business raffling
£1 notes with an unlimited company (355. for 205.) in aid
of a church. And when I won one of the notes this man
sooled the young ladies on to me to cadge it back. My
wife was there, and so of course they didn’t get it. Some
people have queer notions of the Lord and charity.
* * • *
Advt. from the city of Sin, Sweat, and Sorrow :
“MOTICE TO SLOPERS.—Having about £5OO of
Bad Debts, I have resolved that, if paid in six
months from date, I will give 25 per cent, to Hospi-
tal. If not, will give the compiled list to an Honest
Lawyer to recover. So Defaulters, take the hint or
your names will be handed down to posterity.—
H. Marquess, Melbourne House, Rockhampton.”
Mildura fruit-growers have, in 10 years, tried a
thousand suggested ways of keeping oranges from winter,
when they are ripe, to summer, when they are most
wanted. Success is now claimed for the plan of burying
the fruit in damp sand. Oranges which have been buried
for two years have been taken up lately in a fairly satis-
factory state.
* * * *
An “ hotel barber,” the other day, in Melbourne,
was charged, among other things, with stealing a quan-
tity of “ precious stones.” Owner of precious stones said
he bought them at Colombo, but didn’t know their value,
as he hadn’t had them tested. “ Ah,” said the barber,
with a fine air of disgust, “ but I did —an' they’re no
good.”
* * • •
Vio. Factories Aot provides that no apprentice
shall be paid less than 2s. 6d. per week as wages, and
several sweating employers hit on the plan of taking
on their apprentices at a premium, said premium to be
paid at the rate of half-a-crown a week, which practically
meant that said apprentices are not paid at all. The law,
however, has lately sat heavily on this little arrangement
with costs. The attempts of the sweating employer to
drive his private buggy through Vic. Factories Act have
been many and various, but so far their success has not
equalled their ingenuity.


ANOTHER GREAT CURE IN ADELAIDE
_ _ _ BY THE - - -
PEOPLE’S POPULAR PRICED PREPARATION!
Bile Beans for Biliousness
Gave Up All Hopes of Recovery.
MR. THOMAS H. AMES SUFFERED WITH TERRIBLE PAINS IN THE
SHOULDERS, SEVERE HEADACHES, LOSS OF SLEEP, FITS OF RETCHING-
OCCASION ALLY BRINGING UP BLOOD—AND WEAKNESS OF THE STOMACH.
that lam 37 years of age, and was born in the Yankalilla district, S.A., where am we n wn*
lam desirous of influencing all sufferers to try Bile Beans, and it is this motive w ic is promp
ing me to give my testimony as to their efficacy. lam perfectly willing to see anyone o e
them personally of my cure.” a t o
HE DECLARES BEFORE A J.P.
A THOROUGH CURE EFFECTED BY BILE BEANS,
THE 19th CENTURY SPECIFIC!
(From the Adelaide Advertiser.)
Mr. Thomas Henry Ames, of George-street, Parkside, when interviewed
by a reporter of the Adelaide Advertiser, as to his marvellous
recovery by Bile Beans. “By occupation I am a gardener.
About 10 years ago I contracted a severe attack of yellow
jaundice, and went into the Adelaide Hospital for treatment. My
friends did not expect me to recover, I was so bad. The hospital
doctors treated me well, and at the end of six months I left the
institution cured of the jaundice, but in a weak state of health. One of
the nurses told my wife that I would ‘ never be the same man again,’
because my stomach was in such a weak condition. My food did me
little good, and I had a bad taste in my mouth, suffered with severe
headaches, and had pains between the shoulders. My rest was also
broken, and some nights I used to toss about in bed, longing for sleep,
but was unable to obtain it. My urinary organs were very week, and I
occasionally had fits of retching ; and once or twice bringing up blood.
I took large quantities of different medicines, which I obtained from the
doctors and the chemists, but the relief the physic afforded me was
only temporary, and in a day or two all my troublesome symptoms
would return. I gave up all hopes of ever being well again.” “ But
you are well now, are you not?” “Yes. About 12 months ago I
noticed a testimonial in the Advertiser concerning a wonderful cure
through the use of Bile Beans for Biliousness. I thought I would give
the Beans a trial, although I was not over-sanguine of a cure being
effected in my case, I had been so bad for so many years. I bought a
box it Mr. Parker’s, a chemist in King William.street (near the Glenelg
railway-station), and took two of the beans for the first dose every three
days for a fortnight. After I had taken a box and a half I felt greatly relieved, the weakness
of the bowels, which was an after-effect of the jaundice, disappearing entirely. My other
organs began to perform their proper functions, the pains between the shoulders, the retching,
and the sleeplessness also disappeared within a couple of months. My appetite returned, and I
was quite restored to health. Since taking the beans I have gained 81b. in weight. I might add
Mb. AMES.
“ I Thomas Henry Ames, of George-street, Parkside, in the pro-
vince of South Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the
statement made by me to the representative of the Advertiser rc BILE
BEANS and my illness and recovery is perfectly true.
“And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provision of an Act made and
passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late Majesty King William
the Fourth, intituled ‘An Act to repeal an Act of the present session of
Parliament, intituled ‘ An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various departments of the
State, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the more
entire suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial oaths and affidavits,
and to make other provisions for the abolition of unnecessary oaths.
“(Signed) THOMAS AMES.
“Declared and subscribed at Parkside in the province of South
Australia, this 24th day of June, 1899, before me.
“(Signed THOMAS SMITH, J.P.”
Mr. William Spence
Certifies to Mr.
Ames’ Illness.
Mr. William Spence
was interviewed with
reference to Mr.
Ames’ remarkable
cure by Bile Beans,
who said he had
known Mr. Ames
for about ten years,
during which time he
knew him to be a
great sufferer, at
periods being laid up
for six weeks at a
stretch, and nothing seemed to do him any good
until he tried Bile Beans for Biliousness.
Freedom from his old complaints undoubtedly
proves the cure, and he (Mr. Spence) was glad
to hear of its permanency.
CURE
For biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation, influenza, colds, pale-faced girls, irregularities, bad breath, pimples, dizziness, all liver and kidney troubles, dyspepsia, heart palpitation,
pain in back and side, fullness after eating, lack of physical tone, Bile Beans will prove an undoubted specific. Obtainable from storekeepers and chemists generally, price Is. l|d. per
box. Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street Sydney.
Batteries
WE Stock all the Best Makes,
and owing to the enormously
increased demand that has arisen for
them during the last few years as a
Remedial Agent for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc., and all Nervous Complaints, we are able to announce very
considerably reduced prices.
MAGNETO ELECTRIC MACHINES
12s. 6d.
magneto-electric machine
m ■
12s. 6d.
These are simply worked by turning a handle and need no chemicals whatever. We have just landed
a large stock and can quote specially low prices :
No. I.—A good instrument (usually sold at a Guinea), 12s. Gs., post, lid.
No. 2.—Larger size (more powerful), 255., post, Is. 2d.
No. 3.—Very powerful indeed, 355., post, Is. Bd.
Dr. GAIFFE’S MEDICAL BATTERY
Price, £llss.
Post
Free.
This is the best and most popular instrument made, and the one most frequently recommended by
medical men. It is Small, Portable, Simple and Very Powerful and is fitted with a set
of instruments so that it may be applied to various parts of the body.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S MEDICAL BATTERY-
Price,
S 3 5«-
Complete
Post
Pree-
s &
Price,
S3SS.
Complete
Post
Free.
This is the best instrument made, and if convenience in working, simplicity and power are of greater
consideration than a few shillings in cost, we recommend it above all others. It can be so nicely
regulated that a child can bear it, or made so strong that no one can. It is started instantly,
with no trouble, and costs very little to maintain. A full set of instruments is supplied so that
the current may be applied to any part of the body and the chemicals necessary are provided and
also full instructions for working.
OSBORN a i)cl JERPAN,
“MY OPTKiaNS.”
(Successors to FROST & SNIPNAM),
Write if you want any
-further particulars. . . .
438 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY Eight opposite Lassetter


SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
Grranuma and Fodali.
Most popular TEAS of the age.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDEIMIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow !
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW’S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMMENDADOB, POUT WINE.
UAMES INGLIS & CO.’S SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc., Colonial and Imported.
JAMES INGLIS ,ft CO., Millers,
Manufacturers and Importers,
DEANS PLACE, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
COLEMANE anoSONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
■THE ONLY PURE IN THE WORLD-
ASK
FOR
sun
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Boom 1, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on haml
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware,. China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
ZW" Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash'Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared!
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & ISONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Tbe Ferfeot Slieep-Marlcer
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MAR KING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. . KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The other name of the Transvaal is Na-
both’s Vineyard.
The Bung-party in Maoriland is self-
named “the Progressives.” A spiteful mis-
print in one of their own organs has converted
them into “ Grogressives.”
Maoriland is going to float another public
works loan of £1,000,000. There is very little
left now of the self-reliant, non-borrowing policy
with which the Ballance - Seddon Govt, com-
menced. All Australasian Govts, degenerate
much the same way, sooner or later.
Premier Kingston told S.A. Assembly last
week that he expects the first election to the
Federal Parliament will take place next April.
Of the present members of the Govt. Kingston
himself, Treas. Holder, and Works Minister Jen-
kins talk of trying for seats in the Central Legis-
lature.
Question put at a Gympie meeting by a
vigorous Anti-Fed. :—“lf N.S.W. had not
adopted the Commonwealth Bill, what would have
resulted?” The Chairman promptly:—“l will
reply to that question. If you had never been
born, you’d never have been able to ask so foolish
a question! ”
Brisbane Telegkaph rends its shoddy gar-
ment in grief at the imaginary grievances of the
Q. civil-servant under the rule of the Federal
Government and their possible inability to get
justice. This is red-hot, considering the sort of
life the woefully ill-paid Queensland civil-servant
leads now.
Vic. P.M.G. Duffy calmly told a recent
public gathering that Federation was mainly due
to the efforts of his illustrious father, “ whose ser-
vices had never received adequate recognition.”
The ungrateful province of Vic-
toria has only recognised thester-
ling servics of Charles Gavan
Duffy with the niggardly pen-
sion of £lOOO a-year—for the
last 40 years.
the federal situation up north.
SOUTHERN BILL: “Well, I must be going. Are
you Hominy with me? ”
NORTHERN ANTIBILL : “ You only want to rob
me.”
S. B. : “No I don’t.”
N. A. : “ That proves you do, ’cause you never
speak the truth.”
S. B. : “ All right—I do then.”
N. A. : “ There! I knew I'd make you admit it!"
Editor Wallace Nelson, of the People’s
Newspaper (Rockhampton), has recanted his anti-
Federation errors to the great disgust of the local
provincials, who have thus lost their brightest ad-
vocate. Nelson’s groundUfor abandoning the pro-
vincial policy are these : (1) The Separationists
themselves have no faith in any appeal to the
Imperial Parliament and are not likely to make
any such appeal. (2) The Colonial Boundaries’
Act renders the interference of the Imperial Par-
liament hopeless. (3) There is no hope of any
alliance between Northern and Central Separa-
tionists. Fourthly and lastly: There is little
enthusiasm for Separation in the Centre (outside
Rockhampton) and absolute apathy in the North ;
ar?d in face o’f all this the accomplishment of
territorial autonomy is at present impossible.
The other day,
Cameron, member for
Leloraine, moved a vote
of censure in Tas. Assem-
bly on Premier'Braddon for
something concerning the
Anchor tin-mine. The
House, Cameron excepted,
negatived the motion. A
few nights later it was pro-
posed to expunge the
motion from the records.
Cameron: “I knew you’d
whitewash the Premier, but
I didn’t think you’d pro-
ceed to varnish him.”
The amalgamation of
the two N.S.W. Savings
Banks into a State Bank,
which was promised in Pre-
mier Reid’sfirst programme
in 1894, turns up again look-
ing as fresh as ever on his
programme for 1899. But
apparently the idea of mak-
ing the State Bank the sole
note-issuing institution of
the province, which was in-
cluded in the 1894 pro-
gramme, has died out. The
idea now is to make a State
Land Bank out of the joint
institution. Probably by
1902 or thereabouts the idea
will turn up on the programme with still further
modifications.
The power of the President in the United
States wasoneof Hugh Nelson’s bugbears atarecent
anti-Federation demonstration. Considering that
Australia doesn’t propose to invest any individual
with the powers possessed by the American Presi-
dent, it’s rather hard to see where the analogy
comes in.
Not a single Tasmanian electorate showed
a vote against the Federal Bill. The smallest per-
centage of votes for was Richmond electorate, the
voting there being 97 for and 27 against. Zeehan
and Lyell (925 —18 and 542—10) respectively
showed over 50 to 1 in favor, while West Levon
polled 764 for and 6 against.
John Darling, jun., one of the numerous
leaders of S.A. Tory party, wants S. A. Parliament
to increase the “Property” qualification for the
Leg. Council instead of practically abolishing it,
as Kingston proposes. S.A. Council is now bossed
by a minority of 40,000 property owners, who con-
trol the adult voteless majority of 100,000.
M‘llwraith in 1888: —“ Anyone who has
watched my career since I came to the colony 35
years ago could not help seeing that I have been
working up to the idea of Australia’s being a
great independent nation. The time has now
come when the great National party should begin
its work.” It’s ever the way—from apostle to
apostate !
Rockhampton Morning Bulletin inveigh-
ing against Federation : “ Why should Rock-
hampton be sacrificed ? The Mitchell pastoral
district is the finest pastoral district in Queens-
land, and Rockhampton is its direct and natural
port.” Well, even if it is, the grass will grow in
the Mitchell pastoral district after Federation just
as it does now, and the cheerful bull will gambol
there just as it does now, and Rockhampton will
stand and swelter just where it does, and it will
be as natural a port for the Mitchell pastoral dis-
trict after Australia is united as now, when it is
disunited. There is no clause in the Common-
wealth Bill for shifting the Mitchell away
from Rockhampton in a wheelbarrow, or for
making lean and sorrowful the bulls and cOWs of
the Mitchell pastoral district.
A favorite anti-Federal gag in Queensland
just now is—“ The unemployed will rush us from
Melbourne and Sydney if we federate.” One
would imagine from this drivel that the unem-
ployed were prevented from rushing Queensland
at present by a border barrier 200 ft. high, or by a
law empowering a Queenslander to take the scalp
of any dead-beat coming in from the South. The
unemployed can rush Bananaland at present just
as much as they please, and they do rush it to
any extent that suits them. Furthermore, the un-
employed only rush to a land where times are good
and tucker plentiful, whence one can only conclude
that the anti-Federalist knows that Queensland is
going to be very prosperous under a Federal regime.
Consequently the alleged rush is a very strong
argument in favor of Federation.
Gympie Truth claims that 4 it would be
monstrous for Queensland to decide for Federa-
tion while one-third of its male population has no
vote, because that wrongly-disfranchised section
would be federated without its consent. It asks
Queensland to wjait till all male adults have a vote.
Ana when they‘have, it is quite willing’to go
ahead and .let all "the adult women of Queensland
be forced into Federation without their con-
sent. And meanwhile it is quite willing to keep
them both out of Federation without their consent.
Its excuse is that voting “yes ” commits Queens-
land irr vocably to Union, while if it votes “ No ”
it can reverse that decision later on. And so it
can, if the Commonwealth is willing to let it in
then, and'if the Jap. hasn’t got a vote by them
and doesn’t use it to keep Queensland out, and if
many other things don’t happen.
There is just this difference between
George Turner, of Victoria, and George Reid, of
N.S.W.— one is the man who does things, and the
other is the man who is going to do things.
Premier Reid announced his intention of starting
a State Land Bank before the Victorian man pro-
posed anything of the kind, but the Victorian
State Land Bank has been in operation for two
years, while the N.S.W. is just
stating all over again that it thinks about doing
something. The Reid Govt, is going to inquire
further into the matter of Old Age Pensions, and
the Treasurer hopes' before the end of the session
to be able to suggest something to his colleagues
with a possible view to business 'in 1900. The
Turner Govt, expects to take the second reading
of its Old Age Pension Bill this week, and to have
it in operation by .the end of the year or there-
abouts. The man who is Going to Do Things is a
weariness.
“COME BACK! COME BACK!” IS BEGINNING TO BE WHISTLED EVERYWHERE .
Drawn from the cabled press accounts of the sore knees, sore heads, sore feet, sprains, bruises, [?]t[?].
Though a wobbly lot generally, Reid’s
latest batch of appointments to N.S.W. Leg.
Council saved the Federal Bill in that Chamber.
The Old Guard would have at this final tussle
rejected the Address to the Queen, and thus inter-
posed a cause for delay.
Westralian Premier Forrest says that
“ under the Federation Bill the local Parliament
has no power to give differential or preferential
rates for the haulage of Collie coal,” and, he adds,
“ this is a serious matter and may mean the entire
wiping out of the industry.” Big John must have
been desperately hard pressed for a reason when
he suggested this. The Collie coal-fields are about
124 miles from Perth, and the usual rate for coal,
according to eastern ideas, is per ton per mile
-—making ss. 2d. per ton to the place where the
competition really begins. And the nearest
Australian coal-field which does an export trade
is in N.S.W., about 2500 miles away, and coal
costs somewhere between 10s. 6d. and 15s. a ton
freight to Fremantle. It has to be humped by
rail or otherwise to Perth after that. If Collie
coal can’t hold its own at Perth with a start of
from ss. to 10s. a ton, and wants differential
railway rates in addition, what kind of coal does
Bigjohn think it is ?
Several S.A. Tory politicians pledged
themselves last year to vote for Household
Suffrage if the people affirmed the principle
at the referendum. One of them, Homburg,
M. pledged himself publicly in the House.
There was a majority of 15,000 at the
referendum, and S.A. democrats are now
waiting to see how those Tory votes will go.
“The expense of franking M.L.A’s
letters will not be considerable,’’says P.M.G.
Yarney Parkes, one of the Govt, apologists
for the introduction of the system into
N. But a Labor member who
urged the system upon Govt, asserts
that his letters to constituents on Par-
liamentary business stand him in stamps
£4O a year. Another member puts his
expense at £1 per week. And these are
only moderately-accommodating members.
But taking £4O as an average, franking
M.L.A’s letters means £5OOO tax on the
Treasury. And, although M’sL.C. have no
constituents in the Assembly sense, still
they may equitably enough demand similar
concessions.
The local man in the street com-
mented strongly on the action of the, Perth
daily papers in suppressing as far as pos-
sible reference to the result of the refer-
endum on Federation in Victoria and
Tasmania. These paltry attempts to keep
the public in darkness were bad journalism
and bad business too. In view of the
possibility of the Enabling Act going to
the people, and the certainty of the exten-
sion of the franchise on the goldfields,
the Forrest crowd has all of a sudden
developed a warm admiration for woman
suffrage: The fact that more than half of W.A.
women live in the capital means, in the minds
of the W.A. Govt., that the goldfields’ vote will
be swamped.
Despite the furious assertions of Brisbane
Workeb that Q. 4 Democrats are opposed to
Federation, the fact remains that the most valu-
able advocacy of the Federal cause in the North
has come from the members of the Opposition.
Putting aside Premier Dickson, there is hardly a
Ministerialist of note who has vigorously stumped
the country, while Drake, Higgs, Dawson, Glas-
sey and Givens have done invaluable service to the
cause of,union.
R. Hawkins, the miners’ president who
represented the Broken Hill Labor bodies at the
Political Labor League conference held in Sydney
to “ try ” Ferguson and Sleath for their Federal
work and vote, went back to his - societies with a
gloomy account of political Labor organisation in
Sydney. The P.L.L. system, he said, was rotten;
and it was clear that several of the leagues
wanted to throw 'out Sleath and Ferguson in order
to run men of their own.
The mining population of Westralia begins
to hustle on the subject of Federation, and Yosper
is excuting strange contortions in his efforts to ex-
plain to his constituents why he went into the
camp of the enemy. The long-haired egotist was
bound to fall in sooner or later. Like the fly on the
chariot-wheel he took credit to himself for the
stand taken by the goldfield people during the
alluvial struggle. Vosper really fancied that the
goldfields rose up as one digger then because he
told them to do it. And he fanced they would
also join the anti-Federal party when he told
them to rise. And now the cold wind of un-
popularity blows through Vosper’s tangled mane,
and his life is full of trouble.
Premier John Forrest at the Federal Con-
vention in Melbourne : “ We all look forward—at
any rate I do in my own colony—to a large in-
crease of trade and business, and therefore I
believe the uniform tariff will probably yield a
larger amount than is produced at the present
time in West Australia. That remark applies to
every other colony.”—(l7th Feb., 1898). Then
MUSICAL ITEM.
MR. M'GOOLEY, J.P. (the chairman): “The nixt
song on the perogramme is a selection by the
Whroo os—os ”
PROMPTING VOICE (behind piano) : “ Selection by
the Whroo orchestra.”
MR. M‘G.: “Is a selection by the Whroo ostriches.”
John went back to Groperland, and the man who
owns.him—Hackett—ordered him to slew round;
and he slewed.- So,Bigjohn. now alleges that the
uniform Federal tariff won’t give Westralia enough
to live upon, and its “ trade and business,” instead
of increasing under Federation, will be knocked
endways.
Will Ogilvie’s book of verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray Horsey , corl j nue sto sell splendidly. It
is unquestionah y*the most generally-attractive
poetry-book yet'jssued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.,
post-free from Bulletin office.


oar
PIANOS
are so excellent in Manufacture
and so certain as regards
durability that tbe most exacting
will find them always
satisfactory.
R«aSoi)S
Wf>y
We have been in the Music Trade for 47 years and
studied it closely.
Careful observation of what is best for the Australian
climate enables us to offer you to-day Pianos
and Okgans that are a guarantee against
dissatisfaction.
OOr Prices are as low as possible, with due respect
to quality.
Oflr CatalogOc is Free. Call or write for one.
PALING’S
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
of Every Description.
VIOLINS
4
4
We hold a large and carefully
selected stock of Violins at . . .
prices beyond competition. . . . .
4
±
±
MANDOLINS
Imported direct from
Italy and America. . .
Our cheapest grade is
low in price
gUITBRS
. (Sole Agents for the “WASHBURN.”)
are again becoming popular. Our stock
comprises some exquisite models, including
the “WASHBURN.”
BANP INSTRUMENTS
at cheapest possible prices.
MUSIC. —The Largest Stock in Australia.
w.
H.
p
ALIN<S & CO., LTD.
338 ge o r ge st ,
SYDNEY.
Brisbane and Newcastle.
National Cash Registers.
HOTELKEEPERS*
~ ~ SPECIAL BAR MACHINE. -
Saves
Time,
Money,
Worry .
47 E.B
r AMOUNT '
rPIJRCHA^ED:
•$> <&
<B> <%>
TO
€XP€RI€NTin POC€T.
Prevents
Mistakes,
Dishonesty
Bankruptcy.
“ I have used 23 of your NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS. Now I would nob
conduct my business without them.
“J. J. POWER,
“ Hotel Yictoria.
“ Sydney, N.S.W.”
“No hotelkeeper (even where his
own family are the only cash receivers)
should be without one.
“0. J. HUGHES,
“ Unicorn Hotel.
“Ballarat, Vic. 1
3SNational Cash Register
COMPANY.
Full particulars, prices, etc., on application to
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE:
393 GrE OEICrB STREET, SYDKTEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Tl}€ Best
on the market is rendered
practically useless, if fitted with
tyres devoid of Resilience and
Reliability,—but, on the other
hand,
Duniqp Tyres'
enhance the value of a machine
by making it run Easier and
Smoother.
Specify Papiop’s
when ordering your machine. We guarantee
them to give you satisfaction.
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Australasia [id.
j 486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
IQont de piete (o.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
3E»JESJE=t MOIVTTia:.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 G-eorge Street (facinjr Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. 1 ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Public Risk Depart-
tnents.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A ceident
and
Guarantee
Co. Jjtd. of Condon.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M ‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessof, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus, 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Buy for the Children.
PERTH, W.A. Allotments on the main
road, opposite Brookman Park, the pro-
perty of W. G. Brookman, Esq., £lO
each. Easy terms. Torrens’Title. Free
Deeds.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doi) & LaijcaSbir?
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL -- - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
Authorised Capital, l 500,000. Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as slated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 UOLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
The Bank of north Queensland
1,l M m-:i».
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Chaiikkr. (Messrs. Burns, Phi Ip & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ( £700,000
('npital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
UeS hMde L r? bility .° f 250,000 £350,000
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
fbT Trustees, Cxcc^torS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... ... ... £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-sfreet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital.. £3,123,555 15 0
Directors*:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager ; Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsr/ote Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford /with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
--THE—
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce'Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policy-holders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasi!/
Premiums moderate and without restriction as t>
veiling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
.. Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL—-*-
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
YI7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
” Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Beyde, Harvey Paterson,-
E. Neaie Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
mi mi i " Our Specialities are Silks,
Silk- Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matlinjr,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
Shipping ,
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., August 26, 12 Noon.
■Buninyong, Tues., Aug. 29, 5 p.n>.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 2, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 5, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Sept.
No Transhipment.
i, 5 p.m
'? i
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 26, 12 Noon
-Konoowarra, Tues., Aug. 29, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., September 2,12 Noon.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Sat., August 26, 12 Noon.
-Tyrian, Sat., September 2,12 Noon.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
liOWEST CUItRUNT FAKES TO AU PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE)
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps; and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
jl|‘|luiraith, (!j c Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN JDOLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
- Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
V AT I ON A L T R UST EES,
1- V EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner Wiiliam-st., Melbourne
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Australian Widows’ Feed [ife Assurance Suciety pi.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
-L which issues Special Policies granting— . ..
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. 3, H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income ... exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] ' GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TORKSHIRE RELISH
, THE MOST DEUCIOUS SAUCE IBt THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLFS
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d„ i -, and 2- eacli.
Proprietors GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS ENG
Sole Agrents for New Soutli Wales:
'l'lffOCK & CO., KENT and I.IVEKFOOI, STREETS, SVBXICY.
For Weak Chests.
Colemane’s Eucatypte.
THERE’S NOTHING COMES NEAR IT.
IT RELIEVES AND CURES THAT CLOSED UR OPPRESSIVE PEELING.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP M
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI HIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, August 26.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Sept. 9.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
August 26.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Sept. 9.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday,
August 25.
Best <{; Cheapest lloate to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUJLL and CO., Ltd., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching- at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
Syd ney,
Noon
VICTORIA ... 6257 E. Crewe ... |Aug. 26
AUSTRALIA 6901 1. Reeves ... ... ... Sept. 9
ARCADIA .. 6603|A. C. Loggin ... ... Sept. 23
ROME ... 5545 J. Cowie, R.N.R Oct. 7
HIMALAYA 68951 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. . Oct. 21
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, i 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England- EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7l)
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Rail way Offices; are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Steeet, SYDNEY.
w*» G T a
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN —Every 3 Weeks, via Btis
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CAI.EDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passerujer A ccomniodation, Attendance, and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street..
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE-British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Subscription Lists Open on Saturday, 19th August, and close simultaneously in all the Colonies on
Monday, 28th August .
Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre
Company of Australasia Limited.
(To be Incorporated in Victoria under the Companies Acts).
CAPITAL - - - - £170,000,
(a) 80,000 7 per cent. Fixed Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, (Now offered to the Public),
fully paid.
DIVIDED INTO
(6) 20,000 per cent. Deferred Non-cumulative Preference Shares
of £1 each, fully paid.
(c) 70,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid, the dividend on
which, is not to exceed 9 per cent, in any year.
Reserved for the Vendor
in part payment of
purchase.
Issue of 80,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each.
To toe Fully Paid Up.
lIIESE SHARES will be Preferential as to Capital. They will also be entitled to a fixed cumulative Preferential Dividend of 7 per
cent, per annum, payable half-yearly, and will be entitled to participate pro rata with the Deferred Stock in all dividends
declared in any year after payment of a dividend of 9 per cent, on the Ordinary Stock. These Shares will be specially
protected by the Articles of the Company, which will provide, as a fundamental article, that no Debenture or Mortgage on
the assets of the Company shall at any time be given without the previous consent of at least two-thirds of the Preferential
Shareholders for the time being of such shares present personally or by proxy at a meeting to be specially convened for the
purpose.
PROVISION will also be made in the Company’s Articles for the creation of a Reserve Fund of £40,000 for the further benefit of
these Shares; and one-fourth of the net profits in each year, after payment of the dividends on the Fixed Preferential and
Deferred Preferential Shares, will be placed to the credit of this Fund.
The Dividend on these Shares will be paid Free of Exchange at the Bank of Australasia at Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth;
and Christchurch and Auckland, N.Z.
SUBSCRIPTION for the above 80,000 Shares of £1 each is now invited, payable as follows:—2s. 6d. per Share on Application;
Balance on Allotment.
Note. Upon payment of the 20s. (twenty shillings) per Share as above mentioned, no further liability whatever will attach to these Shares, and an Official Certificate to that effect will then b e
issued by the Company.
The whole of this issue of 80,000 Shares has been underwritten.
Directors :
The following gentlemen have agreed to join the Directorate :
The Hon. NICHOLAS FITZGERALD, M.L.C., Melbourne.
(Chairman of the National Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Co. of Australasia Ltd.
JOHN GRICE, Esq., Melbourne.
(Director of the National Bank of Australasia Ltd.)
VALENTINE J. SADDLER, Esq., Melbourne.
(Messrs. Baxter and Saddler, Railway Contractors.)
Major F. G. HUGHES, 395 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Also, in Sydney
Z. C. RENNIE, Esq. Sydney.
(General Manager for Australia of the Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company of New York.)
It is proposed that the Articles of Association of the Company shall provide that the qualification of
each Director shall be 300 of the Fixed Cumulative Preference Shares, and each of the above-
named gentlemen has agreed to take up such Qualification Shares.
Sinkers •
THE BAJSTK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Soli itors:
Messrs. MOULE, HAMILTON, & DIDDLE, Market Street, Melbourne.
Brokers:
Victoria :—Messrs. J. B. WERE & SON, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Messrs. WM. NO ALL & SON, City Bank Chambers, Collins Street,
Melbourne.
New South Wales -.—Messrs. RANDLE & WILLIS, of Martin Place, Sydney.
Messrs. MULLENS & COMPANY, of Eldon Chambers, 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
South Australia :—Messrs. HEDLEY L. TODD and J. K. SAMUEL, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Queensland .-—Messrs. CORRIE & COMPANY, Brisbane.
New Zealand :—JAS. HENDERSON, Sharebroker, Christchurch and Wellington.
JOHN LOGAN, Sharebroker, Dunedin.
G. A. BUTTLE, Sharebroker, Auckland.
Tasmania D. T. BROWNLIE, Hobart.
A. & W. POWDER, Launceston.
PROSPECTUS.
THIS COMPANY is being formed to acquire as a going concern and carry on the well-known
* business m Australasia of THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE COMPANY (AUS-
TRALASIA) LIMITED, together with its goodwill (including Trade Marks and Trade Name)
Patent Rights, Leases, Furniture and Plant in Australasia ; and an agreement has been entered into
securing to this Company the exclusive rights throughout Australasia for all Inventions and Patent
Rights relating to Eneumatic Tyres that may hereafter belong to THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC
TYRE COMPANY LIMITED, of England, at cost price, and special facilities are also given to this
Company in regard to the purchase of raw material for the manufacture of Tyres. The English Dun-
lop Company has agreed not to compete with this Company in Australasia, thereby securing to this
Company the exclusive sales of the celebrated DUNLOP CYCLE TYRES, and also of the DUNLOP
CARRIAGE TYRES.
The Australasian business was formed by the world-famed DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE
COMPANY, of England, in the year 1893. The net profits for the Australasian business for the last
year have been greater than for any previous year, and amounted to £14,707 19s. lid., and the
sales of Tyres in Australasia for the same year numbered 55,569.
The Head Office and Manufactory of the Australasian Company is situate in Melbourne, and
the Company has Branch Depots (where a full supply of Stock is kept) at Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
Perth, and Christchurch (New Zealand).
The business of The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company (Australasia) Limited will be taken
over by this Company as a going concern from the Ist day of August, 1899, and the Company
will have the benefit of all profits from that date. The accounts of the Australasian business have
been submitted to the well-known Accountants, Thomas Brentnall, Esq., F.1.A.Y., and J. E.
Bowes, Esq., Chartered Accountants, who have given the following Certificates with respect to the
sales and profits for the last two years, and also as to the sales for the present year up to the
Ist July, and it will be noticed therefrom that the business is worked practically on a cash basis:
‘‘The Equitable Building, George-st., Sydney, 9th August, 1899.
Messrs. Mullens & Co. and Messrs. Randle & Willis, Sydney.
“ Gentlemen, —In accordance with your instructions, I have made a careful examination of the
books of the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company, Limited, kept in Melbourne, for the two years
ended 26th January, 1899 (but treated by the Company as up to the last day of the month), and these
show that the net profits of the Company’s business in Australasia for that period have amounted
to .£26,683 Bs. 2d., viz. :
For the year ended 27th January, 1898 ... ... ... ... £11,975 8 3
» >. 26 th January, 1899 ... ... ... .” 14J07 19 11
...... £26,683 8 2
“ Ample provision, m my opinion, has been made for bad and doubtful debts, and also for the
depreciation and replacement of Tools, but I think an allowance of £3OO a year should be made for
depreciation of Furniture, Fittings, and Fixed Plant. This would still leave a NET profit of
£11,675 Bs. 3d. for the year ended 27th January, 1898, and £14,407 19s. lid. for the year ended 26th
January, 1899.
“The Net Sales for the year ended 27th January, 1898, amounted to £76,029 7s. 10d., and to
£91,870 os. lid. for the year ended 26th January, 1899. This shows an increase of £15,840 13s. Id. in
the sales of the latter year, and at the same time the percentage of net profit has, I find, been fully
ma in tai ned. —Y ours faith fully,
“J. E. BOWES, Chartered Accountant.”
“424 Chancery Lane, Melbourne, 20th July, 1899.
“Messrs. Moule, Hamilton, and Kiddle,
“ Solicitors, Melbourne.
“ Gentlemen, — .
“As requested, I have examined the Accounts of the DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE
COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED for the Two Years ended 31st January, 1899
and beg to report as follows :
“The Sales for the year ended 31st January, 1898, amounted to £76,029 7s. lOd
and for the year ended 31st January, 1899, to £91,871 Os. lid., being an average of
£83,950 4s. 4d. per annum.
“The Net Profit for the same periods was £11,975 Bs. 3d. and £14,707 19s. lid.
respectively, being an average of £13,341 14s. id. per annum, and equal to over 15 per cent, per
annum on the net sales.
“The total Sales for the Six Months ended 30th June, 1899, have reached £48,854
Is. 5d., as compared with £44,296 7s. Id. for the corresponding period of 1898.
“ The number of Tyres sold during the last financial year amounted to 55,569.
“ The business is, practically, worked on a cash basis, the bad debts for the two years under
review representing less than (155.) fifteen shillings per £lOO upon the turn over for the whole
period.
“ The above figures speak for themselves as to the magnitude and soundness of the business of
the Company.
“ I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
‘•THOS. BRENTNALL, F.LA.V.”
As appears from the Accountant’s Certificates, the net profits for the year ending January 31st last
were £14,707 19s. lid., and as the preferential dividend on the present issue of £BO,OOO only amounts
to £5600, THESE PROFITS WOULD ENABLE SUCH DIVIDEND TO BE PAID MORE
THAN TWO AND A-HALF TIMES OVER. In addition to this, it will be noticed from the
certificates that the sales of the Dunlop Tyres for the present year exceed the sales for the correspond-
ing months of last year.
The recent reductions on the cost of Cycles have brought them into universal use, and they are
now regarded in almost every household as a practical necessity, and there can be no doubt that the
demand for DUNLOP TYRES will continue to increase each year. It is intended to further extend
the scope of the business by. introducing into these colonies the DUNLOP PNEUMATIC
CARRIAGE TYRES, which are now so extensively used throughout Europe and America.
The DUNLOP TYRES are the world’s standard, and all the principal cycle manu-
facturers throughout the world fit their machines with Dunlop Tyres, and this Company will
acquire the exclusive right for Australasia to the valuable Trade Marks and Trade Names of this
business.
The Vendor and Promoter, Richard Garland, Esq., Managing Director of The Dunlop Tyre
Company Limited, Toronto, Canada, has fixed the total purchase price at £135,000, and has
included the Trade Marks and Trade Names, as well as the bemefit of the valuable contract
obtained from the English Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company Limited, as part of the goodwill of
the business sold to this Company, and has apportioned the value thereof at £125,000. Out of
the total purchase price, only £45,000 is payable in cash, the balance thereof being repre-
sented by the said deferred Preference Shares and the Ordinary Shares. The Com/am/ will
commence haziness free from debt, and with a cash working capital of £35,000 (less only the usual
brokers’ commission of sixpence per share) standing to its credit, which will be ample for all pur-
poses, and will enable it to carry on its business on the best cash terms.
The business will be carried on without interruption, upon the lines which have proved so suc-
cessful in the past, AND AS THE HEAD OFFICE OF THE COMPANY WILL NOW BE
IN AUSTRALIA instead of England as heretofore, it. is anticipated that the business will be
carried on to better advantage than ever.
The Contract for Sale and Purchase is dated 10th August, 1899, and is made between the said
Richard Garland of the one part, and Frederick Arthur Moule, Esq;, of Market-street Melbourne
Solicitor, as Trustee for the Company of the other part, and the contracts between ’tin* Dunlop
Pneumatic Tyre Company (Australasia) Limited, and the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company Limited
respectively, and the said Richard Garland, are dated the 15th day of May, 1899.
The Vendor and Promoter will bear all cost in relation to the formation.of theDompany up to
Allotment, including the payment of a commission averaging not more than 10 per cent, for under-
writing the present issue, payable partly in cash and partly in the Ordinary Shares.
The only preliminary expenses which will be payable by the Company will be the usual brokerage
of sixpence per share on the Prefeience Shares subscribed for by the public.
The said Contracts, and Mr. Brentnall’s and Mr. Bowes’ Certificates above referred to, and the
proposed Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, may be inspected at the Office
of the Solicitors to the- Company.
Where no allotment is made the deposit will be refunded in full, and where the allotment is less
than the amount applied for, the balance of the deposit will be applied towards the instalment
payable on allotment. Allotment will be made in .the order of priority of application.
Prospectuses and Forms of Application can be obtained from the Brokers of the Company ; or at
the branches of the Bank of Australasia, or from the Solicitors of the Company. " ’
Dated this 19th day of August, 1899.


WHEN you RIDE FIRST-CLASS ON the Railway
you take a first-class carriage.
When you ride first-class on a Bicycle you select
A MASSEY-HARRIS*
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
%
OUR FACTORY has been running twenty-two (22) hours per day for the
past twelve months, turning out over 150 wheels every twenty-four
hours. Notwithstanding this, we are unable to meet the demand for
U
RED BIRD” CYCLES.
We sell more cycles in
It’s the quality
Australia than any two firms put together,
of the goods that creates this demand.
Have a Catalogue, or call and see Local Agents.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY LIMITED.
Australasian Branches
Factories—
Brantford, Canada.
64 King-street, Sydney ;
261 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic. ;
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q. ;
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
Bundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
■i
■A
-A -H -A. -A -A
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A RULE OF THE A.J.O.
Set in verse by “ The Banjo.”
Gome all ye bold trainers attend to my song,
It’s a rule of the A.J.O.
You mustn’t train ponies, for that’s very wrong
By the rules of the A.J.O.
You have to wear winkers when crossing the street,
For fear that a pony you’d happen to meet ;
If you hear one about, you must beat a retreat—
That’s a rule of the A.J.O.
And all ye bold owners will find without fail
By the rules of the A.J.O.
The jockey-boys-’ fees you must pay at the scale—
It’s a rule of the A.J.O.
When your horse wins a fiver, you’ll laugh, I'll be bound,
But you won’t laugh so much by the time that you’ve
found
That the fee to the boy is exactly Ten Pound 1
That’s a rule of the A.J.O.
And all ye bold “ Books ” who are keeping a shop,
In the rules of the A.J.O.
There’s a new regulation that says you must stop !
That’s a rule of the A.J.O.
You must give up your shop with its pipes and cigars
To an unlicensed man who is thanking his stars,
While you go and bet in the threepenny bars—
That’s a rule of the A.J.O.
And all ye small jockeys who ride in a race,
In the rules of the A.J.O.
If owners’ instructions are “ Don’t get a place,"
By the rules of the A.J.O.
Youmust.ride the horse out,—though, of course, if you do
You will get no more mounts, it’s starvation to you.
But, bless you, you’ll always find plenty to chew
In the rules of the A.J.O.
* * * *
Another Q. “cert.” (Sweetheart) went down
badly in the Tramway Handicap at Sydney Tatt’s meet-
ing. Those behind the filly reckoned it all over bar
shouting, but she only got third, and that through sheer
gameness. Her Stradbroke Handicap performance at
Eagle Farm (Q.) made 6 furlongs, with 7.8 up, look par-
ticularly good. Punters piling it on Boreas for the
Epsom (through his Bananaland form) should note Sweet-
heart’s failure at Randwick, as well as that of Babel and
one or two other Northern fliers on same course.
* * * *
Yet another Gozo to the fore. In the important
Spring Handicap at Randwick last week, nothing had a
chance with the ugly nag Plutus, who got his large
Roman nose in front at half way and kept it there, win-
ning without being hit or kicked by half-a-dozen lengths.
The Splendor horse, Superb, who carried much
Sydney cash in last Caulfield Cup and got mixed up in
the Robin Hood smash, put up 9,4 and helped himself to
the Welter at Randwick t’other day in a very summary
manner. Superb is now favorite for the Epsom, and, if
“ after it,” should nearly win.
* * * *
The three place-getters in Hampden Stakes at
Randwick t’other day—“ Bill ” Forrester’s The Chief,
Cranberry, and The Grafter’s brother, Gauleon—should
have a say in deciding some of the coming big spring
events. Last season few horses could give The Chief a
start over any distance up to a mile, and he is not much
worse now. Since Cocos, Sydney hasn’t seen many better
youngsters than Cranberry, and he looks the best of good
things for A.J.O. Derby ; anyhow, whatever downs him
won’t miss the Melb. classic event by much. Gauleon has
grown into a really fine horse, and his two last runs when
half-well suggest that he is as good as his breed.
* * * *
Last year’s champion, Cocos, was seen out in
the weight-for-age event at Sydney TatWsaU’s Club
meet last week, and ran respectably consider/V that he
is only half-well, and not too fond of a wet Course. He
has changed little—has filled out some and looks rather
sounder about the pins, but still has that jaded, pes-
simistic look about the eyes. He started at “ your own
price,” so apparently in running fourth he did all that
Payten expected. * * *
Apropos Gamecock’s recent win of Bendigo
“Australian” Cup, it is worth mentioning that
owner Pearson has lately had a good time at coursing.
Waterhen, then freshly purchased, got away with Benalla
(Vic.) Waterloo for him. Aqua Fori is appropriated
Moo'nee Valley Oup, and Fanny Parnell secured Gipps-
land O.O’s championship. Hundreds of others have been
years at the game and never raised a flag. Luck or
judgment? Writer thinks the latter.,
Champion trotter Fritz has so far been the
only animal, man or beast, to run Gov. Beauchamp to a
pitch of enthusiasm. At Forbes (N.S.W.) show, when
Fritz trotted his mile on the slippery racecourse in a
shade under 2min. 14secs., His Ex. showed the liveliest
interest in the champion, and asked to be allowed to hold
him whilst being photo’d.
* * * *
The weak spot in Fleet Admiral’s chance for
the Melbourne Cup is a cracked heel, which threatens to
give a lot of trouble to t.he trainer. If the horse were
not so fleshy and hearty he could be safely rested awhile,
but a fair amount of work is necessary in his case, where-
fore the healing of the heel will be a slow process, any-
how.
Talking of horses that easily run to fat—how
will Chesney be atf the end of his voyage to England ? A
disposition to grossness is evident in this handsome colt,
whose own brother, Mai-olio, was ruined for racing
purposes by the pampering the Redfearns gave him after
he had won Melb. Cup. Safe thing to bet that Chesney
will be as slow as a funeral first time he is galloped on
t other side.
* * * •
The V.R.C. marked the return of its old
prosperity by voting a douceur of £lOOO to George Wat-
son, whose services as starter date back to 1852. A
recent Bulletin termed George Watson the “ ex-starter,’
whereas he is still on the joo, giving the signal for the
machine to let the gee-gees go, instead of merely drop-
ping a flag as in (lays of yore. Ihe machine is now the
Prince of Starters, and veteran George is the equerry
thereto.
* ♦ * *
Who would not be a bookmaker in England ?
Official returns of place-betting on the last Derby
7 to 1 on Flying Fox, 5 to 4 on Holocauste, 5 to 4 against
Damocles, 2 to 1 each Oppressor and My Boy, 7 to 2
Innocence, 5 to 1 Desmond, 6 to 1 Scintillant, 10 to 1 Sir
Reginald, 20 and 25 to 1 others.
, • * *
Re death of the French horse Holocauste in
last English Derby. Some London vets, ascribe the
occurrence to Tod Sloan’s method of riding—which, it is
averred, extorts speed by frightening the animal, and
while in position Sloan has no control over his mount.
On the morning of Derby day Holocauste could not have
been bought for 10,000 guineas, but in the afternoon he
wasn’t worth much more than two guineas. The slaughter-
man who put the great grey out of his misery said that
Holocauste dead and in the lump would realise 255.
Broken up and cooked he might fetch about 50s. or a
little more, thus; flesh (catsmeat) 365., hide 155., entrails
for dogs’ meat 2s, bones Is. Total £2 14s. The hoofs
usually yield 6d. to 9d. each, but the owner wanted them.
Up to the end of the fifth test-match the Aus-
tralian XI. had played 29 matches, winning 14, losing 3,
and drawing 12; and had scored 1i.,816 runs for 397
wickets against the Britishers’ 10,746 for 498 wickets, or
an average for each Australian wicket of 29,79 against
21.57 for each English individual effort. The highest
single innings score was England’s 576 in the fifth “test,
and the lowest was Leicestershire’s second-innings effort of
21. In the test events honors were fairly easy, Australia
having won one and four being drawn, three in England’s
favor. Although the present eleven is reckoned by many
to be well ahead of its predecessors, it hasn’t much the
best of the figures when compared with the 17 wins, 7
draws, and 5 losses of the ’96 team for.the same number
of matches. Allowing' 2 points for a win and 1 for a draw
Trott’s team gets home by 1 point.
* * * *
The Australians began well in their match
against Middlesex, scoring 300 and odd for five wickets.
Everybody was in double figures when this paper went to
press, and Darling and Iredale were not-out with 78 and
76 respectively.
* * * *
Thk Bulletin’s London correspondent:—“ The
fourth test-match, its morals and ini morals. Have you
ever tried to shift a middle-aged native bear from the 50-
feet high prong of a hoary gum ? You fill him with shot
in front, between and behind; rattle his knuckles with
lead, riddle his ears and pepper his hide generally, and
he ignores you and your cartridges beyond an occasional
supercilious glance downwards as if to enquire, ‘ What-
ever are you at ? ’ So Mr. Noble, of Sydney, at Old Traf-
ford this week. In a quarter of a century of the world’s
cricket I have never seen, read, or heard of a perform-
ance to equal it. A man with self-restraint like that
could be trusted with a full collection-plate at even-
ing service when the lights go out. In the first
innings ‘ M.A.’ went in third wicket down (for
14), and carried his bat out for 60, his first 10 taking-
one hour. In the follow-on he made 89, having
totalled 149 in eight and a-half hours, and g; t out to the
only bad stroke he made in the match. Tedious? Well,
Alick Bannerman some years ago stonewalled against
Victoria, and the Argus] Age & 00. howled. Two or
three days later A.B. repeated his comatose cricket but
for Australia ». England at Melbourne, and was crushed
with compliments. There is a belief here among ‘ green
and gold’supporters that the boys loaf, or ‘ laekadaise ’
when things took easy. Quaife, Fry, Ranji and Maclaren
for 47 was too flattering for them, and the attack may
have waned, though Hayward (missed three times) saved
England.
“ The crowd ” (continues our correspondent)
“were rough, but, through all, good-tempered. They
whistled ‘ The Dead March,’ ‘We Won’t Go Home Till
Morning,’ ‘Home, Sweet Home,’ &e., and when the um-
pire did not satisfactorily respond to an appeal, called
out, ‘ Change the ruddy umpire!’ Darling particularly
seemed to feel the ‘ ragging,’ which, combined with
memories of English ultra-keenness to waste time, &c.,
at Nottingham, nerved him to prevent Tyldesl'ey fielding
for Hayward, and J.D., cricketer he, has been got on the
‘ raw ’by the M. 0.0. For the committee of Lords abso-
lutely refused to allow the Australians any voice in the
choice of umpires, and Wardill told them plainly : ‘ Well,
if a certain man be selected we shall not play.’ Cries of
‘Name?’ ‘ Barlow,’ replied the Major. Lord Hawke
blusteringly jumped up, ‘ Oh, he’s been giving out lots
of Englishmen lately, too.’ Lord Harris (in chair),
‘ Well, as he does not appear to please either side,’ etc.
“Everyone will be glad to hear ” (concludes the
writer) “ that Frank Iredale has reached form and nerve
at last. His 67 in. two attempts for once out was im-
mensely valuable, and lie played without that wretched,
finicky, groping for ‘off-balls’ that has so often contri-
buted towards his necklace. Clem. Hill, operated on for
a post-nasal growth, with inflammation supervening',
looks pale, and not at all himself. He is missed, and we
pray for his. best work on Aug, 14 at the Oval. . M‘Leod
puts all his ill-luck down to the cross-eyed people he
meets continually, and certainly the blame seems in no
way his own.”
* * * *
The discarding of Hirst and the non-inclusion
of Burnup (of Kent), whose bowling might have “come
off” just once again, were the only possible mistakes
which the Englishmen made in selecting their final test-
team. With the luck of the toss in their favor and an
exceptionally big and fast score to start with, they failed
to win the game—simply because their bowling and field-
ing didn’t beat the Australians. One bowler, Lockwood,
put up the fine performance of seven wickets for 71 in
their first innings, but he was not even decently sup-
ported except by A- O. Jones, whereas in the two first
tests where our Jones bowled brilliantly, he got respect-
able assistance from Howell, Trumble, and Noble. When
the batting and bowling , averages for the full English
season come to be published, the consistent success of
the Australians will appear rather puzzling. Their bowl-
ing in all matches has not been up to the figures of
Trott’s last team in England, yet they have done much
better against picked teams on the whole. They have,
as a rule, got rid of the “crack” English batsmen
cheaply in classic matches, whilst the English bowlers
with the top averages—notably Mead and Rhodes—have
been unable to get rid of them cheaply in the hour
of Hingland’s need, although it must be admitted
that the Australians were practically beaten by the
bowlers in the % third test-match when rain intervened.
The one certain fact discoverable from the test-match
figures is the comparative consistency and solidity of the
Australian bowlers. Jones took one or more (usually more)
wickets in each of the seven innings where he was called
upon. Trumble and Noble took wickets six times out of .
seven, and Howell five times out of six. The Englishmen
had no professional bowler who seemed good enough for
them to swear by. Rhodes and Hearne were the only
ones they tried in three matches. Hearne took wickets
five times out of six attempts. Rhodes vva's : successful in
four out of five. Young didn’t fail in either of his four
trials, but Bradley drew a blank twice out of four times,
and Lockwood once out of twice. In all five test, matches
the Australians took 67 wickets, whereas the Englishmen
toolt'7s'Australian wickets. There Were sundry “run
outs” on both sides, and one Englishman (Briggs)
couldn’t bat for his side. The principal bowling averages
come out as follows :
Australians. Englishmen.
Mat. VVkts. Av. | Mat. Wkts. Av.
Jones ... 5 26 25'50 I Young ... 2 12 21'00
Trumble 5 15 25*40 | Hearne . 3 13 24'69
Noble .. 5 13 31 '3O Rhodes... 3 13 26”22
Howell 5 8 43'37 Lockwood 1 7 14-85
Bradley 2 6 38'83
62 51
(out of 67 taken). (out of 75 taken).
So it appears that whilst 4 Australian bowlers sufficed to
do nearly all the English wicket-taking, 5 principal Eng-
lish bowlers were employed in taking only 51 out of 75-
Australian wickets. Of the remaining 24, 6 were ob-
tained pretty cheaply: —
Wickets. Average.
Briggs 3 ... 17'66
Townsend .. 3 ... 25-00
and the other 18 were divided among seven expensive
change bowlers. One of them fell to Mead at a cost of 92
runs. And ygt when the-season’s averages appear we
shall probably find that Mead, bowling against the same
county teams as the Australians have been attacking, has
' taken more wickets for a rather better average than
either Jones, Trumble, Noble, or Howell. Several differ-
ent conclusions can be drawn from a comparison between
figures for test-matches and all matches. Figures will
prove anything, but in this case they can’t disprove the
solidity of the cricket played by Darling and co. The Aus-
tralians were always “there or thereabouts” when wanted;
sometimes they got there more than at other times, but
they have never seemed to be outbatted and outbowled
in one and the same match—test or otherwise. Their
aggregate average for the five tests was rather better
than the all-England’s— -viz,, 2475 runs for 80 wickets
down, as against 2056 rups for 70 wickets.
* * * *
Five Australian batsmen—Noble, Hill, Wor-
rall, Trumble, and M‘Leod -have a much better average
for test than for all matches. Trumper and Iredale lost
very little ground in the tests, but Darling, Gregory,
Kelly, Laver, and Jones fell considerably below their
figures for “ all matches.” For All-England, the most
conspicuous test failures were Townsend, Quaife, Fry,
Tyldesley, Gunn, Storer, and Jessop ; and Hayward alone
was a conspicuous success.
* * » »
London Referee said of the second test-match :
“ The downfall of nine of our picked batsmen for 73 runs
on a good wicket is inexplicable, though by many it is
attributed to natural nervousness over the engagement.
It was really the bowling of Jones that worked all the
mischief, for at the outset he was unplayable, and even
so gifted a batsman as C. B. Fry was mixed up by his
deliveries, while Ranjitsinghi, after one beautiful stroke
in the first innings, was hopelessly beaten. In the field,
our men were simply outclassed by the colonials, and our
attack was very weak. Our need is a fast bowler. Hirst
signalised his removal from the eleven by capturing
eight of the Australian wickets for 48 and five for 101,
when they opposed Yorkshire earlier in the week, and it
is to be regretted that he did not again find a place in
the team.’’
The prattle of learned cricket commentators on
the latest cable-reports is always amusing. Re the open-
ing of the final test-match, the Argus savant observed
“ All the conditions of play up to lunch-time point to the
fact that the Englishmen, having won the toss, have set
themselves resolutely to the task of making defeat im-
possible. Both Jackson and Hayward evidently deter-
mined to wear out the bowling.” The result of the Eng-
lishmen’s policy was 435 runs, for 4 wickets, when stumps
were drawn —a fairly striking contrast to the score of 238
which the Australians made when they got first-day’s use
of a fast wicket in the No. 1 test. An All-England team
can only play one sort of batting game effectively, and
that’s the spirited game. When nervousness, or a little
bad luck at the outset, prompts them co play to keep their
wickets up, their wickets go down. Their policy should
always be to collar the bowling, or perish in the attempt,
seeing that the Australian bowling is always dangerous to
them until it gets badly punished. No English team has
played a successful “steady” game against it this
season—barring the Kent men, who won because
they hadn’t many runs to make altogether.
Here is the marked point of difference between
Australian and English play. Our batsmen, with
unlimited time at their disposal, learn to beat the
bowling without slogging it, as when they slowly piled
up the score in the second innings of the fourth test what
time the disappointed Manchester crowd were w histling
“ Dead March in Saul.” Undoubtt dly they have a gr< at
pull over their rivals in this respect. Their patience is a
double virtue, serving them both ways when they make a
long slow score. The Englishmen, left with a big chance
of defeat and no chance of victory, can’t play a spirited
game. Then out they go. It will be said that this excuse
doesn’t apply to the sick performances of Stoddart’s last
team in Australia. True ; but the men of Stoddart s last
team were mostly nervous batsmen in the four test
matches they lost , as Tiib Bulletin remarked at the time.
* * * *
Letters from England to his family in Adelaide
describe cricketer Clem Hill’s illness as being 1 bronchitis,
and when last mail left he was unable even to write,
members of the team doing that for him. But what
puzzles Australians is the absolute silence of the cable-
man.
* * * *
Printed that prior to the beginning of the fourth
test-match the Australians were practically a band of
cripples. Wort-all, Darling, Howell, Jones, Gregory, and
Trumble had the services of masseurs right through the
three days. Excitement reached bursting-point, and all
were brought up to the, highest tension on the last day.
So great was the anxiety that Darling, Trumble, Hill, and
Johns simply couldn’t watch the play, and sought relief
by lying dow-n in the dressing-room.
JJ ”« * * *
M‘Le,od’s 108 (for once out) in the fifth test
saved Australia and enables the 10th Eleven to come
back the only team that has not lost a test-match. His
success was all the more singular because he is admittedly
the failure of the team. His performance will atone for
many of his failures in the tour.
* * * *
Footballing Melb. saw what was practically its
first Rugby match on Saturday, for all previous exposi-
tions of the English game were played in the presence of
hut a few enthusiasts. But Rev. Mullineux and his team
were so judiciously boomed that 10,000 turned up, and of
these at least 9500 left under the belief that his reverence
ought to be boiled alive for false pretences. The Rugby
game suffered, in the first instance, by comparison. The
afternoon opened with a match under Australian rules
between the Vic. League combined clubs and Ballarat.
Despite heavy wind, the game was lively and scientific,
the goldfielders eventually scoring 6 goals 1 behind to 4
goals 11 behinds, or 37 points to 35.
Then everyone anxiously awaited the Rugby
game. The crowd had some misgivings when the goal-
posts were erected so close together ; “ Blime 1 they
remarked, “any of our blokes’d kick a goal from atf
way in that scrap of a ground.” When the game started
there was no hostility, only contempt, and the crowd
roared with amusement when the first scrum was formed.
“Looks like a chap feedin’ fowls,” was the comment;
but the frequency of the scrimmage and out-of-bounds-
plav soon roused the indignation of the spectators. Ihe
off-side rule also bothered a lotr “ Booh- ooh ! you funk!
they howled at a Victorian as he stood by and let one of
the Englishmen mark the ball, and it was only when
a big local man got an Englishman by the neck
and tried to tear his head off, that they saw
a single acceptable point in the game. Iha t
touched the hearts of all. But there vyere few such
incidents, and as it was apparent through all that the
Victorians were getting badly licked, the crowd began to
clear out lOmin. after the start. By half-time only a
small proportion of spectators was left, and the prevail-
ing opinion was that they never saw such a silly game in
all their lives, and that, if that was football, the onty
thing to be thankful for was that the Englishmen only
came out here once in 12 years or so.
Those who knew anything about Rugby saw
that the game was not one to impress an outsider. The
Englishmen, and especially Ranji Mullineux, who looked
like a small bov who had strayed into a man s match,
played all over the locals, though it was only on about
four or five occasions that they exhibited any of the
brisk and lively passing that is the feature of Rugby.
Outside the rev. captain himself, the man most watched
was the one sinner who repented Timms, a prominent
Vic. footballer years ago, when he was wing-man for
Geelomr. Since then, Timms has gone to England and
learnt Rugby, but apparently he is not the crack
at it that he was in the game of his youth.
The Vies, on Saturday turned out in white togs
and the white man’s burden proved much too heavy for
15 men got together with a fortnight s practice. Though
they numbered no Australian-game players among them
being all English, Sydneysiders and Maorilanders—they
seemed to have become infused with its principles, and
went in for a lot of long kicking under circumstances
that did more harm than good. In the Australian game
it is always best for a man to take his kick rather than
try to pass an opponent. In Rugby a run is worth 20
kicks, yet the Victorians attempted to run scarcely at an.
Little wonder was it then that the game concluded . Eng-
land 5 goals 1 try—3o points to nil.
In one of the England v. N.S.W. Rugby
matches, O’Donnell, a Cornstalk “five-eights, got a
little out of position, and rev. captain Mullmeux called
to him in a hurt voice : “ I say, faive-eighths, you are in
my way.” O’Donnell grinned, and a big forward sang
out—“Ohlbaijove! Get out of the gentlemans way-
how very unthought.fnl of you.” Then ihe ball came out
of the scrum, and the big forward rushed and sat down
on the little parson’s head.
* * * “
The most screechingly - humorous of, P ar f on
Mullineux’s list of “ dirty little tricks ” pine: i <ed by Aus-
tralian Rugby players is his “fourihy (.my beloved
brethren) —the shouting after an opponent for a pass.
The beastly colonial who first started this most have been
a bit of a humorist. One can imagine the disgust of the
little parson on discovering that the person io whom he
had just trustfully passed over his shoulder was a large,
bull-beaded Australian forward. Though it is playing it
rather low, the trick is rather clever than otherwise, tot
the player who passes the ball out promiscuously to
whomsoever calls for it, deserves to be taken down occa-
sionally.
» * * *
The average football barracker is not much im-
pressed with fair-play as an axiom. A few weeks ago
writer was beside an English barracker who jubilated
much at a manifestly mistaken free-kick awarded the
Britishers, and which got them out of a tight place, lhe
other Saturday he was next to an Australian ditto, who
yelled when Spragg got the ball and secured a try.
“ Why, that was passed forward fully five yards surely
they’ll never get that!” They did, however, and lie
cheered lustily, and objurgated the Britishers—who were
one point ahead—for wasting time and trying to ‘ psint
Australia out of the game.
* * * *
“ F.J.” : Certain N.S.W. Rugby bigwigs seem
to have been completely under the domination of
Mully and Co. These parasites (some of whom
never played football in their lives) would rather
cringe to our visitors and Govt. House for the
sake of a little tinpot social recognition than en-
danger their present precarious popularity by insisting
on the choosing of our best representative teams. At
the recent Sydney matches there was in the members
stand a big- contingent of strov-hatted johnnies, who
applauded frantically any good English footballer s work,
but totally ignored any brilliant light-blue play. Yet
such is the inconsistency of these cattle that they went
into raptures over the news of Trurnper’s big cricket-
score. Gussie is half a woman, anyhow !
* ». * *
In answer to Melbourne Mayor M‘Eacharn s
condemnation of football as low, brutal, and un-English,
they trotted out a newspaper-account of a recent
English match, during the course of which 23 damaged
policemen were carried off the'field.
Rain materially affected Sydney, theatre-audi-
ences on Saturday night hut not the usual weekly gathering
at Golden Gate A.O. People wedged themselves in till
900 were there, and breathing-space was at a premium.
Eighteen of 29 entrants (a record) knocked lumps off each
other iii the first, portion of the initial round of an 8.7
novice competition. They rolled over one another,
fought back on to the ropes, hanged into the padded
posts, and dozens of times went within an ace-of hitting
too-close ring-siders. On occasions, excitement was in-
tense, then amusement would reach the same pitch.
Screeches of laughter alternated with yells of applause. At
such a furious clip did they all “ get down to it ” that a
single round saw some heats through, while most ended
in two, and the longest only occupied four.
* « * *
Little “Bert” Weekes, who knocked-out
Summer Hill “ Billy ” Smith at Golden Gate Club (Syd-
ney), Wednesday last, can fight under 7st., and is as stiff
a piece of pug-machinery as N.S.W. can boast. Gritty,
quick and clever, he’s “ there ” all the t ime : getting out
of distance with clock-like precision, he hustles and
harries the life out of the other man. The Sydney midget
wants a “go” with any on the continent, and will give
away lbs. (within reason) sooner than miss a chance.
* * » •
“ Old Timer ” : In face of Sydney police action
re the (prohibited) Dunn-Conlon 20-rounds bout two
weeks ago, it seems strange that several fierce bashing
battles have since occurred at Golden Gate Club free
from blue-coated interference. Probably the same occult
influence that sweeps the freshly-started tote-man out of
existence, while it allows the fat and old-established
“ little-double ” layer to continue unmolested and still
further fatten, is responsible? Had those handling the
Dunu-Conlon affair “ known the ropes” that fight would
have now been ancient history.
* * * *
The unco guid had a night out when Mr.
Griffith’s “ Bill to amend the Towns Police Act in so far
as it prohibits wholesome athletic sports on Sundays”
was before N.S.W. Assembly. Pharisaical hogwash was
much on top until “no quorum ” closed the debate.
Mr. Griffith’s idea is to have football, cricket, golf, and
such like games countenanced within certain distances of
any place of worship. Nowhere but in a parson-ridden
country would opposition be offered to so up-to-date and
rational a proposal. Cycling, driving, yachting, &c., are
not (and could not be) tabooed ; then why other pastimes?
Similar arguments were adduced against opening the Art
Gallery and the Zoo on the Sabbath. How far have the
objections then offered been borne out ? The fact of
many thousands going miles to see hurling-matches
Sunday after Sunday shows conclusively that a big sec-
tion of the community want some means of making the
Day of Rust more agreeable. One member contended
that “the Continental Sunday” and a demand for the
opening of business-places would follow! Golfers seem
scared concerning probable action by the police with
regard to their game, but there’s no occasion for alarm.
As they make no noise whatever, it would be hard to find
a pretext for shutting them up.
* * * *
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Bier scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sydney Safe Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable scrip either in office
safes or private residences, and there have been large
numbers of visitors to view the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street, (back of Paling and Co’s), off George-street.*
* * * *
The old wooden bicycle on which the immortal
Blondin gyrated across a rope stretched over Niagara
Falls was recently bought by a collector of curios at an
auction sale in Paris for three francs. And yet that ride
was one of the wonders of the world.
(Continued on page SO.)


I
$
A.
f f 1 ■ >
as the name implies, has no superior.
The DOMINION
affords the best value at a low price.
M- APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
(Sole Distributing Agent for Australasia)
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
icycles, ccessories, and M! at e ria.l:
263-265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
Noils— Our ONLY Australian Address —9O King Street, Sydney.
Solid Gold
Sword PIN CHAIN,
Garnet or Amethyst
Heart or Bell, 14/6.
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK,
Very Pretty and
Useful, 2/6 each.
MSI
MX
FEDERATION
BROOCHES.
Sterling- Silver, 3 6.
Solid Gold, 13/6.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver. 2 6.
Solid' Gold, 12/6.
Gold BANGLE, set with 9 beautiful Opals and 16 White
Pearls, 50s each.
Our New Gold Bamboo BANGLES, 22s 6d ; broader, 32s 6d.
Children’s size, 14s.
m
Gold, set with one finest quality Amethyst, Topaz, or
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
PLAIN and RICHLY ENGRAVED BRACELETS.
Solid Gold, 18s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s to 4Us.
9ct., 10/6,
Smaller, 6/6,
15ct., 12,6 each.
GOLD PIN AND CHAIN PENDANTS.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 ; smaller size, 6 6
With Luckt’ Bell, 7/6 ; smaller size, 4 6
With Heart ... 76 ; smaller size, 5 6
With Cross . 8- ; smaller size, 7/-
Please send for our Illustrated Slips of Novelties
All Articles sent Post Free to any address
Japanese Lantern
PIN AND CHAIN,
Sold Gold, 6/6.
Lantern only, 3,6.
MINATURE IRON
HORSESHOE,
Stone set, 1,6
With Gold Pin and
Chain, ss.
iTT
nsr
GEISHA PENDANT
PIN and CHAIN,
Solid Gold, 12 6.
Pendant only, 9/-
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor * - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Business Announcements.
PATENTS T'OJt INVENTIONS S ECU It EE
IN ANY COUNTRY. Moderate Charges.
Robt. G. Mallinson, Patent Agent,
163 Vjwk'er.y'a Chambers, 82 Pitt-st., Sydney.
OLL IN S’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and, Most. Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOB PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Eactoiw Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. /•'. McDermott,
General Ayent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
I Cure Fits
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy do;s or does not cu e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send for a FREE bottle of medi*
cine and to try it. Idm quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Sa’e Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIQH GDNS.,LONOON,ENQ.
In One Man’s Life.
When completed, the cathedrals of St. Patrick
in Melbourne and of St. Mary in Sydney,
will be imposing examples of Australian religious
fervour. They bring Art to the aid of Faith ; an
impressive architecture adorns and enforces the
hereditary instinct of trust in a creed, the heredi-
tary ache for assurance of a divinity superior to
humanity, of a world beyond the grave.
Yet there is a sense in which every cathedral is
a tomb. Reason lies buried there. Science lies
buried there. To gain what we hope we must
yield what we know. That one cathedral may
triumph to the skies, a hundred thousand minds
are submerged in unillumined deeps. Was there
ever a stained window’s gorgeous glory so majesti-
eal as the white dawn of Truth, if we could see it,
in some groping human brain ?
Yet the saying is not conclusive. We can learn
so little ; stumble so pitifully along the vast roads
of the confronting universe. Surely it is possible
to merge the legend in the poetry ; to forget the
dogma in remembering the human source from
which it flows; and to consider the cathedral a
symbol in stone, the token of our common struggle,
our enduring aspiration ?
* • • •
The architect of both St. Patrick’s and St.
Mary’s Cathedral is William Wilkinson Wardell, a
W. W. WARD ELL.
Photo., J. Habert New[?].
follower of that marvellous Pugin who, early in
this century, led what is known as the Gothic re-
vival in architecture. When Mr. Wardell came
to Australia forty - one years ago he was in
the heyday of his talent, a member of the
Civil Engineers’ Institute, an associate of the
Institute of Architects. At that time his life
was despaired of by his doctor. He has lived to
watch the building of the Melbourne .cathedral
through forty years to its opening in 1897 ; and
still, in his 76th year, he may be found daily
superintending the progress of the Sydney
cathedral. To few men is it given to attempt
such a life-work, and so to watch it grow towards
consummation.
Of the two edifices, St. Patrick’s is perhaps the
grander ; St. Mary’s the more magnificent. Both
are conceived in the decorated Gothic style ; but
the adornment of the Sydney structure, built of
Pyrmont freestone, is much richer and more com-
prehensive than in St. Patrick’s, where bluestone
is the main material. To this bluestone is due the
somewhat sombre effect of the Melbourne build-
ing, which will persist at least until the towers
are finished. These will add .£50,000 to the
£230,000 already expended ;an 1 tin; completion
of the architect’s design is of nee <-;;y postponed.
The building of St. Patrick’s is an unbroken
record of struggle by the R.C. clergy and their
adherents in Melbourne. During 40 years, though
the work often lagged, it never stopped entirely.
If prayers could erect a cathedral, St. Patrick’s
would have been built by one man’s prayers alone
—Dr. Fitzpatrick’s. The life of this worthy priest
was consecrated to the work, and in spirit he raised
every stone of the walls. He haunted the building
like its ghost, Day after day, after year, he
watched the edifice rising; and often the workmen
were startled to see his slight, bent figure, with the
cassock gathered round it, crossing from aisle to
aisle on the f«ot-wide windy walls, 70ft. above the
ground.
Every pound he could give, every pound he
could stimulate his clerical brethren to give, Dr.
Fitzpatrick devoted to the cathedral; and when
he died they found half-a-crown in his pocket—all
his worldly possessions. When funds grew low,
the priest exhorted his generous congregation to
fresh efforts —to further self-denial. “ ’Tis God’s
own building ; ye would never see it stopped ! ”
And from the poor Cath dies of Melbourne—from
Bridget the servant and Michael the laborer—
flowed the main stream of contributions which
have built the cathedral.
In Sydney, for St. Mary’s, members of Protes-
tant religions have helped much ; in Melbourne,
they helped little. St. Mary’s Cathedral dates
from the fire which reduced the previous building
to ashes in 1865. Upwards of £ 150,000 has been
spent to bring the Cathedral to its present stage ;
and some £100,009 is required to extend the nave
to its full length and add the entrance and twin
towers which are the imposing key of the struc-
ture.
The plans, to the last line, are complete in the
drawers of Mr. Wardell’s Sydney office. Syd-
ney : for after holding for 20 years the post of
head of the Victorian Public Works Department,
and executing, among other tasks, the Williams-
town Dock, Mr. Wardell was dismissed with the
County Court Judges, with the heads of other de-
partments—“with every man who wore a clean
shirt ” —on Graham Berry’s famous Black Wednes-
day ; and recommenced private practice in New
South Wales, where he could watch the building
of St Mary’s.
* * • •
That William Wardell can live to see the utmost
completion of the vast fabrics woven by many
hands, but spun from his single brain, is beyond
hopes. Sufficient that the splendid design is so
far attained that the designer’s merit is manifest.
Exe/ji rmnumentum. For generation upon gener-
ation the memory of him will be perpetuated by
praying hands, by yearning spires, by the eter-
nally pointing and supplicating hands and spires.
A.G.S.
The Fortieth Anniversary of the
Equitable.
We have received from the Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society a copy of the Fortieth Anniversary
Number of the “ Equitable Record.” The num-
ber is practically devoted to a retrospect of the
Society’s history. The following are some extracts
of interest:—
“In reviewing the history of the Equitable we
instinctively turn to the one central figure with
which the name of the Society will for ever be
inseparably associated. Such was the personal
influence and magnetism of the late Henry B.
Hyde, founder of the Equitable, that even as a
young man of 25 years of age he succeeded in
securing the assistance of a number of prominent
men in the work of establishing the new Society,
and before the organisation of the Equitable was
completed, applications for £86,600 of assurance
had already been obtained.
“ In July, 1859, the incorporators of the Equit-
able adopted a charter providing for the organisa-
tion of the Society on the Mutual plan, under
which the business was to be conducted solely in
the interests of policy-holders, and under which
all profits were to belong to and be distributed
among the assured.
“At the end of 1859 there were but 268 policies
m force, assuring the modest sum of £238,333.
“In November, 1867, a branch was opened in
Great Britain, and thus, over thirty-one years ago,
the Equitable forged a link in the mighty chain
which now binds the two great branches of the
Anglo-Saxon race so closely together.
“ At the end of 1868 the assurance in force aggre-
gated £23,449,628.
“ At this point the Equitable took a step which
has revolutionised Life Assurance throughout the
world by the introduction of the Tontine or De-
ferred Bonus System, under which the largest
benefits are reaped by those policy-holders who
contribute the most towards the common fund.
Under the old plan of assurance, large profits were
realised by the representatives of those policy-
holders who died early, but who had paid com-
paratively little; whilst the longer-lived paid
more and received less in proportion to their con-
tributions ; also many persons for trifling reasons
allo wed their policies to lapse, whereas the addi-
tional inducements offered under this new system
to those who continue, effectually secure to the
widows and estates of many assurers benefits
which were often lost to them under the old
system.
“ The remarkable impetus which has been given
to the business of the Society since the introduc-
tion of this new form of assurance, and also to the
business of many other Life Insurance Companies
which have, under one name or another adopted
imitations of it, is to be attributed in great
measure to the exceptionally favorable returns to
policy-holders under policies maturing in this
class, and the introduction of this popular and
advantageous form of assurance is an eloquent
testimony to the sagacity and foresight of those
who controlled the destinies of the Equitable in
its early days.
“No one factor has contributed more to the
success of the Equitable than its Surplus. This
Surplus, which is accumulated for the benefit and
security of policy-holders under the wise provi-
sions of the Deferred Bonus System, stands as a
mighty rampart of safety, and places the Society
for ever beyond the reach of the disastrous effects
of financial depressions and fluctuations in values.
“In 1884 the Society opened branches in Aus-
tralasia. Year by year its extensive organisation
has been built up, offering to the people of these
colonies all the advantages of a local office, and, in
addition thereto, the security which is guaranteed
by the immense surplus funds of the Society, and
by the world-wide sphere of its investments and
immunity from the danger of local disturbances
arising from epidemics or financial crises, the risks
of the Equitable being distributed all over the
world.
“ Some idea of the magnitude of the Society’s
operations in Australia may be gathered from the
fact that the assurance in force upon its books in
Australia amounts to nearly £4,003,000, and since
the inauguration of the business of the Society in
Australia, fifteen years ago, the sum of over
£600,000 has been paid to policy-holders or their
representatives.
“The Equitable throughout its forty years’
history has been constant in its endeavors to give
its members the most liberal and flexible contract
consistent with approved ideas of safety. Its
policy has been one of enlightened conservatism.
No rash steps have been taken, and no retrogres-
sions have been made, but ever, as experience has
shown where concessions might be made with
safety, these concessions have been introduced
into the contracts.
“What is the present position of the Equitable ?
Its army of policy-holders the world over out-
numbers 250,000; its policies are written in
upwards of a dozen languages ; and its assurance
in force amounts to over £205,000,000. In the
past forty years it has returned to policy-holders,
or their representatives, over £03,000,000 and now
holds over £51,000,000 of Assets, of which
£12,000,000 is Surplus.”
Its Board of Directors in the various colonies
are composed of prominent and able men. The
Sydney Board of Directors consists of Mr.
William McMillan (Chairman), the Hon. Henry
Mort, M.L.C., and the Hon. Charles K. Mackellar,
M. 8., M.L.C. In the absence of Mr. McMillan,
who is in England, the Hon. Charles K.
Mackellar, who is also Medical Director for the
Society in Australasia, acts as Chairman, while
Mr, J. P. McArthur fills the vacancy on the
Board caused by Mr. McMillan's absence.
Mr. C. Carlisle Taylor, the General Manager
for the Society in Australasia, became associated
with the Equitable in 1889, and occupied for many
years a position on the executive staff at the
Head Office in New York. Although at the head
of an American Institution, he is an Englishman,
his father being a retired army officer, and his
grandparents General Henry G. A. Taylor,
G.C.B , and the Ven. Archdeacon Robert Bentley
Buckle, of Dorsetshire, having served with dis-
tinction in the Army and the Church.
The confidence of the Equitable in the Austra-
lian people and in the future of this country has
been marked by the acquisition of valuable
properties and the erection of magnificent build-
ings in Sydney and Melbourne..
Truly it would appear that in no vain-glorious
spirit, but with a prophetic consciousness that
they were laying broad and deep the foundations
of a mighty edifice, the founders of the Equitable
adopted the proud motto —“Not for a Day, but
for Ail Time.”


STAINER & CO.
Are now replete in all Departments with the
choicest , exclusive Novelties for the season , per-
sonally selected in the most noted centres of
fashion by their special buyer.
STAINER & CO.,
33-35 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Cures While
You Sleep
Wimping Cough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Cofe
when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm*,
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Lid.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
“Donned,” London.
222
CANNON ST.
London,
3E3.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
frakte: jarvis
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms'.’
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria-JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
GGODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d.) & 1/- each
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious aloue.
■Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence iu the article, and caurecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent mthe preparation ofagood Custard. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
foiting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE lIIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I ai» writing to tell you
aoout. the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, hut it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
paiii in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that 1 heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really' wonderful medi ine ; does good atonce,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, — •
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that jmur Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite w.ll, and walked into
town and back without feeling any f itigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain" and distr. ss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
atn stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows : —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearrie.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I ain more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my ease every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.’
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“ After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883- 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1891), he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARAE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
kemp’s Patent Sb?sp-Brai)dii)g LiqOid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear Lasting 1 Brand; withstand all Erin rrd Beat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go-,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH & 00. LTD
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Red, and Blue. 3s 6d per gall, in IMelto and. Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, in Brisbane.
S. Australia, which is very well provided
with philanthropic institutions, has one for the
training of weak-minded children—the only one,
so far as writer knows, in Australia. It is the
late George Ash’s best legacy to a province for
which he promised in his short life to do many
services.- There has now been a year’s practical
work at the home, and the results are altogether
cheering. Two woman experts were imported for
the work—largely at “ Boulder ” Brookman’s
expense.
Encounter Bay (S.A.) election, which
ended in O’Malley’s second defeat by Tucker,
was the liveliest in S.A. for half-a-century. At
one polling-place an O’Malleyitemade a derogatory
remark about the rival candidate, and was ducked
in a horse-trough. Within half-an-hour there
was a free fight, worthy of Dublin’s best days,
the crowning feat being accomplished when the
little village parson took the publican and nearly
drowned him in the ocean. At the last election,
a turbulent mob of O’Malleyites searched for a
high municipal functionary two whole days, and it
subsequently came out that that gentleman had
been hiding—in a most unexpected place.
The Prince of Wales makes himself
“ affable ” enough in public up to the point where
he is paid to do it, and in strict privacy he pro-
bably takes care to avoid all persons and things
likely to ruffle his serenity. But woe to the in-
dividual who asks to be noticed in public by his
Royal Highness when the stout personage has
something else to think about ! _ A worried
“Wales ”is the most merciless of princes. Said
that a lady with whom he had once taken tea,
“ took the liberty ’’ of wearing a frock of purple
and gold (his racing colors) in the royal enclosure
at Ascot. Furthermore, she took the liberty of
curtseying in front of him as he came walking
along with another lady. Result, “Wales” told
somebody to say something to the Master of the
Buckhounds (master of the ceremonies at Ascot)
and the official instructed an underling to inform
the purple-and-gold lady that her enclosure ticket
was—haw !—cancelled. To be snubbed by the
Heir Apparent is to be practically chucked
out, that he may not have the annoyance of
again meeting the individual he has chosen to
humiliate. And a grovelling press records such
society incidents as the above without any ap-
parent sense of the hero’s meanness.


s'
r(
OPATHY
U.
FISHER
COZMUF’A-UNnT
The Leading Homoeopathic Chemists in Australia. Wholesale & Retail.
All Tinctures, Pilules, and Medicines are prepared on our own premises. Owing to our active and extensive
trade, ALL DRUGS are NEW, PURE and FRESH.
We claim the distinction of Selling at Lower Prices than any House in the World—NOT excepting London,
New York, or Melbourne.
HOMCEOPATHIO MEDICINES most generally in use. Prepared by FISHER & CO., Homoeopathic Chemists, 337 George-st.,
Svdnev. Sold bv all Vendors of Fisher & Co.’s Homoeopathic Remedies throughout the colonies.
Aconitum
Antimonium Tabt
Arsenicum
Bapxisia
Belladonna
Bryonia
Calcaria Carb....
Chamomilla
China
CIMICIFUGA
Drosera ...
Dulcamara
Gelsemium
Bor Feverish Inflammatory Affections, Chills, Shiverings, and Dry Cough, first
stage of “ Cold in the Head.”
For Catarrh, Croup, with loose phlegm in Bronchial Tubes, difficult to expel.
For Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bronchitis, Skin Diseases, and Diarrhoea with
pains.
For Enteric, Gastric, Colonial Fevers and Ague, etc.
For Inflammatory Diseases, Erysipelas, Sore Throat, Headache, Neuralgia, and
Rheumatism
For Pleurisy, “ Cold in the Chest,” with cough and pains, Bronchitis and
Rheumatism.
For Complaints during Dentition, Deafness, and Chronic Diarrhoea.
For Nervous, Biliary, and Uterine Diseases of Women and Children, Diarrhoea,
and Convulsions.
For Weakness from Loss of Blood, Diarrhoea, etc.
For Rheumatic Affections, Nervousness, Headache and Palpitation, etc.
For Whooping Cough, Spasmodic Cough, with, wheezing breathing and suffoca-
tion.
For Cold in the Head, Catarrh, Mucous Diarrhoea, etc., from damp or a
“wetting.”
For Neuralgia, Headache, Spasmodic Croup, Weak Sight with double vision.
Hepar. Sulph. ...
Ipecacuanha
Iris Vers
Mercurius Cor. ...
„ Sol or Vivus
Nux Vomica
Phosphorus
Podophyllum
Pulsatilla
Rhus Tox
Spongia
Sulphur
Verat Alb.
For Inflammatory Affections of Windpipe, etc., Croup, Hoarseness, Coughs,
(Pulmonary), helps Suppuration. . .
For Spasmodic Cough, Asthma, and Whooping Cough, Digestive Derange-
ments, with Nausea, Vomiting, and Diarrhoea, Acidity, Haemorrhage.
For Sick Headache, with Vomiting and Diarrhoea, Acidity, Flatulence and Colic.
For Dysenteric Affections, with Blood and Mucous, Opthalmia, Gonorrhoea.
For Glandular Affections, Mumps, Sore Throat, Diarrhoea, and Torpid Liver.
For Constipation, Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulence, Headache, Piles, etc.
For Affections of Lungs, Chronic Bronchitis, Wasting Diarrhoea, and Nervous
Weakness.
For Inactive Liver, Biliousness, Constipation, etc.
For Leucorrhcea, Scanty Delayed Menstruation, and other Derangements m
Women, Indigestion from Fatty Foods, etc.
For Rheumatism, Sub-acute and Chronic, Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis from
Cold, Skin Diseases, etc.
For Croup, Hard Barking Cough at Night, Hoarseness (obstructive). Best
alternated with Aconitum.
For Skin Affections, Boils, etc., Piles, Chronic Constipation, Catarrhal Opthal-
mia, etc.
For English and Asiatic Cholera, Diarrhoea with Painful Gnpings, Cramps,
Cold Sweats, Convulsive Whooping Cough, etc.
DOSE.—Two Drops of Tincture in a little water—or Four Pilules. For Children, One-half the quantity. In Bottles at Is. and upwards—postage, Id. extra.
Rubini’s Homoeopathic Camphor. —-A Preventative of Influenza, Spasms, Coliky Diarrhoea, Cholera, Fainting, etc. Dose : Two drops on sugar, every 15 or 20 minutes. In Bottles at Is. and upwards.
EXTERNAL TINCTURES an I their Uses. In Bottles at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d. Postage extra.
Arnica ... ... For Concussions and Bruises.
Calendula ... For Cuts and Lacerations.
Canthakis ... For Burns and Scalds.
Euphrasia Off. ... For Inflammation of the Eyes
and Lids.
Hamamelis Cerate For Piles, Varicose Veins, etc.
Hamamelis
Hydrastis
Rhus Tox...
In Pots at Is.
... Por Varicose Veins and
Bleeding' Piles.
... For Ulcerous Surfaces.
... For Strains and Dislocations,
I iumbagoand Rheumatism.
Gd. each.
Arnica Cream
Calendula Cerate
For Rubbing 1 on Chapped Hands or
For Broken Chilblains, Sores, etc.
Lips |
In Pots at Is. each
Rhus Opodeldoc... For Strains, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, etc., wiiere “rubbing
site. In stoppered Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. each.
Ledum ... ... For Mosquito and other Insect Bites
Tamus.Com. ... For Unbroken Chilblains.
In Bottles at Is. 6d.,. 2s. Gd., 4s. Gd
Postage extra.
Homoeo. Nerve Tonic.
FISHER & CO.’S FAMOUS
I* H O S F E R I KT E.
Is the most Effectual Remedy for Weakness,
Lassitude, Loss of Appetite, Nervousness, Neu-
ralgia, Toothache, and other Severe Nerve Pains,
Rheumatism and Gout.
Reduction in Price ! Reduction in Price!
Now only Is. per Bottle. Is. per Bottle.
This truly valuable medicine is now
WITHIN THE REACH OF ALL.
Homoeo. Cure for Neuralgia.
]XrEtTRA.LIKTE.
Facial Neuralgia ! Instantaneous Relief! To be
taken Internally, and applied Externally. Never
known to fail. Price, Is. 6d. per Bottle. Postage,
extra Id.
FISHER & CO.’S
Homoeopathic Worm Powders.
A most efficacious Remedy for Worms.
In Boxes ab Is. each ; Post, extra Id.
Homoeo* Remedy for the Liver-
FISHER & CO.’S
SRECIA.L TIHTCTURE
OF
F*OD ORRYLLXJIVC.
For Biliousness, Constipation, and Inaction of
the Liver.
Directions. —For Biliousness, Heartburn and
Acid Risings : Take 3 to 5 drops in a tablespoon-
ful of water every 3 hours until relief is obtained,
then less frequently. For Constipation : Take 5
drops in a wineglassful of water night and morn-
ing. For Inaction of the Liver, and as a Preven-
tive against Bilious Attacks : Five drops should
be taken in a wineglassful of water once or twice
a week, just before going to bed.
In Bottles, Is., Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. each.
Postage extra.
FISHER & CO.’S
Wh.ite Rose & Quinine
Tooth Powder.
Is. per Box.
m
i
■
SAMUEL HAHNEMANN, THE FOUNDER OF HOMOEOPATHY.
Homoeo. Teething Powders.
FISHER & CO.’S
MATRICARIA
(Registered).
UNSURPASSED
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various
Slight Derangements incident to Infancy.
Dcse.—Under six months, half a powder, dry
on the tongue, every three hours; above six
months, one powder, dry on the tongue, every
three hours. If the child is in much pain, or very
restless, a few doses may be given every one or
two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
Postage Extra, Id.
Homoeo. Cure for Toothache.
OD OKTTA.LGIC.
FISHER & CO.’S great and instantaneous cure
for Toothache. A most wonderful medicine. Is.
per bottle.
Homoeo. Cure for Piles.
Ha. xxx exxxx elis Cerate.
FISHER & CO.’S great Cure for Piles, Varicose
Veins, etc., etc. Never known to fail. In Pots.
Is. 6d. each.
Homoeo- Remedy for Sleeplessness-
A. vena Sativ ex.
Wonderful Cure for Sleeplessness.
A safe and harmless Nerve Stimulant, particu-
larly recommended in cases of Brain Fag, and
Fatigue of Both Body and Mind. It has also
proved most valuable in cases of Paralysis,
Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, Alcoholism, Morphia
and Opium habit; also for Sleeplessness from
over-fatigue, etc.
Dose.—From 5 to 15 drops in a wineglass of
cold water, three or four times a day before food,
(warm water quickens the effect considerably).
Price, 2s, 6d.
Homoeo- Cure for Corns.
CORNS !
“ CORNYL ” for Corns.
The Infallible Remedy ! Will Remove the
Worst of Corns.
Price, One Shilling per Bottle; Post, extra Id
EVEN Ml HIS Olflll DOCTOR!
We specially direct attention to our very popular Medicine Chest, containing 24 Medicines, which, together with
book full of necessary information for treatment, is posted to all parts for 30s. This is a very useful, indeed in-
valuable, chest for people travelling and those living in the country districts, far removed from a medical man.
No family should be without it. Other Medicine Chests from 12s. 6d. to £lO 10s.
Calendula and Arnica Plaster for Cuts and Wounds, 6d. Calendulated Vaseline, the Great
Healer of Sores, &c., &c., Is. Everyone should have these useful preparations handy.
(REGISTERED.) MIGHTY “ALOE.” (REGISTERED.)
Our Famous Tonic freshly prepared from the African Kola Nuts. This Tonic consists of the mixture of the most valuable lt is extensively used throughout
Australia as a remarkable Pick-me-up and Appetiser.
It makes you eat and makes you strong. Curing Indigestion and Debility.
All Chemists. By post, Bd. extra. All Hotels with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
Scientific Examination, of Miglitv “ A.lok”
Try a bottle, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d
By the Most Eminent Authority in Australia, and for many years Professor in Sydney University, Dr. HELMS, M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and Analytic Chemist,
8 Bridge Street, Sydney, February 1, 1898.—Messrs. FISHER & CO.— Gentlemen. —I have examined your preparation, MIGHTY “ ALOK,” and find that it e<
vegetable drugs having well-known Tonic properties.—Yours faithfully, A. HELMS
6 " ° ottau AWTU-pn iMfYT TO nnNTTATTsT OTTTNTiSTF,
contains, beside Kola Nut, only pure
GUARANTEED NOT TO CONTAIN QUININE OR IRON, OR ANY INJURIOUS INGREDIENT.
(REGISTERED.)
Famous “ NATAEA.
(REGISTERED.)
FISHER & CO.’s Certain Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, &c. One dose relieves, one bottle cures : Is. 6d. per Bottle. By post, 6d. extra.
HOMCEPATHIC
HAIR RESTORER
“PAPA’S HAIR.”
This wonderful preparation, without dyeing the hair, RESTORES it to its natural color, REMOVES Dandruff, and
PROMOTES the Growth. It is the HAIR TONIC OF THE AGE. 3s. per Bottle; by post, Bd. extra.
ALL CONSULTATIONS and ADVICE FREE
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE SPECIAL ATTENTION.
PHARMACY and
LABORATORY :
337 GEORGE STREET
/nearly opposite \
\General Post Office )f
SYDNEY ; also 384 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


This valuable paper rises to acknowledge
receipt of Wright’s Australian, India, China and
Japan Trade Directory and Gazetteer ; including
Canada, South and Central America, Mexico,
West Indies and South Africa. It is a vast hand-
book of the trades, professions, commerce and
manufactures in the above-mentioned countries.
It is a most useful work, for should a man (or a
woman) meditate a trip round the world he can,
in a few minutes, by reference to this work, dis-
cover exactly where to go and be able to get beer
all the time, also how many soda-water makers
there are in Barberton, in the Transvaal, and the
name of the chemist and druggist in Chilpancingo
de los Bravos, in Mexico. When meditating a
visit to Yokohama, in Japan, the possessor of this
work need not refer to Waek Jaunt to find out
that boots and shoes are sold by Carl Dietrich,
and that the Japan Brewery Co. Ltd., hang out
at 123 Bluff. The work can be obtained in Sydney
from Messrs. T. Cook and Sons, 4 Hunter-street.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Entertainment - -
—ON THE—
KRIMI-IH’IIODE^
Programme No. 19.
1. Funny Talk .... Casey Courting his Girl
By Bussell Hunting.
2. Band Selection Happy Days in Dixie
By Sousa’s Band.
3. Banjo Solo Stars and Stripes for Ever
By Vess Ossman.
4. Comic Song... The Warmest Baby in the Bunch
By Dan. W. Quinn.
5. Trombone Solo... Down Deep within the Cellar
By A. W. Prior.
6. Song London Bridge
Miss Edith Clegg.
7. Comet Solo Last Night
W. P. Chambers.
8. Popular Song My Old Dutch
Albert Chevalier.
9. Imitations... Hayden Coffin in “The Geisha”
Miss Cissie Loftus.
10. Violin Solo Ave Maria
J. Jacobs.
11. Male Quartette Jack and Jill
Georgia Glee Singers.
12. Overture From “Martha”
Trocadero Orchestra.
13. Trio of Female Voices ... Three Little Maids
from School
14. Band Selection ... ... God Save the Queen
The above is merely a specimen programme of
a parlour entertainment that can be performed
upon the
6RAU-O'PHON€
by any person who possesses a machine. All
those who have not done so, and are desirous of
obtaining full particulars of cost, and variety of
Records obtainable, will get the necessary infor-
mation on applying to
A. P. SYKES,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
LAST WEEKS OF
the Broftgb Co.
Last 2 Nights of “ The Adventure of Lady Ursula.”
Saturday, August 26—“ THE GAY LORD QUEX.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
gYDNEY TOWN HALL. 1/- “ POPS/’
Sole Lessee and Director .. Philip Newbury.
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING at 8.
| NEWBURY-SPADA 1/- “POPS.” |
A WEALTH OF MUSICAL MAGNETISM.
ONE SHILLING entitles Everyone to a Reserved Seat.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS I
The Famous Romantic Drama, in 5 acts,
Tbs KiQg’S
Saturday, August 26th, the Powerful and Original Drama,
SECRET SERVICE.
flail, Nicholson’s. tST PRICES—6s., Ba., 25., and la.
Amusements.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
Powerful and Popular Dramatic Company, in
SHALL WE FORGIVE HER?
Saturday, August 26th—THE SHAUGHRAUN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY OF
SPRY aQ d AUSTIN.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of PAUL PELHAM.
Alma Gray, Bessie—Valdares—James, Virto and Irene,
George C. Dean, Florrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard
Chambers, Neva Carr Glvnn, Jas. Mooney, Rayston
and Rayford, CHAS. W. COGILL, and all ourDoubie Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
■DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harrv Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
FAREWELL SEASON OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. R. H. DOUGLASS,
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, THE FARLEY TRIO,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Hamilton Hill, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, and all our
Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
83?~ 4TH WEEK 1 AND CONTINUED BOOM OF
THE CRISP AND CRACKLING DRAMA,
Tlio War of Wealth..
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and C. T. Dazey.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. O. SIMONSENS.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovh.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING !
Mr. HARRY CONOR
And Messrs. Hoyt and M'Kee’s Company will repeat
A Stranger if) New York.
Written by Chas. H. Hoyt.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Town hall, Melbourne.
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Scbcrek’S Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ST. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
Every Evening!
Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Orpheus M. M'Adoo.
FOR LIMITED SEASON ONLY.
Continued Success of Mr. ORPHEUS M. M'ADOO’S
Genuine Georgia Minstrels and Original
A labama Cake Walkers.
Entire Change of Programme. TSS
Popular Prices : Stalls, 3s; Family Circle, 2s; Gallery,
Is. A few rows of Reserved Orchestra Stalls at 4s. at
Allan & Co’s, Collins-street. No Early Doors.
SPECIAL MATINEES Every Wednesday and Saturday.
ex a ndra theatre, melbo urne.
OPERA SEASON
OPENING SATURDAY, 26th AUGUST.
“FAUST.”
Grand Revival (in ENGLISH), with a cast of NEW
OPERATIC ARTISTS, supported by an Augmented
Chorus, Operatic Orchestra, and Military Band.
PRICES : 35., 25., and la. Box Plan at Glen’s, now Open.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM l
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYOLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10—5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children-SIXPENCE
DANTE THE GREAT.
South Australian Tour.
CRYSTAL THEATRE, BROKEN HILL,
Saturday, 26th August, to 2nd September
PORT PIRIE, September 4th to 6th.
WALLAROO, September 7th and Bth.
MOONTA, September 9th and 11th.
KADINA, September 12th.
CROWDED HOUSES EVERYWHERE.
Manager L. J. LOHR.
Brail* aod Ncn/e Food.
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR.
/'CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?* Catarrb C6rc Co.,
m COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
As evidence of how bitterly prejudiced against
boxing some people are, the following slab from Mr.
O’Conor’s speech in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly debate re
police-interference with the Dunn-Conlon boxing-match,
as reported in Hansard, would be amusing if it were not
so utterly ridiculous. Referring to size of gloves “We
know very well how the Boz. are made up. The law
makes no provision as to how the Boz. is to be made up—
whether it is to be made up by the covering of the glove,
or by a leaden band round the wrist. That is where the
Boz. come in, and that is where the 4oz. come in. The
4oz. is nothing more than a piece of kid just over the
knuckles, with a weight put in to make it 4oz. It is
merely a subterfuge, in order to introduce the degrading
sy'stem of prize-fighting.” Surely Mr. O’Conor has got
mixed with the iron cestus of the ancients I
* » * *
The fight on Saturday night between “Friday ”
O’Neill and “Tot” Higgins, two of the best 10-stoners in
Australia, proved a fiasco owing to O’Neill damaging his
arm in the first round. The loser went out favorite at 6
to 4, and in the half-dozen heavy exchanges of the first
2min. seemed to have the advantage. Then Higgins put
in his humble negative by rushing “Friday" and up-
setting him on his elbow, with the result that one of the
small bones of his arm snapped.
* * • •
Sydney “ Rocks’ ” last development in the pug.
line, “ Cocker ” Tweedie, has been “up against” it once
more in Yankeedom. At Stockton (Cal.), July 3, he was
doing the butterfly act with black Rufe Turner, and
piling up a heap of points ; but while playing to the
gallery during the eighth round “ Cocker ” stopped a
beauty on the point, and the show was over. On his first
trip to the land of the wooden ham, a precisely similar
occurrence happened, and (if memory serves) in the
eighth round, too. The erstwhile Sydney newsboy will no
doubt be home again shortly as they’ve got no use for
beaten pugs, in the States—particularly foreigners.
• • * •
Erstwhile Australian champion middleweight
pug., sturdy Dan Creedon, and the “ Barbadoes Terror”
(gorilla-like Joe Walcott) fought their third match June
23, at New York. The black won on points after 20
tough rounds. From the sixth Walcott bashed Dan all
over the ring. In the fifteenth the Australian rallied
marvellously, but was too weak to do harm. Creedon
showed better in this than in either of the other fights.
* * * *
Latest re whilom Maitland (N.S.W.) blacksmith
Paddy Slavin is that he reaches London shortly, the
owner of several fine mining properties and with a pile of
Klondyke gold in his kit; not bad after being killed and
resurrected at least half-a-dozen times. Report first had
him buried in the snow of Chilcoot Pass ; then he went
over Yukon Falls in a canoe. Later a drunken miner
drove 12in. cold steel through the Australian’s heart;
then typhoid and other complaints got in their deadly
work. Most of these rumors were so tinged with
genuineness that obituary notices appeared all over the
world. Writing thus calls to mind Slavin’s memorable
10-rounds fight with Peter Jackson in London ; also his
go at Bruges, when Brum, toughs mobbed him and
saved clumsy', muscle-bound Jem Smith ffom slaughter.
Must not be forgotten either that Paddy virtually shook
his fist in Sullivan’s face when John L. was John L. and
then the “Boston Boy” wouldn’t come.
* • * «
The English Diamond Sculls —amounting to the
amateur championship of England—was won for the
second time by American Howells. The Yank is at
Cambridge, and chipped in when the English amateurs
took the mean point of declining the entry of Ten
Eyck, son of the old pro., which they had power to do
without explanation according to Henley' rules. All
real sportsmen must rejoice at the success of the
American.
* ♦ * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen promises some-
thing more exciting than record-breaking at its big meet-
ing in Oct. £3OO is to be paid in prizes, and “ pursuit
races ” are to be the novelty. The eight best scratch men
are picked out, and started in heats of four riders each,
the men being started at equal distances from each other.
To prevent loafing, when a man is passed he has to fall
out of the race, and the prize goes to the man doing
fastest time.
• + * *
Cabled last week that arrangements were being
made for an Australian bowling-team to visit the old
country, and that two Australians had already promised
to plank down a cool “ thou.” towards exes. Reps, from
this section (if the best be available, which is doubtful)
should keep their end up all right, but the money pro-
mised must be multiplied by four or five.
* • * *
Bowler Jones’ impressions of London:—“lt’s
all right; I can stand it all the time. Seen the sights?
My' word, I’ve seen everything! No, I’ve not seen
Westminster Abbey or St. Paul’s, but the new American
bar at the Alhambra’s a daisy. Leno’s not so funny as he
was, hut the girls are just as beautiful as ever. Give me
London, and you can have the rest.”
• • * *
A well-behaved crowd, the present Australian
XI., judging from the fact that no accounts to the con-
trary have so far been received, officially or privately.
But how the Britishers must miss the eccentric joker of
a previous XI. who, on a cold day, when fielding near the
boundary, by degrees collected quite a respectable pile
of sticks, and, setting fire to them, squatted down like a
blackfellow for a warm. On another occasion, at a big
dinner, when three cheers were called for somebody or
other, he seized a leg of mutton by the knuckle and,
waving it round his head, sent a shower of caper-sauce
over everybody in his vicinity.
* « • *
Hayward, the Surrey pro., has proved himself
the Australians’ most formidable opponent. It is pro-
bably because he is a professional that he is not so much
advertised as Fry, Ranji, Jackson, and M'Laren, for he
is evidently more to be relied upon than any' of the four
cracks. His scores against the visitors have been—so,
24, 16, 0 (run out), 28,1, 77, 40 (not out), 130, 137; total
499 ; average, 50.
* * * •
In the five tests, Australia made 2475 runs for
80 wickets, average 30'93, and England made 2075 for 69
wickets, average 30‘07, so that there is nothing between
them. As showing how England was on her mettle, how-
ever, no less than 24 players played against Australia’s
13 (Johns didn’t play). Highest aggregate of runs in the
five matches was made by Hayward—4l3 as against
Noble’s 367. Hayward’s average of 68, moreover, beats
Hill’s 60. Jones walks over all the bowlers with his 26
wickets. Where Australia beats England is in all-round
men, Noble being a successful bowder, and Trumble the
same—the latter is perhaps the best all-round cricketer
in the world just now. Of England’s champion batsmen,
neither Hayward, Jackson, Ranji, M'Laren, or Fry are
bowlers worth considering.
• * * •
This year’s test-matches in England clearly
show that the Britishers have never filled Richardson’s
place. As in Australia, England fails in her bowling.
Rhodes and Hearne have each secured 13 wickets, the
highest number against Darling and co. Jones, for Aus-
tralia, captured 26, and Trumble 15. What chance will
England have on Australian wickets with her bowling
bnttery? On our billiard-table wickets Hearne could
i (ict'lung \ ar, and he is not likely to improve as
ti ' As for Rhodes and Young, they have
been ortiv •-*" performers on their own dunghill.
' t * * *
“Wal.”: Re the idea of sending ’Ome an Aus-
tralian model to meet the Maid of Kent. No use. Mr.
Holmes, who sailed the Irex in one of her races against
the Maid, told me that the tide ran like a mill-race, and
no boat with a grip of the water like our Port Jackson
22-footer would have a show against a skimming-dish of
the Maid order.
* • * *
Ikey Mo hasn’t it all his own way. At a recent
Sydney pony-meet a punter laid odds-on £lOO to £5O, and
went down. When settling arrived, he declined to pay
because, as he put it, Ikey had the pony in the bag.
Stated before Q. Police Commission that
the perpetrators of 21 murders in the last five
years have never been traced I The Land of
Mysterious Assassination!
Seven witnesses wept while giving evidence
in the Norton-Smith criminal libel case ; and five
jurors, four of them apparently as hard as nails,
sobbed at one or other part of the proceedings.
“ The Sydney Bulletin is a cow of a
paper.”— Powerful criticism by the anti-Federal
Brisbane Street.
The action of Portugal (no doubt incited
by Britain) in stopping the transport of war-
material for the Transvaal through the Delagoa
Bay territory looks like the crisis of the Boer
trouble, and prepares one for news of war at any
moment.
Hornsby, where a sewing-machine co.’s
drummer was alleged to have been stuck-up and
robbed by an armed bushranger, the other day,
was originally a grant of land made by Govt, to
one Horn for his prowess in capturing a bush-
ranging desperado of about 40 years ago.
A Melb. militiaman was tried and acquitted
at recent Criminal Sessions for an alleged offence
against a girl. On the day of the illegal act
the girl was 15 years 11 months and 28 days old—
three days only short of the time when the law
allows a woman to become her own mistress.
Those 72 hours were responsible for all the trouble :
had prosecutrix been born in a 28-day month
instead of a 31-day one no trial could have taken
place.
In view of the marriage of Lily Langtry
(aged 47) with Hugo de Bathe (28) son of Sir
Henry de Bathe, baronet, the motto of the
groom’s family is peculiarly interesting. It is
“Nec parvis sisto ” —“Trifles deter me not.” A
man would have to be regardless of many trifles
in marrying the woman who slipped the ice down
Tummy Wales’ back, and was such a dear friend
of Abingdon Baird.
Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords
passed the Bill for the abolition of plural voting at
Assembly elections by 30 to 8. It was decided
that after agreeing to have one-man-one-vote for
both Federal Houses, even the most bigoted 48
Rich Landlords couldn’t pretend to disbelieve in
the principle any longer. Those Queensland anti-
Federalists who yell to the last bitter yelp that
there is no One Man One Vote in the Federal
Constitution might make a note of this episode.
Premier Kingston dished the Tories in
S. A. Assembly last week. He desired to have the
province voting as one district for the Federal
House of Representatives, but the Opposition
sought to split it up into smaller electorates.
Whereupon Kingston, seeing that the amendment
was likely to be carried, accepted the Labor-
party’s suggestion to make each district exactly
equal in respect to population. Now the Conser-
vatives are anxious to get back to the original
scheme again.
The omission of a sentence from the
article “ More Snake ” in last Bulletin makes
one par. unintelligible. The guilty item should
have read—
“ Simple Poser” triumphantly points out that his
hymns and his Scriptures are so colorless as to mean
nothing in particular. That is to say, they are husks.
[And he wonders why on earth the Catholics cannot be
satisfied with husks.] The reason is eminently creditable
to the Catholics, &c.
A Ballarat (Vic.) husband has had his wife
“bound over in the sum of £lO to keep the peace
towards him.” He said he had only seen the lady
twice before marriage ; and the second day after
marriage his eyes were opened to the mistake he
had made—at least one eye was opened, while the
other was blackened and much swollen. The lady
also frequently threatened to poison him, and to
burn down the house, and she threw axes at him.
The bench found the charges proved, in which
case the old man’s safety might have been secured
by binding the lady to a reliable gum-tree. Bind-
ing her over in the sum of .£lO looks an absurdly
weak precaution.
Sydney daily-paper item of last week :
Narrabri, Tuesday.—lntimation was received to-day
that the balloting for 13 settlement leases on Drilldool,
comprising 30,000 acres, announced for September 14, has
again been postponed. Intending lessees feel they are
being hoaxed about these lands, this being the seventh
postponement. The first was announced for December
last, postponed to March, again to April, twice postponed
in April, then announced for June, when the postpone-
ment was published so late that men came hundreds of
miles. There is considerable feeling on the matter, and
some talk of calling a public indignation meeting.
And this is how the Reid-Carruthers Government
“ puts people on the land ! ”
Asked, by London Central News Agency,
whether there would be any criticism of the
Queensland Government’s offer of troops for
South Africa, in the event of war, Agent-General
Tozer said :
Yes. We have 33 per cent, of Irish. We have their
opposition to contend with, as is the case here ; and then
we have Republicans, who, of course, will criticise a step
which tends to the strengthening of the Empire. But
the bulk of the people will be heartily in accord with the
loyal offer. By the way, two of my sons are in these
Queensland troops I’ve been telling you of, and I shouldn’t
be surprised if they are in the contingent which, if the
necessity arose, would fight in South Africa.
An interesting little case has just con-
cluded in Brisbane. A well-known young citizen,
a prominent athlete, was arrested by a constable
rather late at night—or (to speak more correctly)
rather early in the morning. Aforesaid citizen
was more or less “under the influence,” and
lunged about somewhat. Consequence was some-
thing happened, and the citizen lost an eye.
Policeman avers the injured man fell somewhere
and hurt himself, but a friend of the athlete
deposed something very different. A dubious
halting jury discharged the constable, and the un
fortunate citizen goes about minus an eye. And
Brisbane folks are talking queer things about the
“ force " and its methods.
The awful Victorian J.P. on the caper
again ! A cabby, charged at Prahran with
assaulting his fares, started to prove a previous
assault by the Toorak larrikins who had engaged
him, and pleaded self-defence. Solicitor for cabby
said, in opening, that when prosecutors were
asked for their fare they “ dealt it out ” to de-
fendant, knocked him down and kicked him.
Whereupon the amateur J.P. chairman—“No,
they did not kick him.” Defending solicitor: “ I
am going to call a gentleman who will swear that
they did.” Chairman: “Well, I would not
believe him ! ” After which awful exhibition of
impartiality the poor cabby was lucky to get off
with a 20s. fine and costs.
More glory for the Kalgoorlie millionaires.
In chronicling a ball given at the local Palace
Hotel on the eve of the departure to England of
Messrs. Kaufman and C. D. Rose, Kalgoorlie
Miner says:
Mr. Kaufman intends to return to the field in April
and will then spend about three months in Kalgoorlie.
It is possible Mr. Rose will again accompany him, but he
is a very busy man, and is one of the best known finan-
ciers in England. In addition he is a big horse-owner
and breeder, a keen yachtsman, being a member of the
Royal Yacht Club and the Turf Club, and is well known
in club land, being a member of the Carlton, one of the
most exclusive clubs in London. He won the Ascot Gold
Cup just before leaving for Australia, and among those
who saw him off on the occasion of his departure for
Kalgoorlie was the Prince of Wales, with whom he is on
terms of intimacy.
In the memorable words of Kaufman, “Don’t
you see me vink! ”
“ What good can there be in a movement
led by boodlers ? ” queries a prominent Q. anti-
Federal M.L.A. This is probably a slap at the
Anti-National Party, headed by MTlwraith, Bar-
low, Unmack, and Nelson, though the querist
doesn’t seem to have intended it so.
An incident in connection with the wire-
less-telegraph experiments in Adelaide showed up
the weakness of the system so far as it has got.
Todd, chief of the telegraphs, and Prof. Bragg
are making the experiments, one station being at
the Observatory, the other at Henley Beach, six
miles away. At the G.P.0., which is farther
back from beach than the Observatory is, an
electrician, working at a receiver, switched on to
the Henley Beach telephone wire to test his
machine; and immediately he received part of
a wireless message which was being sent from the
Beach to Todd at the Observatory.
A Perth (W.A.) city councillor was lately
informed that some dead dogs had been on the
premises of the local museum for months, and was
implored to castigate the rubbish department in
the local council for not abating the nuisance—
which he duly did. Whereupon the curator of
the museum wrote to the daily press to state that
the only dead dogs on the premises were the
stuffed dingoes in the cases, which had been there
over four months, and that the committee in-
tended to retain them.
Brisbane Telegraph, which has been
preaching up north that N.S.W. dare not federate
without Queensland, therefore there is no need for
Queensland to keep step, may now consider itself a
false prophet and a bowled-out seer. For N.S.W.
has just done it. The last act of the drama was the
adoption of the address to the Queen, which com-
mits the province for good to the national cause,
and the document struggled through the Nominee
Chamber last week by three votes.


McCormick Harvesting
Machine Company,
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.,
Australian Agents,
Melbourne, Sydney, and Adelaide.
THE END OF THE CENTURY
HARVESTER & BINDER.
655 Bourke Street ,
MELBOURNE ,
August 26 ,
MR. WHEATGROWER, Oatville.
McCormick’s Spring 1 Roller
Twine Tension.
Dear Sir, —
If you intend buying a new Binder this year, we ask you to
call at our Agency and see the McCormick Right Hand Machine.
We believe that if you will examine it carefully and compare it
with others, you will not be satisfied to pay jour money for the
poorly-made machines to be found on the market, although being
made of cheaper and poorer materials they may sell at a little
lower price.
The material used in the McCormick machine is worth more
money than in any other machine we know of. The workmanship
on the McCormick is superior to any other. In fact, the M‘Cormick
is honestly built throughout.
We would call your attention to one little feature of the Right
Hand Binder that gained the machine many friends the past year.
That is the Spring Roller Twine Tension. You will like it. The
twine runs between rollers and cannot wear a groove and get loose.
It will hold a thread or a clothes-line, or the two mixed, at any
tension you want. Tie a knot in the twine and see how nicely it
slips through the tension. In other kinds of tension it is almost
sure to break the twine. When “time is money,” as it is in the
harvest-field, it is a great satisfaction to have a tension in which the
twine never catches, never breaks, never bunches up, never snarls,
which never causes loss of time or temper.
There are many other features you will notice that are found
only on the McCormick, such as the platform apron tightener—the
only one worthy the name—-and the hinged elevator apron rollers,
which make it easy to take off and put on the elevator aprons.
The steel bottom platform, the long movement of the binder
back and forth, the great reach of the reel forward and backward
and up and down, and the ease of handling it, being helped by the
strong lifting spring, are all winning points which help to make it a
pleasure to run the McCormick.
Trusting that we may hear later of your having placed your
order for a McCormick Machine,
We are, Yours very truly,
(ITGean jjros. and Rigg, &td.
A. SAUNPERS Nigb'ClaSs Jeweller,
always to the front for NEW and PRETTY DESIGNS
in Jewellery, Watch and Silverplate. All Articles Post Free.
Ladies' Long Grann v or Muff Chain, 9c. Gold,
85s, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15c. Gold, £4, £4los,
£5, £6. Silver, 7s 6d ; Gold plated, 15s, 20s
Gold Necklets, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
9 Q o'
6
Latest Gold Brooch.
Red Stone, Bell and 2 Nobs, 10s 6d.
m
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold Brooch, Bell, Chain,
Red, White and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 255. ; 15c. Gold,
£2. Diamonds, £2 10s. and £3. Any Name
or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
A* Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
*olA2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s.
fear) Set, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 16a
Gold, 15s; 180. Gold, 20s; Silver, 3s 6d.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and Heart,
10s; Special Value.
Gold Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
3-Bar, 4 Diamonds and Ruby, 20s.
Very Neat and Pretty.
. n .
A. Saunders.
9c. Solid Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Solid Gold Opal Links, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s; extra strong.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, XOs 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d
and 3s.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
15c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Silver. ss.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Bed Stone Set Scroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
9c. Gold, Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders-
New Design Gold-mounted Bear's Tusk,
Chain and Bell, 15s 6d ; without Bell and
Chain, 10s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
9c. Gold, Pearls and
Amethyst, 17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 30s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
hecistebeb
A. bauxUers.
New Registered Dmmond-cur. Amethyst as Lucky Clovers,
15s ; •with One Bird, same price.
SEND
FOR
Prick List
Guarantee
the utmost
satisfaction.
■■
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
Any Name Free.
9c. Band Rings, 12s od,
15s; 15c., 20s, 255;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Send for List.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 30s.
18e. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, #3, ' 4.
18c. Goln, 3 opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and < 4.
Send for Size Card.
.4. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Chain Rings, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s, £2. Price to
quality and weight.
9a Gold 2-bar Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s
15c., £2.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lucky Wish and Artovv Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
t rw
A*
SSs3*'
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold Raised Flowers, 20s.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding: Ringrs and Keepers
9c. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ;
15c. Gold, 15s ; extra heavy, 25s ;
18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40a
Quality of Gold and Finish First-class.
815 Georg*e Street (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.


H«n RaSSnjOSSco’S Alfaligc Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do,not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
a
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness of tlie virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Hkrr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatio Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for Which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness — Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
39
a.iit Mi
I
iiiuuiuimirtjiHHiiiiiiiiFiiiiiiiT
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
ALgALiNE VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A IF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD .AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
Herbs anywhere.
m
■
m
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR AT,I
BOOK,
which
COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmusseil.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
P;r'7
m
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Kucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. "Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills—Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidliir
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Cough*
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Office • 547 GEORGE ST., SUDDEII,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS : * *
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)


D.S .M AI R
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6; Cleaning, 2/6; Hairspring, 2/6; Jewels, 2/6;
Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3 6. All work guaranteed 12 months.
D. S. Mair for Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels. Grand Timekeepers, 15/-. Guaranteed 3 years.
D. S. Mair for Solid Gold Weddinsr Rings, 4/6. Extra
heavy, 9/6. Solid Gold Bar Brooches, 4/6. Hall-marked
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ Solid Gold Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 3 years, 35/-.
Note address— QB 4 George Street, Sydney.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phonograph
(Albert & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents) Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
dard. Best. Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT & SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6/6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should, send to tzs for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
THE ACME of Meclia*
nical Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “Home, Sweet
,Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/-; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2 extra,
any other Colony, 2/2. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, monev refunded.
H. POTIER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Remember it's
mesia
Which means ,
ItS the pure article
IfS the best mild
laxative KnoWn
recommended by
your family Doctor.
medical.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary *' Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 800 years reputation.
SIHGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, SIE.
The Life of the System.
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
WE recommend these Bitters to be taken two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children. For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, and Cutaneous
Affections. The action of Dandelion, more especially upon the liver and kidneys, is more reliable
for removing all impure secretions than any other medicinal plant known. Persons suffering
from Skin Diseases will find these Bitters invaluable. Directions for Use : One wineglass-
ful three times a day after meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For young people, about
half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
READ WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row & Co.—With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and
consider them most excellent, and superior to many others that I have previously tried.
Port Adelaide, Oct. 30, 1886. Yours faithfully, Henry Charles Curtis, M.R.0.5., England.
CAUTION Ask for I Dandelion Bitters |
AND TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
EDWARD ROW & CO., SYDNEY,
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers i
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
John Hunter H Son’s (Ltd,)
SHOE STORES.
WILL
ANDRADE
Nil
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS
WILL ANDRADE
PLAIN NOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information' for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving- a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ;post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 1/6. Australian Handbook op Midwifery (ilhis.), 2/6 ;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
Oixir List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL A.KTDRA.DE,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY" BELTfor •
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant, every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
ail weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
l ric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
. ; - - ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Neighbor Wolff and Others,
Almost every afternoon in pleasant weather I see
my neighbor Wolff sitting in an easy-chair in the
shade in front of his own door. Sometimes he
kills time by reading the paper, but oftener he
does nothing but watch the people and the vehicles
that pass. I frequently stop and talk with him a
few minutes, and he appears to be grateful for the
i trifling attention. He is a man of about fifty,
strongly and sturdily built, and to look at him you
see no reason why he should not be up and about
as actively as the best of us. He is intelligent and
well-informed, has travelled considerably, and is a
man in every way worth knowing. His ideas on
finance and business seem to be clear and practi-
cal, and it strikes a stranger as odd he does not
grapple with his opportunities and pile up a big
fortune. Yet he never makes a motion in that
direction. He lets the chances all slip by, and
just sits there as though the world were no more
to him than the Klondyke goldfields are to the
resident population of a cemetery. Yet my neigh-
boui Wolff knows what money is, and appreciates
what can be done with it. Then why doesn’t he
“get a move on” as the Yankees say, and make
hay while the sun shines ? Take a peep at him
about nine o’clock at night, when he takes his cus-
tomary exercise on the pavement —the way being
mostly clear of pedestrians by then—and you will
need no verbal answer to the question. Stocky and
strong as he appears when in his chair, he makes a
poor show on his legs. Slowly, heavily, leaning
hard on his thick stick, he goes to and fro a few
times between the corner and his house —a dis-
tance of 200 feet may be—and then with a sigh
sinks again into his chair like a man who realises
he is out of the race. A paralytic stroke two
years ago, and the constant fear of another —that
explains it. He is one of the multitude who are
in the world and not of it—as this woman was a
while since:—
“From my girlhood,” she says, “I way always
oppressed and hindered by weakness ; I was
habitually tired, weary, and languid. Like all
such persons, I lived a kind of life to myself. All
pleasures or pursuits which called for energy and
vitality were closed to me. I had a feeble and
fitful appetite, and what I ate gave me great pain
at the chest and back, and a sense of coldness,
deadness, and weight at the stomach. At times
there would be also a gnawing, sinking feeling.
“As I grew older I was much troubled with
palpitation of the heart and loss of sleep. Year
after year I dragged along in this miserable way,
and, being too weak to walk, was drawn from
place to place in a bath chair. Every effort was
made to obtain a cure. I consulted doctor after
doctor, and took many kinds of medicine and
treatment, but got no more than temporary relief.
One doctor said my heart was diseased.
“My sister urged me to try Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. Without any great hopes of its effect
in my case, I nevertheless procured a bottle
from the Stores in High-street, and began to
take it as directed. The result was a decidedly
improved appetite, and I relished and digested
what I ate without any pain or distress following.
As I continued to use this medicine the heart
trouble was less frequent and finally ceased alto-
gether. My nerves soon became stronger, and I
could sleep well. In a few weeks more I was
belter and stronger than ever before in my life , and
have enjoyed good health ever since. My friends
were almost as much surprised and pleased as I
was at this remarkable result of taking Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, and you may make my statement
public if you think it will do good.”—(Signed)
(Mrs.) Mary Ann Welch, 1 Constitution Hill,
Luton, Chatham, February 6, 1895.
My neighbor Wolff may or may not recover
from his paralysis, but all cases like*Mrs. Welch’s
—indigestion, with consequent weakness and ner-
vous debility—should be curable by the remedy
which cured her. It opens and renews the diges-
tion, which is the fountain of life, and puts a
wholly new aspect on the world around us. From
having been laid aside as cumberers of the ground
we become once more workers with others and
sharers of their pleasures.
H.A A R F A G E I
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the World
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
HAARFAGER curls the hair naturally and permanent!
in a few hours without curling tongs or pins Will mat
hair °H rI beautifully without troubli
HAARFAGER restores the hair and will prevent the ha :
from falling out. All chemists. Price 3s. 6d., postage 6c
extra. Wholesale Agents, ELLIOTT BROTHERS,"Ltd
0 Connell-street, Sydney. If not obtainable at you
° hem ’st, send stamps or P. 0.0. to The Argyle Apothecar
Co., Old Canterbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W.
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb-
• CX - injr interest to every MAN.
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


mm iemi
FOR
Safety and,
Comfort
IHIDEM
During Change of Seasons.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, Cotton, or Lisle Thread,
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
tW CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing- Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-sfcreet, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
rRIEIID
RA.HERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. 114&. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCH ESTER.
USB
Spoopcr’s
K,OONE*k
iRQYALNAVY DRESSIMC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
Boors & SHOES
!: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECTIONS FOR USE
imuniimmni
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning: and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, eto.
P.o. Box 185, Melbourne.
THE
DEAF
HEAE
“Common Sense
« « Ear Drums' *
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...'
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A pent,
CHALMERS, 229 Collins St. .Melbourne
THE DRUM
IN POSITION i
(invisible) I?
Mention "The Bulletin” when writing.
drunkenness
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EWCH.ASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEKDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be given in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address— TTIT , T _™
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
WUIC . 271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND—^
The Thermal Springs District.
WONDERLAND
THE
6r»m Hotel, HTIHI.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
In Hew Zealand.
H. V. Gardner O a te of the p. &o. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find —
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed "Manager'
will receive prompt attention.
FEPERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Booms and
Heals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING BOOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result
Craig & Ait ken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
SSP” Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Oath Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
NEW DISCOVERY!
BRANDTS
1 ActmtNEiiill
GasGeherator
A convenient portable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Household, Shop Windows, or Lantern Work.
Price (Generator only), 255. Pillar Light, with shade
and 34-ft. burner, I7s. 6d. Rubber Tube, 6d. per foot.
Calcium Carbide, and all accessories stocked.
BRANDT BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
FOUR MOUTHS'
NEURALGIAi
ANOTHER CURE
ADDED TO THE ALREADY
LONG LIST.
The Case of
Mrs. ELIZABETH BOLDRA.
(From the “ Newtown Independent .”)
Our reporter received instructions to call
upon Mrs. Elizabeth Boldra, of 61 Prospect-
street, Erskineville, Sydney, to obtain from
her a relation of the facts of the severe
indisposition from which she lately suffered.
That lady invited the newspaper man into
her parlor, and willingly answered the
queries put to her.
“ I was quite a martyr to neuralgia,” she
explained, ‘‘ I never thought I should ever
get rid of it. Sometimes the agony was so
unendurable that I felt I could have
knocked my head against the wall.”
“ What were the pains like ? ”
** Acute darting pains, which would flash
round my head and face and all over my
jaws like lightning. In addition to this I
often had a dull, wearing headache.”
“ I suppose you obtained but little rest.”
“ Indeed, that is so. The night was
worse than the day. I couldn’t stop in bed,
and whole nights together the neuralgia
kept me out of bed pacing the room. It
was dreadful, and I hardly know how I
pulled through it.”
“ Why, how long were you ill ? ”
“ Four months—four months with hardly
an hour free from pain. When I obtained a
little momentary relief I was frightened to
move for fear of starting those horrible
tortures again. Why, any little thing would
start the neuralgia, even so trifling a matter
as a cup of tea.”
“ Did you get weak ? ”
“ Yes, very. My nervous system was
upset, and I was regularly out of sorts all
over. My jaws were so stiff with the in-
cessant pain that I could eat only with
great difficulty; besides, my appetite was
wretched. I didn’t trouble about eating ;
my whole thoughts were centred on getting
rid of the complaint making me weaker and
weaker every day, and was really torturing
me to death. My face was drawn and
pinched, and I lost my generally healthy
appearance altogether.”
“ No wonder, Mrs. Boldra."
“Yes, four months of such suffering as I
passed through leaves its mark on one, can
tell you ~ was not half the woman lam
now.”
“ W effect had the usual remedies on
your complaint ? ”
“None —none at all. At last I came to
believe that I was beyond the reach of
medicines. At last I got relief, which came
about in this manner. Someone said to me,
*Do you know that Clements Tonic would
cure that neuralgia of yours in a week, if
you would only try it ? ’ ‘ Oh, nonsense !’ I
replied ; but 1 thought over what I had been
told, and bought a bottle, not that I expected
to get much more benefit than 1 had received
from the hundred and one other things I
had tested.” >,
“In this case, however, you got relief.”
“ I got more—more than mere temporary
relief—l got cured. Half-a-dozen doses
caused a considerable lessening in the pain,
and after about a dozen more doses the pain
had so decreased that I was enabled to get that
refreshing sleep which was so necessary tc
my racked and tired system. And now my
improvement became very rapid. My colour
began to come back. I had a healthy
appetite again. Clements Tonic made me
eat in a way that would have surprised you,
and I gradually got rid of that low, nervous
feeling which had been the result of my long
spell of pain. Then the time came when the
pain went altogether, and I was cured. I
was pleased. I took a few more doses of
Clements Tonic, and it made me as lively
and fresh as I could wish, and I tell you
that it is not only a pleasure but also a
duty for me to make my cure known. I
often think when I hear of anyone suffering
from nervousness or neuralgia, ‘ Oh, if I
were only near you with a bottle of
Clements Tonic I would soon put you right. ”
“ Shall we publish this ? ”
“I hope so.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Emzabbtii Boldra, of Prospect-street, Erskine-
ville, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way; and I make this solemn
declaration voluntarily and without receiving any
payment, conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the
reign of her present Majesty, intituled “ An Act for
the more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.’*
t
Declared at Erskineville thislOth day of November,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, before
me , ANDREW MURRAY, J.P.
Acute Dyspepsia
Cured in Three Weeks,
The Case of
Mr. FRANK RUSSELL.
(From, the “Newtown Chronicle”)
(BST OCTR SPECIAL REPORTER.)
“I can only describe the pain as a
gnawing one/’ explained Mr. Frank Russell,
the proprietor of a brick-making yard at
St. Peters, Sydney, to our reporter, who
was making enquiries as to his illness.
“Very disagreeable,” ejaculated the
scribe.
** ■ lfc „ wa3 , no laughing matter/’ returned
Mr, Russell, ‘‘and very little rest it
allowed me. The trouble seemed to be
located in the chest and the pit of the
stomach, and after eating the pain was
extreme.
“ But 1 suppose you couldn’t eat much ?”
“Oh ! yes, I could. Sometimes I ate a
great deal; but my food did me no good,
and I was never free from constipation.
Every day when I went to work 1 took
some lunch with me, which I was forced to
eat at about eleven o’clock, otherwise the
peculiar gnawing and sinking pain in my
stomach became ten times worse. A little
food somehow seemed to give a temporary
stay to this pain.”
‘‘ Can you describe the pain ? ”
“ Not better than I have done, except,
perhaps, that I may say that when suffering
I could take no interest in, or pay any
attention to, anything. Sometimes I had to
cease work for an hour till the severest of
the pangs had worn off. And as for my
mouth, the bitter taste in the morning was
more than I could stand, and I frequently
jumped out of bed, obtained a lump of
sugar, and chewed it up ; this, I found, was
a temporary relief.”
“1 should have imagined a doctor migh (
have prescribed something beneficial t
you ? ”
“So anyone would have thought;but
was under a well-known doctor for month
without getting relief. I went to several'
different chemists, too. Indeed, I tried a
whole string of indigestion cures, thinking
that I might come across someone amongst
the many that could give me a bit of ease.”
“ Did you get no benefit ? ”
“ No, not at the time. One after another
I was forced to stop the use of the pills and
other medicines, after giving them each a
decent trial. In every instance I found
these much-advertised cures failed to come
up to the mark, and, more than, that, I
believe that by filling myself up with these
things 1 only upset my system, and made
my indigestion worse. Under these cir-
cumstances I gave up taking physic
altogether.”
“ But I’m informed you took Clements
nic 1 ” ... t <
“ Yes, it came about in this way. I must
1 you that about the time I am now
making of my brother was also very bad
nnindigestion. It’s a queer thing, but
s symptoms were almost precisely similar
mine. One day he came with some
portant news. He had found a medicine
last that was rapidly curing him. He
essed me to try it. I was in bed, and
rly doubled up with agony, whilst he was
eaking to me." „ , ..
“I’ve tried everything, I said, whats
jg ? ,
“ It’s a remedy that’s pulling me round
3t,” he said ; ‘ it's Cements Tonic.
“I sent my wife straighb to the
boratory for a bottle, and at once took
me. In the course of a few hours there
is a considerable cessation of pain. After
finished that bottle I sent for more. 1
und myself getting better every day. My
outh became clean and wholesome once
ore. The bitter taste was entirely gone,
be "an to eat again without any sense ot
un° or uneasiness afterwards, and soon i
as quite recovered.”
“ How long were you ill?
“ Two years.” „
“ How long did it take to cure you?
“Three weeks, and I’ve never had a
>uch of my old complaint since. My
[■other was cured in about the same time,
> you can now understand why I speak so
jghly of Clements Tonic.
DECLARATION BEFORE A MAGISTRATE.
t FRANK Russhm., of St Peters in the .Colony of
»w South Wales, do solemnly and Sincere!} deela e
Z I have carefully read the annexed document
insistin'* of three folios, and consecutively numbered
otVone to three, and that it contains and is a true
°d faithful account of my ilk ms and cure by
lements Tonic, and also _ con Urns nay full PM
liMion to publish the same in any way . and l inake
iiq solemn declaration voluntarily, and Without
■reivin'’ any payment, conscientiously believing the
mie to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of«
et made and passed in the ninth year of the rei„n
er mesent. Majest v, Intituled "An Act for the more
Jecuial abolition of Oaths and
iade in the various Departments of the Gorernilie
I New South Wales, and to substitute
r lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluotar.
ad extra judicial Oaths and Aifidavits.'
Jat St. Peters this fourth day o f October.
Mid eight hundred and ninety-eight,
GEORGE FARR, J P*
ZETZ-SPA WATER


THE OWL
CUT RATE
Consulting and
€1
Ip
i
0
DRUG CO
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cub Prioe, 18s. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REINYIGORATOR.
A Concentrated, VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT: a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonic for the NERVES
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
READ TH ESE FACTS. —Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply .elec-
trical. The REINYTGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
vieor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.-r-The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON’S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLACY.—PeopIe run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR.
J6loo.—We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BAUDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea.
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Eleotric Belts. No more COLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFICALLY MADE.- This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanio current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH AND LIVER.—The remedy most re-
quired to afford speedy and effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Electro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BELTS. —Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Postpone old age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Pr. HU<SN€S’S FITSEPIL€P.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the age.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PYRAMID PILE CORE.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character of
INWARD or OUTWARD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. fid. per box, or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage fid. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADYICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE.
On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Deduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDER RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
Granny Pickles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rain poured softly on the bark roof of alonely
hut: inside an old woman sat in front of a large
fire. She was as still as though dead; for her
mind was far away, on the Ballarat of ’54.
* * • •
It was night-time. From a canvas gambling-
saloon, not two hundred yards away, the music of
a fiddle floated out of the thudding, shuffling
sound of dancing. All round her was the mur-
muring of many voices, with a word standing out
here and there, meaning nothing to her. Sud-
denly, from the confusion of many sounds, rose
startlingly a shriek of agony. The whole field
heard it, too ; for a sudden silence followed.
Then came the sound of hurrying feet, and a low
muttering, which gradually swelled into a sea of
angry sound that surged from end to end of the
camp. The woman had risen, and was listening,
when she saw a black head, followed by broad
shoulders, appear under the side of the tent. Then
a scared-looking man was gaping at her, 'and
looking each moment more scared as he gaped.
“ What is it, Banks?” she asked, recognising an
acquaintance. “Who yelled like that? What
have you done ? ”
“Killed Joe Darrell!” he replied, curtly, and
looking slightly relieved. “A row over cards.
He cheated, an’ I drew my knife on him ; he slung
his at me but missed, then I stabbed him. The
fellows don’t quite know how it happened yet,
and I want to hide till the fuss blows over.”
The pattering of running feet was heard coming
rapidly nearer. “Quick! can you hide me?”
Banks looked scared again. The woman nodded
towards the low camp-stretcher of saplings, and
the man crept under it. Then she put on a night-
cap, and, sticking out her head with the tent-
flaps close under her chin, as if she were not
dressed, was asked by some of the crowd that
went hurrying by—“ Have you seen Geordie
Banks ? ” “ No ! ” she answered, and stood look-
ing after them and listening till she heard Banks
slip out under the canvas again into the darkness.
Presently she heard the measured tramp of men
carrying something heavy. She guessed it was
the murdered man, and waited for them to pass—
but they didn’t pass ! They stopped opposite her
tent; and a man advanced reluctantly. “ Banks
has killed your man, missus ! ” he said in a low
voice. She stared hard at the man—unrealising ;
then lifted the coat from the dead man’s face.
“ My God ! ” she cried. “ He told me it was Joe
Darrell ” —and she fell swooning across her hus-
band’s body.
The miners wondered at her remark; and as
soon as she recovered they asked the meaning of
it. Her explanation divided the camp into two
parties, of which the suspicious one was the
stronger. Banks was never heard of again ; and
thus a by-wash of accident and suspicion had
swung her out of the main current of life, and
stranded her in this lonely gully—broken hearted.
It was forty years ago. But all the details re-
turned to her with the purring of the rain on the
soft roof.
♦ * * *
Distantly, at; first, came the regular splashes of
footsteps on a watery path. The old woman’s
body vivified. She rose and fastened a piece of
rope across the door, then sat down again. The
gate slammed, and steps came up the path ; weak
steps, as of an old man. “ Who’s there?”
“ Only me, Missus. Can you give us a bite an’
shelter for the night ? ”
“ Wait a minute,” she replied, got some bread
and meat, opened the door as far as the rope
would allow, and handed out the food. “ You
can sleep on the bench under the verandah,” she
said, and the unseen man thanked her.
The old woman was out at daybreak, and found
the man still sleeping. She approached him
cautiously. The damp blanket round him steamed
slightly from the warmth of his body. His hair
was snowy white ; there was a hopeless droop in
the corners of his heavy mouth, and deep corru-
gated lines on his forehead. His withered cheek was
flushed, and he slept restlessly, as if conscious of
being looked at; then he awoke, with a startled
cower, as he saw the old woman’s dim eyes staring
into his face. Then he writhed, and pain drove
every other sensation out of him.
“ What is it ? ’’ she asked.
“Rheumatics,” he replied, and writhed again.
The old woman’s face softened a little. She
went inside and made some tea, and brought it to
him. As the day passed, he still lay on the bench,
sometimes writhing, which Granny noted as she
worked.
At midday she asked him if he were any better.
“ Worse,” he replied ; and, after looking at him
for a little, she went inside. She looked at his
shaking, feverish form, then she made up a bed
for him in the kitchen.
For a week she nursed him ; her dim old eyes
taking on a newer and softer expression as she
felt tiie natural woman awaken within her, after
lying dormant for 40 years. At the end of the
week he could hobble round; at the end of
another he took up a hoe, unasked, and helped her
in the garden. In a month he was fit to go, and —
she was sorry !
“Would you like to stay an’ ’elp ’ere?” she
asked.
“Wouldn’t mind,” he replied, looking slowly
round the well-kept half-acre of fruit-trees and
vegetables.
“Then what’s yer name?” she asked. “ I’m
called Granny Pickles.”
“Well,” he said slowly, “I’ve bin called many
names ; but my real name is George Banks.”
The old woman straightened up suddenly.
“My real name is Mrs. Joe Wilson !”
The man collapsed abjectly. “I’m old —too
old to die — that way ! ” he whimpered.
They stared at each other for a full minute.
“ I’ll go! ” the man said at last.
“You’d better go on hoein’,” the woman an-
swered quietly.
And he did.
W. BRENTA.
“ Dareel ” writes to The Bulletin :
“ S. the W.” is misinformed re N.S.W. police firearms.
The Henry rifle superseded the Terry 15 years ago.
Apropos “skin ’’-cartridges, writer lately had lively experi-
ence of their vitality. Game across a “police” Colt’s
revolver (family relic), which had been loaded for
“’rangers” in the 60’s. Removed the caps (green and
perished), soaked the chambers with kerosene, and,
having vainly tried to push the cartridges out by probing
through the nipple, put the cylinder into a bucket of live
coals to melt the bullets, and, to minimise the danger of
a cartridge exploding, placed bucket down the sink. One
did go off, and the concussion jerked the red hot cylinder
out into a narrow passage, where, as with each successive
discharge it aimed in a fresh direction, we had a lively
object-lesson in being under promiscuous fire. Not bad
for old-time powder and skin covers.
The Makutu.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There were four of us, and a week straight across
country through Maoriland bush, with nothing
but sodden flour for tucker, makes the prospect of
any other life under the sun agreeable. Men
were scarce in those days, and a vessel would
stay weeks over her time to hunt deserters. What
sense of the beautiful had not been routined out
of us was exercised to its full limit in those fairy
hours of morning, when Maoriland has no peer in
the wide world. As the day proceeds, everything
becomes irritatingly monotonous, and before
night the bush traveller aches for an illimitable
extent of burning, sandy desert, with not a tree
in sight, or a barren, tussocky range of black hills.
It is then indeed a relief to look down into the
broad valley and see a large area of clear coun-
try, and in the midst a Maori village situate near
a lake or lagoon.
Hinde had lived amongst the Maoris, and
although he confessed they were infernally lazy
and dirty, yet he thought much of their hospi-
tality. We were elated, as we felt we could do
with a little recruiting. We were not pressed for
time, so as Hinde promised us, in addition to
other attractions, a temporary wife each, we were
bursting to reach that pah.
Hinde was correct in every particular. We got
everything he promised, including the wahines,
and we could have had two each for the asking.
We lay on our backs for a week and smoked
rau-rau until we were weary. Then we started
exploring, and found the valley to be a
veritable kauri-gum eldorado. You could kick
junks of it out of the loose soil anywhere. The
Maoris, in a desultory fashion, were disposing of
the treasure to advantage. A couple of canoes
were occasionally run down the river to a cutter,
owned by a half-caste, who traded between Waite-
mata and the saw-mill settlements along the
coast.
We were aware that under the kindly treat-
ment of our hosts there were lurking suspicions
that our party was not weighed-down with con-
scientious scruples. Hinde impressed upon us
that, if the natives got to believe that we coveted
their wealth, it would mean, at the least, eject-
ment —probably annihilation. One day, circum-
stances and the bright intellect of Hinde showed
us a way.
The natives were in a very excitable state. Eor
some time a series of misfortunes had befallen the
tribe. The Maoris believe in cause where there is
effect, and stimulated their prophets to research.
When one of the Rangitiras of the tribe died
at the early age of something near eighty, a
clamorous demand was made for retribution upon
something or somebody. The prophets had their
reputation to keep, so Kunui was impeached.
Kunui was about the least important member of
the community, and was pretty well a mokai
(slave). He would long ago have been sacrificed
to religious demands had he been of less value as
a hewer of wood and a drawer of water. The
Tohus (priests) decided that Kunui had bewitched
things in general, and that the withering gaze of
his cross eye was blighting all it looked upon.
Kunui was blindfolded and tied to a stake in
the middle of the pah, where his scanty wearing
apparel had been burnt. Then those who felt
so disposer] took torches and scientifically singed-
off any hair that was visible. This was supposed
to cancel his projected villainies.
The poor devil’s howls sickened us, so we went
for a walk. We were getting tired of Maori-
pakeha-ing, and it struck us that if Kunui’s un-
bewitching didn’t mend matters, their holitiesses
might fix upon us as the authors of evil. Hinde
told us that th? scorching was only a preliminary,
and that the makutu would be bound, thrown into
his whare,; and the place set fire-to that night.
It was while conversing over Kunui’s hard fate
that Hinde conceived his brilliant idea. As we
were tired of rest, we would return to the pah and
say good-bye. We would go a short distance
up the valley; and when night fell we would
return and rescue Kunui, unknown to the Maoris.
We would keep him hidden in the bush for a day
or two, to allow his fate to sink into the minds of
these children of nature, and then, all of a sudden,
in broad daylight spring him upon them. They
would assuredly believe him to be the very devil,
and at once leave the place, damned by his
accursed spirit, as far behind them as they could.
Result : an unlimited field for kauri-gum opera-
tions.
We departed. “ Enoho ! ” (Stay). “ Haere ! ”
(I go) were mournfully repeated respectively by
the Maoris and ourselves. Our abandoned wives
stoically endured the parting, and, to our joy,
showed no desire to accompany us.
We camped about two miles up the river, and
that night Hinde and myself cut our way through
the raup'o and toi-toi lining of the whare, and
bore away the condemned Kunui. We had just
got under cover of the bush when we sa>v the
whare in flames, and heard the hideous shoutings
of the tohus, as they danced around it to give the
spirit a parting blast as it winged its way to te
Reinga (hell).
Everything went splendidly. Kunui joyously
entered into the conspiracy, and could not suffi-
ciently express his gratitude to his saviours.
When all was ready, we accompanied Kunui
down to see the fun, and watch the aboriginals
scatter. We saw the 3inged defendant creep into
the pah. The Maoris were lolling about, and the
only activity noticeable was the passing to and
fro of the wahines, as they prepared the eternal
kai. When Kunui jumped up there was tremen-
dous excitement, and he harangued them impres-
sively. To our surprise they didn’t scatter, but
threw themselves prostrate on the ground before
him. After a while they approached Kunui, and
threw wreaths over him, and worshipped him.
Then Hinde advised us to hurry.
We did go, for eight-and-forty hours straight on
end. It was lucky for us the Maoris had no guns,
but they stoned us for ten miles, and pursued us
with more energy than I ever knew them display
before or since. We had one boot and a pair of
alleged trousers when we at length found succour
at a whaling-station. We didn’t know each other
for weeks, till the swelling went down and we
began to resume our natural shape..
That ungrateful devil, Kunui, had represented
himself as a god, and had attributed the vilest
characters and motives to us. He claimed to
know our game and whereabouts by his divine
powers. He seized the opportunity, and became
the chief tohu of the tribe; so it was not long
before he had his revenge on his judges. His
ingratitude towards us was something incredible,
and I will never rescue a Maori again as long as I
live. And Hinde says ditto.
UNDERSORUBBER.


/
t
r
V
*3
/* ll
1
Gro into the mills and
work shops of the city—
look at the sturdy speci-
mens of manhood that for
years have . been the pride
and boast of Sydney—bulg-
ing muscles, swelling chests,
massive shoulders.
Surely such men as these
could never know an ache or
pain, 15ut they do.
The heavy lifting, long
flours, consi ant standing on
the feet, put a strain on the
kidneys that these delicate
•ittle organs can’t bear.
The poisons that ought'
to be taken out of the blood
are forced back into the
system. Backache comes.
Every little cold settles
in the kidneys.
There’s a constant tired
feeling.
But there is one thing
will stop it—
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.
They are curing sick
kidneys here in Sydney
every day, making men
stronger and happier and
healthier.
iiead what Mr. William Carroll, 749 Harris Street, Ultimo,
this city, writes .
back. S ° me Ki ea l y j rucks > ar, d so °n noticed the effect in the small of my
and a dull nain f-hmuo-Vi ti, ” i l vas unable to do any work. I was laid up. I had a very lame back,
Mv ohvsioian advispd T i • u Mvf ktdneys, anc * the secretions became unnatural and irregular,
to Enable me to unrl T bath 7 S ' 1 took thelr ‘> an d received some small benefit, but not sufficient
Pharmacy in T\ in<r Jl • y " f procured some of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s
rmw X y L d]f vv vtl’i C, f ty m nd Use u d then b 1 fou »d wonderful relief ;so much so that lam
■since I took' these nflla . , as T °l 0d ln korou^k manner. I might mention that it is a year ago
Convinces me tint m el-. ’Sf.?. trol, bled with my back or kidneys since, which firmly
mend them amongmy friends.'” °** K,dney P,lls are a true kid ney remedy, and I never fail to record
THE SYMPTOMS
—OF—
KIDNEY DISEASE.
Pam m the back or sides, Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Nervousness, Frequent
I lurst, Hot Dry Skin, Shortness of Breath, Troubled Sleep, Puffiness of the Eye-
mloSt TT and Ankles, Loss of Flesh, Dark-Colored Urine, Too
„/ Jr - ° L r T . TTLK Übi * e > height about the Loins, Gravel, Disordered Eyesight
SnellsMwl P lzz^ ess Heart, Debility, Drowsiness, Dropsy, Fainting
IHabete?cfec rem 16S ’ ° “ the Mouth > Poor Appetite, Bright’s Disease*
Please bear m mind one thing : DOAN’S BACKACKE KIDNEY PILLS
'J re “ ot P" r g atlve HUs. They have no action on the bowels. Their action is
on the kidneys, and for their purpose are absolutely unrivalled.
liv din SS K™™ PILLS may be had of Chemists and Storekeepers
c.u i l 3 throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes for 15s. 3d or will
>;• posted on leceipf of price by any of our branches, as follows :-Fostcr McClellan Co.,
s. vl aSI am °f ftlCt l Fhnders-street, Melbourne ;54 King William:
l’ 4hera d St d l/hn 4 i!fit T y ’ Street f’ Perth ’ WA. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
i..others , at. Jonn-street, Launceston, care Fairthorne & Son.
A Song of Failure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here is my hand to you, brother,
You of the ruck who have failed ;
I, too, am only another
Fighter who faltered and quailed !
Here, with my manhood for token,
Here to grim Fate I give lithe;
I, too, am beaten and broken,
Lying, the swarth of the scythe !
We, to the world’s scornful seeming,
Crouch, an incongruous horde—
Fighters enmeshed in their dreaming
Dreamers who girt on the sword,
Weaklings with god-like ambitions,
Heroes who learned to succumb,
Poets a-swoon in their visions,
Singers with ecstacy dumb !
Failed ! So we oast off our burden,
Done with our dreads and our fears
These we have worn for our guerdon,
Pity and tears—woman’s tearß I
You who know never a stumble
Dwell from a woman apart;
Only the bent and the humble
Learn the low door to her heart!
You who have conquered, believing
That you have done with the fray,
Is yours a Heav’n worth achieving ;
Stormed in the space of a day ?
Here is this world we must live in ;
What else is left us to gain ?
More is it worth to have striven
Than in the end to attain 1
Though we have fallen and yielded,
This we have given to you ;
Still stands the work we have build -d,
Plain is the prize to your view !
We have had sight of the glory,
Pointed it clear to the blind;
Yours is the conquerors’ story—
Ours is the vision you find !
You who your fate overmaster,
Take back the scorn that you fling!
Though we be serfs of disaster,
Here in our ranks is a King !
He in defeat shall assail your
Victories, proving them loss ;
He who fought only for failure,
He who achieved—on a cross !
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A patriarch among pubs. The Black Horse
Hotel at Richmond (N.S.W\) has been licensed
continuously since 1819. Before the railway
days, it was known as The Honeymoon Inn;
newly-married couples drove thither from Sydney.
The visitors’ book, still in existence, contains the
signatures of many early settlers.
The Fall of Captain Davids.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the trading-station, people had ceased to talk
of the inexplicable disappearance of the Agent’s
daughter—they had almost forgotten it. On his
last visit there, Captain Davids, of the schooner
Porpoise, shipped a new hard a young, clean-
faced fellow, who had left a just-departed
schooner.
♦ m ■ * *
The storm had subsided, and the Porpoise was
many a league out of her course. Straight ahead
lay land ; Captain Davids, conning it through his
glasses, knew it as a small island, uninhabited and
out of the way of ships. Forward, the crew were
gathered, gloomily discussing something—all but
Harrison. He lay below in his hammock with a
broken skull—dead. An hour ago he had hesi-
tated at an’order, and the Captain had enforced
his authority with a belaying-pin. And Harrison
had been as much liked by the crew as the Cap-
tain was hated.
The schooner approached the island—being
short of water—and let go an anchor about a
quarter of a mile from the white fringe of sand
which belted the little bay. Beyond towered a
background of scrub and tall trees. The Captain,
having seen the craft anchored, was stepping
towards his cabin, when there Was a hurried
stamping around him, a rush as of sudden wind,
and the crew had a prisoner.
“ What does this mean ? ” he demanded, as soon'
as he could speak.
Mortlock, the boatswain, answered :
“On’y this: We ’ad a meetin’, we’ad ; an’we
decided as ’ow this ’ere belayin’-pin business’as
got to stop. Now, ’Arrison was a mate o’ mine,
an’ I’m a-goin’ to see fair done to him. Ain’t I,
boys?”
A shout of approval from the crew. Black-
bearded. Pearson loudly cried “Ay, ay!” and
Carpenter the cook distorted his wizened face
into a grin. Only Morrel was silent—and he did
not count.
Strengthened by this unanimity, Mortlock
straightened his back :
“ Now, the lads thinks as ’ow I’d be a fust-rate,
captain. I’m as good a seaman as ever you was,
an’ I’m as kind as a kitten. At all events I never
broke a man’s head with a belayin’-pin. So the
on’y thing is, what are we a-goin’ to do with you!”
“ Shoot him, I think,” purred Pearson, and
Carpenter grinned like a cat. The crew laughed
—all but Morrel.
“ Not yet,” laughed Mortlock. “ We’re a-goin’
to make a reg’lar stage-play o’ this ’ere. We’ll go
ashore—all but two, an’ them two ’ll play a game
o’ cards. . If one wins, we shoot him at once ; if
t’other wins, we leave him ’ere to take his chance,
while we ups anchor and away. Let’s see. who’ll
play ? ”
He looked around. Pearson’s black face was
prominent beside Carpenter’s insignificant one.
“Right,” Mortlock went on. “Pearson and
Carpenter. If you win, Pearson, you show a red
lantern through the cabin port; if you win, Car-
penter, show a white one—at midnight neat. You
won’t know what the signals mean, so your con-
sciences can be easy. Besides, you can’t play any
dodge on us. What do you say, boys?”
The crew testified with many oaths their ap-
proval of the scheme—but Morrel edged up olose
to the captain as if in sympathy.
• » • •
The night was ohill and dark and the crew
gathered round the fire in an opening of the scrub.
In the glare the captain’s face was ghastly
—from fear and the pain of his rope-bound limbs.
“ What are you going to do with me ? ” The
voice was quavering.
“ Shoot you, mebbe,” laughed Mortlock. “ If
Pearson shows the red glim, you’re done for ; if
he flashes the white, you can stay ’ere and populate
the island. King o’ the Cannibal Islands, on’y
there ain’t no cannibals.”
“Why should you murder me ! ” The captain’s
face was twitching with fear.
“ Because, blast you ! ” retorted Mortlock, “ you
murdered ’Arrison, an’ you’d murder me if you
got a chance. That’s why ! Because you’re a
our, a drunken blackguard as never spared man or
woman in your life. That’s why.”
It was delicious to hear the scoundrelly boat-
swain rolling forth these charges with the air of
an honest man. The captain would have spoken,
but—-
“ An’ Morrel’s the one to shoot you. He’s been
beside you all night, an’ he’s on’y itchin’ to get at
you. Ain’t you, Morrel?”
But Morrel's smooth face was pale as the Cap-
tain’s. He retreated a step as if the idea fright-
ened him, and said : “ Not I—nor you, Mortlock.
We are not a set of murderers, are we ? As for
shooting—l’d sooner shoot myself, or you.”
(( Mortlock gasped with surprise; then he laughed.
“ You're a coward, Morrel, an’ you like him, even
after he nearly brained you with the boat-hook
t’other day, d’ye remember? But you’re a new
hand, an’ you don’t know him so well as us.” •
“At least,” the captain broke in, “if you kill
me you won’t steal my share of the cargo ! You’ll
give it to someone for me ? ”
“Who?”
“ My wife ?
“ Wife ! ” Mortlock interrupted ; “ which one?
You’ve got half-a-score, to my knowledge. Not
the Agent’s daughter, eh ? She drowned herself,
didn’t she Cap ?—so they said. You was married
then, but she didn't know it. Which one, Cap? ”
But the Captain sulked. No one noticed
Morrel’s agitation at the mention of the Captain’s
wife—no one saw his eyes flash and his frame
tremble as with fierce passion. And no one
noticed that shortly afterwards he slipped from
the crowd and raced to the edge of the scrub over-
looking the bay.
* * ' •
Morrel lay for an hour among the bushes on
the edge of the sand. Then suddenly he sat up
and cursed his folly in delaying. The moon was
rising—already her light was streaming across the
unbroken grey of the beach. The ship was quiet
as if deserted. Morrel —he could see plainly now
in the moonlight—could not discern a single
moving shadow among the still shadows of masts
and rigging. He concluded that the two men
were sitting in the Captain’s cabin. He arose
and strode swiftly across the sand to the
sea’s edge—and again cursed his foolishness.
His wits were wool-gathering to-night ! He
did what he should have done in the shadow ;
stripped himself down to a loose singlet and pair
of cotton drawers, from which he tore the legs
below the knees. In a piece of the spare material
he wrapped his revolver, tore the remainder into
strips and firmly bound the weapon on top of his
head, passing the bandages round under his chin.
Then he strode out into breast-deep water and—
keeping his head dry as possible—swam silently
towards the schooner. J
* • • •
In the cabin sat Pearson and Carpenter, with a
pack of cards between them. Two lighted lamps
stood on the table—a red one and a white. On
the bulkhead a clock showed a quarter to 12.
Suddenly, Carpenter stopped in a shuffle and
stared at the black-bearded face before him.
“ What’s that? ” he said, nervously.
“ Nothing,” said Pearson.
The game went on again.
“ And that! ” Carpenter’s face paled slightly.
“ Cur ! ” growled Pearson. “ The wind Go
on ! ”
It sounded for all the world as if a dog were
trotting across the deck, but Carpenter knew
there was no dog. His hands trembled so that he
could scarcely hold the cards. Suddenly Pearson
swore horribly.
“ You’ve won, Carpenter; the white glim it is
whatever that means.”
“ Did you hear?” gasped Carpenter, white.
The black face opposite was frowning, and it
increased Carpenter’s terror. The dog was out-
side the door now. Carpenter found himself
listening for a scratching at the panels.
“ The wind,” said Pearson.
“Wind be damned ! ” Carpenter leapt to his
feet, wheeled—and sat down in a heap.
The door had opened silently, and a semi-nude
man stood against the outer darkness. The man
was streaming wet but the revolver was
dry. And the revolver covered Pearson’s head.
Carpenter was a mere heap of helpless flesh-
fright had paralysed him.
Pearson sat still, only a twitching of the black
beard telling of inward passion.
“What o’olock is it?” The man at the door
never moved his eye for a second from Pearson’s
face. The latter leisurely looked at the clock.
“ Just four minutes to twelve.”
“Take that lamp, then. No, not that! The
red one—the red one, I tell you. ”
Pearson lifted the lamp. “ Well, what now?”
Carpenter had not stirred : Morrel seemed to
think him unworthy of notice. For a space there
was silence.
“ What time is it ? ”
“ Twelve o’clock.” Pearson laughed softly.
“ Then open the port, and show that light.”
Pearson glanced momentarily at the set face,
smiled, opened the port, and the red rays shot
through the night.
Carpenter, looking surreptitiously from beneath
his brows, saw Morrel step quickly forward, and
he could have sworn that the hand that laid the
revolver upon the table trembled violently. Also
that Morrel’s face was relaxed and white, and that
his hands went forward as if to tear the lamp
from Pearson’s grasp. Surprise undid the work
of fear, and Carpenter became alert: his hand
went out, and quietly gripped the revolver.
In the next second three things happened:
Morrel sprang forward, with a shrill cry, and
wrenohed the lamp from Pearson’s hand; two
pistol-shots—clear and distinct —rang from the
shore, and Carpenter levelled the revolver at
Morrel and fired.
Pearson’s face was calm as ever as he turned
with,.“ Well done, Carpenter ! ” He stooped to
examine the still form at his feet; but his face was
pale as Carpenter’s when he looked up again.
“ Carpenter ” —and he laughed idiotically—“ he
was— a woman / ”
P. T. FREEMAN.


For Weak and Delicate Children
For thin blood and loss in flesh; for poor
appetite and weak digestion; and for the de-
pression from long-continued hot weather.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
h
- x
\ y
-A."
\ rx \
//Ak
✓ y'-fj
/ X
88
My son, -whose picture I send you, was taken very sick, became languid,
losing his appetite and seeming to lose all energy. Apparently he did not have
hardly any life left in him. He was so weak he would become unconscious
at times. He also had large swellings in his neck. I was greatly worried
over him. I took him to the doctors with no satisfactory results.
“I then resorted to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, remembering that my sister derived
a wonderful amount of good from this same medicine.
“ After a few days my boy’s health began to improve, his appetite returned,
and he gradually lost his extreme languidness. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acted as a
grand tonic upon his whole system, and lie soon began to scamper about like
other boys. I attribute his wonderful recovery solely to the fact that he took
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and took it in time.”
This is the experience of Mrs. Arabella Graham (whose son’s portrait is given
above), of 73 Station St., Petersham, New South Wales. It is also the happy
experience of thousands of mothers all over the land. And it is the reason
"Why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been named
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
It brings color to white lips and plumpness to pale cheeks.
The
arsaparilla
That* Cures.
It Gives Nerve Power and Muscular Strength.
Ayer’s Pills are Liver Pills. They cure biliousness.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge's Lung Tonig
hsis been curing 1
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK EOK
BE SUJ8E YOU GET IT.
JS T o Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedywhich saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid.': 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6&,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
k Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors. j
Wholesale of _a! 1 .London and
Colonial Houses.
copyiighx.
&6sL£&
Wiff'i
S 2
musr BE ENDURED
£
butnavfe youtned
($y
i
>V-
S
J*
m
m
m
I
=9W
b/jc^Sfe
■V ST 3
9 9 •
LIVING.
NICHOLSON * Co. s PIANOS.
RONISCH PIANOS.
WONDERFUL INSTRUMENTS OF
WORLD-WIDE FAME.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
The GREATEST Achievement of
Modern Times. Superb Pianos.
MIG NON PIANOS.
AT THE PRICE, this INSTRUMENT
IS WITHOUT A RIVAL.
NANON PIANOS,
FOR <£3s CASH. THE CHEAPEST
PIANO ever Made Anywhere.
WE STOCK only THE BEST MAKES of PIANOS. Every Instrument Guaranteed for
Seven Years. LOW PRICES Jor Cash, or on EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO-,
SYP3XTEY. BRIS3BA.3\rE. PERTH.
THROAT EASE
mean mmm
'Sen-Sen (£>.
FARRINGDON AVENUE
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SIMS X SPEAKERS
2m
■
P £RFUHt
ye
w
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
THE MAEVELLOUS CURE FOE
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
•INFLUENZA.


SOME POINTS.
About OUrt
Waterproof Coats.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUTELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-CUT and SILK - STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
3RE AKFAST - SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
The (|)ost Powerful Driving Belt in the Djorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES j
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from, the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhcad Works,
<2^GLASGOW.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINCHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
•v
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
PITOT KITS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Will. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
am**
A Simple
TANG YE
Represented by
BENNIE,
Sydney,
TE\RE & CO.,
Perth, and
limp.
N.S.W.
FRESH FOOD Si ICE CO
LTD.
■ i
ers of
the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
Tlie Company Sells only the Very Rest Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
• - ' ■ ’ • " > .»* ’ V
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
HEAD OFFICE,” 2;
YE PROMPT A
i 5 HARBOUR STREET,
’I TKNTION.
H. PATESON, Managsr.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY
HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
LACY
GATES’ ROCKBREAKER
Company Limited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
ALL. KINDS OIF 11 MODERN MACHIKTERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising. ** ”
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
23 FREMONT STREET, 60 CLARENCE STREET, 27 CLEMENTS LANE, '
San Francisco, U.S.A. Sydney, N.S.W. London, E.C.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison <Sz Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gun makers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading- Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
complete , ii xs.u. mcvx.i UUUO) viiftiiiV-UU..IVU *»*/, *..■% vw*y-.w» » ----- - * • . . , .
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines arm
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carnage paid to any address in any or the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
B.S.A-
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY , 1317 ELIZABETH STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle 12/6), Inside Tubes 3/6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Oenuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry s
8/3 gross. <OT SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
<kU T RADE\ UP P LIE D—G UA R ANTE ED 25° PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPSOW BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON
RA DE
BOILER FEED PUMP
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
