

Mcis WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
m FRY’S MALTED COCOA
R. g wiLTKinrs «§c, co.,
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
K rm
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
nifcPiFi!
*» i-
-53
SOLE AGENTS 249 G
0
s
D
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
m
■■sm,
mmsn
sii^aSali
mm.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
M4tv
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI’OLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams, Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss ntt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOE
Ruston, Proctor & Co.
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI FIXED
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS AND PUMPS.
BOOBKrXJFtIO XXXB.A.SB;i]XrG!- BOIJLOCIBVrBS, SA.W jBEKTCEEBS, & c ., &o
THORNE’S
At WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
FAVORITE'SEASIDE RESORT,
t by Mrs. Kilniinster for tHe last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
i
k
JOL
£
Toronto Koto!,
Lake
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Train way connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the,North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Uke. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will uo-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
UOECAFtT.
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
'Mad*
oo
y
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING^
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W, Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUQOWiCr& SON, LTD.,
IX7 York: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Br& *y
Purity Warranted. Recommended by Highest Medical perts
for use in leading English and Colonial Hospitals.
A Sufficient Guarantee of its Wholesomeness.
Two Gold Medals, Brussels Exhibition 1897-
VAndyck
CIGARS
fSsKis::;:::
rM
WM
Y 3
/mm'/iGKAjvr
SMCfA £
mmm
®ip &
Is
: JM;Kimnr SyWIEY
The Bulletin
Vol 20. No. 995.1
[Saturday, March 11, 1899.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


PUBLISHER’S NOTICE.
THE HIDDEN TIDE
We Will issue on
■ 15th March,
(By Moderic Quinn).
A selection of verses in artistic wrapper, about
40 pp. Edition limited to 550 copies, of which 500
are for sale ; price Is. t!d. net. Fifteen copies on
large paper, with a holograph poem by the author,
now first published, and not included in the small-
paper edition; of which nine are for sale, price
10s. fid. net.
KSi' Note. —This edition is being rapidly sub-
scribed, and orders should be sent at once.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd.
THEE A.3=tGOKTAITT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
“Tlie Bulletin” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older worid of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “Argon.ut” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an Idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors :
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace.” The re-
tire most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper,
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sale at Tiib Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American mail ; 'price , Sd. ; posted , 9d. ; mailed regularly
to any Australasian address,
THE BOOKFELLOW^
A Monthly Magazinelet
Por Book-buyers and Book-readers.
The February Number contains
lAYS AND HEARSAYS, by “Toe Bookfbllow.” With
Original'Verses, Illustrations and Extracts.
jAWSON AND LITERATURE.
1 JESS,” oil unpublished poem by tire late Barcroft Boake.
lOTIOES X)F NEW BOOKS,
etc., etc.
lend threepence in stamps of any Australasian province
for three months’ subscription post-free.
PHE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. LTD.,
214 Gcorge-street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE.
This is a passage from Maurice Hewlett’s
lately-published “Pan and the Young Shop-
herd,” a pastoral drama in the mode antique.
The scene is on a moor, overlooking the
valley ; Neanias enters carrying Aglae ; he
sets her on a fallen tree and stands looking
at her.
Neanias.
She keeps her eyes fixt on me; I think she is
going to cry. The corners of her mouth are down
—a bad sign. Her lips cling loosely together—a
worse. She hath grey eyes-—how deep and soft!
How far-searching! How seeming to ask for
help of me, like a dumb beast’s ! And her lips are
cold ; and she is dumb ! YV hat should a man do
with a girl at such a time ? Put his arm about
her, doubtless, and give her a kiss, or kisses.
There is that upon her which forbids a careless
handling. Besides—oh, it would be merciless ! I
have heard that of old time the Squire knelt be-
fore his lady to kiss her hand, or even her foot.
Shall I salute her so ? I have her hand, and can
see her sandall’d foot, with the little toes like
windflowers peeping up through the herbage.
The hand is nearer ; I will kiss her hand. How
small, how warm, how gentle a hand ! Her cheek
was cold as a stone—to be warmed some day by
my fire ! I have warmed her hand already in
mine : let me warm the other. (He has both her
hands.) Oh, Aglae, you are trembling ! What’s
the matter, my dear ? Art cold, art afraid, wistful
Aglae ? Why, girl, thou hast a lover, a sweet-
heart ; is it nothing to thee ? Never a lass
yet but hugged the darling thought, if the wisdom
of man speaks true. Cheer then, cheer then,
pretty maid, for I at least will be true, Ah, ah !
You cast down your eyes at that; ’fore God, you
blush—O Aglae, how soft-cheekt you are ! But I
say it again, I will be your true man, even as my
father that is dead loved my mother whom he
stole from a country far from here and taught the
use of love in a quiet valley. She was a sea-
bred woman, black-haired, swan-neckt, and
knew nothing of sheep or husbandry. But
my father taught her all that, and she loves
him yet, though he lies with a broken back
deep under Church mould. Even as my
father was to her, so to you will I be, girl :
even so. Ah, Saints, she looketh up again, with
beseeching and with dumb prayer ! Do her lips
move ? No sound, no sound at all! She must
speak to me ; she shall speak. Look, Aglae, do as
I do; move your lips now as I move mine. Now
thus: tongue to palate, that is L. Yes, yes.
Open lips to form broad O, full as my heart.
Wider yet, and fuller : L, 0 ! Now lower lip to
upper teeth for V, and E as mute as you like. Do
it now. It is done ! That is LOVE, Aglae, that
is LOVE ! . . . Aglae, I will kneel before you
and ask you—stay with me ! Look, now, I have
come over the hills for you, braving dangers, my
word ! and fatigues, and uncertain powers, possi-
bly of the Devil. Stay with me. Your eyes are
soft and very gentle, yet wide with waiting for fear:
narrow them that peace may come in. Do you
fear? You cannot fear me. Look at me, Aglae
—are you afraid ? You shake your head : you are
not ! Then I will tell you more. I am here and
you are here, none beside us, we two in the open
world. Oh, my dear, I love you well! The dan-
ger and sick dread are going with the night; soon
you and the day will smile together. The sun
will touch the hill-tops, and race down the flanks
of the high hills. He will kindle the trees in the
valley, and we shall see his light, and the blue
smoke make aspire to God. Witna wakened world,
the sounds of men and business about us, all
will be well. The ringing anvil at the forge, the
wash of the mill-wheel, the humming where the
wheat is a-threshing, and Merla calling the cows—-
day will come, day will come ! Hark, is that the
priest’s bell ? Not yet, not yet:, courage, wait
awhile, soon will be a wedding, and a bride carried
over the threshold to the hearth ! You the bride,
Aglae, Virgin Dawn ; and I the groom, I Neanias
son of Balkis. The folk will line the Church-way,
strewing flowers and branches; the men will
follow you with their eyes, and the women say,
“The sturdy lad ! of me whom hitherto they
have counted a baby, to talk their freedoms
before me without a blush ! Sturdy enough !
Eor though I am slim built I am very strong,
and could carry you, Aglae, under my arm.
My arm round your middle, I would carry
you over brooks in flood, and up the moor-side
on dewy mornings lest you should wet your pretty
toes. In the orchards I could hold you up to
gather the codlings and peach-apples from the
midmost branches. There should no brambles
tear you, and no thistle-spines nor sword-grass
that cuts like a saw. Oh, I would tend you well,
Aglae, and love you dearly! The homestead
should flow with milk and honey : I would get you
the firstlings of the year, apples and quinces and
mellow pears. Fine wool should be your bed-
clothes, all of first-shear lambs : you should be
drest in white wool and thin flax. My mother,
you must know, is a cunning woman, deft with
her fingers, and her spinning well-known in our
valley and beyond the high hills. Eear not to tear
your hands or harden them with coarse work ; fear
not to line your pale and gentle face with
dark thoughts or cares; fear not to - drudge, fear
nothing. I am with you, Aglae : I will teach you
love; and love, say they, is life. Happy love,
therefore, is blessed life. . . . O Aglae, will you
cry again? Sure, you cannot see me for tears.
You tremble again, your lips quiver, sobs arc in
your throat. Your head on my shoulder, dear;
there, that’s happy, that’s happy. Oh, what a
beating heart! Look now, Agla : ; cry your fill;
don’t he ashamed—I am not looking at you. I
felt a tear on my arm; I know your eyes are
brimming. Cry, cry, my bird, you will he
better after. Have no fear, 1 hold you close
- -side to side: we will be nearer yet—-heart
to heart some day. Ah, ah, you are mine !
I have made you mine. I am a man by now,
and you are mine, and mine, and mine, and my
wife for ever ! Come, Aglae, away. Come ! .
See, Aglae, the white dawn steals round the rim
of the world: soon spears of fire will spike the
East. Virgin Dawn, this is the day, this is our
wedding-day. Hark ! what is that far off and
below us in the haze? The priest’s bell, by our
Lord’s joy ! Sir Topas at his Mass. Come, my
bride, my well-beloved ! Come, heart of mine, to
whom love draws near. Let us seek Sir Topas at
the altar rail. Dawn ! Dawn !
(He takes her hand; they go down the moorside
together. Day-break.)
The fire kindled by Lawson is still smouldering,
but with less flame than ashes. These embers
have for the most part little to recommend them,
but they give a useful glimpse of public opinion on
the questions raised. -Henceforth, however, public
opinion will have to be a lot brighter if it wants to
be printed.
«.k‘3w K C.” : . S u- rry t 0 Bee Uwa °n has taken to howlinv
about his hardships, which, after all, are only the ordf
nary hardships of our continent, and are as vet insepar
ably connected with the life of the People. A wider and
more sincere sympathy with his fellows-many of whom
have deeper waters to pass through than he ever had-
n'r 6 in ? P * ed h ™ 10 sou " d “ more poetic note!
een in his autobiography. He cannot blame his com
t War ! t as he himself absolutely
i* ( h f t , ra ' t . of . th . e true poet—that is, if his
tion of Australia is sincere. It is very seldom that a poet
abuses the land that bred him. By all means let Lawsol
go to London for a few years—such a journey would at
h ‘ s mental vision and perhaps teach him to
love his Australian home and people better.
K " J' e . Ku [' i . Pak(;ha ” : That Lawson took £2OO for his two
books is his funeral. If I could have written them I
would not have taken three times that sum. Nor would
Lawson if he had sat tight and stuck to his coach-paint
mg It is no easier to make money in London than in
fraha a ‘ b ° th placesi - ar,d 1 Aug.
“ 6 * 8 ” = He«ry Lawson is our national poet. He si«4s
our songs! We care not who makes our laws ! And as
the singer of our songs, we have treated him shamefully '
It was right that Lawson unburdened his soul. The hush
men—and they are the people of Australia—worship Law-
son as only bushmen can worship. No mere hero-worship
but a deep, unaffected love for his powerful work Had
the bushmen known long ago how the man who has
brightened their lonely, hard and bitter lives, existed
miserably for years in third-rate Sydney boarding-houses
at a meal a-day, they would have, I am positive, acted in
concert and lifted him financially above the bitter neces-
sity of selling his great brain at the rate of ss. a column
to brain-sweating newspaper-proprietors !
Oiipps Clark :My mail, on a recent evening, con-
sisted only of a letter from my brother (who lives in
Lawson’s Mecca-London) and Thu Bulletin. For obvious
reasons, I opened the letter first, which reads thus : “I
have not heard lately from you, so am writing a<rain about
the stories. I had a letter froiii (literary agent), at
the end of November, saying he had an offer from Bar-
abhas and Co. of £l5 (!) for the copyright of the stories
and that he had at once withdrawn them, and was offer-
ing them in another direction. I wrote him saying it
was an absurd offer, and remarking on the lon«- time
it had taken that firm to decide on such a* mag-
nificent. offer.” )I relit my pipe and read the note
again to make sure that there wasn’tafaint “o”afterthe
£l5, hut devil a sign of it. Then I informed my do<r
who listened sympathetically with his head on one side’
that I was actually offered £l5 for about 400 of
original stories—each, in its way, “ the finest story in
the world.” I thought of the long nights I had spent
writing them, nights when the perspiration trickled down
my nose, and the ink-pot was choked up, and the table
strewn with the gnats that fell from the hanging lamp-
nights that grew longer and colder, when my feet ached
with the cold before I would drop my pen to throw
another log on to the embers in the wide fireplace and
discover that the other jackasses were already stirring up
their mates in the big apple-tree to welcome a new day.
I thought of the writing and the re-writing, and the
final clean copy, made a hasty calculation, of how much
I could have earned if the writing had been law-copy at
sd. per folio, and laughed. Then the kerosene bill and
the cheque I paid for the type-writing of those stories
obtruded themselves upon my memory, and 1 laughed
again. Then I opened my Bulletin and read the troubles
of Lawson and his commentators, and wondered why a
man never knows when and where he is well off. . . .
On a Day by the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We lay on the beach shaded by a cliff; and
our couch was warm still, though the sun-
shine had crept away. Jack scooped a hole
in the sand and put a cheek there, and told
us lazily it was delicious. Viewed in this
wise, the beach assumed a new aspect. A
rock in the distance, which had hitherto
worn a solemn face, put forth a nose and
lips that laughed ; and a nearer sandbank
took to itself the guise of a stranded whale.
Without voyaging remotely, it is possible to
change one’s landscape ; and I knew a boy
who had the simplest means in the world of
varying a monotonous scene. All he had to
do was to bend down and look between his
legs. He said that everything seen so ap-
peared topsy-turvy. I told him that was
all very well for lissom limbs and easy joints,
but when he grew older it would hardly
seem so pleasant to set the world awry.
* * * *
Down the beach a flock of gulls played
with the surf, chasing and retreating, and,
when it spread around them like spilt milk,
lifting their wings as a child raises her arms
for an “ Upsy-daisy.” A mob of porpoises,
those merry fellows of the deep, rolled
through the swell with melodious motion.
The sea was dim-tinted, as though white
smoke were prisoned there. It slept : for
velvet winds did nothing more than purr and
pass. Outside our nook golden light was
poured through everything ; and a salt mist
that was but the spectre of a spray rose from
the surf and floated inland like a gossamer.
Someone hinted swimming; and we sped to
the sea’s side and took a head-firster into a
roller that shone like clean salt, bobbing up
one by one on the field of foam behind it.
Then, with scarce space to breathe, another
wall fell on us, and we rose half-drowned
and all in love with life.
* * * *
“Did you ever see anything so beautiful ? ”
said Jack.
We lay in the swirl and the Sea rolled us
over and over, and played with us, and
bubbled at our lips, till we nigh forgot she
was the Sea—the silky cat that sheathes her
claws in velvet and pats you gently till her
time come. Afterward, when the sun had
dried us and salt was like powder on the
skin, we crawled on all-fours to the shade.
It was so like heaven there that we grew
mournful at the prospect of leaving it to
Bwelter between four walls. Jack said he
did not know how people could sleep under
a roof on summer nights. He could not.
Sleep and he were strangers. He had tried
various methods of wooing her. Counting
sheep was regarded as perhaps the most
effective of these ; and he had counted sheep.
But it was no use. He would count up to as
many as fifty at times, and then he would
forget sheep and everything and cruise away
to the South Pole, and feel just a trifle
cooler, when all of a sudden his mind would
wear ship once more and take him to the
Tropics, with a red sun overhead.
• * • •
Jack said that the man who invented
sheep-counting as a soporific must have been
a quiet humorist, because the sheep is an
annual that won’t allow itself to be counted.
With him they always started to go over
fences—ten at a time—and just when he
fell into their mood and started to count
them by tens they went over by fifteens, and
if he tried them by fifteens they increased
the number. He said it was curious how
they always went over fences. There was
never any need, because he always had
a gate prepared, but they preferred the
fence. Once or twice he had tried to
drive them, but they refused to be driven,
and they had a firm objection to going
through a gate. He had tried to picture
them without a fence, but then a log would
be bound to appear, and they went over
that. He couldn’t imagine a sheep apart
from something that it had to go over.
Sometimes they took the fence in a multi-
tude, and sometimes, when he was on the
right track and reckoning straitly, one would
get stuck on the ton rail and distract him
from the others. He found that sheep-
counting was unprofitable, and that it was
pleasanter to go voyaging—to the South
Pole for preference. It sometimes helpedj
too, to remember a green cave in the moun-
tains where ferns drooped everywhere, and
the water drip-dripped from twenty places
all at once.
• • • •
Jack said there was a tree in his back-
yard to which a native thrush came every
movping. It sang to a canary in a cage,
and the gold lyrist would be very silent till
the thrush ceased to sing—perhaps because
it loved such wild minstrelsy. Now and
again, at noon of night or thereabouts, it
happened that the leaves of this tree would
rustle, and then Jack would raise his head
and listen ; for the tree was so placed that
nothing but a southerly could disturb it, and
a southerly meant ever so much. But as a
rule the wind would only come, to die, to
fade like a whisper on the lips of Night, and
then his case would be worse than ever,
because the worry of meditating on what
might have been would be added. He had
tried other recipes. Fellows had told him
that lying magnetically, feet to the Equator
and head to the Pole, induced sleep. The
currents coursed the body and drew the
blood from the head. But the currents
failed in his case ; perhaps they deviated
before they reached him. So he gave them
up in disgust, and lay the other wav, because
in that position he could see the stars
through his open window. Jack loves the
stars ; he has fashioned a religion out of
them. ’Tis a sweet faith. He thinks that we
go from star to star spending a life on each,
till we come at length to one felicitous orb
set high away and away in space. And . . .
* * * *
Jack talked and the Sea talked too—
rumbled unheedingly on the beach. The
tide was rising, and at intervals a wave
crashed on the shoal, calling our eyes round
to notice if anything strange had happened.
But we saw only the usual sheet of foam
crawling up the sand, arid then, when it had
reached a certain point, racing back like a
child chased by fancies in the dai’k. At
times, too, we heard voices from the head-
land—wild voices that faded even as we
listened. It was hard to realise that they
did not come from men in a perilous plight;
that they were not the hoarse far-off shouts
of drowning sailors, instead of the outcome
of wind and wave struggling for mastery in a
wet cavern.
* * • m
After dinner we climbed a headland and
saw many ships at sea. The coast was hazed
by blue smoke, each point of land peeping
round its neighbour as though to get a view
of the little beach that cosied there. The
wind had no power to fret the sea, and not a
white-cap flecked it anywhere except on the
beach or near the rocks, where foam foun-
tains rose swiftly and fell lazily. The sun
was in the west, and its rays at an unpropi-
tious angle, else we should have seen down
into the sea, deep even as its green couch.
Clear mornings on these headlands are a
time of wonder. While the wind sleeps and
the blue remains unstreaked, if you should
happen to bend over and look down, you
will see the weeds waving sluggishly, and,
perchance—if luck be with you, and hunger
at his vitals—the great blue groper mouch-
ing up and down the ledges, and poking his
nose through fringes of seaweed. You may
see the native salmon, too, many as leaves
in the forest, and wonder why Nature
created so valueless a fish in such abundance.
With a very slight turn of the hand she
might have given every man on the continent
a fish for dinner. But perhaps man is not
her sole care. She may have other children
to consider.
* * * •
And here is a wonder of the sea. Some-
times the water is crystal clear, and the
salmon lie near the surface. At rare inter-
vals, slanting on a wave; they catch the sun
and flash out like a wall of silver. They
move together as sheep do. But—hush, and
listen ! —these sheep have preposterous shep-
herds. There to seaward of the shoal is one
of them, heading back the breakaways, and
there to shoreward is another moving up and
down between the fish and the sand; and
yonder at the rear is a third, swimming to
and fro and rounding up the stragglers. It
is the old story of the shepherd and the
sheep repeated, only in this case—open your
eyes and wonder !—the shepherd is the
Shark. And it is very strange that the
salmon obey the shark just as sheep obey
the man. Indeed, the fish is very docile and
does not fear the shark half so much as the
sheep fears the shepherd. The shark moves
about among the salmon and they hardly leave
his path, perhaps because they recognise that
he is there to rule and keep them together. It
is only when a sick fish falls out and floun-
ders that the shark takes his wages. Other-
wise the shoal goes unharmed, shifting on
from pasture to pasture like travelling stock.
Now and again, however, disaster befalls it.
That is when porpoises, like wild dogs, burst
upon the fish, sending them all ways in con-
fusion. Then the shark loses his likeness to
the shepherd, and rends his charge till the
sea reddens. But this is only a moment’s
savagery that disappears with the disturber,
and the shepherd goes up and down the
sea driving in his silver sheep till once
again they are a compact shoal.
• • • •
We went down to the beach to see if any
salmon had come in with the tide. Sure
enough they were there in the second roller,
lying layer over layer without a move of fin
or tail. The western sun sent its rays in
among them like so many gold fingers, and
where one lit upon a silver side there was a
sudden glitter that almost pained the eyes—
it was so brilliant. But of the drovers of
the deep we saw nothing, that being a sight
vouchsafed only to the watchers of the coast
who keep a ceaseless vigil by the sea.
RODERIC QUINN.
THE SKY-SHIP.
In the soft wind that blows,
Yon cloud-ship of the sky
Spreads a white sail and throws
A shadow where I lie.
And with my dream is blent
A breath of spice and gums
Out of the Orient,
Betraying whence she cornea.
Unto a land remote
To fill its rich bazaars
Sails this Arabian boat
Amid the island stars,
And in yon harbor calm
Of Heaven’s ocean blue,
Empties her freight of balm—
The twilight’s fragrant dew !
F. D. Sherman.
“PatO.” : 1 protest against encouraging your fellOw-
countryuien to go to London (have you not encouraged
Becke and others ?). Why not keep a band of your young
men with souls above eating and drinking, like Old Ire-
land had one time ! They will live somehow, and they
have plenty of work to do if they would only speak
through the ear of the soul. Australia has wrongs to be
righted ; there are the malign-strong to be cheeked T’m
a n l- a n„rr tr -T man ° f ' VOU, ' s ' but I cr fe y ont, loud and long
against the strong-swift horse and the strong-souled man
leaving this country while I am here.
UNDER HER BALCONY.
Up, slender vine, your love is mine;
I watch you as you go.
A lyric budding line on line
With blossom-rhymes a-row!
Up, up, until her window-sill,
Like Heaven’s gate in sight
Makes all your heart with hope to fill
And bloom with its delight.
And when her eyes’ soft twilight lies
Upon you nestled there,
When all about you is surprise
And all below, despair,
Then to my Sweet, my love repeat;
Yield her one perfect bloom,
Which, though it perish at her feet,
May, ghostlike, haunt her room.
But if her mind and heart be kind,
And grant you gracious rest,
And for this gift a pillow find,
And fold it to her breast . . .
Up, up ! I burn my fate to learn
From her who waits above ;
Let but a leaf to earth return
Her answer and her love !
F. D. SHERMAN.


sKEEVir
A pleasantly perfumed preparation which
absolutely prevents the bites of Mosquitofl,
Ticks and other venomous pests.
It also cures prickly heat.
In 1J oz. bottles suitable for pocket, at
1/- and in 8 oz. stoppered bottles at 2/-
and 6 oz. 4/-.
Manufactured by
H. C. Stephens,
Aldersgate St., London.
Sold by Chemists & Stores & of
SYDNEY AGENTS :
John Sands, Printer and Stationer,
W. E. Smith „
Turner & Henderson „
W. 0. Penfold & 00. „
11‘Carron, Stewart & 00. „
W. Brooks & Co. ~
Newman & Snelson, Chemists,
374 George-st.
26 Bridge-st.
18 Hunter-st.
183 Pitt-st.
44 and 86 Pitt-st.
17 Castlereagh-st.
78 King-st.
XTSDE3
Spooler's
ROYALNAVY DRESSIK.C
It FOR
i BROWN LEATHER
:if - BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
| -T;;
DIP.EC I lONS FOR USE
fVfiiir.iiinUiiiiimiiiniuTnia
ROYAL NAVY
PRCSSINC,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning-and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
HOI to PRESERVE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. M AUNG’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
What is Health?
~f>heumatiam , Sciatica,
-*•*' - - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdrae-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTEHS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. Bs.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
f Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/- each. English lIAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPELS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
in". Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-CB2 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply Mouse.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best futility).
}
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER GENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Qeorge-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING and ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illug*
fcrated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d,
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO,,
Meltoourne.
BRUSH'S Celebrated Harness
S
are
of!::
l
Brush’s Pair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Made with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Pads,
complete—No. 1, £5 10s.; No. 2,
£6 10s. ; No. 3, £7 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s. ; No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.— A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2.—A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, £4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3.—A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.— The “ Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
We send Free or Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55/- up.
Cash with order or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies. Remittances can he sentby cheque or
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange. Extra 2dis.
allowed if you send this advt. with order.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Co.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 George-street, Sydney.
SIMMONS.
New Departure . Cash Trade Only.
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest COt Prices-
CRICKET LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &o. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-,
~ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9,
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle
~ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) ...
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
~ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod ... 9s 6d,
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod ... ' ...
~ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS. —Youths’ ss,
„ Men’s 6s, 7s 9d,
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 6s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CKICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d,
~ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s,
4/9,5/6
4/-, 4/6
lls 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
9s 6d
12s 6d
18s Od
5s 6d
i, 7s 6d
12s 6d
12s 6d
4s 6d
6s 6d
9s 6d
10s 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
20s Od
60s Od
BATS. —Oobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
~ feltham’s ditto -• 6s
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s
~ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 16s
~ Shaw & Shrewsbury/s ditto ... 6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lr/d’s Driver) 16s
~ Dark and Sons’ Potent Cork-cased Handle... 15s
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s
„ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s
BATTING GLOVES ... 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
~ Surrey Shields 6s
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s
BALLS.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s
~ W isden’s Match ... ... 3s 9d to 4s
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s
~ ~ Match, 5)40z., Is; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 6s 6d; Men’s, 8/3, 10/6,12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
a visit » irsss i ii e rpS 4 ’ PUBLI °
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
T>OOK OF NATURE
" —AND—
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
A complete exposition of the Science of Life. It contains in-
formation of the greatest importance to those contemplating marriage
as well as to those newly' married. It contains everything worth
knowing printed in other books, and an immense collection of facts
made known by recent investigations and discoveries. If you intend
to marry read this book. It will instruct you in all you ought to
know. Study this work and have it from Aristotle to the present day.
There are a great number of wonderful and extraordinary revelations
made in this book that only those seriously intending marriage
should be made acquainted with. Illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s. Write for a full description ; sent
■st free to any address.
OOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-
DATE BOOK LISTS POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for VOinu Men, hyt-v. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
F p IPINa Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
The Woman of Fire, post, 2s. Wedded, Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries of Coubt of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ’ post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Madam Bovary, or Loved to the Last, post 2s.
A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, ilkis., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French, 422 pages. Full-page illustrations by
Gustave Lore. 3s. The Vampire, Is. 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Gay Clorinde, Is 6d.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
Comic Reciter, Is 6d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB. BOBEBT BEAB,
Clieap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
888 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Mti'A
Our Suit to Order at 42- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3/-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12,0. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15/9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 (i. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed,
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
SS GRAPHOPHONE.
50/-
Hi
LBjE
SR£
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
50s. up.
THE “ ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives for Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Graphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d. Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
D.S.MAIR
°p
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
FREDCHS’
The Reform Price
-%.Jewellers-%.
Watches Clecmed and Regulated, 2/6
Best English Mainspring - - - %! 6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jetvellery Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
FREINTCKC’S, 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
Cramps
i CQlic,
\ Colds,
\
Croup
Cough
Tooth-
ache,
V
Cuts,
Burns,
Bruises.
\
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'’PtoinKiUev
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OP
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
T*E T* M * F* R E*E*Y * O * Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
g\VIitKL!'S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.


TATTERSALL’S
•.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
In consequence of past complaints, and in order to protect
the interests of Clients, “ Tatter sail ” will not in future
Voluntarily send Wires to Drawers of Likely Starters.
“ Tatter sail ” also declines to communicate to Owners of
Horses on behalf of Drawers more than One-Fifth (1-sth) of
Prize in any Sweep. When, however, any such communication
is requested, it will be sent where practicable to the Secretary of
the Racing Club; but “ Tatter sail ” does not take any responsi-
bility on behalf of Clients in such matters.
“ TATTERS ALL.”
SPECIALS on Newcastle C. and Sydney C.
Each 25,000 Subscribers at 5.
Drawn on Morning of the Bace.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_— _ shares in the
Cup.
Name
Address
«£ s s
NEWCASTLE C. March 18.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
BALLARAT C. March 24.
50,000 Sulbscribera a<t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ * s
DONCASTER H
April 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name_
Address
SYDNEY C. April 3.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— —, shares in the above.
Name ;
Address
CANTERBURY PARK C. April 22.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me — shares in the above.
Name _
Address .
s
TATTERSALLS HAVE NOW OPENED THEIR
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
ON
CAULFIELD C. Ordinary ... 100,000 at 6
91 Special ... 100,000 at 5
MELBOURNE C 100,000 at 20
~ Ordinary ... 100,000 at 5
~ Special ... 100,000 at 5
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


i)C (aIaSS
of FaSbioi)
ANTHONY • tIORDERN'S
PORTFOLIO OF . • •
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-S9
IS NOW READY ’
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition „
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &c
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
\
\
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood Logs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
CEUKH
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
mmm
. . FOR SUMMER . .
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
S3T CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
jjauid graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King -st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
fiHty
CbEAB>
“Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness ami
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aur al
l Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
[comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
herous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Ciialmkrs, Ajrent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
" DOWRIDGE’S
AS I S UAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEOIIGE STREET, BRISBANE.
irMif i'wjiPii ?
B-rmJJIU :
III.M
GrO XO HBLXj-
lUOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Australia!) MMOal Pro( ,iXrt Society
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established w 1 v,, | ‘
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors •—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.Q., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head Office : 87 Fitt-atreet Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
BSW Send for Price List. "ISfe
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FACSIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
QjLi
Ha
/to
<IA4
hjUL\ ,
tt44
V^v
KOKO.
*yt\J
&
HAIR
Eradicates S;urf and Dan.
unique Testimonials prove
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, <
Stores &c. THE KOKO Mfl
;r.ff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and its
it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Coo’, & Invigorating, i'-, 26 & 4'6 sizes, of all Chemists,
RIC°PAS CO.. LTD.. 16. Marl's, LONDON, ENG.
c^s
2*
c/2
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
u- jjY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
VV LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by Quacks, and are nothing hut quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere Igo I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair. ’
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a "-ood opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
5S
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair. P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.VV. 20 9 97._
PRICE, per Bottle, 3s„ 45.,55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemist*.
E. HOLLAND
HA IR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
fHE
- Plum
PIO
THB
‘ Plum*
( i ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
H trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“ Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any ■part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
UNT.S.’W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
| Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’ Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us j our address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE. —Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements. .
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£8 18.6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Digger Dick.
We’ve pegged a claim for Digger Dick beyond the
gold-lead valley;
His final shaft we’ve sunk him, and he s resting
down below.
The river ripples near him, and the song-birds o’er
him rally,
Where the box-trees murmur music and the native
roses blow.
No coffin coops his body, and no vestments for
adorning,
His wash-dish forms his pillow and his tools lie
close at hand
So he’ll find his kit all ready on the resurrection
morning
When he goes to seek his spirit in the everlasting
land.
He was human, as we all are —so he had his little
failings;
He was not a saint in seeming, nor a hero in his
ways ;
But he fought life’s battle bravely, though his
strikes were mostly tailings,
And his hopes sprang fresh each morning with the
dawning of the days.
He had little scope for doing, but within his
sphere of being
He sought to help and comfort any brother-man
in need —
And I think that in the court to which his spirit
now is fleeing
They will judge him by his actions, and o’erlook
his want of creed.
On the terraces of heaven he will prospect, I’ve
been thinking,
As he did along the rivers of the earth in days of
old;
For of course it stands to reason they must keep
the picks a-clinking
Where they all wear crowns of glory and the
streets are paved with gold.
But I’ll wager the salvation of a lone and weary
hatter
If old Dick can journey earthward when he gets
his golden hat
That he’ll pound it in a mortar, and the golden
fragments scatter
Where some fossicker will strike them when he s
surfacing the flat.
N.S.W.
GEORGE POWICK BROWN.
Blanket Flat.
I’ve padded on the Murray
And the Murrumbidgee, too,
And wasn’t in a hurry
Round the stations that I knew.
I’ve padded in the ranges,
And I’ve perished on the plains,
And “ travelled ” minus “changes ”
In the country where it rains ;
But I’ve killed the trait nomadic
That within my brain had sat,
And I’m ploughing stumpy paddocks
For a man at Blanket Flat.
He hasn’t education,
And he isn’t very young,
And he “ gives away ” his nation
By the burr upon his tongue ;
The burgoo set for breakfast
And the pictures round the place
Will spur the mind to make fast
Calculations of his race.
He’s cautious and he’s canny,
And he’s rather proud of that ;
Has the finest land of any
On the whole of Blanket Flat.
Gee, Punch ! you lazy cow—there,
That’s another blessed root;
If I lose another ploughshare
I’ll most surely get the “ shoot.”
Well, there’s only one thing for it—
Hook on, Gip, and pull it back—
Hang ploughing ! —I abhor it,
But it’s better than the track.
And ’Liza —well, I love her,
Though she is so round and fat;
There’s none I prize above her
On the whole of Blanket Flat.
Way, woh ! that’s Sandy calling out.
“ Come in till dinner, iad.
What mak’s your furrys fall aboot?
You’re plooing awfu’ bad ;
And, losh, mon, where’s your plooshare '!
You’re a carfu’ falley, hoot !
Anither costly new ’share ; losh !
Could ye no mind the root ?
Now just ye talc’ a warning ”
How my spirit falls at that,
For clinging lips this morning
Gave a charm to Blanket Flat.
Old Sandy’s aye complaining
In a burr that bites the ear,
He’s growling when it’s raining,
And he’s girding when it’s clear ;
The erops are good - he’s groaning
That the price of grain will fall ;
The season’s bad—he's moaning
That he has no crop at all.
I little reck his reaping
Whether scanty, scarce, or fat,
A stronger reason’s keeping
Me a slave at Blanket Flat.
I never mind the ending,
Though I know it’s coming near ;
While love has leave for spending
Let enjoyment banish fear.
For willing lips are winning
And are worth a lot of pain—
If sorrow waits the sinning—
Be it so, I’ll sin again !
But time defer the morrow
(For I’m sore afraid of that)
When I’ll “ pad the hoof ” in sorrow
From a job at Blanket Flat.
Yic.
BEN SUN.


BAKING
POWDER.
m
.
gfesßSißfls
Washington H.Soul & C°, Pitt St, Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
PadLxxlesa Dentistry,
THE ....
London Dental
Institute,
Dr. P. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASH KK, Dentists.
fW~ Modern Dentistry in alt its Branches
Tjcyit/hn atei'y Bractised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
ow difficult, with or without the extraction? of roots,
.id without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
ouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
> , r LY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
' and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOO'IH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Lll.'.'
ISTILLtH
OMPAN
UMTS:
#*' P"!C!!R
(Mr®,
Trade
Mark
We Distillers Company IT
P" EDINBURGH. ,«M
KfeV'"”'"''".. PjA AtW'Wll]
vfcl ““i ■•'■"■■'*r'"fr? L
h - (*"'•'i'flj r i,.c ra t >nujin^
ft./ h
loisrately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
voucanget. “D.C.L.”
•icotch is the best. One
-jlass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.’
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE— Latest Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
ETDISON ELECTRIC PARLOR.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
TIIK Talkiog HacbiO? Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from i 7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
R E
The Australian (Didoes’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
. Established 1871.
I Hlb , ? ( ->CIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, Is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
tt of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood,
it. A l aid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.G.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 - Prospectus - ] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Wliat Folks say about
psß
[COPT.)
“Springfield,” Beecroft,
April 5, 1898.
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD.,
24-26 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs.—The roll of Ruberoid Roofing which you supplied me at Wahroonga has
proved satisfactory for poultry houses. Will you please send another roll, for which I
enclose cheque for £2.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) J. HULL.
-FOR SALE BY-
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Limited, Agents, Eliza-
beth-st., Melbourne, Victoria.
A. VV. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross & Jack, Agents, Hunter-st., Wellington, N,Z.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Phbrson, Limited, Townsville, North Queens-
land.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
and Brisbane, Queensland.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to he a Perfect Table Water.”
TATTEKSAEL’S HOTEL
I • .
■:.£
■
t. .:•••.
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF
10s. per Day.
. J. ADAMS, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
yankee goodie
IN AMERICA.
The Legend.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
general, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Payette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Payette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused
them. Marching with drum and life
was an old man, Jeremiah Wynton, and
his son, and grandson. The old father,
with silvery flowing locks, sturdily strode
through the field. The son with ban-
daged head fifing lustily, the youth,
catching the. spirit of his grandsire, rolled
out with him the soul-inspiring rattle of
the drum. Father, son, and grandson
had accompanied the troops as volunteers,
and were ever in the forefront of the
fight. The fierce light of battle was in
their eyes, they knew no fear, and many
a yvild cheer arose, as on that fateful
day Yankee Doodle was heard as never
was heard before or since.
Tobacco Manufacture
in
New South Wales.
Statistics:
RETURNS show
that during- 1898, over
60 Tons more of DIXSON’S
Tobacco were sold than that of
any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf.
DIXSON’S used in manufac-
ture Qver 149 Tons more than
all the other Tobacco factories.
DIXSON’S Brands are—
Yankee Doodle (Dark and
Bright Aromatic).
Champion (Bright).
Conqueror (Dark).
bonanza cigars.
Machine-made; contain the
•choicest Tobacco, and are
placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 995.
SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1899.
Price 6d.
POLICE ITEMS ARE ALWAYS HUMOROUS.
Here is an extract from report of the dog-fight at La Perouse, from
a Sydney evening paper“ Senior-constables Bruce and M‘Donald, of
Botany, in plain clothes, appeared, and, with drawn revolvers, at once
made for the principals.”
London, Saturday,—The operation performed by Dr. Mazzoni upon the
Pope seems to have been entirely successful.
His Holiness has so far recovered that he is able to write epigrams chaffing
his physicians.
If the Pope is going to turn humorist and write for the comic pagers, it
had been better, far better but no matter !
'Map of New South Wales, show- '■
ing Suggested sites for the Federal_
Capital..
100 miles radius,
i • \ v * f
The “ Old Colonial Party ” has 'begun the Anti-
Federal campaign in earnest. Its press organs have
been told off to gather the views of the tailors.
N.S.W. : “ Three cheers for Lord Hampden ! Hip-hip-hip”
Rev. Caleb Killjoy : “ I say, you know, I can’t have that I This is the
Saw bath ! ”
N.S.W.: “But I must give vent to my feelings somehow.”
Rev. Caleb : “ Well, then, take up a collection —or start a fund ! ”
While .G. Republican Dibbs has undertaken to
“ nobble ” the cabman. Hear what he said art the .Anti-
Federal meeting on Monday last: “A large number of
people had already come forward to help. The matter
concerned everyone, down to the very cabman in the
streets. If the Federal capital was not in Sydney they i
would not be wanted here.”
THE MIXTURE AS BEFORE.


The Bulletin
The- National Australian Newspaper.
<* Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 £
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Slack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut offi.ee, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — it. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria , S. Australia,
West.ralia and Hlaoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, icith 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscripts .*
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—nou-
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
77ie strfZe&7i.
SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1899.
The Globular-Parallelogram Party.
The loud remnant of the old anti-Billious
clan has broken out afresh in New South
W ales, but mainly in Sydney, and is strug-
gling with all its might in the same old cause
of Disunion-at-any-Price. It is an amusing
set of small bigots, with little sense, and no
logic, and a stentorian bray. Every member
of it declares himself a pure Federationist,
on certain impossible conditions, and, if the
party only gets all its impossible conditions,
its enthusiasm will be simply unlimited. It
is anxious to federate above all things, pro-
vided that certain matters are done which
never can be done, either here or hereafter ;
and if arrangements are made so that a man
can be in two places at once, and an irresist-
able force can run against an immovable
object without anything unusual happening,
and there is a square circle and a globular
parallelogram, and boiling icebergs become
quite,common, and a few other things, it is
prepared to back up the cause of Australian
nationhood for all it is worth. And when it
is called an anti-Federal party it is very
angry indeed. The square circle and globular
parallelogram party wants Federation as
much as anybody—with proper precautions.
The principal precautions are that seventeen
miles shall be 2s. 6d., and that a £l-note
shall have four legs and a rich tenor voice.
• * * *
The chief complaint against the old
Federal Bill was that it contained a “ cast-
iron Constitution.” The cast-iron Constitu-
tion, and the want of any proviso for alter-
ing the same at the desire of the majority,
were grievances which filled New South
Wales with rage and howl and bitterness. It
was also complained that there was no stipu-
lation that the capital should be in New
South Wales. The Premiers’ Conference
agreed to put the capital in New South
Wales, and made the Constitution rather
easier of amendment. But now the air is
filled with the plaint that the concession as
regards the capital is nil because there is
nothing to prevent the other States carrying
an amendment to the Constitution later on to
shift the capital out of New South Wales again.
The globular parallelogram party wants a
Constitution which can be easily altered at the
desire of the majority. And it also wants a
Constitution which can’t be altered by any
possibility, or at any price, by the biggest
majority in Australasia—if the alteration is
one which its little cult doesn’t ap-
prove of. At the same time, it says that
the provisions for altering the Constitution
are insufficient as well as excessive—that a
simple majority of the people of Australia
should decide. It says, also, that the great
danger is that the Federal Parliament, after
holding its first meetings in Melbourne, may
refuse to select any capital in New South
Wales at all, and simply settle down at Mel-
bourne indefinitely, the reason assigned
being that a majority of the people—the
populations of Victoria, Tasmania, South
Australia, and Westralia—all favor that city.
The party with the square circle and the
seven Sundays in the month demands that a
bare majority should have power to alter at
its sole pleasure the compact under which
the provinces entered the Commonwealth.
And the shadowy fear that a bare majority
may alter the compact in this particular
respect is so sliuddersome that the red-hot
snowball party wants New South Wales to
stand out altogether.
* * * *
Also, the crowd which demands that ice
shall grow on matches, and that all triangles
shall be round-square, says that the capital
must be fixed at Sydney, and that New
South Wales must have larger powers over
“ its own ” rivers. It has already set forth
that the proposed Constitution is so easily
altered by the base conspirators of the other
provinces that these concessions would be of
no value—they could simply be taken back
again. And it has also proved that the Con-
stitution can’t be altered nearly so easily as
it should be. The same upside-down mob,
with its hat on its feet, while it wants the
majority to decide in matters relating to the
alteration of the Constitution—except in
alterations which it, the said inverted mob,
personally objects to—refused to let the New
South Wales majority decide on the accept-
ance of the Constitution last June. The
majority accepted it, and Parliament peace-
fully disqualified the majority. And it is
now getting up a petition requesting Parlia-
ment to reject the Bill altogether, and not
let the majority have any say in the matter
at all. And it is already starting an agitation
with a view to providing that, should Federa-
tion be accomplished, the present New South
Wales Premier will be entrusted by the
Governor with the formation of the first
Federal Ministry and be boss thereof, whether
the majority wants him or not. But, all the
same, the right of the majority to rule is a
thing which the anti-Billious crowd insists
on tremendously.
• * * *
Also the Haynes and Heydon and Jaw-
bone Neild push—the gang which won’t be
satisfied unless it can get far enough round
to bite its own ear—has got another griev-
ance. It would be unfair, it holds, simply
to put to the electors the question : “Are
you in favor of the new Bill or not ?” Such
a proceeding, it says, might induce many
people to vote “Yes” when they didn’t
really mean to. So it desires to confuse the
issue by putting three questions at the next
Federal referendum : (1) “ Are you in
favor of this Bill?” (2) “Are you in
favor of a Bill containing all the amend-
ments submitted by the New South
Wales Parliament ? ” (3) “Are you against
both ? ” This is very different from the
way the same party put the matter to
the people last year. On 3rd June the
people were asked to say : “ Are you for or
against the old Bill ? ” and the people
accepted it by over 5000 majority, which
majority Parliament disqualified. Then at
the general election the New South Wales
community was asked : “Are you in favor
of Freetrade, plenty of borrowed money, a
reformed Upper House, George Reid, and
this list of Federal amendments ; or will you
simply say you are against these Federal
amendments without any chance to say
whether you want a different lot, or whether
you are against Federation, or where or
what you are ? ” The country responded by
leaving the direct Reid party with its amend-
ments in a miserable minority, but, by the aid
of the Labor members, Reid just managed to
carry on. And now, in its anxiety to give
the province an opportunity to fully state its
views the Haynes and Holman crowd
desires to put the Federal question for the
third time in these terms : (1) “ Do you want
any Bill at all?” (2) “Do you want this amend-
ed Bill ? ” (3) “Do you want the amended
Bill suggested by the N.S. Wales Parlia-
ment, which wasn’t the amended Bill that
Premier Reid put before youatthe election ? ”
(Memo. : If you want the old Bill, which
you accepted by a 5000-majority last year,
you aren’t allowed to say so. If you want
some kind of Bill quite unlike either of them
you aren’t allowed to say so either). This
anxiety to split the pro-Federal vote in two
under the fraudulent pretence of giving the
people a fuller opportunity to state their
views is very touching indeed.
• • * •
The anti-Billious league, in the wild mani-
festo wherein it demands that two quarts of
beer shall go simultaneously into one pint-
pot, insists most emphatically that the capi-
tal shall not, under any circumstances, be at
Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, or Mel-
bourne, or in any of the provinces there-
unto attached, and it curses something
terrible in paragraph V . of its manifesto
about the “undeserved stigma” cast upon
Sydney by the stipulation of the other pro-
vinces that the capital shall not be there
either. As a concern which started by cast-
ing exactly the same stigma not only on all
the other capitals but also on all the other
provinces, the anti-Billious push should at
least be an authority on stigmas. And the
anti-Billious O. G. Heydon writes pointing
out that there are really fears that New
South Wales will be “outvoted” in the
Federal Parliament; Heydon wants the
majority to rule, and is afraid at the same
time that the 1,300,000 people of New South
Wales won’t have as many votes as 2,000,000
in the other five States. And in general
the anti-Billious party is dead sure of
one thing —it enters on its head with
a deafening footmark to take its solemn
oath thereto quite unanimously ; The
80,000 minimum at last Referendum (the
minimum which the anti-Billious party fought
like a cataract of tigers to get inserted) was
a mistake. It kept the anti-Billious multi-
tude from voting because they knew the
Billious crowd couldn’t get the required
80,000 ; therefore the anti-Billious patriots
stayed at home. If it hadn’t been for the
80,000 minimum, which the anti-Billious
men fought so desperately to get, there
would have been a great anti-Billious majo-
rity. This time, there seems no chance of
getting an 80,00# minimum ; it will ap-
parently be just that square fight which the
anti-Billious said they wanted so badly last
time, and which they dodged so carefully.
And instead of rising up with their great
alleged majority, they are imploring Parlia-
ment not to let the people vote at all—to
throw the measure out bodily and smother
the national referendum, which, in theory,
they mostly say is a thing they especially
approve of.
* * * *
Above all things, the parish-pump gang is
very grieved about the ingratitude of the
other provinces in view of the fact that New
South Wales is making greater “ sacrifices ”
for the Federal cause than any of them. As
the present agreement stands, each province
keeps its own lands, railways, and public
debt. They all pay the same taxes. Every
one gets back its own surplus. Every one
takes the same risk of having its fiscal policy
reversed by the Federal Government. New
South Wales doesn’t propose to help the
other provinces with money or credit, or to
take any of their. burdens, or do anything
more than the other provinces do. But it
claims to own the capital; to get all the
trade of the capital; to have sole possession
of the only great river system in Australia,
though half its waters come from Queensland
and Victoria ; and it begins to talk of its
right to own the first Federal Premier. And
the anti-Billite mob, in addition to all these
things, is simply broken up at the ingrati-
tude of the other provinces in not recognis-
ing the extraordinary “sacrifices” of their
province. Altogether, the anti-Billious are
a weird crow’d, and their wobblings are
strange to contemplate.
The Land-Tax Superstition.
An article headed “ The Land-tax Supersti-
tion,” in The Bulletin of 14th Jan., has
roused about three dozen Single-taxers to reply
in various phases of indignation. The follow-
ing from Mr. J. E.. Phillips, of Auckland
(M.L.) puts the Single-taxers’ case about as well
as any of them :
The contention is that the land of a State belongs by
right to all the inhabitants of that State—the Socialist
says in equal proportion. If, therefore, the land belongs
by right to the whole community, is it not common jus-
tice for anyone who has the exclusive use of any piece to
pay to the rightful owners (the whole 00011110011}') a fair
rent for the use of the said land ?
“ The land-tax should not be an end, but a means to an
end.” Quite right. The land-tax should be a means to
an end, but it will be necessary to keep it in force till the
crack of doom, for, remove the tax, and the end or object
attained would immediately vanish. The primary and
whole object—the Alpha and Omega—of the land-taxis
the abolishment of land monopoly, which, in our opinion,
is at the root of most of the evils of our present-day social
system, and this, we believe, would consistently follow
the gradual increase of the land-tax, for, if all improve-
ments were exempted from taxation and bare land were
more heavily taxed, the speculative value would be a
thing of the past, and it would not pay a land-owner,
large or small, to keep land out of use and pay the tax
thereon ; he would therefore either cultivate the land him-
self, and thus employ labor, or he would sell it to others
and let them cultivate it.
We have often been told that bald statement is not
argument, and this we certainly consider applies to the
following statement in yours under review : “ The land-
tax is only a cumbrous, most difficult, and expensive
means of raising revenue,” and against this we emphati-
cally state, and will proceed to prove, that it is a simple,
easy, and cheap means of raising revenue compared with
the present complicated and many-armed method. The
idea in land-tax is ultimately to'abolish not only Customs
duties, but every other means of raising revenue both
local and colonial, which include customs duties, income-
tax, general city rates, charitable-aid rate, library rate,
all stamp duties, road board rates, water, harbor board,
etc., etc. —that is, simplify matters as much as possible ;
the struggle for existence is quite hard enough without
burdening a fellow with numerous unnecessary loads.
Although you take great exception to land-tax on
account of, as you say, the difficulty and expense of
raising it, you do not give us any idea of what you pro-
pose in place of it which will not be difficult and expen-
sive. So far as we can see, its greatest charm lies in its
great simplicity. Here in M.L. we have land-tax, income-
tax, and God knows what other taxes, and how the col-
lection of one of these taxes, not a new tax but simply
one out of the many now raised, is going to be more diffi-
cult and expensive than raising all the lot, is something
which we have yet to learn.
* • * »
We think you are very wide of the mark when you say
that the land-tax has no great advantage in the way of
furnishing work for the people, and you later on quite
contradict this hy saying that “ it may compel the big
landlord whose land is lying idle to hire a lot of men at
low (?) wages to cultivate it for 14 hours (?) a day.” As
the land-tax was gradually increased (at the rate of, say,
one penny in every five years until such time as the
revenue from this tax ;lone would cover the total ex-
penditure of the colony, both local and colonial), land-
-wners would either decide to cut up and sell their lands
or put on men for the purpose of cultivating the land and
increasing their income therefrom, the result in the
former case would be that land would come down in
price considerably— that is, it would lose its present in-
flated speculative value, and reach a fair usable value.
This would induce numerous employes to become owners,
and, in the latter case, the demand for labor would be so
great that it would be impossible to procure men to
“ work at low wages for 14 hours a day.”
One would imagine from your article that the farmers
are the only people who would pay land-tax, whereas it
is the city and suburban land-owners who would pay the
bulk of the tax. To prove this, take an example here in
Auckland (M.L.). : The land on which the Bank of New
South Wales stands in Queen-street was valued a few
months ago for taxation purposes; the assessment was
disputed and brought before the S.M. for his decision.
After hearing a large amount of expert evidence, he de
cided that the unimproved value of the block, which
measures 39ft. front to Queen-street by 94ft. deep, was
£6320. That is at the rate of £73,733 per acre, therefore
one acre in the main street of Auckland would pay as
much in taxation as a whole county away back—the
taxation, of course, being on value, not area.
Be your closing remark, “if coupled with Freetrade it
would be merely taxing our own potatoes while the
foreigners’ came in free, and it would tend to starve the
potato-grower out of employment.” Now, let us see if
this will stand the search-light. The land round Auck-
land, which produces most of the potatoes, is valued for
taxation at an average of, say, £l2 per acre—that is, un-
improved value. The land-tax on this, at, say, 4d. in the
£, would amount to 4s. per acre per annum. This land
grows on an average, say, eight tons potatoes per acre;
that means the farmer would pay, what you are pleased
to call an excise-duty of 6d. per ton, while the imported
potatoes would have to pay freight of from 10s. to 20s.
per ton. And why cannot our own potato-growers produce
tubers at the same low price as our neighbours?
* * * *
The regrettable feature of the above, and all
the other letters, is that so much space is
devoted to proving that this paper was wrong in
saying the thing it never said at all. The land
should be the property of the people; there-
fore, The Bulletin proposed that every man
who only owns his fair share should escape
taxation, and the man who owns more than his
share should be -so heavily taxed on the sur-
plus that it will pay him to cut up the surplus
and sell it to small owners. In this way the
small holding which is free of tax will have a
value ; the large estate won’t, till it is cut up
into small holdings. It never suggested, or
dreamed of suggesting, that the land-tax should
not be kept in force till the crack of doom, or
hinted at its removal. Of course, a land-tax
which was specially designed to crush out the
man who owns more than his share would yield
less and less revenue as that man was crushed
out, but no such idea as the removal of the
land-tax was mentioned. The Bulletin never
said that the raising of land-tax alone was
more expensive than the raising of a dozen
different taxes ; it simply said the land-tax was
an expensive mode of taxation (especially as
compared with customs duties), and it certainly
is. The perpetual cost of valuation and re-
valuation makes it so. It didn’t say that the
land-tax had ho great advantages in the way of
furnishing work ; it said that the land-tax,
after it had achieved its object in breaking up the
big estates, had no great advantage in this re-
spect.
♦ * * *
Also, by the way, the “city and suburban
landowners ” wouldn't pay the bulk of the tax,
because, despite the solitary example of the
B.N.S.W.’s Auckland block, they don’t repre-
sent half, nor a quarter, the land-values of the
country. (In Maoriland, according to the
Official Year-Book for ’9B, page 221, country
lands, <£58,000,000 ; town lands, £18,000,000
and the patronising single-tax gentleman never
took the trouble to learn this small fact !) And
if all the taxation was put on the unimproved
value of land, the Auckland spud-grower
would have to pay, not 4d., but fully Is. in the
<£—equal to 125., not 45., per acre. Maoriland
doesn’t average eight but tons of potatoes per
acre, while Australasia in general averages less
than four tons, making the excise duty 3s. in-
stead of 6d. per ton. And the local man has
also to pay freight, for potatoes don’t grow in
Queen-street, Auckland, or Princes-street, Dune-
din ; often, because railway carriage is dearer
than sea carriage, he has to pay nearly as much
freight as the importer.
m m m m
* But the important features of the case are
these :
(1) The unimproved value of all Maoriland lands (pri-
vate and state-owned, occupied and vacant), according to
the latest valuation, was barely £76,000,000.
(2) If land is to bear all taxation, local and general,
Maoriland has to raise at present about £4,500,000 per
annum, railway revenue supplying the balance. There-
fore the land has to yield nearly six per cent, on its capi-
tal value. The private landlord only averages about five
per cent, out of it, so there will be no interest left to him.
It amounts to an absolute seizure and confiscation. Thb
Bulletin isn’t raising the slightest objection to the con-
fiscation ; it is merely trying to reason the thing out.
(3) It is utter drivel to say tha.t such a tax would make
the owner of unimproved land “either cultivate the land
himself or sell it to others and let them cultivate it.” He
eouldn’t sell it. When money is worth 5 per cent a tax
equal to 6 per cent, per annum of the capital value means
putting a mortgage of £l2O on every £lOO worth of soil.
When a man has £lOO worth of land with £l2O mortgage
on it he can’t sell it. Also the only reason why he
must cultivate it is to escape having it forfeited for un-
paid taxes—in fact, to escape losing it. But when it
won’t fetch a cent, because the tax absorbs its full value,
why should the owner of unimproved land—the man who
has no valuable improvements but only the utterly un-
saleable land to lose —care a straw whether he loses it or
not? If he wanted land at any other time he could rent
land quite as cheaply as he could go on owning his own
land. In fact, he can rent land from the State at 5 per
cent, of its capital value, which would be cheaper than
possessing his own land at 6 per cent.
* * * •
(4) Therefore the first result would probably be not so
much a great increase of cultivation as a wholesale aban-
donment of unimproved land to the State. The State might
let it all in course of time for as much as the land-tax,
but it would take time. The owner who had valuable
buildings on his land would doubtless stay and pay the
tax rather than lose his buildings. But the one who had
only land would throw it up as often as not. And it
must be remembered that the estimate that a tax of 6
per cent, per annum on the value of all lands would cover
outgoings is based @n the assumption that every avail-
able acre in Maoriland went into use immediately.
Allowing for temporarily vacant land, uncleared land,
land that is inaccessible for want of roads, and bad debts
(it would be impossible to sell the land to recover
arrears, for it would have no selling value over and above
the tax) it might easily require a 7 per cent, tax to cover
expenses. And what is the advantage of piling an ex-
cessive rack-rent on the producer so that the town-trader,
importer, banker, publican, pawnbroker, &c., may go
free, and grog may be untaxed ?
• * • •
And then the old, never-answered question
crops up again : Seeing the people, by their
elected rulers, sold the land originally, and
took the money for it, and the Single-tax cult
proposes to confiscate that land again (for
putting on a tax which swallows up every
penny of the selling value and leaves only the
waste-paper title is confiscation, whatever it
may be called) is it proposed that the people


should hand back the purchase money ? And,
if so, how is it to be raised ? Having sold
their birthright and spent the proceeds,
and now realising that it was wrong to
sell their birthright, should they undo
the wrong by taking back the land and
keeping the proceeds—or how ? Is it proposed to
compensate the M.L. Government Insurance
Department and the A.M.P. Society and simi-
lar institutions for the destruction of their land
mortgages, or are they to write the loss off
their policies—say .£3O or .£4O off every £lOO
policy? What is it proposed to do with the
B. N.Z. and other banks and all the building
societies ? Where an owner has mortgaged his
house and land (there are about 60,000 mort-
gages current in Maoriland) is it simply pro-
posed, the selling value of the land being
destroyed, to let the mortgagee get as level as
he can by seizing the house, or will that part of
the mortgage referring to the land be cancelled ?
The Bulletin doesn’t profess to say that these
people should be compensated at the cost of
very many millions, or that they shouldn’t. It
simply asks, as a matter of languid curiosity—
what the Single-tax cult proposes to do ? And
it never gets an answer.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Premier Reid’s Land Bank.
New South Wales, if things go well, is at
last to have the beginnings of a State Land
Bank. The Retd Government proposes to bor-
row £500,000 at 3J per cent, and lend it out at
4 per cent., in sums not exceeding ,£200, to
certain classes of settlers — holders of con-
ditional purchases, conditional leases, settle-
ment leases, homestead leases, and homestead
selections. The idea is an excellent one in its
own small way, and, though it is proposed as a
mere temporary expedient—a kind of Rail-
Painting Job —there is reason to hope that the
proposed small experiment may be the begin-
ning of a large and permanent institution. At
the same time, there is room for a good deal of
hard thinking about the details. For leasehold
properties and only partially-paid-for selec-
tions are not the best of security, and there
is hardly enough margin for expenses and
none for bad debts in the 10s. per cent, differ-
ence between the borrowing and lending rate
of interest. There was a splendid opportunity
just here for a courageous financier to get out of
the old rut and make a new departure, if only
the right financier had been at the helm.
The £500,000 could be raised without borrow-
ing in the ordinary fashion, without paying 3J
per cent., with no special effort, and without
the least injury to anyone. The currency of
N.S. W. includes .£1,278,000 of paper-money
issued by the banks, and the province’s note-
issue never sinks anywhere near .£1,000,000.
That is to say, there is always a million of
paper in circulation for which the public doesn’t
want gold, and doesn’t ask it. There is abso-
lutely no reason, therefore, why N.S. W.
shouldn’t absorb .£500,000 of State legal-tender-
notes without the slightest difficulty. They
would only cost the State 2 per cent. ; that is
to say, they would probably reduce the note-
circulation of the private banks by <£500,000,
and, as the private banks pay 2 per cent, tax
on their note-issue, the money would cost the
State that amount. Under these circumstances,
it could be lent out at 3J per cent, instead of 4,
and still leave three times larger a margin for
expenses, bad debts, and for the formation of
a reserve with which to take up the notes some
day in the dim future, than Premier Reid’s
scheme does. So long as the State is willing to
take its own legal-tender notes in payment of
taxes, there is no possibility of them depreciat-
ing in value, even if the issue is a good deal
larger than .£500,000. At present the situation
is this : There are over £1,000,000 of notes cir-
culating in N.S. W. against which no gold re-
serve is required, for that amount of notes
keeps constantly in circulation. The banks get
the loan of this .£1,000,000 or more at 2 per
cent.—and the State might as well have the
loan itself, instead of borrowing at 3| per cent.,
and then it could start its cheap money scheme
on a cheaper basis than any other cheap money
scheme up to date. Premier Reid, with over
a million lying at his door and crying to be
taken in at 2 per cent., is throwing away a
great opportunity. He could lend money more
cheaply than he proposes doing, and yet make
his land-bank a sound business institution. As
things are it is likely to be partly business and
largely charity and advertisement, for with
only about £2500 a year to cover working ex-
penses, bad debts, interest on money during the
casual periods between the time it is borrowed
and the time it is lent out, or between the time
it is repaid and the time it is lent out again,
there is hardly a chance that the institution
can get on without large assistance from the
Treasury. Neither Maoriland, Victoria, nor
S.A. ever attempted to run their State land-
banks on so narrow a margin.
♦
Policeman Dung'ey and His Mate Offer to
Compromise with the Law.
Last week’s record for the scandalous South
Melbourne Conspiracy Case is calculated to
shock even the hardest believers in the majesty
of Victoria’s criminal Law. On Monday, the
persistent lawyer (Dr. Evans) who desires to
drag policeman Dungey and his “ phizgig,”
Dora Bromley, to trial, sought a Supreme
Court warrant for their arrest. His applica-
tion to Justice Holroyd was based on the
palpable fact that magistrate Panton had put
obstacles in the way of bringing Dungey and
Bromley to book. Dr. Evans pointed out to
the Judge that Mr. Panton, P.M., had granted
four adjournments of the case for no conceivable
purpose, save the purposes of delay, vexation,
and expense to the prosecutor. Justice Hol-
royd said, in effect, that it wouldn’t be
respectable on his part to assume the possibility
of an attempt to burke justice on Mr. Panton’s
part, and he referred Dr. Evans back to the
police court for the coveted warrant. On
Wednesday the baffled barrister did go again
to the police-court, with the result that Mr.
r, 4NTON calmly adjourned the case for a further
fortnight, although the defendant side hadn’t
the impudence to ask for a longer adjournment
than 24 hours. Thereupon, on Friday, prose-
cutor’s grievance was brought back to the
Supreme Court, and the whole disgusting story
was related to Judge Hodges. Judge Hodges
heard how Judge Holroyd had refused to
believe Magistrate Panton capable of blocking
the case, and how Mr. Panton had subsequently
blocked it more determinedly than ever, but
nevertheless Judge Hodges was content to let
the scandal go on stinking. Said he—“ I
am not prepared to say the magistrate
was wrong in adjourning your application ;
although it certainly looks as if he is not
in a hurry. You want me to issue a
warrant while the matter is still proceeding
O'.e., being blocked.— Ed. B.] in the lower
court; I must refuse the application.” By this
time, though, the Crown was beginning to feel
that the game of bluff on behalf of Dungey
and his nasty accomplice could not be continued
for ever. It was necessary to make a show of
fair dealing lest the sluggish Melbourne public
should be moved to utter a howl of indignation.
So the solicitors for Dungey and Bromley pub-
lished a letter to the effect that Dungey and
Bromley will kindly “ undertake, on receipt
of one week’s written notice, to attend and
plead to any indictment that may be filed
against them at the forthcoming sittings of the
Criminal Court.” Thus the matter stands at
time of writing. Two alleged criminals, sum-
moned by the Grand Jury to stand their trial
for conspiracy, coolly state that they will obey
the summons if allowed to obey it in the par-
ticular way they have chosen. The majesty of
the Law is flouted, and the Crown looks on
with an approving eye.
♦
A Bishop on Light Literature.
The R.C. Bishop of Sale writes a specious
letter to Melb. Argus in defence of his recent
outcry against light literature. He starts off
with the story of how Lady Burton destroyed
the valuable MSS. of her late husband’s great
work, “ The Scented Garden,” on the ground
that its publication would do more harm to the
prurient-minded multitude than good to the
noble cause of science—which story has nothing
to do with light literature, anyhow. And the
Bishop is evidently unaware that another trans-
lation of “ The Scented Garden ” was put on
the market within a year, and, thanks to the
gorgeous advt. given by Lady Burton, was sold
in hundreds at a very high figure to people who
might never have dreamt of purchasing if the
sensational story of the burnt MSS. had not
whetted their curiosity. Bishop Corbett,
who is evidently a novel-reader himself, goes
on to attack the simple Truth as it is told by
Thackeray. “There is not,” he says, “a
generous or unselfish character in Thackeray’s
novel who is not almost a simpleton, at least in
those things in which this generosity is dis-
played ” —poor Colonel Newcome ! “ The
direct tendency of the writings of Thackeray
is to create a painful scepticism, if not an utter
disbelief, in the existence of genuine virtue
among men. No man is more successful
in denouncing vice and laying bare its
turpitude. But while he does so he ex-
hibits it as universal, and by a natural
inference, unavoidable,” &c., &c. Thackeray
was worldly in his conception of his least
unvirtuous characters, because he stuck to
the Truth that was in him, but how does
Bishop Corbett’s estimation of those characters
pan out ? The ecclesiastical critic denounces
them as fools in their generous, unselfish ac-
tions. Thackeray’s idea of virtue in a man
is the Bishop’s idea of stupidity, so again the
question arises—what is virtue ? As for
Thackeray’s women, they, in many cases,
said their prayers every night and read their
Bibles regularly, so Bishop Corbett can’t be re-
ferring to them when he writes—“ The Catholic
faith teaches us that we are unable to form a
good thought, much less perform a meritorious
work, without the grace of God. What wonder
then that the heroes and heroines of fiction, writ-
ten by those who disbelieve all this, should be
represented as the sport of passion which they
are unable to resist, helpless victims of fate,
driven to their own ruin and degradation ? The
entire system of morality with these writers is
like an arch without a keystone ; the one great
essential is wanting, the Divine aid, and the
motives adequate to meet and control the in-
fluence of passion.” Novelists, it seems, are
necessarily disbelievers in “all this,” because
Bishop Corbett believes they are, or thinks he
believes so. Every novelist is driven to ruin
and degradation, like his heroes and heroines
before him, owing to his awful ignorance con-
cerning the origin of good thoughts. The
“ grace of God ” is a spiritual something that
can only be procured through the Divine aid of
churches, and the intellectual improvement of
the human race depends entirely upon profes-
sional religion, and Bishop Corbett knows all
about it.
Divorce in Maoriland.
The Queen’s tardy assent at last gives Maori-
land something dimly resembling a decent
Divorce Law. Under the new law either hus-
band or wife can get a divorce on the ground
of adultery ; formerly, the husband could get a
divorce for adultery, while the wife couldn’t.
Desertion for the ridiculously long space of five
years is also made a ground for divorce—the
more humane law in some provinces this side
makes the period three years. If the husband
has been a drunkard and has habitually been
cruel to, or neglected to support, his wife for
four years, or if the wife has been a drunkard
and frequently neglected to clean up the house
and empty the ash-bucket for the same period,
divorce may be granted ; and also if either
husband or wife has been sentenced to not less
than seven years for attempted murder of the
other. Even the greatly reformed new law
reckons that if the husband only gets five
years for the attempted butchery of his wife,
the sacred bond of matrimony must continue in
force. And it seems that a perfectly sober
husband who doesn’t commit adultery may
practise almost any kind of cruelty on his wife
for almost any period without the divorce law
taking any notice; drunkenness and cruelty
are recognised, but plain cruelty apparently
isn’t, and even the combined drunkenness and
cruelty must spread over four solid years of
battery before the statute will condescend to
cast its eye on the bruised applicant. Maori-
land has long possessed an inhuman and utterly
obsolete divorce law, and even its new law,
though an improvement on the old, is 10 years
behind the times.
Constructive Murder.
“ Danton ” to The Bulletin on “ Constructive
Murder ” :
It is infamous that technical murder, i.e., murder
which is only murder because of a legal fiction, should be
punished in the same way as actual murder.
The fact that a community tolerates the continuance of
such a juristic monstrosity is sufficient evidence of the
rawness of its conscience to explain its acceptance of the
much more subtle capital punishment fallacy.
Indeed, it may be seriously doubted whether the advo-
cates of the abolition of capital punishment will (until
they first stimulate the popular conscience to recognise
and remove the palpable wrong of hanging a man for
committing premeditated murder when he admittedly
doesn’t premeditate it) have any success in persuading it
to admit the less apparent wrong of removing from the
world a man who intentionally removes another man from
it.
Whenever a brutal murderer is to be brutally dealt
with by the State, a constant agitation proceeds with the
object "of saving the State from degrading itself. This is
quite proper. But it is not proper that a much more sus-
tained agitation is not kept up, that much more enthusi-
asm is not on tap, that much more potent methods of in-
fluencing public opinion and bringing the blush of shame
to the public cheek are not employed by the same agi-
tators when a constructive crime threatens a man with a
real scaffold. If we are - to have the hangman still, if we
can’t be happy without him, let us have a constructive
hangman for constructive murder.
In a country where the lonely hut, and the lonely swag-
man, and the lonely bank-manager, and the lonely woman,
and the lonely Indian hawker dot in extremely sporadic
fashion the vastnesses, it will be extremely difficult to
demonstrate the absurdity of jerking people to Mahommbd
for murder and rape. But surely the Australian con-
science can, in small doses, digest the fact that if a burg-
lar escaping out of a second-storey window drops on and
kills accidentally a man in the street, he hasn’t really
committed a premeditated murder at all. And so with
the average abortionist, who, above all things, and for his
own sake, desires that death should not result from his
treatment.
They appear to do these things better in England. For
as a result of the press and popular crusade against the
death sentence for constructive murder (as, for instance,
in the Lieut. Wark case), it may be said that no Home
Secretary who values the life of his cabinet will in the
future dare to carry out the sentence. The N.S.W.
Sheridan case smells very badly alongside the just cited
English Wark case. So much the worse for the quality
of the N.S.W. conscience.
Actual murder implies malice and a premeditation
which has to be strictly proved. So much is this the case,
that the most revolting homicides, if committed in the
heat of sudden passion, become manslaughter, for which
offence the convicted person escapps the death penalty.
Constructive murder, that is homicide committed unin-
tentionally while the accused is engaged in committing
certain crimes, by its very nature excludes the notion of
premeditation ; but the law, in one of its frequent bar-
baric freaks, presumes premeditation and inflicts a
penalty which it shrinks from inflicting in the most
brutal cases of intentional but sudden slaying.
The Yarra melo-tragedy affords an excellent oppor-
tunity, by reason of the almost absolute certainty of
final reprieve, and of the extraordinary public interest
in the case, of setting in motion such a crusade against
the continuance of the constructive murder theory in
Australian systems of criminal jurisprudence, that the
Capital Punishment Abolition people will be more than
failing in their duty if they don’t seize the occasion.
♦
Bush. Sarcasm.
Dear Bulletin. —l have not the luck to be a
“ big ” draper, a flourishing florist, or the very
eminent manager of a very first-class hotel,
therefore, I don’t want to hang up my little
Sabbath advt. on the Federal capital. lam
merely a bush person with no starch in his
collar, but, all the same, I am deeply concerned
at the awful things that will happen to eminent
ice-cream, banana, and pea-nut merchants if
the Federal Government is not lodged in the
centre of Sydney, and I wish to offer a few
unselfish suggestions for “ keeping the money
in the country ” —that is in Sydney :
1. That., for the future, none of the roads-and-bridges
vote shall be expended in the country, except upon the
main roads to Sydney.
2. That all country residents with money to spend shall
be granted a free pass to Sydney.
3. That all selectors, farmers, shearers, miners, and
other bush “mugs” in Sydney who have “done in”
their cheques be given a railway-pass and 24 hours’ notice
to clear out until they have gathered more cheques to
spend—in Sydney.
4. That any wool-grower or farmer found guilty of
swindling Sydney brokers by sending his produce to any
other city be sent for six months to Darlinghurst—in
Sydney.
5. That a heavy poll-tax be placed upon all commercial
travellers, except those representing eminent firms—in
Sydney.
6. That country stores be supplied only with bare
rations and the year-before-lasl.’s “ shipwrecked bar-
gains” of the “big” drapers. This will encourage
“ shopping in Sydney.
7. That all newspapers be heavily taxed—except those
published in Sydney. This will put a stop to the unfair
competition of country rags that snatch subscribers from
Sydney.
8. That all civil and criminal trials, land-board meet-
ings, elections, and other public shivoos by which bush
hotel-keepers profit largely be held in Sydney.
9. That it shall be made a punishable offence for any
circus, theatrical troupe, steam round-about, fly-by-
night auctioneer, or any other spieler to travel the bush,
taking the cash that would be otherwise spent in Sydney.
10. That a special Act be passed changing the name of
New South Wales to Sydney. This would settle the row
about the Federal capital not being in Sydney, and
satisfy the “ Sunday Snoozer.”
I have travelled up and down the rivers eliciting
opinions upon the Federal capital, but am sorry to say
that the one clearly-expressed opinion I gathered was,
“To hell with Sydney ! ” This ought to come under the
Treason Felony Act. —C.C.
P.S. —The cheque I get for this will be spent at Phah-
lert’s —in Sydney.
—‘ ♦
Maoriland Supreme Court has decided that
the State’s right to seize the Midland Railway
holds good against the debenture-holders, so,
presumably, the case will now go ’Ome and
take refuge in the serene atmosphere of the
Privy Council. It has been a hideous confusion
from the beginning. The Act provided that
the Midland Co. should build the railway in a
certain time, and receive certain liberal land
grants as it went along ; if the railway wasn’t
built in time, the State could take possession of
as much of it as there was and cancel the agree-
ment after certain formalities. It also provided
that the co. could borrow on debentures which
would be a first charge on its (the co’s) property.
The line was seized, the co. having broken
all its conditions, but the debenture-holders
claimed it on the ground that they had a first
charge on the co.’s property. The M.L. Go-
vernment replied that they had—but that the
line wasn’t the co.’s property unless the co.
fulfilled the conditions attached to the owner-
ship. So far the Government has won, though
the local Tory party solemnly warns it that it
is doing awful damage to Maoriland’s credit
in Hingland. But as the new loan has hint.
floated at a higher price than either Victoria or
b.A. realised for the same class of security,
Maoriland in general reckons that its credit is
getting along well enough.
“ Keelie ” on the coming Q. elections
r,/? e u r i? ULLKrm,—^our Leperland prophet (25/2/’99) is
not halt a prophet. Just listen to me. The Dickson
ovt. w ill not fall in the mud this election, hut will return
m!° IC tt an< down in history as the greatest Boodle-
g"g the unhappy country has ever seen. The M‘ll-
. Boodle-parly had at least courage; theirs was
. ' °rru trucu . enf, > piratical boodling of the Elizabethan
Hovootf?; 6 °° m,n £ wi ” t,e the foundation-sapping, all-
■ • i doodle , die w h'te ant, from whose insidious
Runvt, i? P arty chiefs have taken lessons. You say that
n,!!l'| P ? ,f an , d £ O, run British Papua. They also run
s“®® n f. land > ai jd Queensland will one day wake up and
n"”' 1 ; Bob Philp could have been Premier in place of
Dickson had it, suited his book, but it didn’t. J.R.D.,
with his absurd vanity, his platitudinous pomposity, and
his absolute incompetence, does very well for Premier.
He can t be expected to live for ever, and will be useful
latei as the man who is dead.” Meanwhile, he is as
clay in the hands of the astute B.P. party.
Pointers: Hoot,an, the apostate, who has done useful
work for the gang, has earned his oats, and having been
bowled out and kicked out by the Labor party, is being
run for Cairns, where no one can live without B.P.’s con-
vvork use^u * again for political surface dirty
Sim, late member for Carpentaria, by permission of
B.P. and Co., danced to his masters’ piping in connection
with the Cloncurry and Chillagoe private-railway ex-
ploitations. He now retires and takes a trip to Europe,
making room for the firm’s new nominee, Jimmy Forsyth,
brother-in-law of Bob Philp and local director of B.P. and
L»o. As artful as they make ’em.
a’ ?' C F AMPBRL,J > another brother-in-law of Bob Philp,
and J.F. aforesaid, is running strong for Moreton. Noted
for unbounded confidence in himself and unending blow
—a braggart ; but with strong white-ant proclivities.
J.r. and J.D.C., both probable Ministers, if they win
their seats, which seems likely at present.
A certain sharebroker, political, jackal and under-
ground-engineer to aforesaid B.P. party, is not going for
a seat- in the Leg. Assembly, but rumor provides him
with one in the Leg. Council, where his peculiar qualifi-
cations for harping redundantly on cooked statistics will
be useful. A splendid specimen of the white-ant family.
Bob Philp we all politically know —cunning as a fox,
treacherous as a cat, but a true termite.
Among the objects in the gang’s view are the Cloncurry
railway syndicate and mines exploitation, Chillagoe ditto
ditto, and the Bahron Falls power-monopoly grab.
Plenty more in the box, but these will do nicely to go on
with.
For February, 1899, Westralia lost 830 popula-
tion by excess of departures over arrivals. This
makes a loss of 6515, or about 4 per cent, of
the whole population, in five months. Westralia
is now the greatest gold-producing province in
the group—and the poorest. In the boom-days
the Forrest Govt, encouraged in every possible
way the selling of W.A. mines to English syn-
dicates—it called it “ introducing the blessings
of British capital.” Wlien a man found a big
gold-show he sold it in England, and then as
quickly as possible he left the dry, accursed
land with the proceeds. And by reason of- the
sale and the “introduction of British capital”
the metal that comes out of the mine goes to
England almost to the last copper. Hungry,
starving Westralia sees the procession of wealth
passing by, and is the biggest gold-producer in
Australasia, and has hardly a crust of its own.
The British capital for which it sold its mines
is gone, and the mines are gone, and W.A. is a
Gibeonite digging up its riches for other people.
The blessings of foreign capital always end like
that.
Mr. Colin M‘Kay Smith to The Bulletin :
Will you permit the “ litigious Colin M'Kay Smith ” a
few lines in reply to a paragraph which appeared in The
Bulletin of 18th ult. That the sale of Crown Lands is an
authorised act on the part of N.S.W. Government you will
not, of course, dispute. And were you to question the
propriety of the proceeds being appropriated in the lump
towards current revenue you would, I think, have a fairly
arguable case. But it is at the least a certainty that they
go into the public till of the colony, in other words, into
the “ Consolidated Revenue that they pro tanto lessen
the need to increase oiU-ide indebtedness; that they are
largely applied to make the land itself an accessible asset;
and that by lessening the need of alternative taxation
they indirectly increase the reserve of power which makes
for the security of the lender. Now, in the supposed case
of Federation we not only purpose inviting persons out-
side our boundaries to help us in directing the expendi-
ture of our moneys, but, save as regards such remnant as
may eventually fall to us after stoppintr leakages all over
island and continent, they do not come into ourtHl at all.
To me, at all events, the application of the term “ Con-
solidated Revenue of N.S. Wales” to moneys so collected
and expended appears extravagant, and I am unable to
see that it is greatly helped by your parallel case.
[Whereunto The Bulletin desires to re-
mark : (1) It does and always has questioned
the justice of using land-sale money as ordinary
revenue; (2) the land-sale money doesn’t lessen
the need to increase outside indebtedness.
There is no need at all to increase indebted-
ness—outside or inside. (2) The land-revenue
is not “ largely applied ” to make the land
accessible. The whole of the money spent
out of N.S.W. revenue last year on roads
(to make lands accessible) and on all other
public works was ,£597,000, and the
land - revenue was £1, 976,000. (4) When
N.S.W. issued the famous invitation to the
other provinces to come in and federate,
she was asking them to let people outside their
boundaries help them in directing the expendi-
ture of their money : in other words she asked
them to let her have in a hand in the spending
of their money ; (5) And there is nothing in the
contract about N.S.W. helping with her cash
to stop leakages all over Australia ; if the man-
ners of the anti-Bill crowd are any criterion,
N.S.W. is much more likely to get at some
other province’s cash and use it to stop her own
leakages.— Ed. B.j
A truly horrible story of cruelty to an adopted
child was lately told at Bulli (N.S. W.) court.
It included frequent beating, leaving the
youngster (aged less than three years) practi-
cally naked and unwashed for days, locking it
up in a dark, empty house for periods varying
from one to six hours, rubbing its face in filth,
driving a needle many times into its body,
leaving it covered with vermin, and other
horrors. The defendants, Elizabeth Capon
and her husband, made no defence. Man fined
<£lo or one month—he would have got anything
from three months to two years for stealing
20s. worth of goods. Alleged woman—the
member of the firm who drove the needle into
the child “ many times ” —fined £5, but no
alternative imprisonment, and, as there were
no goods to levy on, the fine remains unpaid,
so the she-horror practically escapes punish-
ment altogether. The Bulletin is firmly con-
vinced that the average Australian beak has an
innate sympathy for cruelty; his invariable
anxiety to let off the most revolting kind of
ruffian with merely nominal punishment can’t
be accounted for on any other grounds.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £63,826,927
Increase in Assets during 1898 ... ... ... ... 4,477,706
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 11,918,862
Increase in Surplus during 1898 ... ... ... ... 1,409,857
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 205,657,736
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898 ... ... 7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq.. M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
B. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE
AND
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies. < • ■ ,
Sole Agents j
for Sydney: |
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & 00.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &0.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Anti-Bill.
The Sydney Anti-Billious push gathered together
on Monday evening at the Australia, when G.
Republican Dibbs took the chair and talked un-
utterable rot to a few wealthy traders. The old
man has a vast capacity for drivel and hysterics,
and he got off some very fine samples :
The meeting had been called to enable the citizens of
Sydney to exercise their undoubted rights as freemen, in
reference to this Bill which had been rushed through
Parliament during the last few days. (Cheers). He never
knew a more important matter dealt with in such a short
space of time. It appeared as though the Premier labored
under a certain sense of pressure, because he knew that
a movement was being inaugurated in Sydney for the
purpose of petitioning both Houses of Parliament with
regard to that particular Bill, which settled our hash as
an individual colony to all eternity, and brought about a
union which could not be dissolved without the shedding
of blood. It became a question whether they were to be
disposed of like so many sheep sent to market. The idea
of sitting up all night, then breaking off until 10 o'clock
in the morning, and then sitting all night again to dispose
of our destinies, and that there should be no criticism on
the part of the public, was to his mind contrary to all
principles of right. The object of this meeting was to
see whether the citizens of Sydney were willing to sit
under this yoke which had been forged for them, or
whether they were going to open their mouths and, in-
cidentally, their pockets, to fight. (Loud cheers). . . .
In such an important matter involving everything one
held dear, it was outrageous to whip the thing off as
though one were putting on a halfpenny tax. Occasions
of that sort were such as justified rushing things through
in order to get on with more important business. But on
this all-important question of Federation, we were quietly
told that we were to have no voice in the matter.
(Cheers.) He had yet to learn that in June last the voice
of the people was not given against the Bill, and that the
proposals of the conference of last year were not disposed
of by the public will. (Cheers.) Yet this Bill was now to
be crammed down their throats, because their representa-
tive who had been sent to Melbourne to confer with the
other Premiers, and had been backed up by
both Houses of Parliament, had, to use a well-
known phrase, been “ nobbled.” (Loud cheers.) ....
He did not try to disguise the fact that he was speaking
as a New South Welshman. The whole difficulty in the
way of Federation for the last eight or nine years had
been a blot of this kind, and the different colonies had
been hanging back until some big colony could be found
to pay the piper, or until they could catch us asleep and
nobble us. Now, as to the capital. People who would
not accept everything that Vieroria laid down were called
provincialists. We were expected to bow down to the
feet of our almost youngest child, or have no Federation
at all. What this colony had not realised yet was that
one colony had all along been struggling and fighting
and grasping for supremacy over all the others. . . .
Sydney was the centre of Australia, and, presuming that
Queensland came in, Sydney was about the centre of
Australia. (Cheers.) New South Wales had been given
greater advantages and greater resources than all the
other colonies put together, and Nature had endowed
Sydney with similar gifts. . . . The people would refuse
to have this Braddon blot. (Cheers.) They would refuse
to have the rivers taken from their control, and they
would refuse to have the capital disposed of by people
whose interests it was to fix it 100 miles from Sydney.
The whole force of their strength must now be devoted
to strengthen the hands of the Legislative Council.
(Cheers.) What remained of the old anti-bill committee
of June last had been at work within the last 10
days or so,.and they had at the present moment over
10,000 signatures to a petition against the Bill. . . .
They settled the affairs of the nation offhand ; then came
back, and rushed the Bill through Parliament in the
middle of the night. Because Mr. Reid was the dictator
for the time being, he thought he had got the mob in the
hollow of his hand. He would realise that the thinking
portion of the community would not have this Bill. The
only and obvious way of dealing with the other colonies
was to say—“ Here is our plan of Federation ; come in
with us if you like on equal terms, but we are not going
to give up to you everything with which God has endowed
us.”
Poor old bungling, cursing Dibbs must surely be
ashamed of his own yell when he sees it in print.
Think of any politician being fool enough to rave
about “ being told we are to have no voice in the
matter,” when the whole question of the accept-
ance or rejection of the Federal Constitution is left
to be decided by the voice of the people ! And
the announcement that the little crowd of impor-
ters protest “as freemen” against a Bill which
simply refers the whole question to the decision of
the free men of N.S.W. ! Also, the shriek about
“the yoke” and about the outrageousness of
“whipping thethingthrough ’’ —the only thing that
was whipped through being a Bill declaring
that the whole question should be left to the
popular decision! Dibbs’s tremendous hysterics
about the way the Bill was “ rushed through ”
the Bill which refers the matter to the people and
to the people alone to say yes or no upon—would
almost suggest that Dibbs thinks it a very dan-
gerous matter to trust the people. Also, the long
ex-Republican lays down these three points : (1)
That last June, when the Anti-Billious crowd was
licked by 5367 votes, the said Anti-Billious crowd
was victorious; (2) that the Anti - Billious
crowd will be victorious again at the next
referendum ; (3) That the conduct of Reid
and Barton in rushing through with the
Bill providing for the holding of that re-
ferendum at which the Anti - Billious crowd is
going to be victorious is a shameful injury to the
Anti-Billious crowd. And the business of the
Ahti-Billious crowd now is to strengthen the hands
of the Council in dealing with the Enabling Bill,
so as to undo the mischief done in the Assembly,
and get the Bill chucked out, in order that the
referendum at which the Anti-Billious crowd is
going to be victorious won’t come off at all. There
is something very like abject cowardice in the
Anti-Billious attitude. A party which alleges
that the are with it, and yet fills the air
with entreaties that the matter won’t be referred
to the people at all, looks a pretty badly scared
crowd. Its obvious motto is that he who runs
away without fighting may live to bolt another
day. The Bill party is willing to leave the matter
to the straight-out decision of the people. It
doesn’t want to load the dice like any low-down
political spieler by asking that the Anti-Billious
crowd must show 80,000 votes against the measure
to ensure its rejection. It doesn’t ask that Parlia-
ment. shall accept the Federal Constitution
without letting the people have a say in the
matter, though the other side asks Parliament to
reject it without letting the people have a say. It
simply asks for a popular vote, the majority to
decide. If there is a spark of democratic senti-
ment, or pluck, or faith in its own vapoprings
about the Dibbs push it should be able to do
likewise.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s..... “The Geisha.”
Lyceum “East Lynne.”
Royal “The Shadows of a Great City.”
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Brixton Burglary.”
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Exhibition Building... The Aquarium. ‘
The lacerated tale of “ East Lynne ” fills
in the latter part of the MacMahon Brothers’
season at Sydney Lyceum. It is a new version of
the old fragment—the 125th new version or there-
abouts ; and there are suspicions that it is even
sadder than some of the old versions. In some
previous renderings it was quite a common thing
for the story to include Carlyle’s early life, and his
marriage, and a few scenes dealing with the way
in which the young wife was cruelly trodden on by
Aunt Cornelia, and as a result the wife’s elope-
ment with Levison didn’t arrive till well on in the
play. But in the new Lyceum version the whole
married life of the Carlyles, and the cloud that
came over it, and the busting-up of the ’appy ’ome
are all crowded into one act. This leaves two
solid hours of woe—two long, moist hours during
which Lady Isabel fades slowly amid a driving
rain of tears. There are glimpses of cheap lodgings
in different places, with the broken-hearted female
slowly perishing on a brown carpet, or dropping
her broken-hearted head on a brown tablecloth, or
gazing with a vacant brown eye at the cheap orna-
ments on the mantelpiece. Also, she drifts, in-
sensible with grief, through some of the finest
scenery in Europe, and she and Little Willie die
at great length under circumstances which would
fill a jug with tears. The most frivolous item on
the programme is the great railway accident
wherein the moaning lady is dropped upon by a
hot locomotive, and nearly comes to the end of
her troubles. The Lyceum co. tackled “East
Lynne” on Saturday in a rather disjointed
spirit. It is a very good but very worn-
out co., which never gets its proper sleep
through having to get up a big new drama every
Saturday, and on the first night a good deal of it
didn’t know its part a bit too well. Miss Ethel
Grey, as a crisp and decisive Aunt Cornelia, gave
it a great lift, but until her appearance the drama
was creeping along in the gutter with its tail down,
and looked like utter failure. If Aunt Cornelia
hadn’t taken hold of it anything dreadful might
have happened. Miss Burdette, Diver, and Bert
Bailey in an extraordinary wig, began to get the
hang of the story after a while, and did some good
work ; and the latter gentleman was finally sen-
tenced to imprisonment for life at the same faded
street corner which has done duty in almost every
Lyceum drama for as long as anybody can remem-
ber. The rest of the people got through somehow,
the veteran J. A. South, whose share of the
trouble was happily ended in the prologue by
death, being one of the best joints in a very long
tail.
* * * *
The great benefit show tendered to the
MacMahon Brothers a few weeks ago is being
kept fresh in the public mind by sundry proceed-
ings on the part of somebody who wants to
garnishee the takings. Also, somebody else has
been suing for unpaid wages, and the latter days of
the old Lyceum management are extensively adorned
by blue paper and other ham-frills and complica-
tions. The Saturdaynight gods, who have always
regarded the MacMahon firm as a personal friend,
grow even more riotous than usual in these latter
days, and, when “East Lynne’’was going very
slow on the opening night, their advice to the
company to take somebody’s Bile Cauliflower for
that tired feeling grew almost deafening. Even
the gods begin to make disparaging remarks now
about the huge boot advertisement on the curtain,
and, if new manager Holloway can see his way to
remove that painted lamentation, this petitioner
will ever pray, &c., &c. The MacMahons start a
country tour by opening: at Newcastle at Easter,
and the 51 pieces which they have produced
during their 20-months management at the
Lyceum will come in handy to astonish the bush
agriculturist with.
** * #
The “ Geisha ” boom is almost as strong
now as it was on the first nights of that little Jap
row, and as patient investigation has revealed
absolutely nothing in the Japanese shindy itself to
account for the extraordinary violence of the out-
break, it is set down once more to the splendid
staging, and the costumes, and the multitude of
agreeable girls, and the doings of Chinaman Wun.
There are people in Sydney—sober, dull, fat,
respectable people who wear the bell-topper of a
spotless career, and put on a clean collar daily,
and strongly disapprove of Federation, and hold
religious and moral conversation over the huge,
blazing-hot mass of beef at dinner —who have been
to see the “Geisha” as often as six times and
are still going. The Bulletin knows lots of such
people and seldom gets in sight of a corner with-
out seeing the front waistcoat button of one or
other of them coming round it. For some in-
scrutable reason, the “ Geisha ” has swept the fat,
serious person who eats tophets of hot beef all
through the summer, right off his two brief legs,
and a play that can do that has a future before it.
There is no knowing in advance what will strike
this large, solid, moneyed class. It doesn’t go by
any fixed rules and regulations. But when there
is a sound of hard-breathing on the theatre stairs,
and the kind of people who are much troubled with
swollen feet begin to muster strongly in the vesti-
bule, it is a good sign.
The “ Shadows of a Great City ” are to be
revived at Sydney Royal on Saturday. The great
city in this case is New York, and the “shadows ”
spread over four huge acts and many crimes.
Charles Holloway’s stay at the Royal is near its
end, and apparently that wily manager is saving
up his new dramas to make a splash with, when
he opens the Lyceum at Easter. Anyhow, the
“Shadows ” ought to be good enough to keep the
Castlereagh-street house reasonably full for the
remainder of the Holloway season there. It is a
strident play wherein Sin has a terribly bad time
in the end, and is put in gaol, or disembowelled,
or falls over a piece of fluff and breaks his neck, or
something.
*# * *
Dante, the illusionist, returns to Sydney
Palace on Saturday for a short farewell season,
during which the six live ducks will again emerge
from the burnt hat, and the spectral lunch will be
found in the drain-pipe as aforetime. Dante, as a
professional deceiver and a man who can produce
pianos and omnibuses from his tail-pocket, needs
no recommendation. Sydney still remembers him
as the best prevaricator-by-hand who has come its
way for many years.
** * *
“ The White Heather,” in its fourth week
at Melb. Royal, seems to crowd the house more
than ever, so if Bland Holt was intending to close
his season at Easter lie has probably changed his
mind. Melbourne likes “The White Heather”
for several reasons, but particularly because it is
the best-dressed drama that the city has seen and
the least vainglorious on the subject. The adver-
tisement thus far has left the costumes to tell their
own tale, with the result that the local female sex
is much more inclined to enthuse over the trim-
mings and things than if the management had
made them a leading feature on the bill. The
present writer, who has merely a man’s taste in
millinery, owns up to a rather hysterical affection
for the clothes in Blandolt’s show. You get them
in so many different styles and splendors—from
the airy nothing of Lady Godiva’s riding-habit to
the rich Elizabethan architecture of Mrs. Holt’s
gown in the last act —and the total effect is con-
vincing. You feel that although Miss Ross may
not be a real Lady Hermione she is superior to the
average earl’s daughter as regards what she stands
up in, and would pawn for a larger amount.
Beauteous Miss R. is a trifle less stagey than she
was. Also, the rest of the performance moves
faster, and the behaviour of the scenery, under
trying conditions, is almost everything that could
be desired.
* a» * *
The idyllic little comedy with the Urchin
in it didn’t flourish exceedingly at Melbourne
Princess’s, and the broad, effective patch upon
that small boy’s pants has doubtless disappeared
ere now. Anyway, “One Summer’s Day” was
announced to be withdrawn after Tuesday, in
which case a revival of “Lady Ursula” is now
taking place. “ One Summer’s Day ” was a comedy
that seemed fresher and brighter the more one
looked at it, but the average person doesn’t go a
second and third time to give a fragile entertain-
ment a chance to grow upon him. He goes only once
and doesn’t think much of a tale that consists
largely of a boy swilling.five bottles of ginger-beer
behind the scenes. Neither does he perceive all
the dramatic consequences of Miss Noble forget-
ting to put the salt in the picnic-basket. “One
Summer’s Day ” is a comedy of important trifles
and fleeting matters for reflection during the
intervals, which intervals might as well be cut
shorter all the same. Next Saturday the variable
Brough will stage a quite new and recent farcical
comedy—“ The Brixton Burglary.”
** * *
The ground landlord of Melb. Opera House
has finally closed with Rickards’s terms for a
lease, and a new Opera House (or Tivoli, as it is
more likely to be called) will come to pass within
the next 12 months—a beautiful structure, with a
dozen luxurious private-boxes, and a refreshment-
bar on each of the three floors. So that’s all right.
** * *
Lalla Miranda is engaged for the approach-
ing grand opera season at La Monnaie theatre,
Brussels, and may be expected to make her mark
in Paris next year. Lalla Miranda, after all these
years of studying and waiting, is not older than
Melba was when she landed in Europe.
At Poverty Point.
A western squatter was consuming the harmless B. and
S. in a very large Sydney hotel when a well-known
theatrical manager wandered in. His glossy topper and
long frock-coat arrested the eye of the jumbuck man.
“ What in the name of goodness is that t” he asked. The
barman looked where the unsteady finger pointed.
“That’s Mr. O’Boy,” he said, in respectful tones.
“Theatrical manager, you know. Great man!” “Is
he?” said the pastoralist, with his fascinated eye still
fixed on the top-hat. “ Great heavens ! What a lovely
scarf-pin he’d make !! ”
With regard to the death of Mrs. Hudson, wife
of the well-known entrepreneur, Indian Daily News
writes“ The cause of death was the nervous shock
which Mrs. Hudson experienced when her little boy met
with the terrible accident which has already been re-
ported. The poor little child’s skull was split right open,
and the brain laid bare. As regards the dates of these
occurrences and the incidence of the fateful number 13,
the circumstances are almost without a parallel. When
Mr. Hudson sailed from Oolombo in the spring to go to
London in search of a company, the date was the 13th
May. He arrived in London 31st May, the same combina-
tion of figures inverted. On 13th June, just 13 days after
Mr. Hudson arrived in' England, the accident happened
to his little son. The policeman who picked him up from
the pavement was No. 13 of his division ; the cab in which
Mr. Hudson conveyed the child to the hospital was No.
13. The child was blind for 13 days after his accident.
On returning to Australia with his wife and children,
Mr. Hudson, who had written for rooms in an hotel in
Adelaide, found that No. 13 had been reserved for him.
When leaving for India for his present tour, the ship
sailed on the 13th Oct. On arriving at Colombo, Mr.
Hudson changed into the s.s. Yaletta to come on to Cal-
cutta. He had engaged berth No. 12 for himself; curi-
ously enough, however, this berth was swamped by a sea
that came aboard through the open port, and Mr. Hudson
had, in consequence, to sleep in berth No. 13. The news
of Mrs. Hudson’s death was brought him by a wire ar-
riving here on 13th Nov. Mr. Hudson’s birthday is the
13th Dec.”
“ S.S.” : Sat in a Melb. theatre, t’other night, watching
the posturings, oglings, and little-woolly-lamb methods
of an imported actress on the stage, and the expressions
of two Australian actresses in the audience. The latter
artistes are rarely seen behind the footlights, but both
are capable women who would have put intelligent work
into the character the squeaking doll was mishandling on
the boards. Left the theatre devoutly wishing Australia
could be cut off from everywhere for a few years, and left
entirely on her artistic own for good, bad, or indifferent.
A light of other days, actor Arthur Sterling, died re-
cently in England. His widow is the Miss Cleveland (of
Melbourne Royal in the sixties) whose first husband,
Henry Vincent, died at Filzroy through an accident.
Sterling, who left over £15,000 to his widow, ordered his
remains to be cremated.
Era (Lend.) Almanac has a yarn by Nellie Stewart re
a Hawkesbury River flood, which stuck-up the opera co.
“of which 1 happened to be prima-donna,” says Nellie,
at Maitland. The yarn goes on to say that a young man
at the hotel had quarrelled with his best girl, who lived
at a farm-house a mile or so away. The young man was
very drunk when Nellie and co. arrived at the hotel, but
he sobered up, three days later, in time to see his girl’s
residence getting swallowed up by the rising waters. So
he swam out to the rescue, across a mile or so of raging
torrent, and in due course his drowned body was found
wrapped in the arms of his dear damp girl, who was
likewise very dead. “He reached the goal he fought
for,” says authoress Nellie.
About naming any one particular note in music, a com-
petent correspondent writes : “I remember often hearing
this done by a sister of Fred Ralfe, the tenor, who un-
hesitatingly and unerringly named any note struck. I
have heard the ‘ Infant Mozart ’ do it, but the young lady
(a clever pianiste) was much readier.”
One to the credit of Wilson Barrett. A good while ago
he concluded his sojourn at London Princess’s owing
£40,000. He scorned bankruptcy, and faced the task of
paying it off. Now he is free of debt and making a for-
tune.
Ada Crossley is a pretty good advertiser. Sydney
D.T.’s London correspondent: “I hear that when she
sang to the Queen, knowing that the latter was rather
deaf, the Australian contralto kept one eye on the music
and the other on the ‘ widow of Windsor.’ She was
much amused to hear the Queen ask Princess Beatrice :
‘ A beautiful voice. Who is she ? Ada Crossley' ; I
never heard the name before. She sings like an artist.
Comes from Australia, does she ?’ All these apparently
sotto voce remarks and the replies were distinctly audible
on the platform.”
For the fund in aid of Miss Julie Woodville, who lately
met with such distressing accidents, and who is still very
ill, these sums have reached The Bulletin office
Two Sydney Artists £lO 0
J. and O. MacMahon 2 0 0
Frank Bennett 12 0
Nemo 110
Collected by Dr. Cooke Adams ... 6 5 0
Total £lO 8 0
At the pionic down Hobson’s Bay given t’other day to
the ancient buskers now retiring in the friendly
shadow of the Theatrical Benevolent Association, one old
battler produced a pla.y-bill of a performance at Hobart
in 1838. The players’ names are probably fictitious—but
writer has a list of theatricals of these times, and finds
one recorded in this old bill. The play was “ Billie
Taylor,” and the performance took place on the last day
of the New Town races. It is likely that Sir John Frank-
lin was present, with Major Domville and the officers of
the garrison. The supers in those times were usually
soldiers (by gracious permission, &c.), who received half-
a-crown each, or three glasses of rum or a quart of
Walker’s beer. ’Tis a far cry !
Miss Julia Franks (nde Loel), a Melbourne girl, who
recently won the Sainton-Dolby prize for singing at the
Roy'al Academy of Music, London, has made a successful
professional debut with the Esty-Marsh National Grand
Opera Co. in Dublin. Yet another tuneful Jewess!
Some of the ’Murkan papers that are doing their best
to hook a local heiress (Miss May Goelet) for the Earl of
Shaftesbury', credit the pugnacious-looking tenor with an
“ engagement” to a certain deceased actress well-known
in Australia. It was not a regular, but only an occa-
sional, engagement, so far as is known.
Tenor Newbury is most enthusiastic in his talk of the
London prospects of alto Rodda Perry, who is to accom-
pany him to England. Much depends, of course, upon
the permanency of Perry’s vocal equipment, but there is
always a fine opening for male altos and sopranos in the
London R.C. churches. Card. Vaughan concurs with his
predecessor in banning female choristers. The most
marvellous boys’ voices are those gathered under Meyer
Lutz, at St. George’s Cathedral, Southwark, to which the
outside denominations flock like bees whenever the
“ Stabat Mater ” or Mozart’s “ Twelfth ” is produced.
Melba to the interviewer : “ Even as a child of three or
four I was so passionately devoted to music that I re-
member frequently crawling under the piano and remain-
ing quiet there for hours while listening to my mother’s
playing. Yes, my mother sang also, though she had not
a particularly notable voice. But her sister, my ‘ Aunt
Lizzie,’ as I called her, possessed a soprano voice of extra-
ordinary beauty and quality. To this day I can remem-
ber my aunt’s absolute control of her voice, and the beauty
and ease of her execution even in the highest pianissimo
passages. Indeed, I feel sure my Aunt Lizzie would have
enjoyed a brilliant career as a public singer had she
adopted it.”
Sydney Telegraph heads its report of the
doings of the crowd which wants N.S.W. Leg.
Council to reject the Federal Enabling Bill and
take the decision out of the hands of the people,
“The Federal Counter Movement.” Meaning,
evidently, the Anti-Federal Shop-Counter Move-
ment, or else the Provincial Counter-Jumpers’
Movement. Ex-Republican Dibbs was dug out
of his grave to sit in the chair and, says the Tele-
graph, “with him were such men as ”by this
time the reader is worked up into a fearful state of
excitement, for it seems that all the intellect of the
province is to follow, and he takes hold of some-
thing lest the flood of brains should knock him
over. And then it turns out that the men are
Slattery, draper Riley, Alderman Dymock, George
Pile, the mild old gentleman with the dog who
writes letters to the papers, and a few other small
has-beens—the sort of people who go to nearly
every funeral, and have their names in the
papers afterwards. The dull obscurity of the
crowd stands out all the more conspicuously when
the Telegraph assures the public that it is such
men as these who make up the extinct Dibbs’s
following. They described themselves in their
own circular as a “preliminary meeting of com-
mercial and business men and shopkeepers,” and
S.M. Herald gets home on them by quoting their
own description of themselves. It was the up-
heaval of the shopkeepers—the insurrection of the
beautifully hair-oiled man with the invisible-soap
who tells you the way to the remnant-counter and
the ribbon department.


Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small. ~
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Monev Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
_ . General Agent.
Sydney Agency:
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining-, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Siuiping, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
MefhnTrn! B , r . 08 -. engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
5 ton« hln»J 1C; ’ ?- SSay ores .- ari<1 treat samples up to
or drvVrLt 1 , 00^ 1011 -. cyan,de - or amalgamation ; wet
Manufacturers of Rock Rreakers, Stamp
Mining Smeltingr Furnaces > and Genelal
an 1 McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists arid aSsayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Keports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for ali
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
MephanFerguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Aust alia for J. and
L. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
1 ce-niaking machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
ocwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £100 each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonio anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
The splendid Compound Condensing Engines
lately made for the Ballarat Woollen Mills by the Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, were last week
formally started on their useful career by the Hon. Com-
missioner of Customs and christened “ The Progress ”
The engines are fitted with a modified Lulzer tvpe of
valve gear, and indicate 700 horse-power, the fly-wheel
weighs 16 tons, and the total w'eight of the engine is up-
wards of 120 tons. They are now working in a most satis-
factory manner. The Otis Co. deserves every credit for
turning out such a fine sample of the modern steam-
engine.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles
MANGANESE 717,
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Mark Wald
178 William Street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisk.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
merchants,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney, ,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining- Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The Bulletin
So far as the present financial year has gone to
28th February, 1899, the five provinces which issue
monthly statements of revenue show as follows (S.A.
issues its statement punctually once a quarter, and Maori-
land issues them once a quarter but not too punctually,
so these provinces are included to 31st December): —
Increase as
compared with
corresponding
Revenue, period of 1898.
N.S.W. (8 months) £6,029,128 £275,103
Victoria ( „ ) 4,709,909 218,047
Queensland ( „ ) 2,708,550 215,536
Maoriland (9 months) 3,631,001 147,679
S.A. (6 „ ) 1,212,755 46,107
Tasmania (2 „ ) 158,804 13,875
Decrease as
compared with
corresponding
Revenue, period of 1898.
Westralia (8 months) £1,599,303 £209,230
Taking the month of February, 1899, by itself
the results compare with February, 1898, as follows :
Increase as
Revenue. compared with
February, ’9B.
Victoria .. £605,933 ... £75,523
Queensland .. 264,434 ... 41,968
Tasmania M 77,565 ... 5,805
Decrease as
compared with
February, ’9B.
N.S.W. .. £648,269 £22,902
Westralia .. 203,074 .. 32,156
During February, N.S.W. spent <£163,407 of
loan money—£2l,6s6 more than during February, 1898.
For the eight months of the financial year which ended
on 28th February, 1899, N.S.W. spent £1,311,221 of loan
money, or at the rate of about £2,000,000 a year—which
is £188,033 more than the loan expenditure for the cor-
responding eight months of last year. And the ordinary
expenditure is at present £418,626 ahead of revenue, so
there is a pretty large deficit to overtake in the remaining
four months of the financial year.
Victoria publishes no monthly expenditure ac-
counts, but its loan expenditure is almost nil. The re-
venue boom this month is mostly in the railways, which
supplied £64,522 more cash than in February, 1898.
Queensland’s revenue is, so far, £398,108 more
than the expenditure. The loan moneys are going out
gaih T , £701,953 having been spent during the past eight
months, which is £64,651 more than the loan expenditure
for the corresponding period of last year. The blessed
revival is mostly built on loans.
Westralia’s expenditure for February is not yet
announced, but for the seven months to 31st January,
1898, the outgoings were £137,141 greater than the re-
ceipts, and the accumulated deficit was £323,844.
* * * m
Since Maoriland led the way by floating the
first Australasian 3 per cent, loan in 1895, the Seven Pro-
vinces have fourteen times appealed to J. Bull with 3 per
cent, loans—five of them from Westralia, three from S.A.,
two from N.S.W., two from Maoriland, one from Queens-
land, and one from Victoria. There were only three
failures among them—very bad failures, too—arid they
were all Westralian loans. In ’96 Westralia floated a 3
per cent, loan at the best price realised up to date, and
in ’9B it floated another at the worst price recorded so
far. Maoriland’s recent loan, by the way, was mostly for
the purposes of the State Land Bank. The whole of the
£1,500,000 originally raised has been lent out, and there
are no losses up to date. Even the most violent of Maori-
land Tories have dropped their prophecies about the “in-
evitable failure ” of the State Land Bank.
* * * *
The Victorian Government has put a little
3 per cent. loan of £250,000 on sale at the Treasury in
sums of £5 and upwards to suit small investors, and the
result is awaited with interest. Three per cent, isn’t so
much as it was a few months ago, for rates have risen a
good deal in the interim, and Australia, whose methods
of finance are somewhat primitive, doesn’t understand
the off-hand methods of raising money practised in other
British-speaking countries. In the U.S., every bank is
compelled to hold £lOO in State securities for every £9O
worth of notes issued, which makes a pretty good'com-
pulsory market for State bonds, and the State issues notes
of its own in addition. Canada makes its banks hold
40 per cent, of their cash reserves in State legal tender
notes. In India the State issues legal tender notes, the
amount regularly afloat being about £16,000,000, and
Ceylon does likewise. The time will probably come when
Australia will also adopt some of these devices, but at
present it merely offers its little loan to the public in a
respectful tone of voice and hopes for the best.
* * * *
Wheat yields of the seven provinces last year
and estimated yields for this year
' 1897-98 1898-99
_. , . Bushels. Bushels.
Victoria 10,580,217 .. 18,100,000
Maoriland 5,670,017 .. 10,679,472
South Australia .. .. 4,014,852 .. 9,816,666
New South Wales .. .. 10,560,111 .. 9,072,352
Tasmania 17668,341 .. 1,650,000
Queensland 1,009,293 .. 900,000
West Australia 408,595 .. 450,000
__ , . 33,911,426 " 50,668,490
The general result is better, yet three out of the seven pro-
vinces show a decrease. Last year N.S.W., for the first
time, came within an ace of overtaking Victoria, and was
a very good second on the list. This time, though the
harvest is not very much worse than last year, she is down
fourth again. During the year the W.A. Government has
made stupendous efforts in its own rather clumsy way to
“settle the people on the land,” but though W.A. has a
good extent of well-watered country in the south-west,
and practically the same population as Tasmania, it does
not yet seem able to get within gun-shot of the little
island in an agricultural sense.
♦ * * «
The Colonial Bank (Melb.) announces its in-
tention of holding its long-postponed cleaning up. It is
proposed to write off £5 10s. per share (£425,029), which
will leave the ordinary capital, according to last balance-
sheet, at about £60,000 and the preference capital at
£'304,044.
* * * *
Reported that a new British industrial life
assurance office, to be called the National Unity, is likely
to take over the dreadful Provident and Industrial In-
surance 00. of Maoriland. Tim Bulletin can only say
that it would be unfeignedly sorry for any co. or any man
who took the Provident and Industrial at a gift; it would
be sorry even for a dog that took it, unless it had very
strong reason to dislike the dog. Last year, by its own
figures, the Provident and Industrial spent £1694 more
than its earnings ; previous year about £460 more. At
the end of ’9B it partially disguised the awful-
ness of things by putting its office into the
balance-sheet as worth £4508 where it had previously
stood at £1268. And even after thus creating a paper
asset of £3240 it could only show an assurance fund of
£BB5 clear, after eight years’ work. And the amounts
which it covenanted to pay under its policies in Maoriland
alone were about £185,000. The co;’s founder and man-
ager, Kirkcaldy, the gentleman in the short coat and the
very tall hat, whose Equitable Fire Insurance Co. is still
a solemn memory on the other side, died recently, and
his co. would certainly be well-advised to follow him. But
if the National Unity or any other guileless young concern
proposes taking it over, there should be pleasant times
ahead for somebody.
* * * *
In reference to a par. in the “ Wild Cat ” column
last week, the Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. desires to state
that when it pulled down its old office in Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, it wrote off the whole value of the old
building, and that the increase of £58,000 under the
heading of “freehold property” in the balance-sheet is
represented by new property purchased and put in at
cost price.
* * * •
The Victoria Insurance Co. publishes a half-
year’s interim report to 31st Dec., 1898, showing that, so
far, the receipts have been £5240 more than expenditure.
If things keep on at this rate the Victoria will do much
better this year than last (last year’s loss, £23,336, and
dividend suspended). It doesn’t look well, all the same,
for any more of the tremendous 35 and 40 per cent, divi-
dends that the Victoria used to pay .so recklessly, and
which did so much to pull down its ancient glory. The
Victoria’s small offshoot, the Victoria General Insurance
and Guarantee Co., is £1863 to the good on its half-year’s
work (last time it showed a loss of £5Oll for the year and
paid £2OOO away in a 10 per cent, dividend in addition).
If it keeps on at this rate, and isn’t struck by any more
large disasters, a 10 per cent, dividend should be fairly
earned by next June.
* * * m
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete (that institution
which Sydney people generally describe as the Monty
Peet) reports a profit for the half-year ended 31st Dec.,
’9B, of £3589, which compares with some previous profits
as follows :
June, 1894.. ..£4314 December, 1896 ..£4284
December, 1894 .. 4470 June, 1897 .. .. 4225
June, 1895 .. .. 4239 December, 1897 .. 4297
December, 1895 .. 4765 June, 1898 .. .. 4189
June, 1896 .. .. 4699 December, 1898 .. 3589
The usual 10 per cent, dividend absorbs £3689, so for the
first time in many years the “ Monty Peet ” hasn’t quite
earned its div., and the profit and loss balance is reduced
from £B5O to £750. The falling-off is ascribed to the fact
that a considerable part of the earnings were set aside to
write down doubtful debts. Also, owing to further pro-
vision for depreciation of real estate, the balance at credit
of contingency reserve has been reduced from £4706 to
£1965. Altogether, it is the worst half-year the Mont de
Pi6t<s has had for a very long time, though the profits
have shown something of a downward tendency ever since
Dec., ’95.
* * * *
Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Melb.) reports a loss
of £284 for 1898, the result being set down to an unusual
outlay of £lO9B for new sewerage connections. In 1897
it made a profit of £69o—equal to £3 9s. per cent, per
annum on the paid-up capital of £20,000. Its last srleam
of prosperity was when it paid a 4 per cent. div. in ’92.
The beginnings of a new prosperity are clearly visible
round the public-houses of Melbourne, but the tide rises
very slowly in the place where strictly moral bever-
ages are dispensed. The Melbourne men who are begin-
ning to re-appear at their old haunts have a good many
solemn recollections to drown, and the skeletons only
float in coffee.
* » * *
Ed. Bulletin,—Your “Cobar Note” man is
most unjust to the Chesney 00. Says nothing is being
done at the mine, and talks about its “ limited calling
power.” Now, the wages-sheet is £5OO a month, and
with “ a good manager ” there must surely be something
doing at the mine. Also the Chesney’s calling-power is
£24,000, to say nothing of 20,000 reserved shares. I have
good grounds for believing that arrangements are in pro-
gress for putting the mine on a producing basis without
many further calls. The Chesney is so good-looking a
mine, and so much money is being spent on it, that it
surely deserves to have the exact truth told about it.—S..
Melb. ’
* * * *
White Cliffs opal-field is in the midst of about
the most drought-distressed section of far-western N.S.W.
Itself desperately hard-up for water—XOOgals. of slimy
liquid costs up to 10s.—the tracks to it are practically
impassable save by camel-teams.
* * • •
B.H. South took nearly 10 years to get into
clover, but seems to have struck a fair patch of it now
The mine was opened in ’B7, and the co. fooled itself into
erecting smelting furnaces three years later ; was in
trouble up to the neck in ’9l ; talked about liquidation in
93 ; accepted metallurgist Greenway’s advice and put up
a concentrating-plant at the end of that year ; began to
make microscopic profits in ’94 ; saw them swamped by
the cave-in underground in ’95 ; and was only able to pay
a first sixpenny div. in ’97. The ore became harder and
harder ; but, as it is heavy in lead, and the lead market
firmed, and as continuous improvements in concentrating
processes have been made (still under Greenway), profits
have steadily increased until last half two shilling divs.
were paid, and now another of sixpence, with a shilling
bonus, is announced. (A shilling means £10,000.) The
directors, however, only aim at quarterly sixpences, with
bonuses when possible ; and, as faces are full of ore,
while the lead market keeps firm they ought to be pos-
sible pretty often. The directors intend, though; 'to
build up a substantial reserve—and perhaps it may be
wanted ere long to build a zinc-treating plant. The
South has been a first-rate “ sticker,” and something
better than even its present moderate luck is -deserved
Or perhaps it isn’t luck, but just the result of hard, con-
tinuous battling.
* * * *
Extract from letter sent to shareholders in a
now-notorious N.S.W.-formed g.-m. co., asking them
whether they weren’t disposed to contribute shares to
the legal manager as a gratuity for his services
“ From my personal knowledge of his endeavors to pro-
mote the interests of all who are connected with this
Company, he has given away his last 700 shares to the
editor of one of our leading newspapers in order that good
reports and the latest information from the mine may
constantly be kept before the public’s eye every week for
a period to extend over three months.” This will account
for many things. Now, who can be the “editor” who
got those 700 shares ? Or is it all a lie ?
* • * *
The Critic, London, has compiled and pub-
lished a list of “ A Hundred Wild Cats,” adding that it
would be well if its readers cut out the list and hung it in
a convenient place to save the trouble of continually
answering questions about such concerns. In the 100
editor Hess includes the Cobar Gold Mines. Now, from
the chief block of the group forming this co. over 20,000
tons were crushed at a profit before it was sold, after-
wards the tailings were cyanided at a profit of some thou-
sands, and nearly 4000 tons were profitably crushed by
the vendors before the co. was formed. True, a huge
mistake was made in trying to treat the ore by a 100-head
stamp mill alone—but to-day it would be easy to sell the
Cobar Gold Mines’ property in Australia for more money
than its total cost to date. Mr. Thos. Buckland, late of
Charters Towers, is now managing, and hopes to see the
big mill and cyanide-plant to match at work sometime
before the crack of doom.
* * * *
Mount Bisehoff Tin Mining Co. (Tasmania) paid
£19,500 in dividends for the half-year to 31st Dec.,’9B-
- at the rate of 132 per cent, per annum on the paid-
up capital ol £29,600. Old Bischoff hag now «<.iH over
£1,600,000 in diva.
* • * *
In Feb., the Tasmania mine crushed 2590 tons
for 32490 z., value £12,416; and New Golden Gate 1560
ton for 1251 oz., value £6OOO. Tas. divs. for February :
Mt. Bischoff, I 'los., £6000; Tasmania, Is., £3000; New
Golden Gate, 25., £3200.
* * » •
Mt. Reid, Tas., is managed in London, where a
cable from the manager lately gave the average value of
sulphide ore for 4ft. across as 34 per cent, lead, 370 z. gold
and HOOoz. silver per ton. Directors wired to get the
manager to confirm the information re gold contents, and
he cabled : “ 370 z. gold confirmed.” Now, why have the
shares gone down if there is 4ft. of this sort of stuff in the
mine ?
* * * *
From Croydon : Pumping machinery erected on
Croydon Consols mine at cost of £37oo—largest mine
pumping plant in N.Q.—started work about 12th Feb.
Adjoining, mines contribute towards baling expenses £32
per week. When Consols is free of water sinking will
commence with almost certainty—a mining certainty—of
striking rich shoot, and further divs. Golden Gate
Consols recently got exemption because a big shareholder
couldn’t pay his calls. And yet Warden Towner sat on a
local paper for daring to protest. Croydon Goldfields
Ltd., newly formed in London by Elmslie, Ltd., absorbs
the True Blue Block, Lady Isabelle, and N. Croydon
Consols. Capital provided to further test those promis-
ing properties, and operations begin forthwith. At
Ophir Block, a local co. is progressing with shaft going
down on slide to look for the famous Iguana reef. Pro-
mising indications continue. No. IG. Gate crushed
just as the mail was leaving a small parcel for a trifle over
loz. per ton. The sale to Elmslie, Limited, is “ off.” Good
property if properly managed. True Blue Extended
Block to be worked again. Improved machinery being
put in mine to test it at depth. Owned by Croydon Gold-
fields Limited, a Bull co., Elmslie local managers.
Ophir Block shaft still being sunk in the slide, which is
going down nearly vertical. Local capital only available,
as Govt, declines to subsidise on geologist Jack’s recom-
mendation. Yet Mr. Jack’s theory at the Golden Gate ro
a similar fault was disproved, and a 6oz. reef found below
the slide. At latest, No. 7 North Golden Gate was put-
ting through a 500-ton crushing. And other large lots,
aggregating oyer 1000 tons, were being treated simultane-
ously. Feb. yield expected to be a record for many years
past.
* * * *
Q. mining notes.—Mt. Morgan : Buyers,
£5 10s. ; 7d. monthly div. continues. Gympie, sluggish
as Judge Blank’s liver ; when a mine rises 3d. it gets a
par. all to itself in the local press. Three crushings ;
IS. Great Eastern, 451 tons, 3770 z.; 2 S.G. Eastern, 497 tons
for about 1000 oz., 6d. div.; S. Glanmire and Monkland,36o
tons, 3290 z. Charters Towers.—Kelly’s Blocks: another
6d. div., making £13,000 in seven weeks and £21,000 for
last six months ; also bigger divs. sticking out as firmly
as the new make of stone. Victoria G.M. co. : 6d. div. ;
Brilliant ditto. Brilliant and St. George given its share-
holders £43,000 in the last six months, and paid away in
divs. since the beginning of the good times £327,000.
Extra divs. promised ; last crushing, 1324 tons for 16930 z.
This mine and Kelly’s moved-up 12s. in eight days—and
no wonder. If they were in W.A. like this three years
ago. Ah !
* * • *
A recent delectable mining par. in Brisbane
Courier stated that Vic. Chief Secretary Peacock had
acquired 200 acres of ground adjoining the Mt. Morgan
Co. s property, with the intention of forming the property
into a syndicate in Melb. and subsequently floating it in
London under the name of the Mount Morgan Proprie-
tary. “ Mr. Peacock is confident,” said the par., “that
the Linda lode in the Mt. Morgan Co.’s property
extends into the ground he has acquired.” The real
Mt. Morganites and all the wild-catters who have ever
been in the district held aloof from those 200 acres in
order that Peacock might come in after years and take
em up and confer another boon on the London market.
Some men have all the luck.
* * • *
Zeb. Lane severs his connection with the Great
Boulder mine March 31, and will go direct to England.
* * * *
Menzies United Mines, Bull-owned ; ,£38,000
spent in proving them a duffer; £12,000 left. Some
annual items—Manager’s salary, £800; directors’ fees,
£lOOO ; secretary’s salary, £5OO. Exemption “ for as long
as possible ” is to be now sought; meantime the poor
manager is retrenched to £6OO, and others in proportion,
and all hands are invited to look out for another pro-
perty.
9 * * ♦
January meetings of Westralian mining co’s in
London were in several cases marked by announcements
that office expenses had been, or were about to be
reduced 50 per cent, or so. One board intimated that
directors fees had been brought down by £5O a year.
«Su 11 l t L the waf?es be reduced?” asked a shareholder.’
Oh, that s a comparatively small item,” interjected the
cynic of the crowd.
* * * *
The Australian Turbine Co., of 352 Collins-
street, Melbourne, guarantees that its High-Efficiency
Turbines and. its Pelton Wheels will develop more horse-
power from a given supply of water than those of any
other makers.*
• • • m
The payable portion of Kalgoorlie goldfield lies
within a parallelogram about a mile long by f-mile wide
having the Brownhill on its north, Gt. Boulder on the
south, Boulder N. on the east, and the Hainault on the
west. Probably nowhere in the world is there a richer
gold-producing area; even now the magnitude and variety
of the machinery on the various mines is worth going far
to see. Outside of that area, the present prospects of the
myriad of mines whose poppet-legs locate their position
are decidedly flat, the Maritana on account of its elevated
site being the most conspicuous failure. Though upwards
of £20,000 has been spent on it, it cannot sport a set
of poppet-legs. Possibly some of the mines outside the
proved-nch belt may have a future when their lodes are
tested at depths below 600 ft. Poor as these outside
mines undoubtedly are, with cheap water and fuel some
of them would pay handsomely. But what use talking of
conditions that can never exist ?
* * » *
More may yet be heard of diamond-deposits in
N.W. Westralia. The existence of diamonds at Nulla-
gine seems to have long been a known fact, and a pro-
specting party, lately sent out by some Perth people, o'ot
enough stones to convince the W.A. Government of the
payableness of the find. A reward claim of 320 acres was
taken up, also a large area under ordinary leases. The
formation is alleged to exactly resemble that of Kim-
berley. The diamonds found so far are all surface stones •
among them is one of a beautiful green tinge, said to
be of considerable value.
* * » *
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Oollins-st., Melbourne.*
* • * *
Golden Horseshoe, W.A., Manager Dick’s esti-
mate of gold in sight at the end of last year, 712,7000 z in
292,000 tons. No wonder they gave him a £5OO bonus
and increased his screw from £l2OO to £l5OO a year. Dick
is an old Ballarat mining manager, made a lot of money
there, and lost the lot in the Melb. boom—in fact, had to
go West to earn a living. First managed the Star of the
East on the Murchison, and after its failure moved Kal-
goorliewards.
* * » *
Queen Margaret, one of the very few consistent
gold-producers outside of Hannan’s, crushed for the half-
year 4615 tons for 55010 z. Amount to credit, £6272. No
divs.; directors’ policy to so develope the mine as to make
it a leading investment. Chairman remarked that diffi-
culty has been experienced in preventing the stealing of
free gold. Whispered that more gold-stealing goes on in
W.A. mines than the shareholders in London and else-
where have any idea of.
* * * *
A late secretary of Hannan’s Lake View Central
has gone to gaol for five years—embezzlement. Directors
admitted genera l n^eel;; never examined pass-book or
ad^kd,? t h, a f h ’M,°° k '- SlJr ? ed ( ' he ques for their own fees
au right, but others in so indolent a fashion that the sec
had no trouble in changing £l9 to 1195, £lO to £2lO, etc.
Also, he ran a gambling club, which was raided last, year
t '!' thol 'f? h h e was fined £5O, the directors took no
gambled there themselves. As to the
writer assumes there is something on the
bearing the name. The secretary’s plea of guilty
e «-T. a ve atlon of facts which possibly might have
made the directors squirm.
a : S y dne y Goodman wears the belt as
ho a ' , f 8t i i dlreCt0r 10 London - He has a seat on the
companies. Mr. E. Davis comes next with
airiaJw! V* n T ber wh ° »it on 30 boards, and a con-
of over lo'co' ‘ ber Wh ° attempt to co,ltro1 the operations
Major-General Tulloch, late of Victoria, cut a
poor figure in the witness-box in the W.A. Gold District
trading Corporation case (Goodman, promoter). Said
he joined the Trading crowd at the start, got 100 founder’s -
snares from Goodman for nothing, never saw or inquired
tor the articles of association of the co. which he was to
direct, never saw the secretary, found himself in the chair
at a meeting, did not know how or why he got there, had
no idea of the number of shares allotted to himself, or in
the concern altogether, remembered seconding a resolu-
tion for the declaration of 100 per cent. div. without
knowing whether it had ever been earned. Also, ad-
mitted that he had been a director of a good many other
companies-* 1 all of which had come to grief.” At this
probably much of the British public will express surprise
and consolation, as well as a determination to follow the
General if he goes in again. The military guinea-pig
busmess has been going on for years and carried on in <
the broad light of day. The War Office has never forbid-
den it. But when poor piper Findlater attempted to
earn a living at London Alhambra in a representation of the
storming of Dargai Heights that Office consulted its
dignity, and brought pressureon the management to cancel
Fmdlater’s engagement on the ground that “ his appear-
ance on the musical stage was not in accordance with
the best traditions of the Arrnv.”
* *
Among the numerous mining experts and others
who recently landed in China in anticipation of a Celes-
tial boom, is Bill Adams, better known at Broken Hill and
Coolgardie as “Arizona Bill.” After leaving W.A., Bill
went to Klondyke, and not liking it, he crossed over to
China. Luckily for him, Pritchard Morgan, M.P., was in
Peking, and, as Bill had laid Morgan’s partner, G. W.
Hall, on to “ the Sons of Gwalia” (thereby putting many
shekels into the little Welshman’s pocket), he promptly
secured the services of the festive William.
* * * *
Pritchard Morgan, M.P. (writes a correspondent
to The Bulletin from China), has left China with a whole
province in his pocket, which he intends floating into a
huge company in London. The concession, obtained
directly from Li Hung Chang, consists of the right to
delve for all minerals in the western province of Szechuen •
area, 160,000 sq. miles ; population, 70,000,000. Among’
Anglo-Chinese the scheme is laughed at, but little
“ Prit.” is sanguine. In the event of asuccessful flotation,
several Coolgardie men are to be sent for, including Dick
Stewart and Charlie Porter.
Some explanation of the extraordinary rise in
copper, without the supply decreasing, or any marked
increase in consumption, comes from Boston, U'.S., which
is largely interested in the copper-mines of Montana and
other States. Estimated that 25 million dol. went into
copper stocks lately. Boston’s heavy buying was brought
about by the story that the Standard Oil Co., probably
the strongest organisation in the world, had been for
some time working its way into, .the world’s copper busi-
ness ; that it had acquired a big interest in Calumet and
Ilecla, the world s second copper-producer, and proposed
to. consolidate it with the few other great mines, fix the
price the world must pay for its copper, and thereby
make money by the million. Whispered that this co. is
about to try the experiment of the French syndicate, but
in a different way. When operations started the French
crowd had money enough to buy all the big copper-mines
of the world, but, instead of doing that, it entered into
contracts for the outputs of the big mines, and when it
tried to limit these trouble began. To take the Anaconda
product at the price was too much for the Frenchmen
and, rather than accept the syndicate’s limit, Daley (chief
owner of the great mine) declared that he would land
copper in London at £28 a ton, and yet make money. It
may be true that, forewarned by the syndicate’s collapse,
the Standard Oil Co. is quietly buying up the mines them-
selves ; but to control the copper market of the world is a
mighty contract.
Sydney Sunday Times this week has
another list of Jeremiahs all foretelling Sydney’s
approaching annihilation just because the first
Federal Parliament is to meet at Melbourne
And the only shopkeeper of the lot to admit that
the other provinces are riot likely to flagrantly
break faith, as the Timks professes to fear, is a
German named Bebarfriid. The hopelessly-pro-
vineial crowd of Sydney sardine and flat-iron
merchants see in their fellow-Australians of the
other provinces naught but a lot of tricky
criminals-at-heart deservingof no more confidence
than the average man would put in a low-down
police-court lawyer. Let the Times lay to its
book ; it knows the right time for people to buy
Shellback scrip. J


cs
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
HOTEL
A USER A LI A
Rates from 12/6 per Day
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
To select your hotel when
you come to Sydney is to
stay at “ Tlie Australia, ”
Visitors find there all that is
best in the principal hotels
of Europe and America;
whilst the reasonableness of
the charges gives everyone
perfect satisfaction.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlei'eayh St., Sydney.
SOCIETY
The over-righteous clergy who raised such
a howl about the Sunday departure of Gov.
Hampden were deficient in generalship. They
should have carried out their protest to the bitter
end by rolling up in full force at the station and
publicly praying to Heaven to pardon the noble
lord for the great sin he was committing by taking
his hook on “the Loard’s Daay.” Anyhow, it
was a very paltry squeak : Lord Hampden made
no splash, and not even an artillery man was on
duty that would otherwise have been free to sin
with his best girl by roaming through the park
and stamping the seed out of the grass with his
large, flat feet. And in the great roar of eternity
there is so little difference between the enthusiastic
yelling of “Hooray” and the discordant bellow-
ing of “ Hosanna” that it will never be noticed.
* * * *
In a leading article on the departing
Hampden the S.M. Herald said, the other day :
“ In a community like this the Governor’s lady’s
kindly word,” etc. “Gov. Hampden’s lady!”
And this even in face of the world-renowned story
about the Bishop’s lady. But then there are no
bishops in the Herald’s chapel.
From the hour Gov. Hampden left, not
Sydney but N.S.W., Chief Justice Darley, Acting-
THE ANIMAL WITH NINE LIVES.
“She ought to have her biography written.”
“Yes; in nine volumes! ”
“ Why nine? ”
“ Why, one for each life, my dear!"
Governor, started to out into the Governor’s salary
of .£7OOO. But from the hour Lord Beauchamp
leaves England until he is sworn in in Sydney he,
Judge D., only cuts in on .£3ooo. lhereisacom-
plication also about Gov. Hampden’s leave of
absence, which that latter considers he is enjoy-
ing, and which must be paid for at one end or the
other. Ordinarily, if Hampden broke clean away
Actin g-G o vernor Dailey woMd d'raw' from The
H S W publio at the rate of £10,500 per annum—
,£7ooo as Lieut.-Gov. and .£3500 as C. J.
t •
, , . . , j , -,i i j
Admission by card only, with ba iea
and police on guard, provoked adverse comment
at President Faures requiem in St. Marys
Cathedral, Sydney. R.C. s who had helped to
build the church, complained of being excluded
while professing enemies of the faith were admitted
by scores. The Cardinal, it is understood, dis-
avows direction of the arrangement.
• * * *
The boys of All Saints’ Anglican school
and of St. Stanislaus’ R.C. school, Bathurst, have
taken up in their own way the newspaper feud
lately waged by Card. Moran and Bishop Caimdge.
Cricket and football between the two schools have
had to be suspended, as the youngsters cannot be
trusted to meet without fighting.
* * • *
“8.E.” : Two lines in a last week’s par.
inveigled me into “ farewelling ” the Lancers.
“The fine, lumpy young Cornstalks .... the
shapely young man from Jamberoo.” Was it
sarcasm? Not one of imposing girth or height,
weedy as to body, scrawny as to neck, mostly (it
seemed) knock-kneed, stoop-shouldered, and, as to
feet —well, any two to the yard ! “ Shapely ! ”
ye gods ! Yet, by the holy wombat, they looked
as if six months’ stiff training might make them
look something like men !
* » • •
Adelaide dailies are being deluged with
odes on the appointment of Lord Tennyson to
S.A. Governorship, but none have so far been
published. The great question is whether, if
Tennyson himself breaks out on the subject of the
dying stockman, the editors will be sufficiently
plucky to decline.
* • • *
The “ Mary Magdalene ” discussion in the
Melb. daily papers is painfully puerile from an
agnostic point of view. The Argus, for instance,
solemnly quotes from Chambers’s Encyclopaedia
—“Mary Magdalene, a woman out of whom
Jesus cast seven devils, and who believed in Him.
To her He first appeared after His resurrection.”
Does the editor of the Argus accept the Encyclo-
paedia dogmas, and, if not, why didn’t he add an
editorial footnote ? Shades of the candid Watts !
Father O’Farrell, the Redemptorist, Chief
Justice Madden, and Rev. Presbyterian Rentoul,
who haye fcak principal parta in the Donnybrook
~ _ , 1 , ... J IIT
over Dubberke s asserted likeness to Mary Mag-
dalene, are three typical Irishmen. Cardinal
Moran, who itched to get into the fray, but had
no one near just then to coach him, is a fourth.
Madden blundered through jauntily spouting on a
topicheknewnothingabout; Dr. Rentoul attacked,
through a desire to get a blow in sideways at R.C.
liturgy; and Father O’Farrell and the Cardinal may
have unconsciously been rather glad of a chance to
pummel Madden, who should be, but isn’t, a
leading light of the “Faith.” The Chief is a
married to a “Prodistan,” and gives his
daU ghters “dazzle” weddings at the Anglican
Cathedral.
The latest fashion up North (Townsville,
' BIRTH.
MACKAY.— On February 19, at her residence, Stoke-
street, the wife of F. Mackay, of a daughter.
Father disappointed.
BIRTH.
FULLER.—On the 20th inst., at West End, the wife
of Mr. James Fuller, of twins (boys); all doing
well. Father delighted.
• • * *
From Maitland (N.S.W.) Mercury, Feb.
9:—
TAT ANTED, R.C. GOVERNESS. Subjects : English,
'* Geometry, French, Latin, Advanced Music and
Singing, Paintinsr (Oil and Water), Drawing, P. and
F. Needlework, Light Housework. Refs, required.
State salary. Apply A. 8.0. Emerald Hill, via Gun-
nedah.
The Bulletin presumes that numismatics, lainb-
marking, burr-cutting, and conchology were left
out by the rascally comp, when setting the advt.
* * * *
Melb. Salvation authorities tried hard to
get hold of Dubberke, but failed. Fortunate, per-
haps—just as the General is expected, too.
Sharks around Sydney. Think of drawing
a net in shallow water at a popular pleasure-resort
and raking in six, all over Bft. long—to say noth-
ing of several much bigger ones that broke the
net and got away l
COUNTERS!
SHE (to “ traveller, ” who has ashed for rations):
“ Right you are, my man. Put in a couple of
hours at the wood heap, and I’ll fill your bays
and give you a shilling.”
TRAVELLER: “Madam, I regret my inability to
avail myself of your hind offer of employment.
Fact is, I’m begging my way round the world
for a reaper, and the articles strictly forbid that
I engage in manual labor.”
SHE: “ Indeed! Very sorry, but I’m a member of
the anti-betting league — so, of course.”
THE MAGDALENE.
They tell us now the Magdalene
In saintliness did sit,
And was forgiven for the sins
That she did not commit.
THE MATRIMONIAL STAKES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wooed her with a steeplechase, I won her with a
fall,
I made her heartstrings quiver on the flat
When the pony missed his take-off, and we crashed
into the wall;
WeU, she simply had to have me after that /
It awoke a thrill of int’rest when they pulled me out
for dead
From beneath the shattered ruins of a horse ;
And although she looked indiff’rent when I landed
—on my head —
In the water, it appealed to her, of course I
When I won the Flappers’ Flat-race it was “ all Sir
Oarneo,”
For she praised the way I made my final run.
And she thought the riding won it —for how could
the poor girl know
That a monkey could have ridden it and won l
Then they “ weighed me in ” a winner — it’s not
often that occurs !
So I didn’t let my golden chances slip,
For I showed her all the blood-marks where I jabbed
him with the spurs,
And the whip-strokes where I hit him with the
whip.
Then I asked her if she loved me, a/nd she seemed
inclined to shirk
For a moment, so I took her by the head
(So to speak) and rushed her at it; and she seemed
to like the work
When she kissed me, though she blushed a rosy
red.
She’s a mouth as soft as velvet, and she plenty has
of heart,
I could worship every little step she takes ;
And the saddling-bell is ringing, so we’re going to
the start,
Certain winners, for the Matrimonial Stakes 1
THE BANJO.
AN APOLOGY TO A CELEBRATED CHARACTER.
(AFTER ST. JAMES'S GAZETTE).
[The Rev. Father O’Farrell, of Melb., defending: the
character of Mary Magdalene, says that “ her name is
perhaps dearer to the Catholic heart than any name in
the calendar.”]
Whitewashed, sanctified at last,
Magdalen,
Gracious glances on us cast,
Magdalen;
Now your purity we carol - to the tune of Dean O’Farrell,
Oh, remember not our slanders in the past,
Magdalen ;
Oh, remember not our slanders in the past.
As a synonym for sin,
Magdalen,
We’ll no longer drag you in,
Magdalen ;
Now we know your splendid mission was to glorify tra-
dition ;
Metaphorio life anew you shall begin,
Magdalen 1
Metaphoric life anew you shall begin.
Cultured Essene, loyal wife,
Magdalen,
Victor in a noble strife,
Magdalen;
How your unpolluted sweetness shames the narrow in-
completeness
Of the fiddling Pharisaic view of life,
Magdalen !
Of the nasty Pharisaic view of life.
Virtue’s glass misunderstood,
Magdalen,
Sinning for the public good,
Magdalen ;
Faith has no such wine in barrel in her cellar, quoth
O’Farrell,
Oh, forgive us, we’ve repented all we could,
Magdalen !
Oh, forgive us, we’ve repented all we could.


ACETYLENE <£AS
IS DANGEROUS to the
COAL GAS COMPANIES.
ACETYLENE GAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANIES.
ACETYLENE GAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
OIL TRUSTS.
But it is now well known that
ACETYLENE GAS
is the CHEAPEST, COOLEST,
CLEANEST, SAFEST, and best all-
round Light for the Public.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Write for particu-
lars to the
Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia Limited,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Patentees of Acetylene Gas and Carbide of
Calcium.
THE PUBLIC ARE WARNED against dealing with
Infringers of our Patents.
GRAND RESULTS
IN HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FOLLOW AFTER DRINKING
SYDNEY
LAGER
BIER.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Preliminary Advertisement.
Woollahra Point.
THE Grounds surrounding the well-known
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE will be offered
at PUBLIC AUCTION in SUITABLE BUILD-
ING BLOCKS at an early date, with a
FREEHOLD TITLE.
An opportunity will thus be afforded intending
Purchasers to acquire the FINEST WATER
FRONTAGE LOTS ever offered to the Publio.
Agents for the Estate—
RAINE & HORNE,
2 Hunter-street, Sydney.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
A LOYAL
DEMONSTRATION.
HER GRANDAD: “Do you
hear the thunder?”
LITTLE FIVE-YEAR-OLD : “Oo, yes! Who
is letting them off?” (In an awe-stricken whis-
per). “ I suppose it’s Dod’s birthday !”
The tracing-out of that murdered Indian
hawker at Mount Mary (W.A.) was a rather
brighter piece of detective work than the ’Groper
bobbies are usually guilty of. Their attention
was first attracted by a very affluent drunk, who
was run in on the usual lines. They found on
him about 24 cheap silk handkerchiefs, which
seemed unusual, as he hadn’t any worse a cold
than the average ; besides they were all new.
Also, his pockets were full of cheap brass jewel-
lery, and he had a good deal of money. Inquiry
revealed that he had never been a hawker, and
that, until a few days before his arrest, he had
been stone-broke and suffering terribly for want of
his proper beer. From the handkerchiefs and
brass jewellery they assumed that an Indian hawker
had been robbed, and as there was no Indian
clamoring for redress at any adjacent police-
station they further inferred that he had been
murdered. So they started to track down the
various Hindoos who peddled trash in that district
until one track ended in a heap of ashes and a
decayed head and a grave. The beneficent in-
fluences of drink had brought the crime to light.
So far the police are no nearer proving a murder
case against their drunk than at the beginning;
nobody saw him commit the murder, and the
Indian might have been killed by someone else,
or lie might have died from natural causes, or he
might have burnt himself for reasons unknown.
Still, the manner in which they inferred a dead
body and a grave from 24 cheap silk handkerchiefs
has made the local police so proud that they won’t
even drink with ordinary people now.
* • * *
Ward, the colt-breaker, charged with
murdering a Hindoo hawker up-country in South
Australia, had evidently been studying the Bur-
gess case and the vast importance which the des-
perate Q. police tried to attach to every one of
the suspect’s casual remarks. So when officer
Burchill arrested him and demanded if he had
any remarks to offer, Ward smiled and observed
that it was a nice day. And now that is printed
as clear proof of the villain’s callousness.
* « • «
Re undiscovered murders in Q. In Mackay
district alone, between ’92 and ’95, nine murders
were-committed. Only one was cleared up.
Chiefly the work of Tommy Tanna and co. Most
of the murdered ones were hacked with cane-
knives, and in one or two female cases there were
horrible accessories.
* * * *
The recent struggle for Sydney City-Solici-
torship was a degrading thing. Whatever dignity
the law may have left, little of it remains in the
ranks of the attorneys or, to be more precise,
among such attorneys as competed for the prize in
question. Of all the applicants, it appears, three
only maintained any appearance of independence.
Nearly every man Jack circularised or privately
wrote the aldermen explaining whom he had
gone to school with, and so on ; and most of them
whined piteously in the most approved cadging-
deadbeat style. It was also a most melancholy
exhibition, even for Sydney, of resort to sectarian
influences and lodge-dodgery.
A fond Tasmanian mother christened her
last girl by the aboriginal name “ Yolla.” When
they afterwards looked in Mulligan's Vocabulary
of Aboriginal Dialects they found it meant “a
young muttonbird ! ”
* * * *
A curious legend about a quack doctor
keeps cropping in Melbourne, despite vigor-
ous efforts to sit on the yarn and keep it
down. An old lady had an incurable com-
plaint, and her medico had paid his last
visit—said there was nothing to do but
lot her die comfortably, and he was
going home to make out the bill.
Then the sorrowing family called
in an advertising doctor, and he
looked at the comatose patient,
and said it was a very bad
case, but if his antibilious
horse-ball was taken regu-
larly in water she would
pull through. He col-
lected his £2 2s. and
left. A minute after
he was gone.
the relatives
got scared by
the coldness and dead
silence of the patient,
and dragged in a
physician who lived
three doors away. He
said that he wouldn’t
prescribe because the
lady had been dead more
than half-an-hour. Then the
family called on the advertising
doctor, and threw the anti-bilious
horse-ball at his head, and de-
manded back the £2 2s. he had col-
lected for prescribing for a corpse, and £1 for in-
jury to their feelings, and £3 10s. for saying
nothing about it. And even then the story leaked
out. It always does, somehow.
* * • *
Force of habit strong in death. The
Maorilanders, M‘Kain and his wife, after agree-
ing to die together, put out their boots to be
cleaned at the hotel where they were staying, and
the woman carefully did up her hair before lying
down to her last sleep.
* * m m
“Tui Tea” : Curious how little noise is
made by the discharge of firearms in a closed room.
When Maorilander legislator Larnaoh shot him-
self a few months ago in a committee-room during
the sitting of Parliament, with messengers, clerks,
&c., all around, no noise was heard save a slight
thud as though a book had fallen. .So also in the
Palmerston tragedy, in which three shots were
discharged. People asleep in the next room were
awakened, but had no conception that shots had
AUSTRALIAN HISTORY.
“ What great event took place in the year 1889?”
“ Oh ! that was the year that I was born !”
been fired, though there was probably an interval
of a minute between the first two shots and of 20
minutes between the second and third. A pre-
vious suicide at Masterton, committed in the day-
time with a rifle, made so little noise owing to the
deed being enacted in a closed room that a man in
the next room took no particular notice of it.
* * • •
Kelly, who failed to kill himself after
having fatally shot his inamorata, Maria Flynn,
at Paddington, Sydney, was not aware that he
had dispatched his “love” until 16 days had
elapsed. He survived the shock, however, of
beinj' told that his presence was required at the
inquest. How Kelly must have regretted the
change from the fresh, airy ward at St. Vincent’s
Hospital to the gin-case structure known as the
Coroner s Court! No Chinaman’s den was ever a
fouler place. 70 to 80 people elbowed each other
in what is hardly double-bedroom space. Looking
round, it was hardly possible to distinguish the
iurv panel from the general public, and Kelly
hadn’t even eibow-room between two policemen.
Llie bench is elevated, and as the Coroner leans
forward over his sardined audience he seems to be
an animated portion of the coiling; also, the
deposition clerk blots up as much perspiration as
ink as he turns over each sheet of evidence. The
aii is as thick and as noisome as that of a mortuary
awaiting a funeral train. Would-be assassins, for
whom the hangman has no terrors, are warned
what to expect if they are caught killing in Sydney.
At the Coroner’s Court, Kelly wore the aspect
of a man who didn’t think it was loaded. He
evidently felt he was detained on false pretences.
He has the appearance of an energetic grocer, and
looks just as if he had been snipped out of a har-
mony of tinned-fish and soap-bars. He is as much
bkfi a desperado as a Sunday-school teacher is like
a Chinese comedian.
A “ Christian Clergyman ” writes to Bris-
bane Courier re recent outrages in Bananaland.
“ Christian Clergyman ” has a cure for the villainy
that flourishes in Australia just now. “ The
best plan would be to flo°- these brutes periodi-
cally for three years, and then hang them to
save the cost of keeping them.” Why not flog
them periodically, and starve them between
times to save cost of tucker? . . . Why
doesn’t some howling Atheist, pugnacious
Freethinker, or notorious scoffer and blas-
phemer come to the front with some
scheme of torture ? Somehow, they’re
always in the background when these
little humanitarian proposals are
brought forward, and the square-
jawed, scowling apostle of the lowly
Nazarene is left to swing the cat,
dangle the noose, and work up a
little Hell on his own account.
* « *
Some people’s virtue is in-
deed a fearful and wonderful thing.
Sometime ago a gay and giddy
banker had a selection made
from Burton’s “Arabian Nights,”
neatly typed, in violet ink, on
parchment-like paper, and care-
fully bound in white and yellow.
It cost a pretty figure too, and he
had hardly read it through when he
died. His widow, a very proper lady
of a pious turn of mind, was unspeak-
ably shocked to find this erotic frag-
ment among his private papers, and
determined to destroy the unclean
thing—till she found the bill. Then
she carefully packed it up, fumi-
gated the house, and sent the
horrible thing to Melbourne to be
sold. Reserve price, £lO.
* * *
The most difficult item of
dietary to force upon Norfolk islan-
ders, when transferred from Pitcairn
thither, was cows’ milk. They had had
a couple of cows at Pitcairn, but had
never tasted their milk, and believed it
unnatural for human beings to drink it.
Even infants on Norfolk Island irsfcinc-
tively rejected it, and when mild pres-
sure was employed the milk made them
sick. Mrs. Selwyn, wife of Bishop Selwyn,
who lived on the island for some years, took
the women and children in hand, and suc-
ceeded at last in making milk the principal
breakfast beverage.
Since the name of Dubberke’s “soldier-
friend ” leaked out, nobody is surprised to learn
that the boot-box tragedienne has decided to
abandon her old life and become a quiet, steady
Thekla. The old life must have been awfully
trying, if she had many admirers like her “mili-
tary-friend.” But will the police give Thekla a
fair chance to live quietly anywhere in Australia?
So many policemen devote most of their time to
discovering suspicions of giddiness in girls and
adopting sneaky means to hold the damsels in
fear.
* • * •
“ Cockney ” to The Bulletin :
Surely one of your correspondents holds a brief for
young Tod. He says—“ The charge against Tod for
murder is the first that has ever been laid in Vic. against
the man who ‘ got the girl into trouble.’ Had Tod simply
continued to sit in his office when Dubberke announced
the girl’s death, and taken no part in the boot-box
burial, the law would have done no more than ask his
evidence at the most.’’ This is on a par with most of the
press inferences and suggestions concerning the culpa-
bility of the three boot-box packers, of whom Dubberke
was selected as the newspaper scapegoat. What had
Tod s subsequent conduct to do with his legal responsi-
bility for Mabel Ambrose’s death ? The whole gruesome
business arose from the willingness of three women to
oblige young Tod. The girl Mabel having given him
the use of herself, consented to suffer much agony—to
please Tod. Madame attempted the abortion to please
Tod, the rent-collector who was not squeezing any rent
from her. And when the girl Mabel had fallen a victim
to the Tod-dictated policy of herself and madam, the girl
Dubberke came forward and gave her advioe and assist-
ance to Tod in the disposal of the body. Tod was the in-
stigator of the attempt at abortion. Dubberke—the
“ callous ” Dubberke—was the only one of the quartet
who made any protest against the maltreatment of Mabel.
This much was admitted by Dr. Gaze under cross-exami-
nation, and he at that time had no cause to speak kindly
of the damsel who “ blew the gaff.”—P.
• • • *
The beak again. At Bombala (N.S.W.)
a person who had severely beaten his 13-
months-old child with a leather strap, on face,
legs and body, was fined £2 and costs, in default
one month.
• » * •
A PARABLE UP TO DATE.
TFor The Bulletin.]
There were ninety and nine safe-housed in the fold ;
But one was still out in the dark and cold ;
And the face of the Shepherd grew keen and bright
As he faced the storm and the hilltops white.
“ For the sinner that’s lost is more loved than all
The righteous many that fail not nor fall,”
He said, and His kind face shone. Next day
The ninety and nine all went astray !
Constance Clyde.
• • • •
The ruling passion ! The other day, in a
S.A. church, somebody was giving a lantern
exhibition—a variety of entertainment much in
favor in ohoir circles. The manipulating parson
and his assistants capsized a platform and there
was a blaze. Hardly had the flames been got
under, and the scared audience inveigled back,
than “Dear friends, we will
now take up a collection to
pay for the un- fortunate
damage which has been
done.”
NOT SO OBVIOUS.
THE LITTLE ’UN: “I don’t see much of you
lately, old chap.”
THE BIG ’UN: “ Get a microscope, my boy I Get
a microscope! ”
The publicans gain by the trouble in
Samoa —at least those in Apia do—for two of them
having been fined for serving drink to those who
would talk war after 11 p.m., the Municipal
Council met forthwith and amended the Licensing
Ordinance by giving the pubs, an extension till
midnight. As the hotels are also open from Ip.m.
till 12 p.m. on Sundays the man with a thirst has
little to complain of.
* * • *
Samoa runs a peculiar church called “ the
Apia Foreign Church,” founded as far back
as 1848, and opened in ’49. At its jubilee service
in January, the Rev. Huckett, the officiating
clergyman, alluded to it as a church in which
Catholic or Protestant might worship, and termed
it “ a visible witness to the common religion of
the Anglo-Saxon race.” That being so, the Apia
church is, no doubt, furnished with a golden calf.
• • * *
It is now a case of do or die with some
Melb. churches. On Saturday week a band
paraded the streets of Carlton with a large calico
sign on a lorry, and in big red letters the words :
“‘Harvest Festival,’ To-morrow, Sunday,” &c.
Why, even Dan Barry hasn’t yet stooped to this
mode of advertising !


Tb€ Tk(it(iti)t) Attractions
at MARK FOY’S .
Present all tbs AllOrcnjcQts of FaSbioo
Pear to every Lady’s Heart.
Millioery, MaQtleS, Press Materials, Frills,
aod FOrbelows.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
■ar—
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St„ Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 25.; postage 2d. extra. W.
H. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.*
“Lead Kindly Light, ” the beautiful poetic
inspiration, was written by Cardinal Newman.
The light that leads all other earthly lights is
given by the “Albatross Lamp Wick.” They
“ require no trimming,” have no smell, give a
greater light, prevent explosions and broken
chimneys, and are the woman’s friend.*
Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
AT
REDUCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks, 1/11J6
“ Dent’s” Austrain Lamb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent’s ” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
“ Dent’s” Ghevrette Washing Suede, in white, 1/11
~ ~ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2/11
The “Merlier” Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 3/11
Superior Chevrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
“Dent’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt and special attention.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have 110 Equal -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 7th, 1899.
My Dear Myee—
Sydney’s very latest good-bye to the Hainpdens
came off at Redfem station on Sunday afternoon.
The gathering on the platform was small, and
mostly black-coated and bell-toppered, only about
a half-dozen women presenting themselves. I
noticed Mrs. Edmund Barton, Mrs. W. R. Camp-
bell (whose signature is so familiar in charity
announcements), Miss Darley, Mrs. Mat. Harris,
and Mrs. French, all dressed in black, black and
white, or some shade of complimentary mourning.
Quite a study in men was offered by the little
gathering. There was the Admiral, in white
uniform, with a sort of “I must precede ” gleam
in his stern eye, and jolly flag-lieutenant Stewart,
looking as if precedence was never mentioned at
Admiralty House. Then there was the majestic
and always elegantly-frock-coated “Chief,” with
his fine old Irish visage and his testy way of say-
ing “I can’t heah you.” Then there was a cer-
tain railway light, who had stepped right out of
Trollope with a pink flush on his cheek, bushy
whiskers, a cut-away coat, and a sweet, old-
fashioned smile that you seldom see out of the
novels of ’6O. Among the big men, I noticed
Dr. Roth, once the idol of every ladies’ school in
Sydney—that was in the days when he taught
ladies’ schools where their hearts beat—and re-
gretted he was not allowed to come in his beauti-
ful new uniform. A timid-looking Minister, who
shrank into the shadows of the posts, was the
educative Mr. Hogue, who has been so rushed
with cookery committees that he is beginning to
look on every woman as a deputation.
The leave-taking was melancholy and quiet.
Valets, ladies - maids, and luggage were the
only vice-regal representatives until a little
before five, when cheering broke out in the
crowded streets near the station, and the party
proper came on to the platform. Miss Alice and
Miss Dorothy Brand, in black suits and sailor-
hats, took tearful good-bye of their particular
friend, Miss Darley. Lady Hampden, looking
persistently cheerful, said a few words to everyone
who came near her, but Lord Hampden seemed to
feel the strain very keenly, and once in the train
was not seen to look out again. Her Ex. smiled
bravely to the last, bowing from the window as
the train moved off. The aides and the Hons.
Dorothy and Alice waved from the little platform
till the train was out of sight. Everyone cried,
and the one touch of humor was lent by a lot of
white-ducked police who came in too late and
solemnly did their manoeuvres whep everything
was over.
Another peculiar feature was the absence of
clergymen. Not even Bishop “Bob” put in an
appearance, and the only two representatives of
Registered Holiness who braved the sin of going
to a railway-station on the Sabbath were a Catho-
lic priest and a Jewish Rabbi. I hear that Lord
Hampden was bitterly hurt by the evil-mannered
clerical howl against his Sunday exit. Nothing
that happened in his time of governing vexed him
as much as that ill-bred interference in a free
man’s personal affairs.
Altogether, the week was under a cloud. Pre-
sident Faure’s funeral service at St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral rather deepened the gloom on Friday morning.
Thousands of people thronged to this ; the French
residents out of respect to M. Faure, the mass
of Sydney people because there had been an
announcement that Lady Hampden would be
there. What a horrible thing it was to see a
crush of people falling over each other at the
doorway to get a glimpse of the Governor’s face,
and, as they said loudly enough, “see how he
looked ! ” Lady Hampden spared herself this by
staying away, but Mrs. Admiral Pearson, who sat
in the front seat in deep mourning, looked so like
Her Ex. that the crowd worked off a little of their
diseased curiosity on her.
But saying good-bye to the Nineven was really
the wettest function of a very teary week. Women
of all ages from three to seventy rushed down
Kent-street soon after noon on Friday, and by two
o’clock not only the wharf and the boat itself were
crowded, but all the wool-warehouses near had
windowsful of fluttering figures, and some bold
women even swarmed the rigging of a boat close
at hand.
Talk about Pre-eminent in Grief ! This was a
regular orgie of tears, and sobs, and kisses. In
fact, I noticed many of the Lanceahs taking heart-
broken farewells—of several women. Flags flying,
bands playing martial airs, weeping women,
apguished kisses —do you know, it was quite hard
to believe that our gallant Lanceahs were not
walking straight into a cannon’s jaw. Most of the
coffee-colored brigade were weedy-looking youths
who cried into handkerchiefs without any frill as
the Nineveh moved away.
On the same boat I noticed Mr. Gullett
and that bright, fascinating personality, Mrs.
Gullett, starting on a trip to Europe with two of
their children. Lots of people came down to say
good-bye to the popular S.M. Herald man,
among them Miss Curnow, Mr. Geoffrey Fairfax,
and Mrs. Alex. Oliver and one of her three pretty
daughters. Mr. and Mrs. Edward Sievers were
also farewelled with much vegetable blossom by a
big crowd of friends.
Captain Fielden, Hampden’s Private Secretary,
is going to stay on with the Darleys till the Beau-
champ regime begins, and possibly will then be
taken on the new suite. One young Englishman,
who had been offered a Sydney aideship by Lord
Beauchamp, refused it lately, preferring to go
a\yay to foreign parts and die of fever : which he
did. But surely to be an aide is not as bad as all
that. To keep the fat butcher’s wife from dropping
* n P rom i s 9 u °u B ly to luneh at Govt. House, and to
finesse with impossible people who want to be
asked to vioe-regal dinners, and eat peas with a
knife, and call out “Pass the wine, Jersey” (as
overheard in the Jersey days), is not pleasant work
for a young man. But the atmosphere of great
glory that surrounds him wherever he goes makes
up for forty butchers’ wives—to most young men.
Certainly, it didn’t make up to Arthur Galton ;
but then he was classic and religious, and we don’t
understand that brand of aide out here,
Mr. James Ashton’s marriage with Miss Helen
Willis came off at Sutton Forest last Monday,
Miss Willis, only daughter of the Rev.
Willis, of Sutton Forest, is well-known in Sydney
as a flower-painter, and has often herself figured
on canvas as “ Spring ’’ and other idyllic figures,
She is a fair, nice-looking woman, while the bride-
groom is a dark, Gibsonesque man with a chin,
Another quiet wedding was that of Mrs. Wolsten-
holme and Prof. Anderson on Friday, March 3.
This happy pair are spending their honeymoon in
a house-boat on the Hawkesbury.
Mrs. Theodore Boesen’s friends have fixed on
Thursday, March 10, tor their farewell evening to
that popular lady. The event comes off at Needs’
rooms, and is to be chiefly musical, I understand,
Another fixture is Miss Darclie’s (of the Sydney
D.T.) lecture on the Mental Science Movement, at
Vickery’s Chambers, Tuesday, March 14.
T . - - ,
u “ to ‘
23““* the booking is so we 1 ahead By the
y ’ 1 9 r ®.^ ias been a_ lot of talk about the right)
Pronunciation of Geisha. Somebody who had
been to Japan said they called it Gyesha there-
T 1 . 1 ? oun<^ ». b ]?* this must have been an
Australian who carried (in his ear) the sound of
give the byeby some kyke ” into the Japanese
tea-rooms. Then frilly people, who talk about the
“ p i a rno,” started to call it Geesha. People who
know say it’s Gaisha, to rhyme with Asia. But
that is t h e hardest sound for Sydney to make,
ti „ ™ n lim. „
JLT j™ Tbe Geisha
} hea £ng, Perhaps because
one knows what to expect People who have seen
S nd Zrt UC ?° n Perrv is
? Sy ? ney - pubh °’
t 0
heart t ?lf un .sS d G q Hy By the way, that
? Tlthera^ e ’ went out of
tbe blU A last wee >’ and 18 n ? w ° n berway to Lon-
don’ As a parting souvenir the company gave her
Jw Fnday ’ m ‘
Ber ( lb ® d W 1? G °° d lu ° k t 0 rom*y-
-bast Lynne is running this week at the
Lyceum—if anything so slow and weepy can be
saic * to r 9 n - M . ISS Burdette dresses Lady Isabel
“ Potterishly ” in deep pink silk, with a black lace
T* a
black sash at the back Her shapeless brown vel-
gown, with a line of lace down the side, is just
e sort of s oppy garment to be miserable in. The
" tlred dr f“ sllp l al °? g
unnoticed, but the scenery arrests one sharply.
F ° r I , n « tance ’., m l Archibald Carlyle s house there is
a 9ftain mantelpiece draped with white and tooth-
af you can’t forget if you have seen
° nc f Laer ° n ’ “Francis Levison’s house
“ any mdes . aw ?y> thls same mantelpiece and
drapery mysteriously appear again. Did Lady
Isabel take them with her when she eloped with
Francis ? East Lynne as a modern woman might
do anything, so curious are the feats she performs
i n the antique.
m. , , ~ ,
The modern woman, however would have com-
f lltt ? d sm ? d ? f m place °, f I f b ® lB domestic death,
f ° r real .h fe ™ ans tendency to suicide is
grOWmg Vlslbly ’ This may be a sign that women
the sSicMe" £
Ltmf "tf bee^ B^
Vhomrae, and £ man who refused
{u b ® chur f e .f’. J £ dg H in f by his . conversation at
Craig of Hanley. To the coroner he said, “In a
conversation that occurred in an expansive moment
during the festive season I most foolishly let it
transpire that if she had remained in England it
wa s possible I might have married her; but
twenty years alter circumstances.” Well, so they
do ! But if twenty years couldn’t cure a woman
of a tender regard for a man who could “let it
transpire, ” had “ expansive moments ” and “ con-
versations that occurred,” the verdict of unsound
mind is the best explanation of poor Miss Devine’s
suicide.
“ The Work Girl” at the Theatre Royal is a
s t ran g e SO rt of drama, in which a girl who has had
a great deal of trouble always comeson with a
llt | le L It looks as y if her trouble was
wrappe P d up in that litt i e bit of brown paper, and
1 dee J ly disappo inted to find that she Aever
opened it p A the au dience. Miss Ida
Gresham gets the only frock in the play—a white
satin bridal gown, without any distinct features,
Agile Amy Gourlay seems to come into the piece
by accident, but the audience could have done
with more of her clever, dainty dancing, in a black
and scarlet frock. Miss Ada Guilford, who
dropped dead in an old brown frock and bonnet,
and Miss Marian Medway as a wioked French
dressmaker in slate silk, owe their first appearance
to this play. The former, like most people who
die early, promised well. But the shadow of a
huge Hebrew, undertaken by Mr. J. P. O’Neill,
rests heavy on the piece, and after the Jew in
“After Dark’’and the Jew in “Formosa,” and
other Jews in other recent plays, who all say
“Slippery Solomon” and “Jumping Moses,” as
no good Jew ever does, one gets weary of Israel,
Maroh is pointing at the winter Fashions rather
derisively. All sorts of extremes are going to
rule. Hats are to be small and trimmed with soft
bunches of quills combining plumage from the
breast and tail of different birds, or with ostrich-
feathers. Small white felts, and a round shape
worn well on the forehead and trimmed with
black feathers, are commendable, and the felt
sailors surrounded with rows and rows of
black velvet will take on chicness from black
and white waved wings. Dark purples, pale
mauves, peaoh, turquoise and very deep red, may
all go on to a toque together, while the
queerest dead blues and impossible browns will
mix up with tomatoes and a variety of green tints.
In writing, these look raw. In reality, they are
the fulfilment of the season’s most aesthetic
dreams. Lace and jet embroideries will appear
on all smart confections, and the applique cloth
on glac6 is another note that is going to be loudly
struck. In evening sleeves there is a choice
between two —one small, round, and very short;
and the other of lace cut in one with a mitten,
and held on the shoulders by straps of ribbons or
jewels. Shot, shaded velvet and ehirui ribbons
will be used as waistbands, cravats and revers,
until the ribbon craze will be as dead as only a
past fashion can be. In materials, plain cashmeres,
cloths, and braids, and fabrics stripped in bayadere
fashion with velvet take the lead. The general out-
line of the female figure has now to become narrower
and narrower, giving a winding-tower effect to
those whose avoirdupois permits. Stitching is
still one of fashion’s dearest idols. On the blouse
it takes the form of tuckings flat, round, or fanci-
ful. Indeed, the blouse of the hour is a simple
thing of glace or corded silk, tucked all over its
front, its back, and on the top of the sleeve, and
with no other decoration than a set of round cut
crystal buttons down the front, shirt-fashion. In
jewellery, pearls still hold their own, but the deep
collar has driven out the simple pearl rope. To
sum-up, if you want to be smart this winter your
hat must owe its charms to a fowl-yard, your
bodice must be connected with as many arctic
animals as possible, and your skirt mus+ —
positively must —suggest snakes.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Madden - Osborne wedding was gone
through with on the advertised date, smoothly but
inglonously. Beforehand those interested industri-
ously circulated the statement that, spectacularly
speaking, the function was to be as theatrical and
expensive as the turning-off of sister Sylvia. In
answer to this, old hands said all along, ‘ Once
bitten twice shy ! ’ More than one Melb. mother
has never smiled again since the bills for the
first trousseau in her family came in.
“As a rule, when there’s a quiverful of
daughters, each bride of the bunch is got rid of
more cheaply than her predecessor, till at last the
youngest of all gladly compounds for an evening
bridal, ‘ ’cause you know one’s things look so much
better by artificial light. ’ The more recent Mad-
den bride changed her name in white satin, its
silk-embroidered chiffon overskirt vandyked and
edged with silk fringe. The usual lilliputian lisse
frills overflowed the underslip, tulle ruches lined
the not-unfamiliar satin train, and a bow of tulle
and silk-fringe adorned one corner thereof. Em-
broidered chiffon sleeves were cut short at. the
wearer’s well-nourished elbows, and her nine
maids also pursued traditional Madden tactics and
bared their upper chests to the breezes. These
last carried be-daisied (it was a ‘ Daisy Wedding ’)
gold-tipped, white Empire sticks, wore wreaths
of white roses and heather, and buckled white
satin ribbon round their throats, with the bride-
groom’s pearl and turquoise souvenirs.
“The Chief Justice’s eldest daughter showed
herself a believer in the ‘blood-thicker-than-water’
adage. Every one of her nine bridesmaids was
either a relative or a connection. One of them,
Miss Aileen Rowan, her cousin, is a gentle, rather
demure-looking damsel, fair as a lily and possessed
of the daintiest hands extant. Her mother, Mrs.
Andrew Rowan, was the dark-eyed belle of the
Stephen family in her day ; but at this stage, Lady
Madden and Mrs. Bingham, comparatively slight
and youthful of figure, have the best of it.
“ Never was there such a jabberwocky bride as
Chief Justice Madden’s eldest duckling. There
was none of your blushing, bashful coyness about
Miss Daisy Madden. She chattered to her father
all the way from the carriage to the altar, and she
chattered to her brand-new hubby all the way
from the altar to the carriage. She seemed to
take it all as a matter of course, as who should
say, ‘A wedding? Certainly! What a lark!
Let’s go and have one ! ’ Being a chubby, sub-
stantial, jolly-looking woman, she more than filled
the bill, and as all her friends say she is the best-
tempered girl in the world, her spouse should
regard himself as rather a lucky dog.
“Be recent wedding; no ‘maidens’ tribute’
was forthcoming this time. ‘ Girls of Victoria ’
skulked in their fastnesses, and never let the word
‘ tiara ’ pass their lips. However, a doating bride-
groom supplied the deficiency; his bride bought
herself a necklet with her various presentation
cheques; some sassiety matrons clubbed together
and gave her a gemmed ‘Daisy’ pendant, so,
despite the stingy spinsters aforesaid, Mrs.
Osborne need not face the world unbediamonded.
“We are, shortly, to have a genuine member of
the British Beerage here, on a long visit to Gov.
Brassey and, probably, as a member of his staff.
Lord Hindlip (real name Allsopp, head of the
‘ pale ale ’ family) is a young fellow of 22, whose
grandfather was made a peer because he had made
a fortune out of his brewery. It is understood
that he is coming in cask, and will be bottled and
labelled by Brassey, Nevill and Co., the importers.
Hindlip is unmarried and is a millionaire, so there
is a chance for somebody who is not above taking
on a brewer. Up to the present he has done
nothing to distinguish himself, though a son of
Allsopp’s ale ought to have ‘a head on him.’
“Grace Noble, in face and figure, is strikingly
like Eva Moore (wife of H. V. Esmond, the author
of the comedy) who played the leading part in
‘One Summer’s Day,’ in London. Everybody
notices the improvement in Miss Noble since she
was last out here. Her voice is not so up-on-the-
roofish ; it is even a beautiful voice now, that
gives pleasure to a fastidious ear. She always was
graceful, and is a kissy little person all through.
“It seems that some women have found in
Carne, of the Brough co., a successor to Julius
Knight, Charles Thursby, and Charlie Ryley.
The present scribe sat beside a group of three in
the Princess Theatre stalls during ‘ One Summer’s
Day.’ One opened fire: ‘Oh, I sy, Carne isn’t in
the piece. ’ ‘ Isn’t he ? Oh, what a shyme. ’ ‘ Isn’t
he a love ? ’ ‘ He’s a darling of a man.’ ‘ Lovely,
I think.’ ‘Yes,’ said the other girl, capping the
comments, ‘ and they sy he’s quite a gentleman—
not like an actor at all.’ There, now ! Also, his
front name is Joseph.
“ How would matinees fare for audiences if
there were no mummers dying to kill their spare
daylight time? Frances Ross sported powder-
pink blouse, with lots of black baby ruches, and
plumed Trelawney hat, at that Bijou charity
function t’other Saturday. Styan, of same co.,
was on view, too, and Beauteous Baker, in tan
vest and dull-blue tie. Napoleon Boffard, giving
a hand with the programme, affected cameo sleeve-
studs, pale-grey pants with sad-seam stripes,
diamond ring, and moire-antique vest; this last
calling up thoughts of Wilkie Collins’ plump
foreigner Fosco, of the wonderful waistcoats.
“Benefit entertainments fall heavily on a cer-
tain section of the community. And the plot
thickens. Not only is a generous public asked
to assist a beneficiare to develop his or her'talents
abroad, but circulars invite recipients to state how
much they are prepared to contribute to the sup-
port of the absentee’s dear ones.
“Peacock, of the steam-hooter laugh, took the
chair when Sir Evelyn Oakeley, the English In-
spector-General of Training Colleges, lectured to
the Melb. teachers on education. Being Minister
of Education, and presiding over a meeting of
educational experts, Peacock was, naturally, more
than usually incoherent, vague, rambling, and
ungrammatical. He called the lecturer ‘ our dis-
tinguished visitor ’ thirteen times. Once he made
a dash for the lecturer’s name, and called him ‘ Sir
Evelyn Wood,’pronouncing the front name with
the first syllable like the beginning of ‘ heavenly ’
or ‘heavy.’ Then, when everybody laughed, he
returned to ‘ our distinguished visitor, ’ and stuck
to it. ‘ Good Lord ! ’ groaned a school-teacher,
‘ and that’s my Ministerial chief ! ’ It really was
rather a sad exhibition.
“The Dental College, whose founder, E. L.
Oldfield, has had to play a lone hand against a
combination of all the other leading dentists in
Melbourne, can now show particular cause for the
rancour of its male opponents. Oldfield started
with the intention of leading Australian women
dentists into the field, and four of his fair students
have got there at last, duly qualified for the fray.
This, in spite of a recent Act of Parliament, which
looks uncommonly like a paltry device for ‘ killing
the nerve ’ of Oldfield’s College, and clearing the
way for a later college, set up by the combination
of rival practitioners aforesaid. It would seem
that the influence operating against the original
Dental College was not so strong as the influence
at the back of the four lady pupils. They were
able to pass their exam, with the Melb. Dental
Board ere—only a few hours ere—the Board could
get its anti- Oldfield Bill passed through the
Assembly.
“Motives apart, women are bom cultivators,
while men in a garden shine only as destroyers.
Poor Mother Eve ! Fancy her having to‘honor
and obey’ that stupid Adam, while he fussed
round ‘ pruning and restraining ’ (vide Milton) the
beauties.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
I*
CIGARETTES.
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
I or Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will be sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocor,, Limited, Sydney.
“ Sherlock Holmes ” outri vailed. Any
reader wanting news of a missing relative, or a
copy of a will, certificate of birth, etc., or needing
a delicate inquiry made, had better write to J. W.
Holdsworth, the leading Melb. inquiry agent.*
“A man’s a man for a’ that” that buys
and advises his friends to buy their electro-plated
ware, table and pocket cutlery, cooking stoves,
ranges, and household ironmongery from M‘Lean
Bros. & Rigg Ltd., Elizabeth-st., Melbourne,
and George-st., Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
ver’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
TO CURE SORE EYES.
A-pplt Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
Tlie Famous French
Chocolate.
IPcotaf-ißEniEg
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
TF. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 Oeorye-.it., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Note that in Hori Grey’s will it was
“Dame ” Grey and not “ Lady ” Grey that was
mentioned.
Of course, Dubberke has many offers
of marriage. Both the reformer and the scamp
•re after her.
Thomas Giles, among the best-known of
fi. A. pioneer squatters, who died lately, introduced
waerinoes to that province.
Armand, a French compositor still engaged
in Advertiser office, Adelaide, fought in
the Eureka Stockade beside Peter Lalor.
Anglican Bishop Camidge gets his pas-
toralstaff c?arried before him by rectors, thereby
inciting whispers that he, too, is facing Romeward.
A Melbourne scribe
tells » touching anecdote
ef “Buck Montgomery,” the
bold burglar hanged at
Sydney some years ago, in
cpmpany with his mate, Wil-
liams, for a brutal attack on
the Union Co’s safe—and for
hitting a policeman on the head
in his struggle to escape. The
scribe was present one night at
» big fight at the Cumberland
Club in Exhibition-street, and,
after the final tap of the gong,
he stayed behind with the
manager to write up his copy.
The “gate,” amounting to over
-2GOO, had been stowed away in
the iron safe in the manager’s
room, and only heand the inkist
remained in the building. After
some minutes the manager
went out to keep an appoint-
ment previously made, and did
not return for about an hour—at the
end of which time the scribe had
written his last slip. He left for
the office just as the manager came
back, and 50 yards up the street- encoun-
tered Montgomery with two other men.
Buck, ’ with whom the pressman
was acquainted, stopped him with
a gesture, indicating pity rather than
anger. “Well, Mr. Blank,” he re-
marked, “you’re. a dead nark, and no
mistake.” The journalist was puzzled ;
“m W y° n mean ? ” he inquired.
Why, me and my two mates were just
goin in to bust that bloomin’ tank, and here
yon go and spoil the whole thing. One of the
ehaps was on for giving you a tap on the ’ead, but
1 wasn t going to have anything like that. But
you beat us out of a good haul, and no mistake.”
And Montgomery went off shaking his head and
meditating on the hollowness of life.
Premier Kingston's friends are anxious
about his health. Always “ a tiger for work,” his
extra duties over the big Harrold insolvency case
have been such that his medical man forecasts
breakdown unless he takes rest. With a big
Assembly election pending, Kingston’s health and
vigor mean much to S.A. Democrats.
Wilson, the teacher and ex-clergyman,
suspected of Oxley murder, comes of one of the
best county families in Westmoreland. The name
Larus is one that has been used in the family
for generations. Charlotte Bronte was at school
at Oasterton. and Mr. Brooklehurst, in “Jane
Jtyre, was the Rev. Carus Wilson, of Casterton
HaU, grandfather of the arrestee.
When an Oxford student, N.S. Wales’
incoming Governor plumed himself on theological
proficiency and was remonstrated with for some of
, opinions by the Bishop of Worcester,
where the Beauchamp seat is situated. The
young theologian stood to his guns, however, and
proved to his own satisfaction that the Bishop
knew little or nothing about the matter in dispute.
JOHNS, WICKET-KEEP FOR THE REST OF
AUSTRALIA, who is to be picked for the team
alter the test-matches.
Premier Reid is seldom in the Chamber
when members are attacking him. On such occa-
Mons he may be found in the refreshment-room
swallowing oysters. Then he returns to the
Chamber with the air of a man who has demolished
all opposition. Under criticism, the Premier is
an inveterate interrupter—he cannot help it, he
says. He adds that, aware of his failing, he often
leaves the room so that the other man may have
his say.
Wrongly stated in the daily prints that
W. P. MacGregor was the first chairman of the
•Broken Hill Proprietary. He wasn’t on the first
board, which consisted of Geo. M'Culloch, Bowes
Kelly, Harvey Patterson, K. E. Brodribb, W.
Jamieson, W. A. Horn, J. W. Bakewell, W. R.
Wilson, and S. T. Hawkins. Scotch mostly in
mi? b ®? l J min ,£’ t,le company has kept so ever since,
lbe Macs ’are so numerous that in the share-
holders' lists they aren’t put under the “M’s”
but have a few pages to themselves, and the
Glasgie holding has gone on steadily increasing
since Alexander Stewart came out to take charge!
Among the English New Year Q.C.-ships
was a certain Butler Cole Aspinall—a relative of
the Butler Cole Aspinall who furnished Australia
with a repertoire of forensic and other anecdotes.
James Ashton, M.L.A. (N.S. W.), who the
other day married Miss Helen Willis, takes for
father-in-law the most pronounced clerical advo-
cate of Henry George’s land-tax ideas in Aus-
tralia. The Rev. Mr. Willis spent a generation as
Anglican parson in Manly.
Gov. Lamington, holidaying to Tasmania,
is a travelled Thane who loves frequent change of
scene. He has “done” the Far East minutely,
and America from North to South. He is still
under 40. His father wrote a heroic poem, called
“The Morea,” described by critics as the very
worst in the English language.
AT THE ART SHOW.
ARTIST (explaining) : “ Of course, you will per-
ceive that the trees in my picture are all young
ones.”
CRITIC (with a wink): “No harm in that, old
man. They'll probably be old enough by the
time you sell it. ”
Marshall Hall has legally abandoned the
title of “Hymns Ancient and Modern ” for the
giddy little book of “ pomes ’’ —wise and foolish—
that set the Melb. parsons shrieking for his blood
six months ago. The original edition of 400 or
500 copies bearing the pirated title, which were on
sale for a few days only, will be valuable in
the dim future as curiosities of Australian litera-
ture. By the way, why doesn’t the Prof, re-
christen the book “Hymns—and Hers?”
The Marquis of Normanby, when Governor
of Queensland, once gave a more-or-less Parlia-
mentary dinner, at which—men were topers in
those days—one noted Leg. Councillor laid his
ears back at every drink that came along. Just
as the ladies left the room, he became quite un-
conscious of where he was, kicked off his shoes,
tilted back his chair, and propped his “ stocking-
feet ”on the mahogany. All that the shocked
Marquis could say was, “Shank God, the ladish
have left.”
Obit. At Vale Head, Molong,
N.S. W., through an accident, Henry Samuel
Marsden Betts, grandson of parson Mars-
den of the “System” time. Vale Head
was a grant to and was farmed by the par-
son, per deputy. The house in its earlier
days was a pub., kept by Cobden, brother
of the Corn Law reformer; he lies buried
in a neglected spot on the bank of the
Molong river.
A certain modeller, who did well out
of his artistic likeness of old-man Parkes on
a plaque which sold freely, got Premier
Reid to give him a sitting, and modelled
a companion-plaque of Parkes’s successor.
But the poor artist knew nothing of poli-
tics, and so made the mistake of offering
his work for sale in the wrong quarters.
Utterly depressed by the receptions he
got, he turned up at a Government office
with—“No more Giorgio Reida. He no
sella at all. I offer ze plaque eferywhere,
and they all wanta kicka mea.”
One Australian gaol-doctor who has always
been agog for information from prisoners, cease-
lessly plied with questions a certain smart youth
when the latter was under remand for murder,
introducing each “ loaded ” query with some such
formula as—“ In the interests of medical science,
can you tell me? ’’ or “ As a medical man I would
like to know. ” For a while the accused fenced
with him, but the sneaky Sawbones was not to be
denied, and was finally referred by the youth to
“my solicitor.” Needless to say, the doctor’s
curiosity had to remain unsatisfied.
Defective Dungey, the ally of Dora Brom-'
,n fheir “ abortion ” trap—the man whom the
Vic. Crown is now shielding from trial —was
specially chosen to conduct the girl Dubberke
back to her friends.
One of the saddest incidents attaching to
the death of young Geoffrey Brand was Premier
1 urners telegram to Lord Hampden : “I tender
His Excellency and family sincere sympathy in
your sad bereavement.”
Gossiped in Adelaide that Judge Bundey’s
probable early retirement will leave an opening
for John Downer to step up There has not been
a vacant S.A. judgeship since the popular Bun-
dey s appointment in 1884.
The other afternoon, Rev. Dr. Roseby, on
leaving Farmer’s baths, Sydney Domain, found
that his watch, worth .£5O, had disappeared. Soinl
scoundrel has probably taken and sold it and
given the proceeds to the poor.
How many Bendigo pioneers are left ?
Another has just gone—Richard Smith, who
quitted law to dig for gold, and with some of the
proceeds bought a few acres in what is now the
heart of Bendigo. Then he quitted mining for
winemaking, left that for broking, and at 70 en-
rolled as a student in assaying, etc., at the local
ochool of Mines. He got his “pass ’’ certificate,
too.
N.S.W. Justice Mathew Henry Stephen,
now in his 71st year and in indifferent health, was
the first native of Australia called to the Aus-
tralian Bar. He was born at Hobart, and began
money-earning as associate to his father, Alfred
Stephen, at the age of 17. He received no Uni-
versity education, but studied classics under the
famous Cape, in what is now Sydney Grammar
School.
Forrest (YV.A.) and Braddon (Tas.) are
the only Australian Premiers entitled to draw
pensions when they fall from political grace. Both
will draw on Imperial warrant—Braddon for ser-
vices abroad, and Forrest for services in W.A. ere
Responsible Government was granted. The other
Australian Premiers will, when the evil day
comes, have to get back into collar and tackle the
world anew.
A Winimera district (Vic.) curiosity died
lately—Harry Franklin. He once held a good
slice of land just outside Warracknabeal. Having
no relatives bandy, and desiring that he should
leave no property behind him, it was his life
problem to make the proceeds from the sale of
the land just “ see him out.” He sold bit by bit;
if he got the idea that ho was booked for a long
life, he lived sparingly ; if he got that tired feel-
ing, he began to live as riotously as a hermit can.
In the end he didn’t make a thorough good job
of it; for when they took him to the hospital to
die, he still had his house and a patch near it.
When he wasn’t figuring out the probabilities of
the case Franklin was mostly reading Greek
authors in the original.
W. P. MacGregor, just deceased, for many
years chairman of B.H. Proprietary, personally
fixed up the first two of the three strikes which
the Barrier has had. The miners liked dealing
with him ; he was bluff, would drink whisky with
their representatives, and could box and “ wrastle”
and that went a long way. After promptly
settling the first strike, he invited the burly
Sleath, then miners’ president, to a bout; they
began it, but soon adjourned for drinks. ’ Mac-
Gregor was still on the board during the disas-
trously-prolonged strike of ’92, but was by that
time taking little part in the management. After
floating Silverton Tramway Co.’s Bill through
N.S.W. Parliament, he at once left the House,
taking with hitn an abiding contempt for politi-
cians ; but, then, he had only personal experience
of the unpaid variety—of the sort unpaid by the
State, anyhow. He made but one speech to his
constituents j that lasted about 10 minutes—and
was about anything but the burning political
questions of the moment.
Ex-Goveruor Bowen, whose
death at 78 is cabled, has stamped
his name, or that of his first wife on
many parts of Australia. Bowen
town, Bowen Creek, Bowen Mount;
Roma (his wife’s maiden name—she
was daughter of Count Roma, a
Greek senator); Diamantina, that
lady’s Christian name; and others.
The ex-Governor married, lately, a
Mrs. White, widow of a clergyman
and daughter of Thomas Luby, the
well-known Dean of Trinity College,
Dublin. Poor old Bowen ! Q.
backblocks tell no end of stories
(most apocryphal) about him, and
there are some lovely Melbourne
yarns about his adventures in quest
of petticoats. One in particular,
about a certain fracas in the Botani-
cal Gardens, is too well-known to
need printing.
It does not follow that because Indian
healers and quack doctors were turned away
in crowds from Kipling’s house in New
York, they had no reason to expect a wel-
come. As a matter of fact, Kipling had
immense faith both in the colored man’s
medicine and in his occult science. When in
Melb. he used to tell fortunes by the hand, and
tell them marvellously well; also describe strange
people’s pasts. When questioned upon this re-
markable power he used to reply : “I come from
India, you know. What I do is nothing, abso-
lutely nothing, to what a clever Hindoo can
accomplish.”
WANTED
SHIFTING
DOWN.
HUSBAND : “My
dear, isn’t your
dress a trifle low
for your style of
beauty?”
WIFE: “No, pet!
My style of beauty
is a trifle high for
my dress!”
The late
David Blair
was one of a
band of a dozen young
men whom Dr. Lang im-
ported about 1850 for the
purpose of spreading cul-
ture and refinement over
Australia. Mr. Blair came
to N.S. W. ; but the knowing
young Irishman quickly dis-
covered either that it was hopeless to
cultivate the Cornstalk, or that it was
unnecessary to gild refined gold, so he
departed soon after to Melbourne, where
his subsequent career is a familiar story.
In illustration of his extraordinary energy and
capacity for grappling with several subjects at
once, the following is told by a personal friend of
his. While travelling in a railway carriage one
day with Mr. Blair, the latter bought a Ballarat
paper from a newsboy, opened it and exclaimed,
“Good! That’s seven.” “Seven what?” asked
his friend. “ Seven leading-articles by me to-day
in different Victorian newspapers,” was the proud
reply.
Isaac Hart, who died the other day, was
about the last survivor of Melbourne’s early
merchant capitalists. He is said to have landed
at Port Phillip in 1840, and to have retired from
business 14 years later with a big pile.
Sir John Cecil Read, Bart., died in Syd-
ney last week, aged 79. He had in his time dis-
pensed much hospitality, in his capacity as
Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol. He was a
humane, placid old gentleman, quite unspoilt by
his villainous surroundings ; but The Bulletin
could never quite size-up the strength of his
claim to a baronetcy, in that the one to which he
aspired seems to have become extinct long ago—
so extinct that an ancestor of deceased failed in a
legal attempt to revive it. Also, the old gentle-
man’s name is not given among the list of
baronets in the books generally consulted on such
subjects.
JIM KELLY , WICKET-KEEP FOR THE ELEVEN,
who scored 102, not out, against the Rest of Australia.
Glassey, M.L.A., and his opponent,
Powers, have one thing in common. They will
“ mag the head off ” anyone on the slightest
provocation.


. Brewed from the finest English grain, and bottled in England.
Holbrook’S Vipcgar.
Mr. WILL A. DIXON, F.1.C., F.C.S., SYDNEY, ANALYST UNDER THE
PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, WRITES AS lOLLOWS:
I find that it is a ‘ Pure Malt Vinegar ’ of the highest quality and strength, being quite
free from Mineral Acids or other Deleterious Matters. ’
Holbrook’S Vipegar.
Beware of Common and Low-Priced Vinegars—they are most injurious.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SiLK STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt.-*
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, ft’la id.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriginalities.
“ A.D.” : It was a lonely bullock-team
swearing at itself that made me wait while it
came over the bridge. “Whoa back, Darkie !
Gid up ! Whoa yer! !! ” The dray swung
Serenely over the joints of the bridge, keeping well
in the middle of the road. Not a sign of a driver
anywhere ! My wonderment turned to positive
awe at the sight of this phantom dray that cursed
and bully-damned itself over hard ruts and casual
bridges. Also, there wasn’t a tree or a bush
handy that might cover a ventriloquial bullocky.
A piercing whistle halted the lean, black team
within a yard of me. Peeped over into the dray
and saw a green African parrot cocking an inquisi-
tive eye at the sun. When I nodded and asked if
he wasn’t ashamed of hisself for swearing at the
tired “plates of meat,” he preened himself furi-
ously and screamed a discourteous blanky ; after
which he settled himself on the seat of the dray
and unloosed the vials of his wrath on the sweat-
ing team. Drawing aside, I permitted the beasts
of the field and the bird of the air to pass. Later
on a travelling cocky informed me that the dray
and parrot were owned by a disreputable sleeper-
getter named Jim, who stayed at the pub washing
hisself in beer while the poor, neglected bird took
his place on the dray and said things to the
bullocks.
* * * *
About 18 months ago the editor of a way-
back Vic. paper was misinformed of the death of
a far-out mallee farmer, an old identity named
Peter A . Peter’s history, incorporated with
that of the district and of the paper, was there-
upon hashed up in obituary-form, and a marked,
black-edged copy posted to the supposed widow.
Peter himself received the paper from the post
and was the first to read the harrowing account of
his own alleged illness and sacredly peaceful
demise. The effect was disastrous; he moped
around the pubs, for a few days “ like a lost soul,”
and one evening galloped out of town with a
heavy cargo of liquor aboard and a copy of the
fatal paper in his pocket, to be seen no more alive.
Next morning the horse reached home with the
rider’s dead body dangling from the stirrup.
GOV. HAMPDEN—A FAREWELL LIKENESS.
Photo., Alba Studios, Strand, Sydney.
Bill son came up to the prospecting party
on the range, and told them there was a dead
Chinaman in the creek down at the Pool.
“ What’d we best do about it ?” asked Billson.
“ Leave him where he is,” said Rivers, bitterly,
“ There was a Chow died in a hut near where 1
was working along by Swift’s Creek last summer.
I went across an ran the rule over him, an fixed
him up for buryin ,an didn t find a cent. Then
the police came up, an found Jrtypd|«h,s
mattiess. Leave lm where he is there am t any
gratitude in a dead Chow.
• • * *
n.,(. r... ™ .
But Ilom an OICI rijian letter .
The boatmen were pulling along the coast, and, the
bovs being knocked up, I stayed one night at the late
Jackv Sibley’s. We were made very welcome, and
ushered into the main room of the large thatched build-
ing. Tied to the roof-pole, a strapping native woman was
blubbering like a child. Seeing my look of surprise,
Jackv explained : “That’s my last wife. She wants to
run away, but I’m damned if she does—too much trouble
going after them. You see, my seventh cleared out last
week, and I can’t get her back '; but that’s all right, for I
bought her off a chief, and according to their law he has
to return her or her nearest female relative; that’s a
married sister, but I’ll have her—it’s the Law. “ You’ve
got a large familyV” I suggested, tentatively. “Four-
teen wives, all good workers. What’s a man to do for
labor in these parts if he don’t get women ? ”
• m * •
Melb’s pote, Purtell, evokes a rival,
Michael Egan, who also comes out in penny bits.
His woeful ballad is “ The Gatton Tragedy,” in
12 such stanzas as—
“ R.H.” : Be sym-
pathy and fellow-feel-
ing. On the Castle-
reagh (N.S.W.) once
met a one-eyed travel-
ler with two one-eyed
horses and a one-eyed
dog.
* * *
The mo,stly> Afghan
Bourke Carrying Co.,
which has been having
so much trouble with
its imported 24-poun-
ders, owns 360 camels,
all working lately at
high pressure.
One little com-
plaint of the often-
gaoled recalcitrant Af-
ghan drivers of Bourke
is that all the meat
eight of ’em had for
one fortnight was an
aged billy-goat. An-
other, that they were
given a diseased camel
to eat. Boss Abdul
Wade scorned the first,
and, as for the camel,
he declared that it only
had a bad leg. “We
often eat camel-flesh,”
he added.
Camels have got
jo much of the cream
of the carrying trade
out - back (N. S. W.)
during the past four
years, and their end
of the trade goes on
increasing so rapidly,
that at least two Aus-
tralian firms which
have hitherto depend-
ed wholly on bullock
and horse teams are
scouring the country
for camels — and alien
drivers. The very
cheap, colored man is
quite half the attrac-
tion.
“ Olaf Trygvasen ” re backblocks morality:
“ Central ” says (B. 25/2/’99) that he finds as a rule
Germans exhibit more laxity as to morals and decency
than Australians or Britishers, and in support relates how
parents and children of Germans sleep in one room up to
the age of 2 o or so—how the women dress in one garment
only _ and that he was once offered a bed, if he did not
m ; nd B i ee ping with the children of the house—a boy of 7,
ftnd a .j of 10 Although no Germanphile myself, Ido
not ]ike tQ see them libelled unju stly. To the pure every-
p Ure> hence the innocent and good-natured
German woman—ignorant of the impure and hypocritical
soul (?) that dwelt in “ Central’s ” body—offered him a bed
occupied by her son and daughter. Sleeping in one
room is undoubtedly reprehensible-apart from the moral
aspect of the case; but how many thousands of pool
Australians allow their boys and girls to sleep together in
one room, long after puberty, although they occupy
separate rooms themselves, and thus have no oversight
over their children at night. Look at the Maoris in the
King Country, and where they have not been con-
taminated by the Britishers. Several families often sleep
in one long room together, and “ immorality is unknown,
The references made by “Central to the clothing ot
German women show that to the impure everything is
impure ; no wonder crime is rampant in the bush while
such as “ Central ” are allowed to roam at large without
handcuffs and leg-irons.
WILD CAT ITEM.—WAITING FOR A RISE.
“ 0.P.” : “Old Forty” kept a shanty
atYarrawanga (Murray River) in the 60’s, and
boasted that no one with a cheque once within
reasonable range ever evaded him. On one occa-
sion a man named Bill was reported as under way
from a neighboring station with a three-figured
cheque. A later report announced Bill’s having
been sighted off Mother Burke’s, going strong.
Forty then bet a fiver with Bill’s overseer, who
had brought the report, that Bill would be no ex-
ception to his rule. Presently Bill was seen
rounding the bend, and Forty got behind the
door and peeped. Bill came on, looking neither
to right nor left. Bill was passing. Bill had
passed ! Forty rushed out and over, and down
went Bill with a thud. Slowly then he rose with
murder in his eye. Forty stood . apparently
astounded for a moment, and then cried, “ Good
Gawd !—why, it’s you, Bill. .Thought it was a
joker that owed me a fiver. Orful sorry, ole
man. Cumnavadrink.” And that was the finan-
cial end of Bill.
“ T.W.M.” : The
recently-introduced Q.
Aborigines Protection
Act compels all and
sundry (excepting sta-
tion - managers of the
genus “combo”) to
either marry or get rid
of their dusky Kitties
and Pollies. An intelli-
gent half-caste recently
wished to wed a black
damsel in the employ-
ment of a well-known
squatter’s family, but
her employers objected;
and when the swain
was on his way to claim
her, he was set upon by
two of the squatter’s
friends and so severely
handled that the nup-
tials had to be post-
poned for a week, at
end of which, however,
Adonis discovered that
the lady had been
packed off to a station
100 miles away.
* * *
“ Basalt ” : Had
occasion, at Charters
Towers, once to prose-
cute two men for cut-
ting out the brands from
living cows. Defence
was that they had ap-
plied a tick - mixture
which had cut out the
brands ; but, as it must
also have cut out the
ear-marks, the Bench
wasn't taking any—to
the extent of a month’s
gaol.
* * *
“ Terrick ” tells a
tracking story :
The Gatton outrage re-
calls an experience with
“ trackers.” I was taking
a mob of horses along the
Condamine, and, as usual,
allowed the pack-horse to
trot on ahead with the
others. They turned round
a clump of brigalow, and
when the darkie and I got
there they had vanished.
Attempted to trail them,
but found place one mass
of horse - tracks, old and new, for miles. So we
separated, to each look in a different direction. After
an all-day’s futile hunt, we went to a neighboring’
station for the night, and next morning, after a couple of
hours, came across the mob. The pack was underneath
the horse, and much damaged by stumps, but the tucker
was all right, so we boiled the billy. Were camping after
our meal when seven policemen appeared—only two in
uniform, and one of those a tracker. It appeared that,
on previous evening, a cockie had seen, as he thought, a
horse with a man dragging along underneath, and imme-
diately rode into the township and informed the police.
The conclusion was jumped to that the supposed man
was a young fellow who had started out some hours before
on a lively horse. The police accordingly set out with a
tracker, but not till next day did the latter drop on to a
bit of woollen stuff on a stick with horse-tracks on each
side. Another couple of hours’ tedious tracking brought
them to where the horse had evidently been stopped by
somebody, for there was the mark of a boot-heel, and,
further on, they came to where several horses and men
had been standing. Tracks then struck out in a straight
line and joined a lot more, and half-a-mile further on they
found _ u J s j That cockie basn > t heard the ]aBt 0 f that
•‘ man ”yet.
* » * *
Von Kotze arises “to curse the lament-
able dogmata of your medical correspondent under
the mosquito-net ”
j n g ou t b America they call a jamboree a “ mosquitero
Inglese” (or words to that effect)—viz., first half of the
night, man too drunk to feel mosquitoes ; second half,
mosquitoes too drunk to bite. But, alas ! your medico is
not alluding to the “ English mosquito-curtain.” I know
something about malaria, being one of the few survivors
fr<jm the early days of German Papua, and my dictum is
fcbat eacb man bas dnd his own remedy. Mine was
hrandy. lam alive. The teetotallers pegged-out to a
man. ' The Papuan fever seemed to pounce on a new
arrival’s constitutional weakness, some bodily predisposi-
tion and using this as a fulcrum, soon levered the man
b j s g raV e. People died of heart-disease, lung-
trouh]es, diabetes, &c., &c., but it was the fever that
aroused these slumbering enemies and forced the lethal
weapon upon them. Quinine is nearly as bad as malaria
itself, and so long as a man’s stomach is in order, grog
(good grog, of course) is the only harmless prophylacticum.
As for Gov. M‘Gregor, a Scotchman’s ideas on the subject
POETRY AND PROSE.
MISS SMITH : “A happy new year to you, Mr. Spriggs.”
SPRIGGS : “ Same to you, miss. I’m afraid it’s the last new year I'll ever
spend here.”
MISS S. : “Oh, nonsense! You mustn’t talk like that. I’ve never seen
you look better.”
SPRIGGS: “Oh, I don’t mean THAT, miss. I’m going to start a barbers
shop away up at Cow Flat.”
of temperance are relative, and the old man ex-
ceeding good cellar, anyhow. As for clearing water of
mosquitos, eggs, and larvse, I believe a few gra. ns
hypermanganate of potash will sterilise uholei acres of
swamp or lake. Don t know myself, as I hav ,
and water doesn t interest me.
« * * *
“ T f! W ” ■ “ B M ” savs kangaroos can’t
' ' * J °
swim a stroke. As a matter of fact, kangaroos
BW j m any distance. 35 years ago I saw one
, -< T - „„„„ ~
hunted into Lake Albacutya, Vic., swim over a
ni jj e before he was overtaken and killed. When-
„ , , 1, P j s
ever an old man has footing in water
dangerous. Once out of his depth, he is helpless,
as takes him all his time to keep his head up.
j yet t 0 see t h e animal that can’t swim,
~ liVo th« lrnnaaroo
Even the opossum swims, but, like the kangaioo,
he does not bathe tor pleasure.
They passed the Helds of tillage,
And safely reached the village—
What a disappointment, no lights were in the hall;
For through the sports and races,
And “ hops” at other places,
The promoters decided to postpone the ball.
They did not long remain
Till they homewards turned again,
But, alas, their home they were doomed to see no more ;
They were murdered on the way,
There skull 3 broken where they lay,
And even their poor horse was lying in his gore.
Some demons them awaited,
And this crime perpetrated,
The hands of the poor girls behind their backs were tied;
Their bodies badly mangled,
’Twas shown, too, they were strangled,
And grossly insulted some time before they died.
Their mother, when they brought her
To this sad field of slaughter,
Went, first to the elder girl and addressed the dead.
Her words, I well remember,
Were only six in number :
“ Norah, my dear, who murdered you ?” sadly she said.
Then in midst of deep despair
She kneels down and says a prayer,
Bending over the poor lifeless form where it lay ;
To the others did the same,
Each in their turn, while her frame
Was all trembling just as if she would faint away.
’Tis God in whom our trust is,
Before the seat of justice
We pray the authors of this crime shall soon appear.
May their guilty hearts lead them
To where they’ll lose their freedom,
That they may be wafted to another sphere.


£2
£2
In Oxydised Case £2 0 0
In Solid Silver Case .. .. £2 10 0
In 14-oarat Solid Gold Cases .. £5 5 0
In 18-carat Gold Cases .. .. £6 6 0
Gentlemen’s sizes are less—viz., Oxydised, 25/6
“F* $ g” matches
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
THEY are jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby roller’s.
THEY are made in every style of case.
THEY are stem-winders.
THEY halve opal enamel dials.
These Watches go to within a minute a month, stand HARD
RIDING and knocking about, and-last a life-time.
We keep them in order for 2 years (breakage excepted), and
guarantee them for 15 years.
FAIRFAX ROBERTS^
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
“Don’t associate with other dead-beats.”
“Kotobuki,” or “Good Luck,” souvenirs
in “ Geisha ” art jewellery are the latest thing out
in the way of elegant luxuries. The Goldsmiths’
and Silversmiths’ Alliance, of 90King-st., Sydney,
is always first in the field with the very latest and
up-to-date fashions. The window display made
by the Allianoe has now an additional attraction
in the shape of the “ Geisha ” novelties, specially
imported and unprocurable elsewhere in Australia.
They arrive at an opportune time, the opera being
just introduced to Sydney. The jewellery is in
quaint Japanese style, and is elegant, artistic, and
inexpensive.*
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
IT CHARMS
THE EYE, THE PALATE,
THE DIGESTION,
EXQUISITE
GEO. ADAMS,
Sole Agent.
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
Slab of mixed Rougemont
and zoology from London paper :
In N.S.W. on the Murrumbidgee
Kiver there dwells a German selector,
who, not having much capital to put a
fence round his selection to keep off
kangaroos from eating his corn of a
moonlight night, used to sit on the
stump of a tree watching his oppor-
tunity for a shot at any kangaroos that
came in his way. But finding powder
and shot did not keep them away, he
resolved to work upon a different plan,
so accordingly set a number of traps,
which he visited every morning. Going
his usual round one morning he found
in one of the traps one of his unwel-
come night visilors, a big kangaroo.
Not knowing in what way to serve his
revenge, he put it in a small yard, and
every morning he brought it grass,
water, and bits of bread. As days
rolled by the selector began to look
upon his captive as a pet instead of
an enemy. When the winter came,
the kangaroo suffered with cold ; the
selector, w'ho h.id been a soldier in
his country, happened to have a sol-
dier’s suit, which was of no use to him,
and he made of it a kind of a suit
for the kangaroo, who, no doubt,
wondered what was coming next. One
morning, as the selector had just
finished giving his pet its morning
meal, he saw a large mob of kan- -
garoos feeding at some distance. A
happy thought came into his head,
which he immediately put into prac-
tice. He put a large bell round the
kangaroo’s neck, and let it go, with
the result that the kangaroo made for
the mob as fast as possible. The mob,
hearing the noise of the hell, upon
turning round, were terrified at the
sight, arid made quick their exit.
Bjiue days afterwards, while the selec-
tor was standing at his gate, he saw
the same mob of kangaroos pass at an
awful rate, followed in the rear by the
one in the soldier’s suit, with the bell
still dangling round its neck. He
was never bothered by kangaroos
again.
The Bulletin perfectly remem-
bers that ’roo. He is the fellow
that used, to keep us awake at
nights with his eternal warbling
Of “The Watch on the Rhine.”
The M,‘Cooey on albinism in Australia :
Dear Bulletin.— Can anybody account for the fact that
no other country is as rich in albinos as Australia ? Pre-
natal influence anything- to do with albinism ? Which is
not in Australia a thing- of to-day or yesterday. It was
common amongst N.S. VV. aborigines in the days of Banks
and bolander; and I can remember seeing a partial
albino aborigine in Burragorang Valley nearly 40 years
ago. Imb Bulletin, about 10 years ago, had much to say
about the Westralian police mistaking an albino gin for a
capti\ e white woman ; and allowing her, while conveying
her to the nearest settlement, to be thrown from horse-
back and killed. Capt. Cook, Sir Joseph Banks, Solander,
Latham, Grey, all speak of albinism as common among
Australian aborigines. Amongst birds and animals
it is so very frequent as to be scarcely interesting.
Amongst Australian reptiles, however, albinism is very
rare.- I have heard of a'bino snakes; but can anyone
produce an example? No use talking about the white
snakes of the Lower Macquarie. I have caught dozens
of them, and found them to be only abnormal forms of
the common brown snake. Nor must partial albinism be
attributed to the lace lizard, the transverse white bands
being normal in the young of this and other Australian
1 eptiles. In 89, at Germanton (N.S. W.), I saw an albino
tortoise with pure white carapace, head, neck, and feet,
the plastron also being white, tinged with yellow.—ll J
M‘Cooey. “ J
* * * •
fis water in mallee roots. Over 30 years
ago, Nynia, an aborigine of a Lower Darling
TRUE TO THE LAST.
SATAN: “ Hello , you look happy! What’s the
reason?”
BAD OLD CONSERVATIVE: “ Well, there have been
so many fine old institutions burst up on earth
that it’s quite refreshing to sec that this remains
the same old Hell.”
tribe, did some killing, and cleared promptly with
a couple of lubras, hiding in the dry, unused
blocks on Cuthero station. That was the nucleus
of the “wild tribe of 30, who were rounded up
and brought into the station four years ago—six
adult males, seven ditto lubras, 17 youngsters.
1 he Cuthero dry blocks liave about the smallest
rainfall in N.S. \V., and there are only a very few
wretched native “ wells” there; for long stretches,
according to their own account, the only water
die whole tribe had was got from mallee roots.
Miss JULIE WOODVILLE.
Photo., Folk Studios.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Camerara : Strangely enough, the theme of a
picturesque sketch, “A Day by the Sea,” by Roderio
Quinn, printed on the “Red Page” in this week’s
Bulletin C.M.P. : Much longer than that, for, with.
its issue of 28th Jan. last, The Bulletin entered its 20th
year. (2) An absolutely complete file of The Bulletin
would be worth about £lOO in the market W. Ander-
son : One advantage of the Attorney-General acting as
grand-jury instead of having a panel of 12 is that, when
the A.-G. decides to prosecute, or declines to do so, as
the case may be, he has to publicly take the responsibility
of his action ; whereas, when you distribute the onus
among 12 men, you have no real scapegoat. But, of
course, the one-man grand-jury system works rottenly
when you have a strong A.-G., backed by a strong Minis-
try, deciding about quasi-political and quasi-personal
prosecutions The Doc: On the contrary, Bulletin
confidently looks forward to the time when every uaol-
hospital nurse will be a shorthand-writer, available to
lake down the ravings of delirious patients, to be used
against them in evidence as occasion arises. Also, no
clergyman should be employed as gaol-chaplain who won’t
pump prisoners and then tell the police C. Rayson :
The Bulletin has a very good mind to go and set up a
Federal capital of its own on the M'Donnell ranges
J.E.M. : If Blayney is the “future hub of Australian
railways ” and the “ prospective Queen city of the
West” it is just like all the other places. N.S.
Wales is full of hubs and queen cities just now
Prejudice: Why, a Scotch haggis is at the present
moment Premier of N.S. Wales, and there are lots
of other instances J.A.P. : “The Red Page be
hanged—why not the Pink Page for Pale Poets?”
Also, “Jap” be hanged--why not “Chow”?
W.M.: Emphatically no ! Fred Archer didn’t have 80 per
cent., or 50 per cent, of wins on his mounts. As a rule,
it was a losing game to back Archer’s mounts at s.p.
throughout a season Bon C.: Dr. Constance Stone
retired from Melb. Benevolent Asylum Committee be-
cause their meetings clashed with her professional
arrangements. She couldn’t be in two places at once. The
question of collectors is of no more public interest than
any other little business matter E. (Tas.): “A lover
is a snake in clothes,” you say. Yes, but what a charm-
ing snake, with what glossy bark and tender bite !
Ad. : Fallow he calls himself, and fallow he is. The
weirdest of all the claims on behalf of Burns is that he
was a conventional moralist, when his bawdy songs for
“ The Merry Muses” collection are among the choicest of
the genre Fairplay : Purely an accident. If you want
to know how The Bulletin is officially regarded by R.C.
ecclesiastic-ism, just read the Catholic Press—any week.
Jumbuck : The “ iambic trimeter catalectic ” verse is
declined with scorn. And we have no words to express our
loathing for the “iambic heptameter” ditto . G. : Pass-
ing the poetry, we hold that Gov. Tennyson’s hexameters
are not good even for English; being stiff, flat and
mechanical.. . Blister :No space for long yarns in “push ”
lingo. The Bulletin detests dialect, anyhow. Most
people do—Duo : No patient can be thoroughly treated
by a doctor who doesn’t see him. That’s what it all
amounts to C.W.A. : The man who writes a fist
which enables you to take in at a mere glance the
contents of a side of his MS. has forty chances of
success with a newspaper to one chance enjoyed by
him whose writing has to be laboriously deciphered
M.M. : Have caught the “ catchy pieces.” Unluckilv, we
dropped ’em at once H.O. (Dulwich): Worthless
Rats (M.L.) : Keep ’em F.C. : Regret Dubberke proved
unusable A.A.K. : It’s well-observed, but too slight....
V.S.: Hope that being a chopping-block for the bad Aus-
tralian bard will profit us hereafter ; it’s anguish and de-
solation now Banool: Your “little girl” is undistin-
guished W.S. (Ad.): None quite good enough The
Original J.M.W. : Well, the spurious J.M.W. couldn’t
have been duller. Your singing voice must be out
F. W.M. (Q.) : It somehow looked very young for its age.
Leonora : You make the 666th bad poet this week
R.C.: All incapable...... A.S. (Ad.): No good D.B.
(Melb.): Not up. Carini: If you have no Scotch friend
to make inquiries, select a promising advertiser in a
Glasgow paper, write him facts, and ask his quotation . .
Deering (Melb.): No value whatever F.M. : None
usable. Marryat: “Sailors” has good points,
but wants better handling ; other not up
T.C.G. (Q.): Promising, but none quite up J. W.
Blanky (Bulong) : Can’t distinguish from any other
hlanky Coeksparrow : Tlie ML. Rennie prisoners were
released in 1896, before Judge Windeyer’s death .. Het
T. : “ Politi-shnn ” would spoil it anyway W.M W •
We curse you by all the bones of the o'lan Fitzgibbori
Zadi. : None of your numbers have trone up..... M.M.G. :
The irirlish romance is out of our line Helen B. :
Sorry not up. Your humour-sense is scarce, or
you’d leave the kangaroo out of your pathetic scene
W.L. (M.L.) : Can’t return your compliments.. .
P.W.T. : Try 21b. of gunpowder externally—with a
match H.R.M. : “World” weak Parua : But you
don’t give the family’s name Jack M. : Better let it
go A. J.W. : Can’t explain it. Perhaps it was an advt.
..... E P S. : If Tiie Bulletin did not pay for your con-
tributions that was 3’our fauit in not claiming for them
as. they appeared D.J.S. :To hand . Ethel C. : Will
print R.J.M.: To hand J.: The tree that the coach-
wheel struck in 1865 is a trifle remote .. Ilex : Too little
yarn, and too much explanation of how the old man came
to tell it Gobung : “ Don’t rush things” been rejected
gradually. “Leary Joe” wants brighter treatment
Theodore S. : Well, how did Providence interfere?
C.U.11. : “Personal security” idea old. Reynolds used
it up in one of his penny horrors 30 years ago, and it has
been in frequent use since. . ..J. Jones: Thanks
Nondescript: Name and address must be on face of MS.
itself, and not merely given in accompanying letter
John T.N. or W. (Dunedin) : Books to hand, with thanks,
but can t decipher your name .... W.J.C. (B.): If you took
the trouble to consider well and condense you could get
much matter passed .... A.L.W. : Then far better knock
their salaries on the head, and let. the coal-ships go to sea
unsurveyed. Then there’ll be a little more spare cash to
spend in sand-shifting and the painting of park railings.
..:...Cock-sparrow : World s gold-product' value, 1897,
£51,706,000; of which U.S.A., £11,400,000; Australasia,
£11,075,000. Transvaal, 1896, £8,693,821 A.C.W.: Glad
you take care of that MS. Millions wouldn’t buy it.
Neither would we V.K. : “ Cairns” not bright enough.
Leonidas: Not good enough Phiolos : Yearnings
too vague 7x 7 : Salvarmy nothing new. The Com-
mandant’s nose-mark is all over their business charity
Blank Dash : Very little that reaches us is missed. The
fault is your own for not observing the rules heading
this column Bunt: Tale weak; verse weak also ..."
Mungi : Bulletin didn’t mean (as you assume) that the
Belargabil horror was an index to the character of N.S.W.
public-school teachers. Heaven forefend 1 It only
meant what it said : that it was “a bad knock to the
State-school system.” Which it was and is. It is a ter-
rible calamity that such things should be advertised of
any State institution. Had it happened and been found
out—which presumably might just as easily have been the
case—in a denominational school, it would have been a
bad knock to the denominational system. The Belar-
gabil affair is a bad knock for all schools
Gur. (Melb.) : Too discursive. Could be said more effec-
tively in a third of the space, and we can’t boil down
everything .....The Pipe : Bulletin would have to be as
big as the Bible to fit in your yarns J.F. :“ My heart
seeks an immortal goal”—and your poem has found it
D.T’s. : Over-strained attempt at humor Greywacke :
Father Ryan appears to be poet-laureate to S5 7 dney
Catholic Press. His Reverence is long dead, but then
THE NEWLY-WEDDED M.L. PAIR WHO AGREED TO DIE TOGETHER.
William, D. M'Kain ( aged 22 years). Minnie M'Kain, [?] Price (aged 18 years).
(Photos., Kinsey and Co., Wellington, M.L.)
dead poets don’t call at the pay-office on Saturdays ...
A.R.W. (B.) : Will illustrate W.M.W. : Shiver your
timber verses ...T.W.C. : Flat Tataramoa : Useless
verbiage Sloper Bob : We’ve packed it off as requested,
and breathe freely again Meteor : You struck earth,
and exploded R.C. : Rubbish. Can’t understand how
you wrote the others Alex. F. : You haven’t the knack
of paragraph-writing. Contribution looks more like a
slab out of a long article .... Grip: We neither publish
nor pay under such circumstances ... Kuri Pakeha : Quite
right; the late Samoan Chief Justice’s name wasn’t Ceder-
strom, but Cedercrantz. Tweedledum and Tweedledee
Larry O’G. : None available .... Jill : Declined with scorn.
A.W.B. : Lakes Torrens and Eyre are both a trifle
above sea-level Bagman : Rather admire your in-
spector M.S. :“ Me and Pickles” a weak specimen of
Bad Boys’ Diary literature Undersized : Not much in
them except blanky and things that are even worse than
blanky Aeohe Australie : Kindly send some evidence
of your statements —not merely insane hysterics
Clare : Starts well; then degenerates into the old drowned
girl with illicit infant Ramsay : Iloni soit, &c., but
you mayn’t carry it too far . Marr N. : A man sober
enough to reason like that could never mistake castor-oil
for any other drug on earth Democrat : All very good
to say that the primitive savage was “healthy, wealthy
and happy.” As likely as not he was a diseased misery
with bow legs Curlew : Son-and-heir yarn old. Federal
anagram middle-aged and already published in a whole
lot of papers—including this paper, where it originated.
W.H.D. ("Ascot Vale) : You say the fire-ladder cart
was being driven “furiously” at about “five miles an
hour ’’—present writer can walk 5£ miles in an hour on
sufficient inducement. Also, a fire-ladder saves life as
well as property. It has to get back to the station
smartly in case of another call. A cumbrous thing like
that can’t swing round corners in strict obedience to the
rule of the road, and it gives sufficient warning of its
coming to enable any sane boy to get out of the way
Jas. Garside : In a word, the Queensland Evangelical
parsons’ election-manifesto is all about drink and gam-
bling. The same old canting whine. All holy Shop, no
democracy. Not a single word about the continued im-
portation of slave-labor and leprosy A Sussex Man :
No time to follow the intricacies of the Druce-Portland
ease. The thing looks very like a mare’s nest; and, any-
how, it will really matter very little if Mrs. Druce proves
herself right. There will then be two Dukes of Portland
instead of one. The new Duke will have precedence ;
but, on the other hand, the old Duke would have all the
coin .... Bushranger : Why, it was Gardiner’s gang who
robbed the escort at Eugowra J. M. Fowler : Pleased
to have your unsupported assurance that there will
never again be war between Britain and the United
States. That matter is now settled, anyhow.
TO ARTISTIC CONTRIBUTORS.
Louis M. : Will reproduce one direct; one other
will serve as suggestion George Ralston : You don’t
say what it was, or when it appeared. Memo, posted
Bert de M. : Such old wheezes quite unavailable.
The question of review copies has been
causing heart-burning lately (says The Book-
fellow). Nearly all the metropolitan papers
receive a very precarious supply from the pub-
lishers ; and in order to eke out notices some of
them are glad to rely on booksellers' bounties.
That is bad ; for the bookseller has a keen eye to
his own interest, and is accustomed, when there
is dead stock on hand, to foist a copy of the Awful
Unsaleable upon the reviewer, as a bonus for
giving him a copy of the Fresh Saleable. “And
try and give us a real c/ood notice now!” We
have some knowledge in Australia of the class of
firms with a reputation for buying up book-
sellers’ remainders in London ; or surplus
copies of miss-fire novels ; at say Gd. each for 500
or so, and retailing them to a deluded public at
anything over 3s. Gd., thanks to a booming notice
by a nobbled reviewer. It’s “business”; but a
little rough on the people who see no difference
between a newspaper “criticism” and a Gospel
affirmed by two first-rate miracles and a third-rate
spook. Yet if the reviewer isn’t amenable, the
chances are that “ our only advance copy ” of the
next big book will go to the rival paper —which
isn’t pleasant. So the reviewer generally is
amenable ; and until lately he had the consolation
of collaring the books. But now some booksellers
are getting into a habit of lendinu a book for
review (“and please mention our name pro-
minently”), with an injunction to return at once
“ because the other paper wants it before Satur-
day.” The ox treads out their corn, and is
muzzled in defiance of Holy Writ. No wonder
book-selling pays.
Young M‘Kain, who shot himself and
wife, at Palmerston North, M.L. (photos, of the
pair are printed in this issue of The Bulletin),
after a three weeks’ honeymoon trip, may be
taken as an interesting specimen of the sex-
lunatic. Prior to the marriage he had made
some threats of shooting; his father said at the
inquest “he would not have been surprised had
the tragedy happened before marriage ” —on
account of the opposition of his wife’s mother to
the wedding. The bridegroom was young, vigor-
ous and willing to work, so that, although he had
come to the end of his money, he probably did
not “ shuffle off ” because of dread of want or
hardship. M‘Kain appears to have been just the
sort of man to go crazy over a woman, to go mad
with excess of love, and then form a fixed idea
that the “family feud ” over their wedding would
cause perpetual unhappiness ; from this to the
decision to kill his bride and himself was an easy
transition. His strong will would enable him to
persuade the wife in her tears that death was
better than life. Evidently the plan agreed upon
was that he should shoot her while she was asleep.
This, at any rate, he did, killing her instantly,
with a placid expression on her face. A second
shot into her head to make sure; an interval of
20 minutes (and what a 20 minutes ! for he pro-
bably realised after the act what he had not done
before, and spent those minutes in an agony that
left its impress upon his fearfully distorted
features), and then a sure bullet sent him in pur-
suit of his bride of three weeks into the Unknown.
Their dying request that they might be buried
one over the other was disregarded by the respec-
tive parents ! Such was the end of the love-idyll
in which a bride of 19 years gave herself trust-
fully up to sacrifice decreed by her sternly-deter-
mined husband of 22.


THE CAPITAL QUESTION.— AT GOSHEN FLAT.
At a public meeting held at Goshen Flat last week Alderman Panslab, J.P., moved the first and only resolution, viz.-"Whereas Goshen Flat, the Garden spot of New South Wales, ain't eligible to
be the Capital of Federated Australia owin' to bein' on the 150th degree of Longitood an' consekently too cluss to Sydney, it is hereby resolved that the 150th degree be voted be voted out of order and be dug up
and took away.” Seconded by Bullhide Joe and carried unanimously.


Jjtay -rfe -f^9 oa^
£ Well sljoW eiy itje
AKOTHER APPLICATION TO THE J.
SUPREME COURT O
A WARRANT AGAIN REFUSED, N
■Yesterday Dr. Evans applied to Mr. Justice
! Hodges for a warrant, and m support read an affi-
l davit detailing the history of the proceedings up
date. Counsel stated that since the application
earlier in the week Mr. Panton had granted
another adjournment at the police-court until the
16th instJ His Honor was not prepared to say
that the magistrate was wrong in granting the
adjournment, though it certainly looked as if he
was a little unwilling, and that he was not in a
hurry about the matter. The application moat W
(-refused
VusTUK l ooK;
„lT, P p® rday u a ?°“ th , n ™ed Ronald Edward Mai
2™ tn .V7r° ha L'. J,liaded e'nhy on the previous
«ay to stealing £25 from the Equity Trustee.
P"™£?. ny ’ i" Whnse em P lo V he ■ had Let. was
brought up for sentence. He (the Chief JustiL)
the gaol "and he wa'' ‘'t reformator >’ effeotsof
vnegaoi. and hexvas apprehensive that it had a
rtoSld ry with t h Wa '' ' Vell tHat ‘ he ~n' 3 ° n CT
would h»nZ L" . , aome niolr, ento of what
hereafter, so that he might be
Si' 1 !" 1 Iy and severely if he were ever d£?
4?uld h. and at the s*”® time ho
Uons of gaoT ' d frou ' t,w dan g®"> and corrup-
ftapri^nmem''Z™ sontenc ® d K> nine months'
* be >u,pended d-
the Lash.
A youth named James Keegan, who had pleaded
guilty tn a charge of committing an unnatural
offence, was brought up for sentence. The Chief
Justice said he was an evil disposed youth, and
sentenced him to nine months’ imprisonment and
one whipping of 10 lashes of the cat o’ nine tails.
CfafJus'YTcefa
4 \/oic€ cfoKeef
Wif£ eyofioyj :~ t
Tca^A^.
/zf'Yoit <zp 'To fir?s&y
io be c£ru/> lerf. ”
. T A. I
M n.iT»» Y F, 'K»! 1
eSfes.'®*
y/^>
OfcefjyYST: —
yo/’r/jo? ~/o~&e r'efertpei 2?
veslrda a .f ,p, ' e , d to th '‘ Postm ,
* ' IQ America* n a «e of 9/* UI J£ «ady in
»‘™g -ar£ g ° e f® “ d ® rwrs
h *t a .
«"--sitien ng he r ,^
L frZy j £c»7'?o7sseuT']7<cf/y: — ]
-7 j'Vyde&r’^v^/^dyrforoyotLr'
/?e\d a /eeWe,
See. wpetter Your' wca TXe'fru.e? ,
curve: 'of- '
/dfcvcc/C.rfLY. ) , -w>^
fOlo / / M 'JysAer)
We \/e S'fi-j-j-etpecL i/~ " ~
MELBOURNIAN A.


Concerning a Queensland general-election
episode :
Charles Powers has just consented to stand for Bunda-
berpf—-in the Dieksonian interest. The decision is in-
teresting from many standpoints. In the first place it,
indicates the utter hopelessness (in Power’s opinion) of
any decided success on the part of the so-called Oppo-
sitionists. Whether Drake, Groom and co. return with
one or two additional supporters or not Powers sees
quite clearly that portfolios will be the gift either of the
Dieksonian majority or the Labor majority, as the case
may be ; and, like a wise man, he determines to;draw his
sword and fight alongside the big guns, long purses, and
big battalions. Charles has addressed the electors of
Bundaberg in a speech eminently Democratic —and has
wound up his Democratic professions with the cheering
assertion that he intends to support the Dickson Ministry
' certainly a remarkable attitude for any Democrat. It
would be interesting to know how far the desire for ven-
geance on the Laborites who drove him out of politics a
few years ago has stimulated Powers to face Glassey on
the hustings. In any case, the present turn of events
only exemplifies the utter spinelessness of Powers’ demo-
cracy. Years and years ago, when that amiable politician
brought in a most commendable measure for the Simpli-
fication of Legal Procedure, it was remarked : “ It took
him seven years to hatch it, and he dropped it in seven
days.” Apparently his democracy is shed just as easily
and almost as speedily.
A question : Why should we import any mineral
waters when we have at Ballimore, near Dubbo, N.S. VV.,
the “ Zetz ” Natural Mineral Water Spring, yielding daily
thousands of gallons of naturally effervescing water,’con-
taining all the health-giving properties of the best im-
ported waters ? Zetz Spa ranks undoubtedly first as’a
Table Water. By its strong alkaline properties it abso-
lutely kills Uric Acid, the cause of so many complaints,
and as an every-day beverage is more pleasant than any
other. Try it with your meals; it positively cures indi-
gestion ;or with your stimulants. You never will take
any other.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him.. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing Extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourk e-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
A selection of Roderic Quinn’s verses
will be published, in dainty booklet form, by The
Bulletin, on 15th March, under the title “ The
Hidden Tide.” The price will be Is. 6d. post-
free, and the collection will include, among other
gems, “ The Camp Within the West.”
COLEMANE’S EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
The world’s standard remedy for all chest
complaints. Used by Earl Jersey, Lord Carring-
ton, etc. Positively the purest Eucalyptus known.
SoftCaoVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO',- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/3.
y
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. BIKE BRO TH ICRS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery f or Wedding presents
_A. Saunders’ Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable
Kindly send your orders to us — we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Pure Silver-platel, £2 17s 6d.
Others charire you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Ham) Mirror, velvet back, 265. Chased
bil er back, £2, £2 10s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s
17s 6d, 21s, 255. Silver-plated, 18s 6d.
Similar styles,
Mirror, 20s.
Wm
i
, .f
£3
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled cases),
£2 10s, five years' guar-
antee, extra quality;
£4 4s, 20 years’ guar-
antee; ditto, 14c,Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 25
years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £2O
watch.” Ladies’, beau-
tlfull.v ornamented, same price. Mind, “ the above watches are g-uaran-
te r d with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
uphold it.” Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders’
HANDSOME ana USEFUL PRESENTS.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, IBs, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
££ 10s, £3 10s, £1 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 16s,
strong and pretty. Silver, ss.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 7s 6d ;
with coVer, 8s 6d.
A Saunders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s 6d; Fluted Bands,
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d.
m
St£
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-botile Cruet, 355;
similar styles, 21s, 255, 30s ; *-
6-bottle, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Pure Si ver-mounted Cut-
glass and Puff Boxes,
15s 6d, very cheap.
18c. Gold, pure Double
Cut Diamond, £5 ss;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
-
18c. G01d,4 Diamonds,
Opals, Rubies or Sap-
• 'lives, £3, £3los, ' 4.
S lid for size card. We
cut and polish opals.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar
16s 6d, 20s, 265.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Larpe Diamonds, t'3
15c. Gold, 20s, 255, and 30s.
18c. Gold Band, Pure Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
X-j
Kl.is
■ -
/>
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Tonsrs, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, without case. ss, 7s 6d half-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255; with
Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Biscuit), £3,
£3 10s, £4 ; handsome present
ipiaisL^
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £2
pifinumds, £2 10s and 13. Any Name oi
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
K4&SKS
m
*3
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8s 6d;
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.
The Rofe Case.
“ T. E. Rofe ” discourses concerning his well-
adverjfsed case :
Re article, “ Suffield and the Other Man,” in Bulletin,
11/2/’99, I will thank you to publish the following from
Thomas Ernest Rofe, “the other man.” Personally I
am unable, oving to not knowing the facts in Suffikld’s
case, to say whether there are huge discrepancies between
my case and his; but I sincerely hope, if his case ie in
anv way similar to mine so far as the injustice done me is
concerned, that justice will be speedily done him. Before
replying to your article, paragraph by paragraph, permit
me to say that fresh evidence uus adduced in support of
my application for an enquiry, and this fresh evidence,
as also the evidence adduced at my enquiry, I am pre-
pared to lend you, provided you will undertake to publish
same in your paper, because, so far as I am concerned,
I court the fullest enquiry and publicity, knowing the
result must be the complete vindication of my character,
the integrity of which I value above an3’thing else
in this world —a character which I can honestly say,
outside of this vile and unsustained charge, is unim-
peached. You say that Suffield was convicted on
the evidence of one girl, who contradicted herself on
every point. Now, I ask you to peruse the evidence taken
at Glebe police-court, Mrs. Butler v. Butler (a case
wherein Mrs. Butler charged her husband, the day after
the occurrence of that eventful night, with wife deser-
tion, having him arrested, and, while under arrest, got
possession of the key from the lockup-keeper, and
cleared the house of everything except Butler’s own
personal apparel), the divorce-suit, Butler v. Butler,
Mrs. Butler v. Williams, committal and trial of Butler,
Davis and Peake, committal and trial of myself, and say
whether your remarks do not equally apply to my case. I
am prepared to go fully into the different statements
made by witnesses (upon whose testimony I was con-
victed) at each of the above trials, and show how they
differ in respect to most material matters.
Rofe, you say, was convicted on convincing evidence,
and his own counsel threw up the sponge. I deny that
I was convicted on convincing evidence, nor did my
counsel throw up the sponge, as you say. My counsel
said I was innocent and still say that I am ; in fact, if
you will take the trouble to peruse the letter of the Hon.
Mr. Heydon, Q.C., written to the Minister for Justice, in
Nov., ’95, you will see therein stated that he believed I
was innocent, and is glad that Mr. Crick, one of the
solicitors acting in my defence, also agreed with him in
that belief. Mr. Heydon I have seen since the decision of
the Executive [to let the conviction stand] was an-
nounced, and he says now that his opinion is still the
same. Hon. C. E. Pilcher, Q.C., also says I am innocent
of any criminality ; Mr. Barton, Q.C., I am assured, says
the same. Dr. Coghlan and Mr. Augustus James, barris-
ters-at-law r , say I am innocent; and so does Mr. Levien.
There has been, and is still, a grave doubt about my
guilt, and such doubt is supported by the opinions of
every one of my counsel and solicitors above-named,
who have fully perused the papers in the case ; and, by-
the-bye, I may state that the papers found on me in con-
nection with the case were very voluminous, the instruc-
tion papers, which contained chronologically, day by day,
my doings in the case comprised some three or four sheets
of fcp. closely written, two columns on each side. All my
papers were intact. If I had been a conspirator, as I am
alleged to be, would I have kept, or preserved, a complete
record of the case, and my doings therein, when I could,
without raising any suspicion against me, have destroyed,
burnt, or made away with them ? Would I have shown
these, my papers, to the Crown Prosecutor, and have
offered to leave them with him? Would I have volun-
tarily produced them in Court, when I was not even sub-
p®naed~to do so ? No, no, I say, and I believe anyone
who looks at the case in an unbiassed light will say the
same. I am prepared to go fully into the facts, and I feel
convinced the outcome will be in your and the public’s
opinion the complete vindication of _my character from
as vile a crime as anyone could commit.
You say that I got my enquiry, yet Suffi-buD was told
that he could not get his without fresh evidence.
Strange, yet true, this was the very reply I received on
3rd March, '9B, to a letter of mine to the then Minister of
Justice, wherein he stated that no enquiry could be
granted in my case unless I adduced fresh evidence, and
this evidence, after some considerable trouble, I obtained,
and comprised some 195 sheets of foolscap closely typed.
This fresh evidence was forwarded the Minister, and re-
turned by him, owing, as he stated, to its containing a
lot of matter immaterial. I, personally, refused to re-
duce the fresh evidence, and handed same, with the
Minister’s letters, to Mr. Augustus Jambs, and he himself
eliminated, without any assistance from me, the so-called
immaterial evidenoe. The evidence as reduced was sworn
to, as also was a declaration by myself, a letter was signed
by Messrs. Barton, Q. 0., Heydon, Q.O.,and Dr. Coghlan,
my counsel at my trial, stating that I particularly de-
sired the prisoners, Butler and Davis, called as wit-
nesses. But they, my counsel, refused to do so, and Dr.
Coghlan added thereto that he, personally, knew that I
was extremely anxious that the prisoners should be called,
and even after they, my counsel, had refused to, I had
writs of habeas corpus issued to compel their attendance,
in the hope that my counsel would change their mind and
call the prisoners. The above documents, together with a
petition signed by myself, were forwarded to the Minister
for Justice, and after some considerable time the enquiry
was granted. Copies of these papers I am prepared to
hand you for publication, so that the public can see that
there were strong grounds for the enquiry, and a very
grave doubt as to my guilt, if not positive proof of my
innocence.
As to the order suppressing the evidence : I did not
desire this order, and again say I court full publicity,
and hope you will give me the same publicity as you gave
Suffield. I have been treated in the same way as Suffield,
but, fortunately, I was able to get fresh evidence which
certainly supported my contention that I was and am an
innocent man
I note your closing remarks anent Dean, and if ever a
man cursed Dean I did and do. My trial, unfortunately,
took place while the whole country were highly inflamed
against the legal profession, and the Dean case of con-
spiracy was set down for trial. To that fact I
can account for the erroneous verdict returned against
me, coupled with, in my opinion, the mistake
made, against my express wish, of not calling
Butler and Davis at my trial. To show you how
important this non-calling was, I will briefly refer to the
address of the Crown Prosecutor to the jury after the
evidence was closed, his opening remarks being : “Gentle-
men of the jury, the prisoner Rofe is charged with con-
spiring with Butler, Davis, and Peake, &c., &c. . . . and
these very men, Butler and Davis, with whom Rofe is
charged, are actually under that dock waiting to be called,
yet the prisoner has not dared to call them. Why ? Be-
cause he knows they would incriminate him.” The Judge
in his summing-up also referred to the fact of Butler and
Davis not being called by me to give evidence. Very
hard on me, seeing that I wanted them called and fought
hard to have them called, but without success, and that
I had been the means of having these men under the
dock by reason of my w'rits of habeas corpus. I think
you, after perusing this and the papers on the facts,
will come to the conclusion that there are no two laws,
one for rich and one for poor; but you will agree with
me, and many others, that the decision of the Executive
should have been different to tvhat it has been in my case,
and I believe it would have been different only for that
cry about the rich and poor. In fact, I would rather be a
poor man with my character than possess no character
and yet own the wealth of Crcesus. In conclusion, my
candid opinion is : God help the unfortunate man who
happens to be wrongly convicted, as I have been ; because
he has no chance of ever clearing himself, no matter how
clear any fresh evidence adduced may be.
[The Bulletin publishes this letter because it is de-
sirous that Mr. T. E. Rofe should have an opportunity of
stating his views of his own case—an opportunity which
might elsewhere be denied him. The whole of the fore-
going letter could, however, easily be summarised in a
single paragraph. To publish a column so utterly devoid
of point wrings tears of blood from The Bulletin.]
♦
Where is the Federal capital to be ? This
is certain, wherever the F. capital may be planted
the capital place for acquiring a radiant exterior,
such as the Federal capital in all the glories of its
dazzling new raiment might envy, will still be
the London and American Supply Stores, Bourke-
street, Melb. Write for catalogue of stylish
suits, head, neck, foot-wear, &c. Our capital rule
is : Prices moderate, satisfaction immoderate.
Premier Skddon’s remarks against the con-
tinuation of the M.L. Grand Jury system as a
class institution would have carried more weight
had they not followed a certain expression of
opinion from the Grand Jury at last Welling-
ton sessions. In connection with the indictment
against Capt. Allman, charged with false re-
presentations in re an examination for a master
mariner’s certificate, the jury notified its
“strong disapproval of the evident interference
by the Minister of Marine with the conduct
of the routine of the examination forming the
subject of the indictment.” The foreman of
the Graud Jury was Mr. Foster, chairman of
the B.N.Z. Asseis-Realisation Board (in which,
by the way, the Govt, is largely interested,
and on which it has a representative), and
the Minister implicated is Hall-Jones, one
of the weaklings added to make up for the loss
of two of the strong men of the Seddon
Ministry— Ward and Reeves. But, neverthe-
less, Seddon is right about the working of the
Grand Jury system. There are on record
flagrant cases where men of prominent
social position have escaped prosecution for
fraudulent bankruptcy, &c., through their
friends’ judicious manipulation of the Grand
Jurymen. In fact, the thing got so bad that
the Govt, stepped in and prohibited the names
of Grand Jurors from being published in ad-
vance as had been customary, in order, as far
as possible, to prevent their being “nobbled.”
Seddon tried to abolish the juries last year,
but he went too far for the Conservatives by
lumping together grand and special juries.
Business people were alarmed at the suggestion
to place intricate book-keeping accounts before
common jurors, and the “ Lords ” struck out
the chief clauses.
F. Croson writes :
Your “ Blackmailing in Albert Park” par. (8., 14/l/’99)
is pretty, and in accordance with eternal fitness, but it
doesn’t always pan out that way. Recently a couple
were surprised by two men who threatened arrest, then
demanded hush-money. This is the man’s yarn, reported
to the police subsequently, and a very choice and valiant
sort of youth it shows him to be. He handed over 65.,
and was himself released, leaving the girl still in the
custody of the men. He apparently stayed near at hand,
and, finding the blackmailers were proceeding to ill-treat
his companion, demanded that they should both be taken
to the watch-house, whereupon the men decamped. That
is his narrative. The men have not yet been heard from ;
neither are they likely to be. On previous evening another
couple were surprised in a public garden by two con-
stables, employed for the purpose. Their names were taken,
by separate interrogation, and they were then threatened
with arrest, but the pleading of the girl and the sooth-
ing effect of £2 overcame the officers’ stern sense of duty.
The arresters in this case were not blackmailers posing as
policemen, but constables still in the force. Is there any
connection between the two cases ? As further evidence
of the disorganisation existing in the Melb. police force,
take the case of the constable lately dismissed—after a
private inquiry—who was suspected of being mixed up in
robberies committed by a night watchman in the same
suburb, and in whose possession were said to have been
found alleged stolen goods for which he refused to account.
A local resident had previously laid a charge against this
man, yet not until the watchman was convicted was any
action taken, and even then it merely resulted in aforesaid
private inquiry and dismissal. The main cause of this
disorganisation and degeneration is the retention of old,
worn-out, and often incapable officials to save the expense
of their pensions. Meanwhile the younger men are kept
back, the force deteriorates, and the public suffers.


ALL PREVIOUS RECORDS BROKEN.
£B.OOO WORTH (144,000 BOXES)
~¥ BILE BEANS
PURCHASED IN ONE ORDER BY A
MELBOURNE FIRM.
8.8.’s Stand To-day the most Successful Remedy in Australia.
FACSIMILE OF ORDER
T*»,«lmoml Ilf t4r
'St
iwu'mes
London, 119&120 London Wall*
QfitO?*
*flr
07
Ur
7.
7? THE BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING COY,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
# February 22nd, 99
Dear Sirs,
Please supply as soon as possible 1,000 gross
(144,000 boxes) of Bile Beans. It may interest you to
know that this quantity representing some £B,OOO is double
our last purchase, and treble the previous one, and as com-
pared to purchases made by us for any other Proprietaries
it is several times the largest order we have ever placed.
Bile Beans have had a most phenomenal sale, and from
the reports we hear on every side we believe the success
is deserved, and will continue.
Yours faithfully,
A CONSTANT SUFFERER.
MRS. THOMAS BISHOP TELLS OF HER ILLNESS.
SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES WERE FEARED.
MANY DOCTORS FAIL, BUT BILE BEANS EFFECT A SPEEDY AND
THOROUGH CURE.
“If any one thought has been in my mind more than any other for the past few months, it has
been one of gratitude to the makers ot Bile Beans, and I am only too delighted to have an opportunity
of publicly stating this.” Thus replied Mrs. Thomas Bishop, of James-street, Hamilton when a
reporter waited upon her the
death’s door exactly, I have been
get seemed to give me relief. It
Night after night I passed almost
morning utterly unrefreshed,
back and between the shoulders,
think it was my liver that caused
and languid feeling grew more
and it was a trouble for me to
to think the illness would be my
weight in three months, and was
doctors, and they said it was in-
me, and when I got no permanent
for a change of air. The pain in
twelve months ago last Easter;
cal vitality, loss of appetite, and
about eight months ago. From
wanted to be lying down, only,
I got up again. Then, when I
pains in the middle of my back
and latterly I had developed sore-
aused me great concern. I in-
he dootor spoke about, and went
*
'I
other day. “ Though not at
so bad that nothing I could door
was misery to me to walk about,
without sleep, to rise in the
Terrible pains assailed me in the
oausing me intense suffering. I
this. As time went on the weary
acute, headaches were frequent,
take my meals. T was beginning
last, because I had lost 141 b. in
very weak. I consulted several
digestion. They prescribed for
relief I was advised to go away
my back I first severely felt
but the breakdown of my physi-
general weakness only came on
that time forward I always
however, to feel more tired when
would try to walk about, the
would be sometimes unbearable,
ness in the abdomen, which
tended to have the change of air
to Lake Macquarie. I took bad
in the house we had taken, however, and was glad to get back to Hamilton. I was at my wits’ end i<j
know what to do to get relief. I saw Bile Beans advertised in the Newcastle Hekald as being good
for the liver, and, believing as I did that my liver was out of order, I determined to get a box of them
almost at once. I experienced relief practically at once. The first dose had rather a powerful effect;
but I realised that this might be the removal of the bile. The next night I took only half a dose.
Continuing with these half-doses for several days, I began to feel my health being restored, and in the
course of a week I felt very much better. I can eat and sleep well, have no sick headaches, and, in
fact, life is a pleasure to me. I can get up at 7 in the morning and go about till 10 at night without
the slightest touch of the languid feeling that used to come over me, and I am now fast gaining my
lost weight. lam recommending the Beans to all my friends, as lam quite sure they alone cured me.”
ILE
E/\flS
FOf\
ILIOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Ner-
vous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female
Weakness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath,
Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles,
Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side,
Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn,
and That Tired Feeling.
BILE BEANS are obtainable from Chemists and Store-
keepers generally, or. direct from the AUSTRALIAN
DEPOT OF THE BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING
COMPANY, 31) Pitt-street, Sydney. Victorian Branch :
Flinders-street, Melbourne. S. A. Branch : King William-
street, Adelaide. W. A. Branch : Murray-street, Perth.
Queensland Branoh : Charlotte - street, Brisbane. Price
Is. lid. per box.


PLENTIFUL RAIN. Bountiful SEASONS.
A PROPHESY! FLOODS!!
Fwe could only fret PARLIAMENT TO PASS A BTLL
FOR GENERAL AND PLENTEOUS RAINS, Parlia-
ment might shut up for five years. We would never
miss the Floods of Talk.
But j if BLESSED with BOUNTEOUS RAINS, then
Granuma would be on every Breakfast Table.
Billy Tea— Bigger Sales than ever.
Ding Dong Baking Powder would go up.
White Heather Whisky be taken down.
Electric Cleanser be in every wash-tub.
Weymouth s Vinegar in every kitchen.
—AND—
James Inglis & Co., Sole Proprietors,
and Wholesale Agents, Millers, Merchants, &c.,
be busier than ever in Dean’s Place, Sydney;
and at Brisbane.
Yes’OWe us COPIOUS RAINS and GOOD GRASS, and
you may put the FEDERAL CAPITAL where you hke.
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
SYDNEY EAGER BIER
IS PRONOUNCED BY
ALL
WHO
TRY
IT
To be the best Lager Going.
HAVE YOU
TRIED IT ?
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulphoiine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ APENTA,”
The Best Purgative Water.
“ The gentleness of its action makes it particu
larly adapted for women.” — Practitioner.
Sole Exporters: The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.*
WHISHY AND HEALTH.
Whiskv of the right sort, such as the “ D.C.L.”
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind, it preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Note
“ D.C.L.”*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction ltoomS.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Reid rode for a fall —the fall of
his followers.
Barton’s luck, dead out for many months,
is rushing in at last. Nobody is attacking him
just now.
The Q. elections seem to be turning on
the colored-alien question. Dickson’s Kanaka
groom may be a blessing to the Piebald province.
Archbishop O’Keily has publicly disap-
proved of the candidature of Southern Cross
(Adelaide R.C. organ) Editor Denny for W.
Adelaide against Premier Kingston and Labor-
leader Batchelor. He does not want to offend
either Ministry or Labor-party ; also he regards
Denny as too young for Parliament yet.
John Downer, who affects to lead what is
left of S.A. Opposition, has decided to try for
Parliament again next month, despite his recent
announcement of withdrawal. He fears that
otherwise "he will be forgotten ere the Federal
election, and he dearly desires to renew his
political youth in the Federal Parliament.
The futility of patriot Haynes’ double-
headed referendum ! “Will you or will you not
take this?” was the referendum proper. Haynes
wanted it to be, Whether you will take this or
that ? But numerous batches of equally pure
patriots wanted different thats, and were as much
entitled to have them put under the referendum
as was John.
Brisbane Telegraph is about the meanest
rag south of the equator. For some time it has
been voluminously reporting the inane tommy-rot
of Parliamentary candidates of all brands ; but
when the leader of the Independent Opposition
—J. G. Drake, certainly one of the most
creditable men in the public life of Leperland—
addressed his constituents the miserable Tele-
graph did not even mention the fact in a one-inch
paragraph. Brisbane conservative Courier, on the
other hand, gave the popular democrat a good two-
column report. And the Telegraph calls itself a
“Liberal Journal ” ! There is a big opening for
a brainy and inoderately-honest evening paper in
Brisbane.
That wild provmcial-
ist, M‘Laughlin, of Ra-
leigh, told N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, during the recent
Federal debate, that the
Melbourne people were so
sure that they would keep
the Federal capital there
permanently that the Melb.
landlords were already giv-
ing their tenants notice to
quit or submit to a rise in
rents. Then Henry Cope-
land rose and explained
that it was he who had
{jiven the shriekful Mac his
information. But what he
had said was that he had
met one Melbourne man—
only one—whose landlord
was going to raise his rent
when the lease expired.
And the solitary person
didn’t know why his rent
was going to be raised, but
thought that perhaps Federation had
something to do with it. M'Laughlin
didn’t look in the least ashamed of
having his huge invention shown up in
this fashion.
There was a scandalous example
of magisterial incompetence the other
day at Blackall (Q.). The Revision
Court struck off 112 names from the elec-
toral list on the ground that residence quali-
fications were defective. Several of the dis-
qualified appealed on the ground that they had
resided continuously in the electorate, though not
always in the same portion thereof, for the
requisite time. Result the Supreme Court
ordered the names of the parties appealing to be
restored to the roll. And the remainder—over 100
persons—not having the money to appeal are dis-
franchised for the coming elections. If Q. Govt,
win back this seat it can confidently attribute its
gain to the dirty trick above narrated.
The chief interest of Q. elections lies in
the first batch. Excitement circles mainly round
the Bundaberg, Toowong, Valley and Clermont
campaigns—all close fights and of vital import to
the two great parties concerned. The Central
District is sure to go almost solid for Labor-cum-
Separation, and the North will probably remain
much as before.
In face of Premier Dickson’s repeated
assertions that the gate is closed on the Jap., how
comes it that Torres Straits Pilot reported
the landing of 40 Japanese on Thursday Island
some six weeks ago? ... Is it a fact that the re-
strictions on immigration from Japan, about which
Q. Govt, has made so much brag and bounce, are
restrictions on formally-indented labor only ?
Dreary Dickson, Premier of Queensland,
is going to start his immigration policy by intro-
ducing domestic servants and agricultural laborers
into the over-stocked labor-market at the rate of
100 a month. Even if these people were really
wanted, it would merely mean that the Dickson
crowd had managed to make Queensland a place
that people would only come to when they got
paid for coming.
Q. Opposition-party is making a stand to
capture one of the Brisbane seats, and has put up
a decidedly brainy young lawyer named St. Ledger
to do tho battling. St. L. is a first-rate speaker, a
Q. native, and editor of the local education jour-
nal. Being slender of physique and pungent of
argument, he makes a striking contrast to his
three Ministerial opponents, who are all bulky
men of conspicuous brainlessness.
Brisbane Telegraph, mostly run by squar-
sons, offers up its penny wail against Federation,
and uses any peg to hang an inane and Ananias-
like screed upon. For instance, the little tin gods
of Q. Post and Telegraphs have been long at open
variance, and the jelly-fish C.S. Board is
frightened to put its foot down. Whereupon the
Brisbane ’Graph asserts that the coming Federa-
tion will shift half the staff, also the rank-and-file,
to make room for the cheap Melbourne article.
A factor that will materially aid in securing
a majority in the forthcoming N.S.W. Referen-
dum will undoubtedly be the scramble for the
capital. Every district with a claim for the
distinction will naturally try to return the largest
majority for Federation, and several of them,
Goulburn and Moss Vale, for instance, declared
against the ’9B Bill. Humiliating, perhaps, to
argue thus, but the votes so cast will count just as
well as those given in the most patriotic spirit.
The local Labor committee at Sturt (S.A.)
has refused to support Healy, whom the central
executive wished to run against Works-Minister
Jenkins. The ground is Healy’s advocacy of the
educational oapitaticn grant, which, although an
open question with the party, is extremely dis-
tasteful in the Sturt. That was the electorate
which, long ago, sent Chief-Justice Way and
Syinon, Q.C., to Parliament, but it has now been
Radical for years, and evidently means to stay so.
“ Die Mihi ” asks :
Re Federal-Capital map in last issue. Couldn’t find the
asterisk at the end ; looked for Doan, Warner, or
Clements. Not even Rassmussen. Yet full of egos. Felt
I suffered from nervousness, specks in my eyes, nasty
brown taste and tired feeling, yet to what end ? Who in
the name of all the fetishes of humanity is “Alex.
Wilson,” and why, when we ask for a remedy, does he
give us a map? “Alex.” “ suggests,” “ sees no reason,”
“proceeds to indicate,” “ deals with it first.” Is he the
new editor of my dear old Bulletin, or only a pill-person
after all?
Significant expression from an alleged re-
port of Archbishop O’Reily’s interview with the
Adelaide Labor paper concerning his pro-capita-
tion grant campaign :
Though (he said) opposed to woman’s franchise, he will
nevertheless tell Catholic women to vote for the man, be
he Labor-member or squatter, who promises to favor a
capitation grant; and he will instruct both Catholic men
and women to vote against the man who refuses to place
£lO,OOO on the estimates for the secular education of the
Catholic children of South Australia.
PARTING PATHOS.
BRIDE'S MOTHER (sobbing, to astonished bride-
groom, as the couple are about to take their
departure): “ Oh, Jack, lave her wid me till
I get used to her bein' away.”
The present Australian metropolitan
papers have little cause to fear a loss of standing
if the Federal capital is not placed at the very
"oilSs S°St Zl KST
with the greafc New Yo rk, Montreal, or Toronto
dttilies. It is not so much the necessity for keep-
j separate literary staffs in the capital as the
inevitable abolition of the shameful free carriage
of tlieir private pro p e rty by the Govt, that pinches
the sync j icate press.
Barrister Lilley, eldest son of Queensland’s
Grand o ld Democrat, has much of his parent’s
brains but none of his courage. The young man
was warmly invited to contest the premier con-
gtituency by an influential deputation of Brisbane
e l ee tors, and declined. He prefers to harangue
tbe du ll- w itted cockies of Oxley, where he thinks
his chances are safer. And seeing that Lilley is
trying to run out another democratic candidate,
a number of very enthusiastic Radicals wouldn’t
mind if he falls in the mud.
Just when a few Sydneysiders were deplor-
ing that Premier Reid had given away the pro-
vince’s rights to “our magnificent river-system in
the West ” the boss of that system —the Darling—
absolutely refused to flow a little below Wilcan-
nia. And at Wilcannia, where they depend on
IN “PUSH SOCIETY.”—DUE PROVOCA-
TION.
TIM: “ Complainant sed it was an unpervoked
assault.”
THE STIFFENER (amazed): “ An’ ’im a bloomin’
trap !”
the river for their drinking water, the residents
had already thrown a row of sand-bags across the
bed, and were lapping up the water from the pool
behind. Fortunately Queensland rains— Queens-
land rains, please note —have resulted in a fair
“fresh.”
Labor-member Holman (N.S.W.) :
What was it that had led to the rejection of the Federal
Bill last year except the strong and general feeling all
over N.S. W. that it was a machine in which the central
pivot was defective, &c. ?
That is an easy conundrum. What led to the
dropping of the Bill last year was the fact that
the majority which cordially accepted it was dis-
qualified and disfranchised by a gang of political
robbers. And Holman, with his pretence of “ re-
jection,” is an apologist for the robbers and an
accessory after the fact.
The N.S.W. Cabbage-tree Mob is going to
make a great effort in the Upper House to get the
Federal referendum postponed for six months, in
the.hope that something of an anti-Billious nature
may happen meanwhile. It also says, per medium
of Sydney Telegraph, that public opinion is with
it —but it doesn’t believe what it says. If it did,
it would want to have the Federal referendum at
once, and to have the joy of wiping the Billites off
the face of the earth. The party that says it is
dead sure it can win easily, and then bolts for its
life, is a familiar fraud.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott on the present
state of Maoriland —the province that is being
“ ruined ” by socialistic legislation, and old age
pensions, and Protection, and similar fads : “I
was through the greater part of the province, and
visited both islands, and everywhere the place
struck me as being wonderfully prosperous. . . .
During my eight weeks’ tour I did not come across
a single beggar.” And eleven years ago, in the
latter days of the Tory regime, Maoriland was
covered with relief works where able-bodied single
men worked for 2s 6d. a day.
Old W. H. Groom, the father and grand-
father and general old-man-in-a-hurry of Queens-
land Parliament, fills 10| columns of Toowoomba
Chronicle with his boiling-hot curse against
Federation. Groom’s tale of anguish is mainly
that Federation is a scheme on the part of the
poor stricken province next door (N.S.W.) to get
hold of Queensland’s wealth, and that Queensland
is to prop up the other provinces, and pay their
debts, and let them annex her trade, and some-
thing spectral and misty is to fall on the piebald
province, and it is to be overrun by the bunyip
and the blue-moulded unicorn. The enthusiasm
among the provincialists of N.S.W. about their
“ natural ally ” Queensland isn’t reciprocated up
North. The Bananaland provincialists seem to
mostly regard N.S.W. as some kind of highway
robber.
The political Jeremiahs who moan about
the cast-iron character of the Federal Constitution
are, so far as controversy is concerned, lineal
descendants of the plutocratic rings who banded
themselves to resist the Constitution Act of
N.S.W. from 1853 to 1856. That Act was also
called “cast-iron,” and thousands were gulled into
the belief that once they accepted it they
practically became slaves under it for ever. Yet
in 12 months after the establishment of Responsible
Government a Bill was passed amending the Con-
stitution Act in that section which excluded
clergymen from holding seats in Parliament. In
other words, when the people, rightly or wrongly,
judged that clergymen should be allowed to hold
seats they repealed the much-vaunted cast-iron
section and had their way, and that, too, while
the famous Constitution Act was in prime vigor.
The three prominent questions at the
approaching B.A. Assembly election will be
Federation, suffrage-reform, and the capitation
grant. The two former will be decided by
referendum, but the latter will
greatly sway the result of many
contests. R.C. Archbishop
O’Reily lately announced that
he and his priests will “ fight
to the death for a capita-
tion grant of <£lo,ooo a
year,” on the ground that
the 5000 children now
educated in R.C. schools
save the State .£20,000
per annum. All the
other denominations, save
only the Anglicans, are
up in arms with depu-
tations to Government,
and a lovely faction fight
is promised. The sud-
den prominence given to
the movement is awk-
ward for the Kingston
Govt., as Lands Minister
O’Longhlin and Chief
Secretary O’Loghlin
are staunch R.C.’s,and
Kingston himself once
supported a capitation
grant. Any Ministry
which favored such a
scheme would, however,
bring certain defeat upon
itself.
“A.W.B.,”St, George, Wesrern Queens-
land
I don’t quite understand the talk re Referendum and
joint sittings of both Houses —let the politicians chatter
about and settle that matter among themselves. But
when it comes to joint ownership of railways we are on
solid ground, and if Federation do nothing else but
abolish differential railway-rates it will be an unmixed
good. We want to send our produce to the nearest port
or market by the most convenient natural way ; we must
not be made send stuff hundreds of miles of a round to
increase the importance of some town or city because it
happens to be on a certain side of some imaginary boun-
dary line. For every unnecessary mile we have to carry
wool or other produce means that we are debarred from
putting an equal amount of labor into developing the
country, improving its resources, and, by benefiting Aus-
tralia, at the same time bettering the condition of Aus-
tralians. It is a hard country, is Australia ; it is not a
country where one can sit down and let things grow and
fatten and fall into one’s lap, but a place where one has
to graft, and graft hard, to make a decent living. So,
when so much necessary work is here to be done, we must
not carry thousands of bales of wool hundreds of unneces-
sary miles to bolster up the provincial fads of self-seeking
city traders. That is needless toil and needless expense.
ANOTHER WICKET TO
BILL.
“ On Wednesday last, at
Jamieson-st. Church, Wil-
liam Howell, of Penrith
(cricketer), to Miss Neva
Hunter .”
Sydney Daily
Telegraph’s private
opinion o f Premier
Reid is unpublish-
able. The disgusted
pa relit never wallops
his offspring in view
of the guests.
Kidd, the dread-
ful little nothing-in-
particular who used
to be the tail of
Dibbs’sMinistry, says
that the idea of hold-
ing the first Federal
Parliament in Mel -
bourne is simply fatal
—because there are
ten cases of typhoid
in Melbourne to one
in Sydney. Probably
it would be rather a
shock to the ex -
P.M.G. to know that
Victoria in general is
far less subject to ty-
phoid than N.S.W.,
and Melbourne in
this one respect shapes
better than Sydney.
Tt is consumption,
cancer, and a few
other pleasant trifles
that keep the Vie.
death-rate so high in
comparison with that
ofN.S.W. Kiddused
to be recognised as
the fool of the Dibbs
Government, and he
lives up to the title.
The Australia Hotel and an office in
O’Connell-street appear to be the foci where the
Sydney opponents of the Federal Constitution
Bill now meet in council. In Wentworth’s day
the N.S.W. Constitution Bill was attacked from
the Royal Hotel and Circular Quay.


IF YOU BUY A
a
urn
Mandolin,
Guitar, or
Banjo
You are certain you have the best
money can procure. “ Washburn’s ”
are made by the greatest manufac-
turer in America. They are perfect in
scale, made of the best material by
skilled labor ; the result is “Wash-
burn ” Tone, which is the main
feature of these renowned instru-
ments.
We
Are
Sole
Agents.
It’s Easy
to Sell
“ Washburn’s ” Because they’re the Best.
Write for Catalogues and particulars.
PALINCTS
GREAT
PIANO
AGENCIES
STEINWAY - - - PIANOS
BRINSMEAD... PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
EEURICH - - - - PIANOS
UEBEL PIANOS
p CKE PIANOS
VICTOR PIANOS
BELLING - - - - PIANOS
Honest
Value.
All our
PIANOS and
ORGANS are
High in Grade
ESTEY
ORGANS
Low in Price and
Fully Guaranteed.
Easy Time Payments.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 George-st., SYDNEY;
And at BRISBANE & NEWCASTLE.
GEISHA SOUVENIR JEWELLERY.
“ KOTOBUKI GOOD LUCK.”
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
“ Just Received, ex R.M.S. Oriental."
ALL ARTICLES ARE SOLID GOLD AND FINEST ENGLISH ENAMEL.
“Geisha” Chrysan-
themum Charm, 10s.
With Pin and Chain,
13s 6d.
Geisha Lantern
Charm, 4s.
Solid Gold and 5
Lovely Opals, 255.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope and
Charity Pendant,
5s each.
With Pin and Chain,
8s 6d.
Geisha Bamboo
and Lantern
Brooch, Solid
Gold, 10s.
Geisha Bangles,
Guff Links, Belt
Clasps, etc., in
Great Variety.
ra
Geisha Bamboo,
Fan, and
Chrysanthemum
Brooch,
Solid Gold,
20s.
AH Goods Post
Free.
Send for Our
Illustrated
Slips of
Latest-
Novelties.
SOLID GOLD.
Set with One Finest Quality Amethyst, Topaz, or Garnet,
and 10 White Pearls, 40s each.
SOLID GOLD.
Set with 9 Beautiful Opals, and 16 Lovely
White Pearls, 50s.
Geisha Lantern,
Pin and Chain,
Solid Gold,
7s 6d.
Solid Gold and
Lovely Opal, 16s.
Lucky Shamrock and
Scotch Heather
Charms,
Gold-mounted,
6/6 each.
Gold Bell Brooches.
1 Bell, 10s 6d ; 3 Bell, 12s 6d eaoh.
Gold 2-bar Brooch,
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant, 13s 6d each.
NOTE- - Our ONLY Australian Address —9Q KING STREET, SYDNEY
a_New Sensation i
CYCLING MADE EASY.
The Advent of the MULTIFLEX
DUNLOP TYRE in Australia.
Dun?oD h Co WiU be p . leased to he ar that the
the nnhi.v •??\u now m a Position to supply
the public with their improved pattern PP 7
sis==rawa3s^"~
Roadster Patterns Guaranteed for 12 Months.
T ,° nl y Genuine when the Cover and
Tube bear this Registered Trade Mark.
First in 1888.
Foremost evor since.
r
\
i:\iU\w
Bend
at
Once
for Illustrated Pamphlet, giving detailed
description of the New Multiflex Dunlop
Tyre for ’99. Posted gratis on receipt of
name and address at
THE DUIICOP PHEUIfIHTIC T!JRE CO. CTfl.
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
247 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE; 59 Franklin-street, ADELAIDE;
King-street, PERTH; and Lichfield-street, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
mHE UNDERMENTIONED BANKS have
agreed to charge, Half-yearly, a fee of Five
Shillings on all current accounts without excep-
tion whether debtor or creditor.
The first charge will be made on the 30th June
next at Head office and branches, and thereafter
on the 31st December and the 30th June in each
year.
Dated at Sydney this 3rd. February 1899.
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, Limited
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK,
Limited
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Limited
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Limited
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH, AND AUS-
TRALIAN BANK, Limited
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA, Limited
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
Limited
THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND,
Limited.
D. 5.111. IDont de piste
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREACrH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPawnbroMng Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOKTTR.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
ya
HF-A 0 O-FF/cp
! NTERSECTION HUNTER,BUGH and
Castiereagh Streets ,
• SYDNEY ‘
Established - M 873.
in Austr* I'* 1 '* *
Annual Jncomeand Invested
FundsExceed£2oo,ooo Ver/in^.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE (
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
ity regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
JAMES BURNS, Esq. Dire | ctors DAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N- PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. 'Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
TN Trustees, €xccCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £73,375 15 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ... £6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. It. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,032,511
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 BisJiopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments arid Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,615.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Business Announcements.
1M ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA- I
TION.
-D
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities- a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-construct ed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
The following are a few of oar leading lines'.
GENT’S. Kangaroo E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d
best French Calf ditto, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ; F. Calf Kid-leg
Balmorals, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ; best F. Calf WHOLE
Golosh, Kid-leg (neat caps) Balmorals, 20s, for best wear ;
F. Calf Half-Wellingtons, 24s 6d ; best F. Calf Jockey
Boots, sewn, 39s 6d ; F. Calf Riding Boots, 42s (worth
50s); heavy Calf Watertight Shooting Boots, stout soles
for rough tramping, wear 12 months, 15s 6d ; F. Calf
Cossacks, 14s 6d, 15s 6d.
LADIES. Best Glac6 Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, 16s;
ditto High-leg Balmorals, 19s 6d ; Button ditto, 20s;
F. Calf Lace Balmorals, 17s 6d ; Colonial Calf ditto, 13s 6d;
Kangaroo ditto, 15s 6d ; F. Calf or Kangaroo Oxford or
Derby Shoes or E.S., 14s 6d.
Send for Catalogue and Price List —Free on
application.
Thousands of Unsolicited Testimonials!
“ Received shoes you made me, and am highly pleased.
They are a most comfortable fit.” —(Miss) M. S. Tierney,
Freemason Hotel, Singleton. “The boots arrived
safely, and I am well pleased with them. They fit me
perfectly. Will be sending for another pair later on.”—
Miss R. Manns, Karabah, Young. “ The boots you
made me are the best I have everworn, both for comfort
and durability.”— Fred. T. Berman, Public School, Coo-
namble. “ The boots I got from you have given every
satisfaction, both for ease and wear. Make me another
pair of E.S.”— R. Jones, proprietor Tobermory Station,
Thargomindah, Q.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARR 1 AGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
TIT HULL’S Fluid JH.sin/'rctaut clears out Buys,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
ietorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., March 11,12 Noon.
-Barrabool, Tues., March 14, 5 p.in.
Peregrine, Sat., March 18, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Sat., March 11,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Tyrian, Sat., March 11, 12 Noon
Takes passengers and for
S.S. Gabo leaving Melbourne
Tuesday, March 14.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, March 11,
Burwah, Tues., March 14, 5
Tyrian, Sat., March 18, 2 p.
SV is
BUNDAHERO
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lenra, Saturday, March 11, 2 p.
Tyrian, Sat., March 18, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST LT) 1C ICE Vl' FAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Win. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot, of King Street, Sydnej*.
1,1 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
-A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
(Hiluiraith, H)‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. 8. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
To Investors!
DEBENTURE BONDS
from £5O to £500; three
and five years’ currency, and bearing 6 and 7 per
cent, interest, payable quarterly, are issued by the
Universal [and $ Qeposit Bank
Limited. Offices, 250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Incorporated
under the Companies’ Act of 1874. The Company did not
suspend payment during the Building Society Panic of
1891, or in the Bank Panic of 1893. Further information
from ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON, Managing Director.
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Facharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address— lUemseil. Telephone No. t;<)r>.
Code— Moiihino & Neal, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ELEOTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning- grey
should send for a Bottle of ELEOTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITXEN,
680 - 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
„ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And OULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullatra, Friday, March 10.
S.S. Wollowra, Friday, March 17
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
March 10.
S.S. Wollowra, Friday,
March 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinfja, Saturday',
March 11.
liest <& Cheapest lioute to Goldfields .
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Special Trip
under * Mims
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Rates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to—
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
Londoir, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOIIMANN & CO., General Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN— Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA -Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisitie unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street. i
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


No. 5. —Gentlemen’s Silver Waltham
Lever.
’ Keyless, -f-plate, highly finished nickel
movement, with compensation balance,
7 jewels. In heavy English Hall-
marked cases, either hunting or open-
face .......
£3
POST
FREE.
Please Note
AND Remember
These Three Facts!
1. —That there are Walthams and
Imitation Walthams!
2. —That the Waltham movements are
frequently put into shoddy
cases, and sold by unscrupu-
lous traders as the genuine
article.
3. —That H. Newman’s Walthams are
guaranteed genuine, both
as regards case and movement.
WALTHAM
H. NEWMAN
Has pleasure in announcing that he has completed
arrangements in regard to the productions of the
American Watch Co., Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.,
which will enable him to supply the famous Waltham
Levers at greatly reduced prices—lower than those
usually charged for the inferior watches of other
makers.
Herewith are shown some of the principal lines. H. Newman
holds the Largest Stock of Watches in Australia, and if you
want any other sort of watch, send for his Illustrated Cata-
logue, which will be forwarded post free to any address.
On receipt of remittance, any of the watches shown will
be forwarded (with guarantee) securely packed, and postage
paid to any part of Australasia.
W atchmaker, J e weller,
. . AND . .
Dealer in Precious Stones
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
No. 52.— Gentlemen’s Gold
Waltham Lever.
Keyless, f -piate move-'
ment with compensa-
tion balance, 7 jewels.
In heavy and strong
18-carat gold cases—
plain polished as shown
above, or engine-turned
or richly-engraved cases^
£l5
POST
FKEE.
No. 39.—Ladies’ Silver
Keyless Waltham Lever.
movement, com-
pensation balance, 7
jewels. In English Hall-
marked cases, hand-
somely engraved - - ,
£3
POST
FREE.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
CURE PERMAKTEKrXLY
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
They Stand Alone as a Woman’s Best Friend!
A Miracle Wrought
MRS. LANG’S TERRIBLE CONDITION-
THREE LEADING SPECIALISTS FOR
FEMALE AILMENTS BAFFLED—HOS-
PITALS FAIL — The SURGEON’S KNIFE
ADDS TO HER AGONY. DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE HER
PERMANENTLY AND COMPLETELY.
Miracles have been chronicled of the past, and
it does not appear as if the word fits into our
present-day vocabulary ; but no other word can
properly express the marvellous recovery of Mrs.
Lang, 16 Little Albion-street, Surry Hills, Syd-
ney : “ I had quite made up my mind that I
would die,” said Mrs. Lang to a reporter who had
been called to investigate her astonishing cure.
“ I had undergone operation after operation, each
of which would only give me slight relief from my
dreadful sufferings. In fact, the agony which I
endured seemed more than any human being could
live under, and yet, somehow, I held unto life
when death would have been a blessing.
“ Had you seen me at that time you would have
taken me for a Chinese, my skin was so yellow.
Only I had not the almond eyes, many Chinese
would have looked Europeans beside me. The
complaint I suffered from lasted eight years, and
they were the most wretched years a mortal ever
live through, if I can give the name of living to
such an existence. I had been on the operating-
table in the hospital more than once, and under
the treatment of three of the best specialists for
female ailments in the city, and there were silver
tubes inserted in my body to carry off the matter
which the ailment created. I was growing weaker
and more hopeless every day, and was thoroughly
resigned to my end, only it seemed too slow in
coming.
“ But I was not yet to die. It seemed by the
merest chance that my life was saved. I had been
taken home from the hospital by my husband in a
cab, and was in such torture that I lay on the
floor of the cab with my head on the seat. From
then he was forced to carry me upstairs and down-
stairs, as I could not walk. While lying on the
sofa one afternoon a little book was thrown in
through the open door. My husband picked it
up, and read of the astonishing cures Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills had made. He carefully read
it through, and was so much impressed by what
he read that he urged I should try them as a last
hope. At first I scorned the idea that any medi-
cine could accomplish what leading doctors and
the hospitals had utterly failed to do, but at last
I acted on his advice and tried Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills.”
At this stage Mrs. Lang produced her photo.,
taken when her friends thought she was dying.
It was the picture of a woman with a drawn face
and the expression of intense suffering. She then
said : “The difference you see between that
photo, and the perfect specimen of health and
strength which you now see before you is solely
due to the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The pills went quietly and painlessly to work and
cleared my system of the impurities, and I began
to mend rapidly. My appetite is now splendid.,
and I gained 28 pounds in three months after
starting the use of the pills. I suppose I had
been attended by at least half-a-dozen doctors
during my illness, besides trying all the patent
medicines that I thought would help me ; in fact,
I spent nearly half a fortune in trying to be cured.
A few bottles of the pills have caused a complete
cure in my case, when you might say that death was
staring me. You are at liberty to make the facts
known, and 1 will gladly endorse my statements
if anyone doubting will call on me. I consider it
my duty to make the facts known. lam in per-
fect health, and can walk any distance, thanks to
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as they alone have
saved my life.”
Tormented by Disease-
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS PEED
HIS VITAL SPARK.
Mr. Vine is a well-known greengrocer, residing
in Denison-street, Kingston, Sydney. He has a
few words to say about his suffering and cure :
“ For some considerable time,” he said, “ I have
had a bad set-to with acute indigestion, which at
last took me to a doctor. The pains would catch
me sharply in the pit of the stomach, and with
such severity that when the doctor told me what
my complaint was I could scarcely believe him,
thinking that indigestion could never use a man
so badly. His advice and medicine, however, did
me no good, and I was advised by friends to try
different remedies. I followed this one’s advice
and that; but my complaint was still as bad as
ever, when I resolved to give Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills a trial, as I had heard them praised so
much by many I knew who had used them. From
the first dose they acted very well upon me, giving
me more relief than anything I had taken, and I
can recommend them to all who suffer as I have
done.”
Suffered Since Girlhood.
MEDICAL MEN FAILED,
BUT DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
FAILED NOT.
Mrs. A. Everingham, living on the Nana-road,
Grafton, N.S.W., tells her story in a few words :
“ Since girlhood I have been a victim to severe in-
digestion and pains in the back, chest, and sides,
which at times were almost unendurable, and
caused me to think I could not live an hour. I
tried many remedies and consulted several medical
men, but they did not cure me. lam now 49
years of age, and suffered for many years. A few
weeks ago I started to use Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. The first bottle caused me to feel in
good health. I continued their use for a short
time, and can now say they are the best remedy I
have taken. I recommend them to all my friends,
and they appear to do good to all.”
The Prey of Despair.
HIS DARK NIGHT MADE SUNNY BY
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Mr. Byles is not a man of words, but he has
much to tell, which he does in a few words. He is
a fisherman, residing in Wyong, N.S.W. This is
what be tells us : “ I have been unable to sleep at
night, suffering from sleeplessness and indigestion.
What remedies I used did me no good. I dreaded
the approach of night as a time of indescribable
misery. Then I heard of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and I took one dose. They acted like
a charm, for that night I slept soundly, and the
next day was quite refreshed and fit for work.
They are a real good pill, and I believe in them.”
When Science Failed
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
PROVED A HAPPY SUCCESS.
Mrs. Frank Grant, Girilambone, near Nyngan,
N.S.W., writes : “ I have been suffering for some
time with my head and stomach, and tried many
doctors, but without any good result. I have
found that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
done me a deal of good, and I recommend them
to ali my friends, who all praise them.”
How is Your Breath ?
Foul breath is always an indication of poor
health—bad digestion. It is the staring-point of
many very serious maladies. Upon the healthy
action of the digestive organs the blood depends
for its richness and purity. If digestion stops,
poisonous matter accumulates and is forced into
the blood—there is no place else for it to go.
The bad breath is a danger-signal. Look out
for it ! If you have it, or any other symptom of
indigestion, take a bottle or two of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They will straighten out the
trouble, make your blood pure and healthy, and
full of nutriment for the tissues. It is a strong
statement, but a true one.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
HAVE CURED THOUSANDS, AND
WILL CURE YOU.
One of the roots from which these Pills are made
is a sudorific, which opens the pores of the skin,
and assists nature in throwing out the finer parts
of the corruption within. The second is a plant
which is an expectorant that opens and unclogs
the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a soothing
manner, performs its duty by throwing off the
phlegm and other humors from the lungs by
copious spitting. The third is a diuretic, which
gives ease and double strength to the kidneys ;
thus encouraged, they draw large amounts of im-
purity from the blood, which is then thrown out
bountifully by the urinary or water passage, and
which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pills while en-
gaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser particles
of impurities, which cannot pass by other outlets,
are thus taken up and conveyed off in great
quantities by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a Perfect BLOOD
PURIFIER, curing BOILS. BLOTCHES,
PIMPLES. SALLOW COMPLEXION, JAUN-
DICE, ECZEMA, and all SKIN DISEASES,
and a positive cure for SICK HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, DYSPEP-
SIA, CONSTIPATION, SHORTNESS OF
BREATH, FLATULENCY, LIVER COM-
PLAINT, KIDNEY AND FE M ALE
TROUBLES. Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS, Price, Is. l£d. per bottle,
or six bottles six shillings.
If not obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keeper, same will be forwarded upon receipt of
price. Sole Proprietors—
The W. 11. CO3I STOCK CO. Ltd.
Australasian Branch-
-68 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


There appears to be a general lack of knowledge
as to the whereabouts of the Sydney Safe Deposit, and
it is desirable to state that it is situated at the back
of Paling’s, 338 George-street, Sydney, and is reached by
the lane alongside Paling’s establishment. Since the
recent invitation of the manager to Bulletin readers to
visit the vaults there has been a constant stream of
visitors who are greatly impressed with the massiveness
of the place There is no doubt that for the safe storage
ot documents and valuables it is unsurpassed. It is
impregnable.*
Harry Wilson, many years chief engineer
to the B.H. Proprietary Co’s mines, has joined
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. (South Mel-
bourne), and will in future be associated with Mr.
E. J. Rigby in the management. Mr. Wilson’s
la,rge experience as a mining engineer should find
plenty of scope for usefulness in his new capacity.*
Ihe Brassey family still maintains its
reputation for accidents. When Mrs. Freeman-
Ihomas was hunting at Eastbourne (Eng.) the
other week, her horse fell and broke its neck. The
lady fell too, according to the best traditions of the
family, but, strange to say, escaped without injury.
As a rule, it is the Brassey that gets damaged,
and the horse or bike that escapes unhurt.
Anti-Federalists find an easy target for
their jibes in the converted Australian Star.
Verily, curses come home to roost, and a column
from to-day’s Star looks certainly grotesque
printed parallel with one of the diatribes against
the Bill in which that print indulged last year.
If it wanted to, Sydney Daily Telegraph would
not dare to change front so suddenly ; as matters
stand, it has hardly time to gracefully gyrate
right round the compass. No syndicate paper,
where a lot of directors pull different ways, can
ever be edited consistently, unless the editor is
mad e Boss by d eed. A p ropes, com pare 11 1 e Federal
courses steered by S.M. Herald and Sydney E.
News (private-proprietary) with those of the pub-
lic-company-owned Sydney D.T. and Australian
Star.
The new Federal Bill was carried through
N.S.W. Assembly ‘by huge majorities —on the
second reading, in fact, its opponents didn’t even
venture to call for a division. Yet, next morning,
Sydney Telegraph arose quite fresh to state that
the bulk of the Assembly was against it all the
same. The party which carried the 80,000 mini-
mum vote last time tried to assert itself again, but
the tide of battle swept it off its feet—in a House
of 89 it could only muster 7 votes. It was Labor-
meinber Fegan who proposed loading the dice this
time; he wanted a minimum of about 140,000, so
that, if there were 130,000 votes for the Bill and
one against it, the one would carry the day. And
yet Fegan belongs to the party which advocates
the absolute referendum,” and which believes in
majority-rule (!) for all it is worth.
Yet another “peril of the sea.” The
ancient coal-ship from N.S.W. continues to bob
up in various ports. The barque Kosciusko, from
Newcastle to Shanghai, put into Hongkong lately,
after being 65 days at sea, leaking too badly to
proceed further on her way. The pumps had
been kept going continually throughout the
voyage, the vessel making in moderate weather,
at times, 12in. per hour. Fortunately, she was
provided with a donkey-boiler, which was in-
valuable in getting rid' of the leakage. Pre-
vious to her departure from N.S.W., the vessel
was surveyed by three gentlemen whose duty it
was to see that the Navigation Act clauses re sea-
worthiness had been complied with. The Kosciusko
came up to the so-called requirements, therefore it
is to be assumed that, with the actual state of the
ship before them, anyone of the surveyors would
have accepted the command of her for the pro-
posed voyage.
Pathetic stab from Sydney D.T. Federal
Counter (Jumping) Movement meeting report :
Mr. S. A. Rosa, who complained that he was not being
listened co, suggested that some effort should be made to
appeal to the industrial classes. He said that, as premier
of the School classes.
Let us see—what was the last ad vt. given to Rosa ?
Something about bravery in the presence of a
ferocious bull, wasn’t it ?
I
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc,
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
a
i
4'
)s£~ )^-
vt-
IF 1899 MODEL
Red Bird Special, Red Bird No- 1, and
Black Bird Cycles
are not properly represented in your town, let us know.
We can make it interesting- for you.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.,
Factories: "i
Brantford, V
Canada. J
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st, Sydney (Head Office); 245 Collins-st., Melh. ; Edward-st.,
Brisbane; Victoria-st., Wellington. Agents Everywhere.
Tf
*
l -n.
■'R 'rt.
Agents in Town and Country.
Sunliglxt in Your Homes.
New Sunlight ” Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO,, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete , 6s. 6d.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Iredale s innings of 85 was, undoubtedly, the
best show of batting in the first innings of the Australian
XI; he was unlucky in being run out when going so
strong for his century. Clem Hill made the crowd laugh
by snicking Giffen’s off-theory balls to the fenoe at leg.
Noble, who got 111, was shaky for a long time, but his
luck stuck to him and he played better cricket on the
second day. Next to Iredale, “Ironbark" Jim Kelly
played best, and M‘Leod was shaping well when Giffen
and Johns bluffed him out. He missed a fast ball and
Johns knocked the bails off and appealed to Bannerman,
who said “ not out.” Then Giffen appealed to Crockett,
who gave M'Leod out caught and he had to leave. Johns
admitted afterwards that Mac. didn’t touch the ball. The
second time that “ Lightning ” Charlie has been bluffed
out on Sydney Ground.
(filler succeeded in spoiling what hope he had
of going 'Ome by his first innings effort against Austra-
lian XI. He and Reed man started batting for the Next
Eleven, and in the first hour Giller amassed no less than
17 by spirited pokings. Then he stopped at 17 for 25min.,
during vvhich time he was caught, off a “ no ball,” and
badly missed by Jones ; and the crowd cheered loudly
when he made another run. They cheered a lot louder
soon after when Gregory took an easy catch, and sent the
dreamy potterer out to make room for Trumper. Reed-
man knocked up 50 whilst Giller was getting 20 —and he
is anything but a fast scorer.
Trumper, after his first-innings failure to score
against the Eleven, and his rather poor luck in second
innings, appears to have little chance of a trip to
Hingland this year, as it is rather much to expect
Trumble and Darling to pick a player they have never
seen do anything when there are so many consistent all-
round men to choose from. Still, if Trumper does some-
thing phenomenal in Melb. and Adelaide they may agree
to take him. Fully half the big crowd at the match last
Saturday went there to see Trumper bat, and when at 6
he was caught by his Paddington clubmate, Kelly, off
clubmate Noble, lots went away disgusted. Kelly took
the catch as if he didn’t want it, and appealed with evi-
dent reluctance, but “Mary Ann” seemed to be less
sorrowful.
When Noble and M'Leod were batting in the
first innings of Australian XI Noble put a ball away
through the slips, and M'Leod, whose place it was to call,
seeing it was a safe run, called him and ran down the
pitch. Noble, however, stood with his feet firmly planted
well inside the crease, and Mac. had to turn round and
sprint back home. That it was a safe run was proved by
M'Leod being able to run down the pitch and back again,
and as Noble is notable for the earnestness with which he
runs out his own hits, his refusal to do so in this instance
looks rather unpromising.
Trumper’s evil luck in first-class matches con-
tinues. In his second innings against “ the Eleven” he
was run-out for 46; and upstairs, from where the
whole crease is visible, he certainly appeared to be
“home.” It was a close thing, anyhow. The perfect
manner in which he ran up his 46 should silence those
who allege that he can only score against second-rate
teams.
* • * *
“ Enthu.” : Has S.M. Herald joined the small
and select coterie who don’t want to see Trumper “ go
home”? Writer sent a letter to that organ in reply to
one “agin him”; it was not published, but two from
persons asking for Duff were. In the report on first day’s
play in M.L. match, no praise was given for Trumper’s 81
not out (afterwards increased to 253), and two chances
are alleged against him. Well, they were chances, but
this scribe would not care to shake hands with the bowler
who could take them. In commenting on the selected 14,
the Herald barracks for Donnan, and in treating of
Trumper’s chances says: “This batsman, like Donnan,
takes no chances.” Like Donnan! Great Scott! Trumper
hits everything hard and clean, with strokes all round the
wicket; Donnan potters along with his two strokes, and
merely blocks everything he can’t get them in on.
* * * *
If Syd. Gregory had to be picked on this season’s
form he certainly would not be in the Eleven.
* * * *
George Giffen was strongly disinclined to play
in the first match, when the chances were all against his
being in the first team ; but his friends urged him to do
so, and he changed his mind at the last moment.
Strange, by the way, how “Giff.’s” popularity ebbs and
flows ! His stoutest friends now are Adelaide cricketers,
who could not find words to express their disgust at the
ex-champion’s attitude last season.
* * • *
Australia’s three millions or so of people are
Just now wrestling with the colossal Giffen problem.
Until it is settled whether Giffen is picked for England
or goes on sorting letters at Adelaide G.P.0., the Federal
problem must sit back. So far, three Australian States
are undecided as to George’s claims.
* • • *
Jack Worrall, a comp, by original persuasion, is
only an occasional grafter since his selection as an Aus-
tralian Eleven certainty. He drops into Melb. Age office
and does some piece-work when so disposed.
* * * *
“ E.”: Saw a Sydney alleged blind man— a
street vocalist—enjoying the cricket on Friday last. The
youngster with him led him through the crowd and down
to the seats, over which he stumbled like any other sight-
less person, but when he sat down and gazed thought-
fully at the field the crowd began to have doubts about
his blindness. He didn’t give himself away altogether
until M'Leod was given out to a doubtful decision, and
then he loudly expressed the opinion that Mac. wasn’t
out at all, and that it was a d d shame. Umpire
Crockett’s decision must have been a bad one when even
a blind man could see that it was wrong. After the
match saw him at the gate with all the appearance of the
blind, warbling “Just tell them that you saw me.” Am
now wondering if he really can see, or whether he is a bit
of a humorist.
• * • *
The Newmarket Handicap resulted, as usual,
in a violent upsetting of all calculations based on trials by
the watch. Pretty well every one of the 23 starters was
alleged to be capable of getting over the distance in
lmin. 15sec., but the race fell to the rankest of outsiders,
who, with a clear track in front of him all the way, made
the slowest time (lmin. 16sec.) registered since Bungebah
bolted from his field in ’9l. Most of them ought to have
beaten Forest, but none of them did it.
The public had no cause to grumble at the
Forest coup. Miller’s Racing Chronicle shows that Up-
hill’s gelding: ran four sprint races during the last fort-
night in January, and won easily each time. He wasn’t
running in good company, but still he “ exposed his
by always getting home first, and if the publio
didn’t choose to be at all impressed by his consistent
performances, that was their look-out. Owner Uphill
thought the horse could win the Newmarket. Whether
Forest won on his merits solely, or was helped by his
jockey’s policy in running him on the extreme outside (as
it is called), is an interesting question. The “ outside ’’
position in a race down Flemington straight is, strictly
speaking, the inside position. Probably a horse isadvan-
taged in galloping on the untrodden side of the course
and finishing under the judge’s box, as Scorn did in
Maribyrnong Plate. Forest, on Saturday, was so near to
the judge’s box that he swerved somewhat at the finish a 3
though he thought it was time he turned to the left.
Lee-Metford swerved just as he was asked to
make an effort to beat Bobadil in the Leger. The same
nasty trick lost him a race at V.R.C. Spring Meeting,
when, with 101 b. the best of the weights, the Carbine colt
beat Cocos and Bobadil.
Wait-a-Bit had lost 17 races in succession pre-
vious to winning Essendon Stakes last Saturday.
Every bookmaker is an actor in his way. A
rather dramatic inoident was the “ I’ll pay Forest! ” by
one Abel Webb. Two or three people came along with
tickets—representing a very small percentage of Abel’s
receipts and the bookie made a really magnificent
demonstration of meeting his little liabilities. The voice
of Abel counting out the cash was audible for 50
yards around. One of the few lucky punters had
taken £lOO to £2 about Forest, and Abel (having by
this time gathered around him a great multi-
tude of sorrowing punters who wanted to know what
all the excitement was about) proceeded to count out the
£lO2 in “ quids”—one !—two I—three ! and so on, awfully
loudly, at a funereal pace. As a means of suggesting
that the public were heavy winners by Forest’s victory,
the system of paying £lOO in specie with a pause between
each sovereign proved a brilliant success. All the his-
trionic Ikey Moes adopted it, with more or less impressive
effect.
Ikey had two astounding turns-up on Saturday.
Carevie, a 5-year-old mare by Carbine-Evie, went out
absolutely unbacked in the last race of the day, and
landed the stake for J. M‘Sweeney.
It is a peculiarity of Mr. Bill Long’s stable that
its inmates come in for more criticism at the public
hands than the elect of other stables. The Newmarket
Handicap candidates proved no exception to the rule.
The reversals of form by Hopscotch and Beachcomber
before the Newmarket naturally brought those horses
under comment in the press, and when a Sydney daily
said that a stable-commission of some thousands had
•been executed about Hopscotch, it brought even the
taciturn Mr. Bill to the scratch with an indignant denial.
“Doubtless,” said Mr. Long, “some unprincipled
persons, to serve their own ends, have wilfully misled
your representative.”
And it really takes something out of the common
to rouse Mr. Hill Long. Some years since writer made a
voyage in the same ship with him, and one morning
all was excitement over the capture of a very big shark.
Most of the passengers rushed to have a look at the
brute, and the steward went down post-haste to tell Mr
Long, who was lying in his bunk. “ Riirht; tell the cook
to fry it for breakfast,” said the Hon. Bill, turning* round
for another snooze.
* ♦ * *
Punters, after all said and done, are likely to
get very much misled by applying A. J.O. time-tests to
the chances of Sydney horses engaged in a Newmarket
Handicap. True, Amiable last year made “Sydney
time” when she ran the Flemington six furlongs in lmin.
14sec., but this was the record for a Newmarket Handi-
cap. Flyers like Malua, Hova, Lochiel, Sedition (who
had Lochiel and Carbine in the places behind her), Bun-
gebah, and Fortunatus each took more than 1.15 to do
the journey, or 2sec. longer than Kirry required for win-
ning the 6 furlongs Challenge Stakes at Randwiek the
other month. Kirry, on paper, would be faster than any
of the flyers aforesaid if the time-test were a reliable
guide to “ form.”
* * • ♦
Backers of George Frederick for the Hawks-
burn Handicap at Caulfield, t’other Saturday, couldn’t
account for his suddenly dropping back just as he began
to look like a probable winner. The explanation is
humorous. George F., when in Redfearn’s stable, had
been accustomed to knock off work in the mornings at a
given spot, and it was there that he tried to stop in the
Hawksburn Handicap race. He thought his task had
been duly completed. Before Pearson could get the big
horse going again he had lost fully a dozen lengths.
* * * *
A Bulletin man backed a double at Caulfield
t’other Saturday—2s to 1 about Stand Off for Oakleigh
Plate and Valorous for Oakleigh Purse. Another Bulle-
tin man applied to Mossy Isaacs for the same double and
was offered, with much theatrical emphasis, “ Twen-tv to
one ! ” Luckily it didn’t tempt him. Stand Off (victorious)
started at 7 to 1, and Valorous (defeated) went out at 10’s
The backer, by putting a sov. on Stand Off, and investing
the money on the double principle, would have stood to
(instead of £26) if Valorous had got home.
Which explains why Mossy and co. can afford to hurl
strong language at quibbling punters.
* * ■* *
The Law of Victoria prohibits Tattersall from
conducting sweeps within the province, but it permits
Melb. Age to publish in its betting reports the lament of
Ikey Mo, as follows : “ The market was unusually dull
yesterday, and it is to be feared there will be little
speculation of consequence until the card is called at the
Victoria Club.”
* * • *
Hon. Hugh Mosman (Q.), now settled in Maori-
land, has acquired an extensive string of racers, and
intends an Australian invasion next year. The “ four-
figure ” youngster, snapped up at last Wellington Park
sale, is the gem of a costly equine collection.
• m * *
According to postal officials, Maoriland’s con-
* j l'* on “ Tatt.’s ” sweeps is materially decreasing.
And no wonder. People grow sick of drawing horses
that never start, merely because drawers will not con-
ciliate the owner of the prad, the trainer, the jockey, the
lad that leads the ’oss round the paddock, and the cat
that sleeps in the prad’s loose-box ; and the far-off sub-
scriber, not having the same opportunity as the
one on the spot to “ conciliate ” horse-owners,
gets left very badly. No, it won't do, and a
change is inevitable. “Tattersall" has to finally and
decisively choose between the people who subscribe the
money for his sweeps and the horse-owners who have
so far managed to suck their blood. “ Tutt.” is gradually
coining round to the public ; soon he will announce, Thb
Bulletin ventures to predict, that he will pay not one
cent of any prize to anyone but the owner of the ticket;
also, most of the public money will be in sweeps drawn
on the day of the race.
• • * •
The best performance at Randwiek on Saturday
was put up by the St. Albans-bred mare, The Prize, by
Robinson Crusoe, who, on a slow course, carried 7.6 and
won the Denison Stakes from 18 starters, running the
six furlongs in 1.16. The Prize (she was one of the prizes
in St. Alban’s lottery) is a speedy-looking customer, and
has won her two races in Sydney in great style.
* » * »
Young Bill Kelso just missed scooping five races
on Saturday. At Randwiek, Oarldale was beaten by a
neck in the Denison Stakes, and Blanche Florence by a
length in the big race; whilst at Flemington, Lauri
won and North British and Strathroy got seconds in their
respective races. A fairly tantalising run of luck for an
afternoon.
* * * *
The Sharkey-M‘Coy fight once more showed
that science alone will not carry a man through against
bulldogs of the Sharkey and Goddard type. Joe God-
dard received blows from Choynski and Dooley that
would have finished any ordinary man, but he came again
and knoeked-out his more-scienced opponents. And so
it was with Sharkey. M‘Coy knocked the sailor down
and bashed him all over the stage, but punishment which
would have utterly “stopped” the ordinary fighter only
seemed to urge the sailor on. M‘Coy showed superb
science whilst he lasted, but the inevitable came when he
began to tire, and Sharkey fairly hurled himself at his
opponent, beat down all opposition, and knocked M‘Coy
out of time in the tenth round.
• * * *
now wants to fight Sharkey. Such
a match would be a big draw. Last time they met Fitz.
gave the sailor a terrible drubbing, but the decision wa
given to Sharkey on an alleged foul. Sharkey was then a
comparative novice, and has since improved out of recog-
nition, whilst Fitz. has been leading rather an easy life.
• • • »
‘‘ Kid ” M‘Coy was christened Norman
Selby. Why he changed his name has yet to be
explained. One rarely hears of an American preferring an
Irish name to his own, though many instances could be
w h ere io out-and-out sons of Erin dropped the big
O and Americanised their cognomens. For instance,
A.S°- nnor , as become Conners, and then Conneer.
O Brien alters to Brj'an, and then Bryant, who, at this
stage, has become a full-fledged Yankee with a proper
drawl. r y
* * * *
Victorian Bill Doherty knocked out Sydney’s
heavy-weight piior of more than a decade back
(Mick Dooley) in six rounds at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) on
Saturday week. Mick, though much overburdened
with fat, and long since a back number at the game, has
been having a fairly successful time in the West with
has bee ns . of an inferior order (such as Jim Fogarty,
the whilom jaw-breaker), and several aspiring novices,
who thought they were made of world-beating stuff
Dooley, in the palmy days of the Australian ring, was as
clever as they made ’em, but seemed to have been born
under an unlucky star, as he formed the stepping-stone to
championships for Peter Jackson, Frank Slavin and Joe
Goddard, who, among them, punched much of the heart
out of Mick. Naturally of nervous temperament—not
cowardly—Dooley could rarely get quite going until two
or three rounds had elapsed, and then it was too late.
Steve O Donnell, the big Australian now in America, was
another of the same order.
• * * *
Ebon-hued Ike Stewart and Ted Porter (heavy-
weights) banged each other in great style at Golden Gate
Athletic Club (Sydney) on Saturday night. The black got
all the worst of the deal, and was sent to the boards seven
times in the first round. Went to his corner limp as a
wet rag—dead to the world, apparently—but he pulled
himself together wonderfully during his spell, and was
again receiver-general in the second round at the end of
which two very tired bruisers retired to their chairs. In
round three, though the darkey was made the target for
further thumps he managed to get a few home, and
during some wild fighting the white man’s “point”
stopped a weighty swing aimed at no particular place, but
simply sent out on general principles ; down he went,
and he had to be carried off the “ field.” No greater
display of real right-down grit than that shown by the
colored man has been seen in Sydney for many a day. It
looked 100 to 1 against him almost from the start.
* • * *
Yet another world’s 220yds. swimming record
was wiped out last Saturday, when at Farmer's Domain
Baths (Sydney) Australia’s latest swimming marvel,
Freddy Lane, eclipsed Gormley’s great performance (2min.’
28Jsec.) of seven years ago. These figures have several
times been attacked by English and American swimmers,
but they remained undisturbed until Lane felt himself
capable of successfully tackling the task, and he scored
at the first attempt. Eight watches took the time and,
though some of them differed, all were under the pre-
vious best. A mean was struck, with the result that
2min. 27 4-ssec. supplants ex-champion Gorinly’s record.
Lane seemed to take matters a bit easy over the first
hundred ; had he been all out from the word “go ” it is
quite possible that seconds instead of fractions thereof
would have been chipped off the figures assailed.
* • * •
Regarding Australasian champion Lane’s recent
record-breaking feats. Present writer has a notion that
they won’t go in England, as the conditions under which
they were accomplished are opposed to that country’s
rules, which insist upon absolutely still water such as
that found in a lake or city bath. Over in ALL. the other
day the swimmer who won the 100yds. championship put
up a record for the province, but the local A.S.A. with-
held its endorsement because the race took place in tidal
waters—Wellington Harbor to wit. There would seem to
be sound reason for this, too, as at Bathurst baths (still
water) Bishop licked Lane in the 100yds. championship in
lmin. 5 l-ssec., and repeated the beating at Redfern
baths (still water again) in lmin. 3 4-ssec. ; yet Lane
comes along at Farmer’s Domain baths (tidal waters) last
Saturday week and covers the 100yds., with a slight go
on the starter, in lmin. 2J4sec.— much quicker time than
that of either of the two previous contests wherein he
suffered defeat. Further, conditions (barring the water)
were not so favorable at Farmer’s baths, for there only
two “ kicks-off ” could be availed of, while at Bathurst
and Redfern at least three were necessary to cover the
courses, and no swimmer needs telling what a great aid
to fast time the shove-off from the basin’s end is.
• • * •
The last of this year’s N.S.W. swimming cham-
pionships—that over 600yds.—will be decided this Satur-
day in connection with Fort-street model public-school
swimming-club’s annual carnival. The race is of course
a cert for Lane who, bar accidents, should win by close
he wo 1* e Whl ' f ° m S ' G -0- boy proposes having- a
amateur record for the distance (6niin.
45sec.), which stands in Tyers’ name, but writer thinks
this will prove a bit beyond the little chap’s powers.
of Swimmers invited Sid Cavill
Sid wenf* n! t 0 r ® cent championship meeting-,
of - , ow returning- in possession of the whole
1000yds. provltlces Premierships—looyds., 500yds., and
* * * *
Walne, Megs on and Jackson are to race three
wnnW , ifir he r at l ft * Svd ? ey on an ear ly date. Tub Bulletin
would like to bet on the matter, but daren’t.
* * * ir
“Shaven ” Jackson is not particularly struck
himself^nn"?n Lf s' 1 ® vd ney, and promises to carefully tie
Svdnev ln Melb. next time there ' is a
bydney meet. The judges apparently erred in placing
Megs on first in the First-class Handicap, for Jackson
blow®*™ h X 6 "Tr by at '- eaSt a f00t: bufc the cruellest
blow was when after winning the Orient Plate Mile bv
a roasting finish, the race was ordered to be re-run be^
aid bea^hbii 1 not got inside tbe time-limit, and M‘Don-
* • * *
Harry Rickards secured in M.L. a couple of fine
dogs at the sale of the effects of George Massey Watson,
an aristocratic Englishman. Bulldog C®ur de Lion, bred
!" n P ® r f lh , sh| re (Scotland), who cost £250 as a pup, was
fnr fVih by ®m ka rds for £3O ; and he paid a similar price
a hull-terrier, bred by the Earl of Monteith and
allegedly the best yet seen in Australasia.


A large proportion of the second edition
(2000 copies) of Will Ogilvie’s poems, published by
The Bulletin, were ordered in advance. Single
copies will be sent post free, from Bulletin office,
to any address, for 4s. 6d. in stamps. “ The most
charming book of Australian verse that has yet
appeared,” writes Victor Daley.
Hapless Brisbane Courier is so hard-up
for a stone to throw at the Labor dogs that it is
actually compelled to revive the old “Socialism
in our Time ” bogie. A few months ago, before
the change of editors, the same organ admitted
that the cry just mentioned frightened electors no
longer. ... And now it’s putting up the old scare-
crow again with a few fresh rags and feathers.
Sydney Telegraph draws public attention
to the shocking fact that in 1852 -47 years ago—
the old Leg. Council of Victoria claimed that
Melbourne ought to be the capital of Australia.
No doubt it did, but where does the shock come
in ? Are not Sydney, Bathurst, Goulburn, Albury,
Bombala, Robertson, Armidale, Blayney, Moss
Vale, Bowral, Mittagong, Wagga, Junee, and
goodness knows how many other places doing
exactly the same thing to-day? And it is the
place that is yelling for the capital to-day that is
a matter of present interest—not the one which
wanted it 47 years ago.
Premier Reid perorates in the debate on
the second reading of the Federal Enabling Bill:
He could not believe that any man in either House
would seek to put the Government in a position of break-
ing faith. No man in the House would do it. The
Government was bound by every sense of honor to the
other Governments of Australia to push this matter to the
bitter end (cheers), to exhaust every power in the Consti-
tution (cheers) to keep faith with the sister colonies.
This to the men who deliberately, and with the
connivance of the same Reid, loaded the last
Enabling Bill with the 80,000-limit clause, in
wanton disregard of every principle of loyalty and
faith. And it is reported that they cheered.
That very useful work, the “Year Book
of Australia,” for 1899, is to hand. It covers so
many Australian subjects that it is difficult to
spot the things that are missed. Yet there are a
few casual defects that strike the eye here and
there. The Ballarat Banking Co. is persistently
omitted from the list of banks. Maoriland is
always represented as having four fire-insurance
companies; the Farmers’ Co-operative Co., though
eight years in existence, has never yet been
mentioned. The City Mutual Fire Co. is
still put down as a Sydney office, though
it was taken over by the London and Lan-
cashire a year ago, and the Southern still
appears as an independent Vic. office, and the
dead-and-gone Cornwall is included among Tas-
manian co’s., while the very-much-alive Mutual of
Tasmania isn’t. The list of life-offices shows at
least one omission. These are a good many dis-
crepancies in one small department of the work.
In former days the. Year-Book used to contain
political and other information re Tasmania, but
that province is quite left out nowadays. The
dramatic summary, once a very useful feature of
the work, has also dropped out. A lot of valuable
new information has been included, and the Year-
Book is distinctly the best work of reference in
Australasia. Still it might be made better.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.* 1 *
HISTORY REPEATS.
Poor Old Diogenes
searched high and low
for an honest man, and
there are many of his
followers looking for
an honest bicycle. To
all such seekers after
Cycle truth we are
pleased to say that we
can bring their search
to a happy termination
by sending them a copy
of the Massey - Harris
Catalogue, which tells
all about our easy-run-
ing wheel. If you want
more truth, call at one
of our depots and ex-
amine the parts we
build from.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters: William Street, Melbourne.
Branches : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart —Northam.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crobrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ-
Crystallised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
AHERN, THOMAS, last heard of at
_ Muttaroo Station, N.S.W., or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, kindly communicate
with his mother, Mrs. J. Ahern, Menzies, W.A.
JOHN M A JURY.—lmportant letter for you,
G.P.0., Sydney, from Wm. Adams.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
PILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
.. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
‘Perfect,’ ‘Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank firimley]
Wholesale Bicycle Importer
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
STOP WATCH
/Xv^
WS
CH B%.
11l
M
sytl
S/M
Given Away.
TO CYCLISTS, ATHLETES, RACING, BOATING-
MEN AND OTHERS. CAN YOU READ THIS
In order to introduce our Business into every House
hold in Australia, we undertake and guarantee to GIVE
AWAY one of our World-famed £2 10s. SOLID SILVER
CENTRE SECOND STOP WATCHES, or a Ladies' or
Gents’ Solid Silver KEYLESS HUNTER to every Reader
who sends the Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.-
CONDITIONS.—That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER (Single or Double)
CHAINS. Send stamped addressed envelope for reply.
Address— THE MANAGER, THE GLOBE WATCH
COMPANY, LTD., 105 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Wanted.
WANTED to Purchase, a Conveyancer’s,
Land, Mining, or Patent Agent’s Business,
or share in same. Particulars to C.8.P., Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney.
I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
- ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE (KHSdAT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell*s’ Kiii<r-strci‘t Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
«T. F. McDermott,
General Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
BICYCLES
• . FOR . .
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘garden City*
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.
■i-i i /v • i / Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
Frank Grimleyi 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
T 0....
PIGEON SHOTS
..AND OTHERS.
A GENUINE Greener
Gun can now be ob-
tained from all the principal
dealers in Australia, bearing
the well - known GREENER
marks. Write for a Gun
bored like Mr. D. Macintosh’s,
who has just returned from
Europe loaded with trophies
of his skill and won by his
favorite “GREENER” to
ID. HI. Greener,
BOX 326, G.P.0., SYDNEY ; or to his Yic. Rep
C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Ourral Road, ELSTERN-
WICK, MELBOURNE.
50LI-ACENTS-THE-
AUSTRAL*CYCLE*A(f
EKUTD-lIELBOUm
SYDNEY* ADELAIDE-
K*Af VII MM
CYCLES
(’99 PATTERN).
CABLE ADVICE
Is to hand that a large shipment of these
famous machines is now on the water, and
will arrive here very shortly.
We beg to notify our many anxious
patrons that we shall be in a position to
execute their esteemed commands towards
the end of March.
The 99 pattern “SWIFT” com-
prises all the latest improvements in cycle
manufacture, and are fitted with the most
up-to-date accessories.
In these machines will be found the
three points which are always looked for
by the expert cyclist, namely—
Comfort, Durability $ Jfppearance.
SOLE AGENTS:
rNE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LIMITED
md at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. 301 GEORGE STREET S YDJSEY


Slop Coughing!
Every cough makes your throa u more raw
and irritable. Every cough congests the lin-
ing membrane of your lungs. Cease tearing
your throat and lungs in this way. Put the
parts at rest and give them a chance to heal.
You will need some help to do this’ and "ou
will find it in
yhier’j
'Cherry
federal
From the first dose the quiet and rest
begin; the tickling in the throat ceases; the
spasm weakens; the cough disappears. Do
not wait for pneumonia and consumption but
cut short your cold without delay.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral cures because it
heals. It goes to the very seat of trouble,
quiets the inflammation and makes a perma-
nent cure. Begun in time, it is the one great
preventive to all serious lung troubles.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is blown in the glass of
each Bottle. 'Put up in large and small bottles.
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine!
This inducement is Offered You to know the
TIME to STITCH!
- - - WATCH THIS - - -
The British Watch, Co.,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
every household' its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
rings, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle :
W* T * H T * E T * M *
CONDITION : Send your answer with astamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of our Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch. fl W /}
Address-THE MANAGER, PBIOE 4,(1 O.
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydney.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthe constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOORNAL.-‘'/<ftai all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
«ntn BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WOULD OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, «fec., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS DROWH€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
“The resignation of that attractive
preacher, Canon Eyton,” writes The Bulletin s
London correspondent, “is the most serious, and
also the saddest, tragedy the Established Church
has ever known. He held the Canonry of West-
minster Abbey and the rectory of St. Margaret’s
adjoining, worth .£l5OO p.a., and a Gothic resi-
dence. Lord Rosebery made the appointment in
’95, and later the office of sub-almoner to the
Queen followed as her Majesty’s own gift. All
has been surrendered, and with a Times announce-
ment of broken health, mental strain, &c., the
Canon has gone abroad, unlikely to ever come
back. He was immensely wealthy, his ample for-
tune having been increased by about .£lOO,OOO,
left him by the late Mr. Yilliers, ‘Father of the
House of Commons.’ His one hobby was his
choir-boys, whom he invited frequently to his
residence at Broadstairs and entertained in a
manner worthy of an Emperor or a Sultan.”
Victoria has an “Inebriates Board” on
hand just now—a body created by Parliament
with loose general instructions to roam over the
wide fields of Drink, and consider liquor in all its
aspects, and its effects on everybody, and the
probable effect on everybody if there wasn’t any,
and whether it should be abolished, and how ;
also, what the place would be like without it, and
whether drunkenness is a crime or a disease, or
partly both, and, if so, where the crime ends and
the disease begins, and how to treat it, and other
things. It is an immense order, and the Board has
pottered along in the usual rut. Its witnesses are
mostly liquor-dealers who don’t drink much them-
selves else they would lose their licenses, and who
can’t take an unbiassed view of the fluid which is
their bread and cheese ; and teetotal parsons who
don’t drink either. And when a valued Bulletin
contributor offered himself as a witness, on the
ground that he was an experienced boozer of long
standing, and could explain all about the effects
of alcohol, his testimony was refused with
derision. The idea of taking the evidence of a
man who used the thing that all the row was
about struck the old barnacles of the board as
wildly absurd. These old gentlemen who mostly
don’t drink themselves just pottered along as
before, taking more evidence on Drink from
people who don’t drink, and the Respectable
papers backed them up, and treated the offer
of the one experienced witness with elephantine
scorn.
Cheerfully acknowledged in the British
Parliament that the body of the 1
up and thrown into the IN lie by the British ton es,
“ with the object of destroying the superstitKius
reverence of the dervishes. Yet, if Britain can t
hold its own against the badly-armed spearmen of
the desert without committing outrages on the
dead—to say nothing of defiling the drinkit g
water of the living—it isn’t the Britain it used to
be.
AV
V'
&
<s*-
•e^Y
\fl* v
o#^
.O
0^
4
$
Royal Jgriculfural Society of D. 5.111.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
mCTMMtITII EXHIBITIIH
29th March 4th April) is 9 9.
£3OOO PRIZES £3OOO
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
HOGS, WINES,
FARM and HAIRY PROHUCE,
MACHINERY, etc.
Great Wood-Chopping Contest
PRIZE, £5O.
Eire Brigade Demonstration^
(Under direction Superintendent Webb)
Entries Close WEDKTESDA.Y, Ist Maroli.
PRIZE SCHEDULES on application to F. WEBSTER, Se
Hunter-street, STDNEI.
i
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/fi each.
PLAITS ond TAILS,
2t)ln. long, <>/0, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlted up, H/0 per oz.
We are the cheape&t.in Au*
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^ll,
*lO W iLi.i am Street,
rorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram w ill stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attcption'giyen to Country Ord?ra
prunkeiness
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED and
onlv SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HAVE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
kfkin Wideaded.
s9leu) Wideotiery
“*£iqmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURB
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARC.OO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
; Dear Sir, —For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene,”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “Cum Grano Salis,” and was in-
clined not to use it ; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligomolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O'REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21 st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy. “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTIIOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7s. 6d. Blacli.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, Sydney.
B Y ROYAL WARRANT OF AFFOINTTMENT TO “ THE QUEEN.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scbv/cppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO PR WATER, &c.
Ask for
Braody asjd
‘Scbv/cppc
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
S3M3L€>itAU.Sr C3O»
& Jl (LIMITED),
DAPTO (Laiie Illawarra), near SYPJJ KY
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRO OXJCJSRS
OF
FINE SILVER.
r
m
■
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWAKRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD and COPPER ORE!, CYANIDE SLUGS, JEWELLERS’ : WEEP
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.


Hire RaSSnjGSSeij’S Alfalioc Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL EEMEDY FOE. EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain Free Book, “ The Natural Doctor.’
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
...
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two vears ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and* Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in t'he bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “ The Natural Doctor”—sent free.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cur d me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM 'ATKINS.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “ The Natural Doctor ’’—sent free.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect, for the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
>1
i : y
This FREE BOOK col-
tains a vast fund <*£
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials froia
cured and gratefil
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A lfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying, the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Hassmussen, XJp-to-Dale Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussp v
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RasSIIIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—•
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
'
m
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
states, on oath, how his shattered nervous system was
completely cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing- the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
For further testimonials, see my new book, “The
Natural Doctor”—sent free.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts -Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Kerr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
SIDIE9,
N.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Lambton Quay
jPERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


NOW READY.
220 pp. —4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
“ Fair girls $ gray Horses/’
TWO LITTLE RUNAWAYS,
By JAMES BUCKLAND,
With 110 Illustrations by CECIL ALDIN. Crown Bvo., 6s.
99
SOME PRESS OPINIONS.
Times.— “ Brimful of drollery.”
London Review.— “ Among the few child-
ren s books which seem even to approach the
standard set up by those immortals, the authors of
Alice m Wonderland 9 and 4 Helen’s Babies, 9 must
be counted ‘Two Little Runaways.’ ”
Court Journal. —“‘Two Little Runaways’
may be relied upon to bring an element of enjoy-
ment into any house into which they find their way. ”
Christian World. —Just the sort of book to
keep an entire family in roars of laughter for a
whole evening.”
Black & White. —“ Something very far re-
moved from the usual run of Christmas books. ”
Westminster Gazette. —“ Author and artist
have certainly produced a book that must rank as
a children’s classic.”
Vanity Pair. —Mr. James Buckland is to be
congratulated on his ‘Two Little Runaways.’
. . . Children owe him a debt of gratitude.”
Literary World. —“ Ostensibly aimed at the
young, we fancy those no longer able to plead
tender years will be found furtively reading Mr.
Buckland’s ‘Two Little Runaways.’”
Bookseller. “Drollery prevails from the beginning to the end of the book, whilst several
exciting events help to heighten the interest. The numerous clever illustrations afford almost as much
entertainment as the letterpress.”
London : LONGMA JYS, GREEN & CO., and of all
Colonial Roohsellers.
BOOKS YOU WANT!
Telephone 2216.
IHUii'l
WILL
ANDRADE.
iiiiISSPUBLISHER
& IMPORTER. IlLi
CHEAP BOOKS
WILL ANDRADE
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant-Bradlaug-h, Is ; post
free, Is 2d. Don Juan, post Is
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Wife’s Guide, and Friend.
Illustrated edition, Is ; post,
Is 2d.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
frravi ni;s and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s. Balzac’s
Droll Stories, Paul de
Kock’s Novels, Zola’s Nov-
els, all cheap editions.
How to Excel in Business.
Post free, Is 6d.
Silent Friend. Post, Is 6d.
Book of Nature, or Illustrated Marriage Guide 3s 6d •
posted anywhere, 4s.
Crisp Tales from the French, by Daudet' fully
illustrated, Is ; post Is 3d.
Moll Flanders (genuine reprint of the original edition).
Post free, Is 6d.
Conjuring, Ventriloqukm, Magic, Card Tricks, etc.,
by Robert Heller, the Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post Is 3d.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
for miners, clerks, wage earners, etc., Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or. How to Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d. Friquette, French, 1/3.
Tommy Atkin’s Mary, by Paul de Kock; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerise." Post free, Is 6d.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, readymade. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d. Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle ; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated : 2s fid, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Faiiborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
The Ballet Girl, with 22 Racy Illustrations, depicting
her Theatrical and Domestic Life. Post free, Is. The
Life, Adventures, and Confessions of a Sydney Barmaid.
Post free, Is 6d.
How Gamblers Win, or the Secrets of Advantage Play-
ing Exposed, Is ; post, Is Bd.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems. Post, Is.
OUR LIST OF SPECIAL BOOKS
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Books sent to any colony at above prices on receipt of P. 0.0., Postal Notes or Stamps.
Booksellers, Hawkers and Storekeepers should write for trade list.
WILL
opposite Waxworks.
ANDRADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
YORKSHIRE RELISH
3 THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
M ANNUALLY.^ 3 BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d„ i/-, and 2;. each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS. ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SVDNEV
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and.giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Hr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
I ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
■
%
i 0
cy
Ply
JONES
M?
ss
*
KV-
ab ouf
a*
men
«0
\\e
<S
ftp
w
cP
tf\N ture
>2
Me
A
Palmer
WW.
V
p it
i
sf*
;
?ATTvrn>T? that we ’ the undersi gned, have known the bearer Mr S A
PALMER as a resident of Invercargill, New Zealand, for a great many years We know
he has been a great sufferer during the past 14 years, and he never was expected to recover
but as the result of taking a cours r VII'ABATIO, he has quite recovered his lone W
health, and now appears to us to b quiff, now man. We have pleasure in recommending
him to the public, wherever his lo /'ay oast, as a honourable man, and worthy of thf
confidence of all with whom he may come ,0 contact. tiie
JOHN SINCLAIR, Mayor, Invercargill.
JNO. W. MITCHELL, Merchant, J.P., Invercargill
oflloa'Ss , T C T H ';i?KcSSi!T tov^giU.
MTIDITII.
For Testimonials of others that
have been CURED, write or
send to the Agent, S. A.
PALMER, 45 and 47 Bourke-
street, MELBOURNE.
A Thorough Cure is guar-
anteed.
The sum of £5OO (five hundred
pounds) will be paid to any-
one that can refute any Testi-
monial in circulation about
VITADATIO.
The price of this Medicine is:
Large Size, 5s 6d
Small Size, 3s 6d
Ask your Grocer or Chemist . If
not obtainable locally, send to
Head Office—
S. A. PALMER,
45 & 417 Bourke-strect,
MELBOURNE.
W. WEBBER, Sole Proprietor,
106 Elizabeth-street,
Launceston, Tasmania.
Amusements.
m 1 V-OL! THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Still They Come! Move New Artists!
Brilliant and Enthusiastic Reception of
Mr. Horace Wheatley.
HOWARD CHAMBERS, BELLMAN and MOORE,
Lieut. Frank Travis
FRED. POPLAR, KITTY WAGER, NELLIE WILSON.
ETHEL YORKE, CHAS. W. COGILL, WALLACE
KING, CHAS. FANING.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday.
~RIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. ~
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss Feggy Fryde.
Sisters Phillips and Brothers Lorenzi
JIMMY SHIELDS.
Mr. HAMILTON HILL.
POPE and SAYLES.
Mr? SYD. DEANE.
Foreman & Fannan- Cora Caselli-
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company.
PRICES—2/6, 2/-, 1/-, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
piTZGERALD BROTHERS’
'"‘-Circus & Menagerie
Including KARL HAGENBECK’S °
Zoologischer Circus.
(From Hamburg).
OPENS for EASTER SEASON, SATURDAY, MARCH 26.
BIG SENSATION. TIGER RIDING PONY.
Location : OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.
MORRIS, Agent.
J3ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Brief FAREWELL, Season.
DANTE THE GREAT
juggling genius.
COMMENCE NEXT SATURDAY, 11th MARCH.
DIVERTING DANTE.—He produces anything from any-
where, and nowhere is filled with everything.
DANTE must be seen to be believed, and then you can’t
believe it.
PRICES—3s., 25., Box Plan at Paling’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
XJRH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
““ Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Will be Repeated
£he (geisha; <A (Story of a &ea (House.
Book by Owen Hall. Lyrics by Harry Greenbank.
Music bv Sydney Jones."
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
»J»HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Organisation.
the work girl.
SATURDAY, 11th MARCH,
THE SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne. ~
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
4th WEEK ! 4th WEEK 1
UNDIMINISHED FURORE !
“ THE : WHITE : HEATHER.”
Prices-3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE^
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
TJRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsgrovh.
Sub-Lessee ... Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative for Mr. Brough, Mr. Hamilton.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, MARCH 9 and 10k
“The Adventure of Lady Ursula.”
SATURDAY, March 11, first production in Australia
an entirely new and original farcical comedy, “T 1
Brixton Burglary,” By Fred. W. Sidney. Nc
playing to crowded houses at Terry’s Theatre, London.
PRICES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
■JIHE GAIETY THEATRE, ZEEHAN.
Seats up to 1000. Beautiful building; large stage, 38 x
48 ; electric lighting; usual stock scenery ; all modern
accessories. Equals any provincial theatre in Australasia.
In a rapidly rising district, with an amusement-loving
public. Terms from proprietor, EDWARD MULCAHY,
Hobart; or S. F. Hickorn, Zeehan, agent.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
j^Wrn’s
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes l/lj t of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON. GRIM WADE ft 00., Melboome
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.


Publications, eto.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. €3 d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
“TOKOLOGY”
A BOOK FOR EVERY WOMAN.
. . BY . .
ALICE B. STOCKHAM, M.D.
Dedicated
To all women who, following the lessons taught in
this book, will be saved the sufferings peculiar to
their sex.
“ To be well-born is the right of every child. ”
Sent post-paid on receipt of price, 12s. 6d., to
any address in Australia.
Chicago Publishing Co.,
232 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
- gallet fiirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS BOOKS
Popular Educator, 6 vols .. .. £4 0 0 for £1 0 0
The Home Physician 210 0 „ 017 6
Large Family Bible, colored plates 5 0 0 „ 15 0
Universal Instructor, illustrated .. 115 0,, 015 0
Webster’s Household Dictionary .. 10 0,, 010 0
Cooley’s Practical Receipts.. .. 110 0 „ 012 6
The New Enquire Within, 500 rec’pts 0 7 6,, 0 5 0
Cassell’s Household Guide, 4 v 015... 2100 ~ 10 0
2500 up-to-date cloth-bound 3/6 Novels for 2/- and 2/6 —
country and station libraries send for catalogue. I have
also the largest stock of Second-hand School Books in
N.S.W. ; teachers and students write for catalogue. I
have also Three Blue Books, very peppery, cannot adver-
tise them—l/6 each, or three for 4/-; also, Maria Monk,
Ovid’s Art of Love, Byron’s Don Juan, all very peppery,
1/6 each. All books sent post free.
R. W. SKINNER,
SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-street,
Telephone 3043.]
SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encydopsedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfutness, and many
other things heretofore secrets, Reproductions of curious love
lettersand FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find dailv use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N .S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
Science & Medical Book
DEPOT.
*«§jip?s=f
'MI
Book op Nature, or Illustrated
Marriage Guide, 3/6 ; posted
anywhere, 4/-.
Fruits op Philosophy, known as
Knovvlton Pamphlet, 1/- ;
posted 1/2.
Law of Population, by Mrs.
Annie Besant, 1/- ; posted 12.
Phallic, or Sex Worship, by
Joseph Syines, 1/-; posted 1/2.
Social Science, 3 6 and 5/-.
Plain Home Talk (Dr. Foote),
8/6. New 1898 Edition.
Marriage, by Mrs. Besant, 1/-; posted 1/2.
A- T- Wilson, 19 Bourke-street, Melb*
The Editor .. of ..
Tt 1 Royal Magazine
Henrietta Street, London, W.C., England,
Invites AMATEUR or PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHS.
... Good Prices Paid .. .
Also TALES of TRAVEL and ADVENTURE.
Anything of Interest Accepted will be
Promptly and Well Paid for.
I Only Live for Thee.”
Words by Edward Oxenford ; Music by E. J. Emmerton.
Sung- by over 20 Eminent Vocalists ; in three keys, E flat,
F and G. Published at 2/-. Intermetzo, “ Federation,”
composed by Henri Laski (composer of “My Polly
Waltz”), the favorite composition of this favorite com-
poser, 2/-. Also Chimes of Normandy, Songs of Other
Years, Rose of the Morn Waltz, and many others. Of all
music dealers. Wholesale of the Publishers. W.
PAXTON & CO., London and Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Catalogues of over 1000 Songs, Dances, etc.,
at 6d. and 3d. each, post free on application.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert Ie Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Horgia,” “William
Tell,’’ “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masctiera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Des Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
R. GENIERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
TROPICAL HELM *T, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
C. I Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Imports,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£o(oUto*t
vmtim
POSITIVELY CURBS
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds , Praises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers. 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lbar-
mocth & Co., Fremantle, and VV. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HOW ABOUT YOUR EYES?
Do your Eyes feel weak from Overwork, Study, etc. ?
Are they affected from Blight, Sun Glare, Granulations, Stings of Insects?
Do they feel painful after exposure to strong winds, dust ?
Are the Eyelids Inflamed or Scaly?
IE SO, THERE IS ONLY ONE REMEDY—
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
It STRENGTHENS and PRESERVES the SIGHT, and may be used on
BIRDS, POULTRY, CATTLE, &c., with the same wonderful
result.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PROPRIETOR :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
KRUPP’S
Ball Mills, Batteries, Bilharz Tables,
Steel Shoes and Dies, Crashing Bolls,
Wheels and Axles.
WESTINGHOUSE
WESTINGrHOTJSE
Electrical Machinery
for Lighting, Traction,
Winding and Pumping.
Engines.
for Transmission of
CALLENDER
Cables
Power.
CYANIDE
98/100 per cent. MJ Brand.
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
ENO’S‘FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
'a
5 lIH
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Still Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
vith High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALLPOX, SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ wh ; ch has ke 't my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT ’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTIOW— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORT It TESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND Ar HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to'Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds ofTuddiuus.
Delicious to everything-. ( Delicious lo Jam Tarts. Delicious to alt kinds of Fruit.'
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greates' confidence in the article, and canrecom-
rneud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofagood Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
m
Coxon’s Accordeona
AND
Campbell's Gold
Medal Melodeons.
Willi organ and celestial
tone ami charming- bell
accompaniment. No
home should be without
one. The solemn psalm,
the soul-stirring- hymn,
the cheerful song and the
merry dance can all be
played on these wonder-
ful instruments. No
knowledge of music re-
quired. Special offer to
readers of this paper.
Campbell's Gem Melodeon (with instruction and song-
book), 15/C; ditto Miniature (ditto), 25/-; ditto Paragon
(ditto), 30/6; ditto Favorite (ditto), 37,6; Coxon’s Lord
Fauntleroy Accordeons (ditto), 15/6 ; ditto, indestructable
bellows (ditto), 21/-; ditto, special size (ditto), 22/6; ditto
ditto, 28/- Twenty other different kinds, from 6,6, to
select from. Carriage paid to any part of Australia, care-
fully packed. Send P. 0.0. for the full amount. Write
and send 2d. for catalogue. We are sole agents for Aus-
tralasia. W. F. COXON & CO. LTD., 745 George-street
(opp. Christ Church), Haymarket, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor '
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous ami
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
iig current that can be fel)>
y the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
trie Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DBROBERTS’I
M/fif D/f£ASEf
and Wounds
or elver y
Description
D-ROBERTS
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.!
AND ALL D/SODDERS OF THE
STOMA CH & L/VER .
OF ALL CHEMISTS //// X EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°- BRIDPORJ.
NERVOUS PEOPLE.
Jy
LB
Fr.
if
ft
if
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
the languid, for the
.un-down system, for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention—Dß.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a G R A N D REMEDY
It assists Nature by agentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a mild, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the sy'stem with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory' for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE.—If Ruptured, send also for “Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 15S PITT ST., SYDNEY.
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under cover)
to any part.of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’rJce, 10s. <i«l.
Sole Agents :
lhe lies ult
Craig & Aitken, 680-532 Geerge-st.. Sydney
ASTHMA CURE
grimai/lt’s
inDIAO CIGARETTES
Difficulty iu Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
ISTROLOfiy.
NATIVITIES, LESSONS, ETC.
... FKOV AN'
EXPERIENCED EUROPEAN ASTROLOGER.
Terms on Application to
“Aquarius,” G.P.0., Melbourne.


a SILVER HUTCH FREE.
, These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 605.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send Bs. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we sh ill expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent hy registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNICY.
JElstaTolxslxed 53 Years.
ALL GOODS OF FIRST-CLASS QUALITY.
Roofing Felt, in rolls 75ft. long, 32in., 9s roll-over 500
tons; Bolts and Nuts in stock up to 36in. long; Dyna-
mite, taking u few cases, Is per lb. ; best German Fuze,
4t4d per coil, in cases of 500 coils ; best Galvd. Barb W ire,
11s cwt. ; Black Barb Wire, 8s cwt. ; Ingersoll s Rock
Drills, hand-power, 9s each ; American Axes, 35s doz. ;
Crosscut Saws, 6ft., 6s each ; Pit Saws, 7s 6d each , Hav
Knives, 3s each; Hay Forks, 2-pr.on>red, Is 3d each;
Wooden Hay Rakes, is each ; Bullock Bows, Id per lb. ;
Axle Grease, 2s (id doz. packages ; Chaff Knives, Is each ;
Single-barrel Muzzle-loader Guns, 15s; Double-barrel
Breechloaders, 30s ; Rifles, 7s 6d and 10s ; Screw Augers,
Uin. 6d, j&in. 9d, lin. Is, ljin. Is 3d each ; American
Braces, Is 3d each ; Ratchet Braces, 3s ; Smoothing
Planes, 3s ; Mixed Paints from 3d per lb.; Walker’s Horse
Nails, Id per lb. ; Globe Horse Nails (slightly touched),
*>d per lb.; Large Drilling Machines for power, £lO, £l5 ;
Lathes for power, £lO, £l2 ; Yellow Ochre, 5s cwt.; first-
class Glass Paper, 7s 6d ream ; and one of the Largest
Stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
CHEAPEST PRICES. . .
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONSj
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SUITS TO-ORDER!
MARVELLOUS REDUCTIONS IN
TAILORING !
GOING WITH THE TIMES !
C. G. Hatte,"f Deuitouin
IS MAKING A SPECIAL FEATURE OF HIS
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
He has purchased a large Stock of the Very Best Mate-
rial, has adopted the Latest Improvements and Appli-
ances, and is prepared to make a Single Garment or a
Suit at Prices which Defy Competition.
You can select from a choice assortment' of the best
West of England, Scotch, Kaiapoi, or Geelong Tweeds,
Fox’s Navy Blue Serges, and Sergerettes, and have a
SUIT made in the most fashionable style, guaranteed fit
and superior work nanship, for
TWO GUINEAS,
with an extra pair of Trousers given in.
The Best Value anywhere. Equal to Four-Guinea Suits
at other establishments. Write for Patterns and Self-
measurement Forms.
Place your orders early for the Autumn and Winter
Season.
C. G. HATTE, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
/>£)
CITRATE OF
MAGNESIA
o
*7 A r/
REMEMBER IN TAB'
NURSERY IT IS A POSITIVE
NECESSITY, A 5 AU- CWLDISH
AILMENTS GIVE WAY To A
Dose or TWo
FOREIGN STAMPS.
ETS of 3 Cape (triangular), 5s ; 15 China,
i 9d; 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
reece, 6d ; 5 Guatemala, 8d ; 9 Borneo,
S 6d ; 12 Mexico, Is : 21 Heligoland, Is 6d ;
0 Brazil, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s ; 12 Cuba, 9d.
i’ackets :30 different, Od ; 50, Is ; 100,2 s 6d ;
150, 5s ; 500, 21s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
102 'Fmzahetii Street, Mumioornk
“Tbe R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. & A-ttwood, Sole Proprietors
JJ
A Fever-Stricken Ship
NEW GUINEA FEVER
Clements Tonic a Specific
FOR
ISLAND FEVER AND AGUE.
Statement by
CAPTAIN NEAVES.
(From the “Newtown Chronicle.”)
Most people will remember the voyage of
the fever-stricken' steamer, Mount Kembla.
In the middle of last April she started for
New Guinea, and on the first day of the
following June arrived back in Sydney.
But we will let the first mate, Captain
Neaves, describe the terrible sufferings of
the captain and the crew in Ins own words.
“ When we arrived in Sydney," said Mr.
Neaves, who is living in Marmion Street,
Nordi Kingston, to "a reporter from the
“ Newtown "Chronicle,” who recently inter
viewed him, “ I was so weak I could
scarcely stand through New Guinea fever.
The plague came upon us three days home-
ward bound from New Guinea. First, two
of the sailors fell sick, then next day three
more, and so on, the fever went through the
ship. 'We swallowed large quantities of
quinine from the medicine chest, but with
very little benefit. We all fought against
the disease as hard as we could ; we didn't
like the idea of lying down, as we feared, if
we did, we should never get up again. There
was sometimes but two of us able to be on
deck at a time to navigate, steer, and keep
a 1< ok-out, and the engineers below were as
short handed as we were. The sea was dead
against us, we were running short of coal
and medicine; the skipper was laid up
with the fever in his bunk, and on the way
down we were forced to run into Moiton
Bay to get supplies and it is a matter of
regret to me now that I wasn t aware of the
fine properties of Clements lonic, for if I
had but known of that remedy 1 should
certainly have taken in a good stock of it at
Brisbane, when we should have been much
better able to combat the fever which had
seized upon us. However, 1 didn t get any
Clements Tonic till we reached Sydney.
Our skipper was seized on a Friday, and
died on the following Tuesday, so you can
form some judgment as to the rapidity of its
effects. Yes,” continued Captain Neaves,
“ the disease clings to you even after you
have arrived in the bracing winter climate of
Sydney, and many a poor fever-stricken
fellow has lasted all the way down the coast
but to die like our skipper did on reaching
Sydney.”
“ What is this fever like ? '
“ It is ordinary fever and ague, sometimes
called malaria, low, or intermittent fever,
which is very prevalent in tropical climates.
It generally comes on with headaches, lassi-
tude, and shaking ; this agu fit is then
followed by an exceedingly high temperature,
and the sufferer often loses consciousness.
The periods of fever and shakes get closer to-
gether, the sick man gets weaker and weaker
as the hours roll on, and if he doesn t take
the turn for the better, he dies very shortly
of sheer weakness and want of vitality. Its
weakening effects are very rapid. It knocks
amanall to pieces ina very short time, andeven
if hegetsover the disease, the after effects will
very often lasthim therestcfhi dife. Usually,
months elapse before a sufferer resumes any-
thing like his ordinary health and vigor.
Any day in the week you may go up into the
Domain and see some of these poor fellows
sitting about—waiting to recover their
strength. They look like so many skeletons,
with their lean and crippled figures, parch-
ment-like faces, and dull eyes. They are
simply suffering from the remains of island
fever.”
“ How did you get on ? .
“Well, as I said, when I arrived in
Sydney I was suffering from after effects of
New Guinea fever. I was almost too weak
to stand. Continual headaches oppressed
me. Usually, after one has got round the
turning point of an illness, a convalescent
appetite may be expected. But th s was iai
from the case with me. My appetite was com-
pletely lost. I was absolutely indifferent
whether I ate anything or not. 1 ielt dun
and languid the whole day long, and instead o.
getting in some useful sleep at night 1 10 ie
uneasily about, never able to get an horn s
solid rest the night through. I tried all
sorts of things that were recommended to
me on all sides, and I took many different
strengthening medicines that I saw ad vcr tisei ,
but to no purpose, and asforquinine, I took so
much that 1 must ha\ e been fairly saturated
withit. My vitality waspretty low down, lean
assure you. It was my landlord that told
me to try Clements Tonic. ‘ It will pull you
through,’ said he. I told him plainly I
didn’t believe it would, but as he made a
point of it, I gave it a trial. lam not ex-
aggerating one iota when I say that half a
bottle of Clements Tonic benefited me to an
extent that was as marvellous as unantici-
pated. At the best I had hoped to recover
my health and vigor but slowly, say in the
course of weeks ; but here in three or four
days a very welcome change for the better
had been wrought in me by Clements Tonic.
It was astonishing, after the failure of so
many medicines. My appetite came back in
double force. I felt strung up all over.
The moment 1 tumbled into bed I was
asleep, and slept the whole night through
that dreamless, refreshing sleep which only
a sailor can sleep. A buoyancy of spirits
took the place of my dull and languid
feelings, and it co.ddn’t have been mote than
a week after commencing to take Clements
Tonic when I was asking myself if l ever
felt better in my life. And I never did feel
more healthy. I was thoroughly toned up,
and had made a perfect recovery from one
of the most enervating diseases. lam now
sound as a bell, and willing, if necessary, to
sailonceagaiuround the malarial coast of New
Guinea—that is, if the ship’s medicine chest
contained a goodly supply of Clements Tonic.
And you may depend upon it when I do go
to sea again I shall take good care to see
that remedy provided.” f
“Will you let us put what you ve
said in the ‘ Chronicle ’ ? ”
“ You needn’t ask that question; of
course you can. 1 believe a proper know-
ledge of the properties of Clements T onic
ought to be brought home to all that go into
marshy places or tropical climates, and if
your publication of what I ve told you has
that desirable effect, I shall be exceedingly
pleased.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I RobertNkaves, of Marmion Street. North Kings-
ton’, Svdnev, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of five folios
and consecutively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a l rue and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
mv full permission to publish the- same in any way ,
arid I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Ac t made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
«< An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
menlsof the Government of New South Wales, and
to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths ana
Affidavits."
Declared at Sydney this 16th day of August, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, before
y«a J (jRUiUWj
ST.
PAULI
TRADE Wg MARK
GIRL
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
6/6 A Watch and Chain for 6/6.
To every purchaser
of one of our 2s. 6d.
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent.’s)
we will present, on
payment of 4s. ex-
tra, an OPEN-
FACE KEYLESS
WATCH (as illus-
trated), which we
guarantee. There
are no conditions
or guessing about
this watch. We
send the Watch and Chain registered (any colony) on re-
ceipt of postal note for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage. We
make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our
Price-List, and will send, as a FREE GIFT, a Beautiful
Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the Watch Chain.
No. I.—PARAGUAYAN Solid Gold Gilt Cuff Links,
Handsome Patterns, with New Patent Attachments, and
your Initials engraved on each pair, 2s. No. 8. —Heavy
Sterling Silver ditto, 3s. 6d. No. 2.— PARAGUAYAN
Solid Gold Gilt Name Brooches, any name and handsomely
engraved, Is. Cd. No. 3.—STERLING SILVER Bar
Brooches, any name engraved, 2s. 6d. No. 6.—REAL
GOLD Fronts, 4s. 6d. No. 4.—Pocket KNIVES, German
Silver Handle, stronger, lighter, and less bulky than the
ordinary handles, Sheffield make, with your full name on,
2s. 6d. 'BEST “EYE-WITNESS,” 3s. 6d.
H. POTIER &. CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
~ ~ Patent ~ ... ... 10/6
~ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
~ All Russia Tan Calf ... 10/6
~ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
i
. . SEND FOR . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s,
and
HILDItEN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy.
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BO L UKE ST., MELBOURNE
Geeloutj and Ballarat .
Discoverer —Chris. Mudd, F.L.S., Prince of \\ a es
botan st. Mr. J. Vernon, 142 Osborne St., Williams
town writes “My honest conviction is that had 1
n it been for your ‘ Oleac ’ I should now be 111 11;1 v
<j,ave” Mrs. Poole, of Cooma, writes:—“l am tu ly
recovered, and not used one jar.” Mr. Gill, Ha-
moral Crescent, Surrey Hills, writes:—"l am happv
to tell vou the eruption has entirely disappeared,
jai s, 4/6 ; post, 4/10. Chemists or Depots :
SYDNEY —M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt Street.
ADE L A IDE—Harris & Kkmp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOURNE—Fred. J. E. L'hillips, 817 Collins t.
WMW
BOURNE.^
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMERS, AND ( ENT HE OF CITY.
TRAMS PASS DOOR TO ALL SUBURBS.
Rooms, 2s to 10s per Night. Dining Rooms, Is and 2s 6d; and Cafe-
Boarders, 30s to £8 10s per week


‘' —r-»
T'Jl ~-r • T -c „
m
r >
■aw***" -
Ss
l
%
gr •*
f sm
J
[ *
7
V'»
BABY JEFFRIES, Aged 9 Months, FED ON
TESTIMONIAL.
To Mr. ARNOTT.
Dear Sir, —
I have much pleasure in telling you your
Biscuits have proved most beneficial food for my
little baby of nine months old. When born, the
doctor did not think she would ever thrive, she
was so thin and delicate, when I was advised to
try your Biscuits.
The accompanying photo., which I am send-
ing, will prove the result—a fine, healthy child,
fat and good-tempered. Every mother should
try them (your Arrowroot Biscuits).
Yours truly,
J. JFFFRIES.
13 Womerah Avenue, Darlinghurst,
Sydney.
ARNOirS HUk
The Children’s Food of Health .
Arrowroot Biscuits!
Always ash for Arnott’s when purchasing .
A Sad Example.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was Dr. M'Glynn, unto Father O’Flynn,
Said, “Yer Reverence seems to be getting too
thin,
And you’re gapin’ and yawnin’,
Ye’d better take warnin’,
And have every mornin’ a drop of hot gin ! ”
“ I’d be willing to try,” said the priest in reply,
“ But I dare not attempt it —I’ll tell you for why :
I am pledged to abstaining,
In hope of restraining
My people from draining their pockets all dry ! ”
“ And, dear Dr. M'Glynn,” added Father
O’Flynn,
“ My example has led them to see it’s a sin.
Do you think that the Hooleys,
The Hogans and Dooleys
Would mind what the rule is were I to begin ? ”
“ A convenient place for containing a care
You could find ! ” said thedoctor. “ Well, saving
your grace,
There’s hot water for shaving
You’re bound to be having,
Or else you’d be lavin’ a beard on your face ! ”
“And,”said Dr. McGlynn unto Father O’Flynn,
“ You can have the hot toddy when no one is in ;
Just a small appetiser,
Sure I’m your adviser,
And who’ll be the wiser? ” said Dr. M'Glynn.
Now M'Glynn had to go for a fortnight or so
To the neighboring township of Neversayno,
And he met on returning
That person discerning,
In horticult learning, the gardener Joe.
“How is Father O’Flynn?” called out Dr.
M'Glynn.
Joseph paused and considered, while rubbing his
chin.
“ Is he well since I treated ? ”
The Doctor repeated,
And these were the words that Joe answered him
in:
“Well, his health’s pretty gay, I am happy to
say,
But I’m thinkin’ his mind must be goin’ astray.
From the way he’s behavin’,
I fear he’ll go ravin’—
He’s taken to sharin’ six times in the day 1”
W. T. GOODGE.
Archibald Forbes’ “ Life of Napoleon III.”
has an occurrence not generally known. When
the Great Napoleon departed for his last coxnpaign,
little Louis Napoleon cluQg to him crying, and
said, “You shan’t go. jpfiey will make you
prisoner.” Nap. said to Hortense, “Take care of
him. He may come round to my throne.” Yet
there was Napoleon’s own son in the way. This
saying of the Emperor afforded the prime element
of Louis’s confidence in his star.
On Our Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the year we put the bottom paddock under
potatoes. Dad was standing contemplating the
tops which were withering for want of rain. . . .
He shifted his gaze to the ten acres sown with
corn. A dozen stalks or so were looking well; a
few more, 10 or 12 inches high, were coming in
cob; the rest hadn’t made an appearance.
Dad sighed and turned away from the awful
prospect. He went and looked into the water-
cask. Two butterflies, a frog or two, and some
charcoal were at the bottom. No water. He
sighed again, took the yoke and two kerosene-tins,
and went off to the springs.
About an hour and a half after he returned with
two half-tins of muddy, milky-looking water —the
balance had been splashed out as he got through
the fences— and said to mother (wiping the sweat
off his face with his shirt-sleeve) —
“Don’t know, I’m sure, what things are going
t’ come t’; . . . no use doing anything .
there’s no rain ... no si ” He lifted his foot
and with cool exactness took a place-kick at the
dog which was trying to fall into one of the
kerosene-tins, head first, and sent it and the water
flying. Oh you ! ” The rest is omitted in the
interests of Poetry.
* * * *
Day after. Fearful heat ; not a breath of air;
fowl and beast sought the shade; everything
silent; the great Bush slept. In the west a stray
cloud or two that had been hanging about gathered,
thickened, darkened.
The air changed. Fowl and beast left the
shade ; tree-tops began to stir—to bend —to sway
violently. Small branches flew down and rolled
before the wind. Presently it thundered—afar off.
Mother and Sal ran out and gathered the clothes,
and fixed the spout, and looked cheerfully up at
the sky.
Joe sat in the chimney-corner thumping the ribs
of a cattle-pup, and pinching its ears to make it
savage. He had been training that pup ever since
its arrival that morning.
The plough-horses, yoked to the plough, stood
in the middle of the paddock, beating the flies off
with their tails and leaning against each other.
Dad stood at the stock-yard—his brown arms
and bearded chin resting on a middle-rail—-pas-
sively watching Dave and Paddy Maloney break-
ing-in a colt for Callaghan—a weedy, wild, her-"
ring-gutted brute that might have been worth 15
shillings. Dave was to have him to hack about for
six months for the breaking-in.
* * » *
They had been at “Callaghan”—as they christ-
ened the colt—since day-light, pretty well, and had
crippled old Bess and lamed Maloney’s Dandy,
and knocked up two they borrowed from Anderson
—-yarding the rubbish ; and there wasn’t a fence
within miles of the place that he hadn’t tumbled
over and smashed. But when they did get him
in they lost no time commencing to quieten him.
They cursed eloquently, and threw the bridle at
him, and used up all the missiles and bits of hard
mud and sticks about the yard, pelting him because ;
he wouldn’t stand.
Dave essayed to rope him “the first shot,” and
nearly poked his eye out with the pole; and Paddy
Maloney, in attempting to persuade the affrighted
beast to come out of the cow-bail, knocked the cap
of its hip down with the milking-block. They
caught him then and put the saddle on. Callaghan
trembled. When the girths were tightened they
put the reins under the leathers, and threw their
hats at him, and shouted, and “hooshed” him
round the yard, expecting he would buck with the
saddle. But Callaghan only trotted into a corner
and snorted. Usually, a horse that won’t buck
with a saddle is a “ snag.” Dave knew it. The
chestnut he tackled for Brown did nothing with
the saddle. He was a snag. Dave remembered
him and reflected. Callaghan walked boldly up
to Dave, with his head high in the air, and snorted
at him. He was a sorry-looking animal—cuts
and scars all over him ; hip down ; patches and
streaks of skin and hair missing from his head.
• * * •
“No buck in him!” unctuously observed Dad,
without lifting his chin off the rail.
“Ain’t there?” said Paddy Maloney, grinning
cynically. “Just you wait! ”
It seemed to take the heart out of Dave, but he
said nothing. He hitched his pants and made a
brave effort to spit—several efforts. And he
turned pale.
Paddy was now holding Callaghan’s head at
arm’s-length by the bridle and one ear, for Dave
to mount.
A sharp crack of thunder went off right over-
head. Dave didn’t hear it.
“ Hello ! ” Dad said, “we’re going to have it—
hurry up. ”
Dave didn’t hear him. He approached the
horse’s side and nervously tried the surcingle—a
greenhide one of Dad’s workmanship. “Think
that’ll hold ? ” he mumbled meekly.
“Pshaw!” Dad blurted through the rails —
“ Hold! Of course it ’ll hold—-hold a team o’ bul-
locks, boy.”
“’S all right, Dave; ’s all right—git on.” From
Paddy Maloney, impatiently.
Paddy, an out-and-out cur amongst horses him-
self, was anxious to be relieved of the colt’s head.
Young horses sometimes knock down the man
who is holding them. Paddy was aware of it.
Dave took the reins carefully, and was about to
place his foot in the stirrup when his restless eye
settled on a wire-splice in the crupper—also Dad’s
handiwork. He hesitated and commenced a re-
mark. But Dad was restless ; Paddy Maloney
anxious (as regarded himself); besides, the storm
was coming.
Dad said: “Damn it, what are y’ ’fraid o’
boy? That’ll hold —jump on.”
Paddy said: “Now, Dave, while I’ve ’is ’ead
round.”
Joe (just arrived with the cattle-pup) chipped in.
He said : “Wot, is he fuf-fuf-fuf-f-Wkent of
him, Dad ? ”
Dave heard them. A tear like a hailstone
dropped out of his eye.
“ It’s all damn well t’ talk, ” he fired off ; “ come
in and ride th’ horse then, if y’ s’ game ! ”
A dead silence.
• * • *
The cattle - pup broke away from Joe and
strolled into the yard. It barked feebly at Cal-
laghan, then proceeded to worry his heels. It
seemed to take Callaghan for a calf. Callaghan
kicked it up against the rails. It must have taken
him for a cow then.
Dave’s blood was up. He was desperate. He
grabbed the reins roughly, put his foot in the
stirrup, gripped the side of the pommel, and was
on before you could say “ Woolloongabba.”
With equal alacrity, Paddy let the colt’s head
go and made tracks, chuckling. The turn things
had taken delighted him. Excitement (and
pumpkin) was all that kept Paddy alive. But
Callaghan didn’t budge—at least not until Dave
dug both heels into him. Then he made a blind
rush and knocked out a panel of the yard—and
got away with Dave. Off he went, plunging, gal-
oping) pig-jumping, breaking loose limbs and
bark off trees with Dave’s legs. A wire fence was
in his way. It parted like the Bed Sea when he
came to it —he crashed into it and rolled over.
The saddle was dangling under his belly when he
got up ; Dave and the bridle were under the fence.
But the storm had come, and such a storm ! Hail-
stones as big as apples nearly—first one here and
there, and next moment in thousands.
• * * •
Paddy Maloney and Joe ran for the house;
Dave, with an injured ankle and a cut head, limped
painfully in the same direction ; but Dad saw the
plough-horses turning and twisting about in their
chains and set out for them. He might as well
have started off to cross the continent. A hail-
stone, large enough to kill a cow, fell with a thud
a yard or two in advance of him, and he slewed
like a hare and made for the house also. He was
getting it hot. Now and again his hands would
go up to protect his head, but he couldn’t run that
way—he couldn’t run much any way.
The others reached the house and watched Dad
make from the back-door. Mother called to him
to “Run, run I” Poor Dad! he was running.
Paddy Maloney was joyful. He danced about
and laughed vociferously at the hail bouncing off
Dad. Once Dad staggered—a hail-boulder had
struck him behind the ear—and he looked like drop-
ping. Paddy hit himself on the leg, and vehe-
mently invited Dave to “Look, look at him!”
But Dad battled along to the haystack, buried his
head in it, and stayed there till the storm was
over—wriggling and moving his feet as though he
were tramping chaff.
Shingles were dislodged from the roof of the
house, and huge hailstones pelted in and put the
fire out, and split the table, and fell on the sofa
and the beds.
Rain fell also, but we didn’t catch any in the
cask—the wind blew the spout away. It was a
curled piece of bark. Nevertheless, the storm did
good. We didn’t lose all the potatoes. We got
some out of them. We had them for dinner one
&uncla y.
STELE RUDD.
There is room enough to drop the Moon
into the unexplored regions of the Antarctic,
Dr. Neild, the Shakespearian post-mor-
temist of Melbourne, claims that during a medical
career of 55 years he has never lost a case through
the action of chloroform ; but he takes to himself
no especial credit for the record. What a contrast
is the work of the old man, commencing at a time
when anaesthetics were but little understood, with
the administration of chloroform by the youthful
sawbones in Australian metropolitan hospitals.
Deaths under chloroform are of almost weekly
occurrence in these institutions, although the
newly-fledged surgeons are specially trained by an
expert in anaesthetics, and have the advantage of
the accumulated wisdom of scores of years. The
question of death under chloroform is one which
the Australian public will wake up to one of these
days, and then there will be trouble, for many ex-
perienced men aver that such demises are wholly
preventible.


IPOISOHSTEID BLOOD I
CAUSED BY DISEASED KIDNEYS, AND CURED BY
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
r
5=
Snd
-m
Every drop of our blood parses through the kidneys several times a day. It is the work of the kidneys
to filter out the impurities.
When healthy our kidneys remove about 500 grains of impure matter each day. They work all the
time When unhealthy some share of these impurities is left to poison the blood. These, poisons may
bring on any of the following symptoms of diseases : Pain in the back or sides, headac’ae, rheumatism,
gout, lumbago, nervousness, Bright’s Disease, dark-colored urine, deposits, too much or too little urine,
gravel, dizziness, irregular heart, general debility, etc., etc., etc. In fact these poisons are the foundation
and cause of a very large class of diseases. And they are curable—through the kidneys—if taken in time.
If the kidneys are put in a healthy condition, they will take these poisons out of the blood, and thus re-
move the cause of disease. The kidneys are too little understood. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a
kidney medicine—and a good, reliable, kidney medicine, as hundreds here in these colonies know. Here is
an example :
Mr. Joseph Greve is a well-known coal and wood merchant, living at No. 18 Albion-street, Surry Hills, Sydney. He has been a sufferer from kidney dis-
order for the past five or six years. He says : “ The symptoms were severe backache and an irregularity in the secretions from the kidneys. The pains had such
complete mastery over me at times that I could not rise from my bed. I tried doctors, I tried medicines, but without appreciable benefit. One day, having seen a
medicine advertised for the kidijeys (that was not said to cure every ailment under the sun) I procured some. It was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I felt a
sense of relief almost from the first. My back pains gradually grew less and disappeared, as did also the other symptoms of kidney disorder.
Kidney disease is caused by excitement, overwork, nervous tension, fevers, the use of alcohol. The kidneys break down under
the burden of good living, and the strain of worry, excitement, and excessive labor. Kidney disease is the frequent result of
dyspepsia.
Kidney diseases are extremely fatal, and more people die from them than from any other class of diseases. Weak kidneys
leave the poison in the. blood .that healthy kidneys remove from it, and they also allow the nutriment of the blood to leak out. This
double effect is rapidly destructive.
It is honor enough for one remedy that it can cure well and absolutely one class of diseases. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
do this with kidney diseases, and that is why they are gaining ground so fast here in these colonies. If now or at any time the reader
have any kidney trouble, remember the medicine that’s made for the kidneys—DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills may be had of chemists and storekeepers generally throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per box,
or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will be posted on receipt of price by any of our branches, as follows :—Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St.,
Sydney (main office) ; 292 Flinders St., Melbourne ; 54 King William St., Adelaide ; 341 Murray St., Perth, W.A.; Eagle St.,
Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers ; St. John St., Launceston, care Faitthorne and Son
Unbroken!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eyes wild with fear unspoken,
Tossed manes and sweeping tails,
Our thirty head unbroken
Are safe behind the rails ;
Hard-won from stony ridges
And waving bluegrass plains,
By gashes from the gidyeas,
Red spurs and foamy reins !
( Woh ! Blood and Beauty ! These prizes for our
pains.)
We woke with stars a-eluster,
And rode with breaking day ;
We’vo made a right good muster
With not one colt away.
Oh ! Loth they were at leaving,
And twice they broke for home,
AYid Blue Light’s flanks are heaving
And Brownlock’s white with foam.
( Woh ! Blood and Beauty ! You d — d welt had
to come.)
By Snowden’s son—Gray River —
The best blood in the land ;
No finer draft has ever
Upheld the station brand.
They’ll get no chance of hiding
Fenced in the Mile-by-Mile,
We won them by hard riding—
We’ll hold them now by guile !
(Woh! Blood and Beauty! We want you for a
while.)
The bay colt’s there from Blossom,
By Jove ! the beggar’s grown.
That steel-gray out of Possum
Is the best the old mare’s thrown ;
And here’s the brown from Lo-Lo,
That beggar ought to race ;
What price that chap for polo
With the white streak down the face?
( Woh ! Blood and Beauty ! A credit to the place.)
That big chap by the cedar
Full-brother to The Gleam,
We’ll “ mouth ” him for a leader
To adorn the Boss’s team ;
Those browns across the corner
Will make a ripping pair ;
That chestnut out of Lorna
Takes his kicking from the mare !
( Woh ! Blood and Beauty ! No broken leys to spare.)
Jump down there ! —What a scatter !
Get out the ropes and gear ;
We have never broken better
Than the colts we’ll break this year.
Look out the bits and rollers,
The halters and the rest —
This year they’ll know our colors
On the township tracks out West !
(Woh! Blood and Beauty! We'll battle with the
best.)
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Snuggo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the first place, his name was Snuggs, hut his
pals in Kent-street, and even in Princes-street, as
far as the Queen’s Arms, called him Snuggo. The
only other member of his “ establishment ” was
a ripe and spruce young woman whom he usually
alluded to as Snuggie, thus distorting a distortion.
Snuggo suffered from periodical fits of sobriety,
which, however, were never known to interfere
with his business. That business was chiefly
fried fish and potato-chips, and was carried on in
a long, plain room, odorous with the smell of oily,
evil cooking.
Snuggie, otherwise Jin, was a very plausible
argument in favor of Snuggo having an artistic
strain among his other undisplayed qualities. She
was charming in a black-eyed, black-haired way,
and possessed a deep brunette voice, slightly
tinged with grey, due no doubt to the smell of the
oiled fish and other vices. Jin desired it to be
understood that she was Snuggo’s niece. He,
like his shop, was long and plain, and, in appear-
ance, just the sort of man who might, with all
propriety, have such a pretty niece, and yet there
was an instinctive impression that the relation-
ship was doubtful. It was not so much that
she called him Snuggo, as the way she
caressed him with her large eyes whenever she
looked at him. No young girl could maintain a
reputation for modesty who could say such things
as Jin’s glances said. Her eyes completely re-
pudiated the uncleship.
* * • •
The last of the customers had been bundled out,
and Jin was fitfully wiping down the little rough
tables.
“Snuggo,” she suddenly called out; “come
here. Stand so,” and she placed him under a
kerosene light, and, standing on tip-toes, looked
ea rnestly into his eyes.
“I was trying,” she said, as she moved away
from him, “to find out why I’m so struck on
you.”
“ Bather late, isn’t it?” he asked. “You’ve
been struck on me for two years without needing
any reason.”
' “ Yes, and should have been struck on you for
twenty-two years just the same way, only— ”
She paused, aud a tear fell on her cheek.
“ Only— ” he repeated.
“ Only that I’ve found you to be such a low,
mean, underhanded wretch !” The tear had dried
a 3 quickly as it had fallen.
“Hullo! What’s the game now?” he said.
“ Ain't I always treated you fair ?”
“ Yes, you’ve been as right as rain, and I think
you love me more, lately, than you used to. You
haven’t hit me once this month, and to-day’s the
16th. But I’ve found you out. I didn’t mind
you knocking me about a bit when you had a
drop in; but it was wrong of you, Snuggo, to
be such a thundering, blazing liar ! ”
“ By the Lord, I won’t stand you calling me no
liar ! ” he yelled, grasping a walking-stick with a
brutal flourish and stepping towards her.
She put her hands behind her back and faced
him with hardly a quiver.
“ Don’t be afraid ; I won’t scream,” she said.
“Strike me ; I want yon to.”
“ You want me to ? ” ho said, looking at her in
amazement.
“Yes,” she replied, slowly, “ I want you to. I
want to see if I still love you.”
He dropped the stick and put an arm on her
shoulder.
“ Look here, girlie,” he said, “ tell me why you
think I am a liar.”
“ ’Cause your wife is dead,” she answered,
struggling away from him.
“ Dead! ” He was evidently more startled
than regretful. “Holy sailor! When did she
die?” How do you know ? ”
“ She died up at Oreswick two years ago. She
was kicked to death. It’s no usu trying to tell me
that you know nothing about it.”
“Me! S’elp me, Snuggie, I don't know. I’ll
take me oath I never laid no hand on her.”
“ I know you didn’t, Snuggo. You didn’t care
enough for her. She was kicked to death by a
horse, not by a man ”
“ Oh ! there must be some mistake, Jin. How
d’you know all this ?”
“There ain’t no mistake about it,” she said.
“ Joe the Lumper told me, and he ought to
know.”
“H’m —ye-es,” said Snuggo, reflectively. “I
s’pose Joe’d know. I must see him, and if she’s
dead —then ”
“ There’ll be no ‘ then,’ ” she interrupted,
answering his look. “I’m going to clear out to-
morrow morning.”
“What? Goin’ to leave me?” he said, in-
credulously.
“ Yes ; you’ve told me fifty times that your
missus was alive. You’re too much of a liar,
Snuggo, for me to stick-to any longer,” she
replied, determinedly.
“Lord love you, Jin, can’t you believe that I
was always dead sure she was alive ? ’ he asked.
“I don’t believe it, and you can’t make me,”
the girl replied. “You knew she was dead all
the time, and yet you lied about it.”
“But,” said Snuggo, brightening, “if she is
dead you ought to feel all right, ’cause ”
“Look here, Snug,” she broke in, “have I ever
worried you about that ? Ain’t I been content to
be your niece ? ”
“ Yes, you’ve been as good as gold about that,
Jin, and that’s why I can’t make out why you
should want to leave me now when I can make it
up to you—if she is dead.”
“ What a thundering ass you are ! ” and she
stamped passionately. “ That ain’t it at all. I’m
going to leave you ’cause I couldn’t love a liar.
Don’t you think I’ve got some sense of honor ! ”
“ Hay ? ” It wasn’t much to say, but for all
that she angrily struck him on the cheek with her
clenched hand.
“ Curse you ! ” he said (or words to that effect),
getting angry in turn. “ Go, if you want-to.
I’ll see you in the gutter 'fore I’ll do anythin’ for
you again.”
“ My Sunday troubles on you ! You forget that
I can work for my living.”
“Oh, ye 3,” he sneered, “ I s’pose you’ll go on
the bloomin’ stage, hay ?”
“ Not much. I think a bit too much of myself
to show my legs to a crowd of fellows for fifteen
shillings a week.”
Snuggo could find nothing to say to that; he
could only stare fluently.
“Look here, mitey,” he said at length;
“ lemme know just why you’re goin’ to chuck me
over. Is it ’cause you think my missus has been
dead, and you should have been more’n my niece
these two years. Is that the trouble ?”
“That!” she said, scornfully. “Why can’t
you get away from that idea? It’s’cause you’ve
been so mean with me ; so mis-dis-dishon’able —
’cause you’ve been such a liar !”
“Nothin’else, Snuggie, straight?”
“Nothing else. My blooming troubles about
anything else.”
Next morning she had disappeared.
* * * *
She had hot seen Snuggo for four weeks. Then
one mqrping he knocked at the door of her lodg-
ings in Little .Vlontgomery-street, and a inin ite
later was with her in . he shabby little front i co n.
Snuggo looked triumphant, and even essayed to
be jocular.
“ Well, Jin,” he began, “How’s that bloomin’
sense of honor gettin’ on ?”
“ What’s your game,” she said, with evidently-
assumed inlifference. “What have you come
round here for ?”
“ Just to take you back to the shop, that’s all.”
“ You mean you want to marry me. I won’t— ”
“Oh, don't flurry yourself, Jin. You needn’t
be afraid of that. laint goin’ to splice you if you
don’t want me to. I just want you to come back
to your—uncle.”
“I’ll see you in the gutter first, and then I
won’t,” she said, blazing her black eyes at him.
“Well, I’m dead certain you will,” he responded,
coolly. “ Look here, Snuggie, old girl, you left'
me ’cause I was a liar; will you come back if I
aint •
* If you ain’t?’ she repeated. “What do you
mean, Snug?” It was surprising how wistful she
had become in ah instant,
“ I mean that I ain’t no liar. You did make a
mistake. The woman who was kic ed to death
at C res wick was not my wife, ’cause she's alive.
She’s just been given two years for pick-pocket-
>n?-
“So help you, Snuggo?”
“ S’elp, me, Jin.”
“ Snug— ’ she tiptoed, and placed her hands
on his shoulders— “kiss your-your niece !”
4 ‘ Tell us first, Jin, how’s your sense of honor
now, hay?”
“Satisfied, Snuggo, quite satisfied.”
And Jin is back among the fried evils and
potato-chips.
Melbourne.
WALTER L’ESTRANGE.
The new Cani Inn postage-stamps are
„ , f •• • •- f j° •
Tnarvels of Jingoism—are, in fact, immature maps
fth world wifch tlle British possessions in light
, T , . „ r „ , lhm J „„ b ;„ as t vf ree
' {■' ‘ , n° tiV its:
ordinary Australian ones, and recall the U.b.
n , ’ , • , ~ v -„„ TT
(Jolumbus-anmversary boom which enabled many
■(. v J . • , . . . .
a thrifty Yank to paper Ins house at about 50 per
cent, below current rates for wall-paper. The
new g is a far m()re logica , cre ation from the
standpoint than the Queen’s head. Im-
perfal enthu ‘ siasm j, comprehensible, but the
crawlsome slobber dignified by the title of
” p-* *»
Gentlemen !—We keep the largest stock
„ . ... „ T t a i,i • „
-^ r * Jaeger s Sanitary Woollen Lnderclothmg
in this colony; send or call for our illustrated;
P rice ' list which we issue gratis, and send post
free to the remotest corner of New South Wales.
Thipt two pages G f good reading matter
J 1 " .
Hordern Brothers, 203 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Flesh,
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ay er’s Sarsaparilla
A
n
YA
in
%
Y 7/.
v
tlVv
%
Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
and was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go iuto a neighbor’s house until I was fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
an °f^ er > a nd still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.”
This is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine."
“ Ayer’s ”is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer ’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
AYER’S
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Tales of the System.
—*
Price, Is; ... per Post, Is 3d.
yOU are SOre to set the Best Piaijo
At NICHOLSON’S in Georg© Street.
DONISCN Fan>o6S Pianos ooly to be bad
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
Q€CNST€IN Sfipcrb PiaooS ooly
At NICHOLSON’S in Georg© Street.
MI6NON PiaQos, World Reoowocd, ooly
1 At NICHOLSON’S in Georg© Street.
PiapoS WoodcrfOlly Cheap ooly
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
Other HoOSeS are io with
NICHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
■
Cures While Sleeping.
5 imsTiiss
Cures Coughs, Colds, Influenza-
TBSTIMOMIA.L.
Adamstown, September 11th. 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Always ask for BONNINGTON’S.
MOST BE ENDURED.
a
bufhcnZe youtned
w <*y
i
• • •
'I
3
zm
m
- 2
ft
a 3
WP> H
v -• • 1 a
• •
t"HLV l|T£ W?rth living.
==
ft -J
=s£=S
w
» St-
BiO
1.PARMER GRASSTOSSER : “I'll bet you ten quid my
leghorn roost r beats your game."
SPURTING ED. : “ Done ! ”
2 —“ But I’ll let my game interview the legho II first.”
3.—“That's enough, my boy.”
4. —SPORTING ED. : “Thank you, gentlemen, for awarding
tin- prize to me."
Farmkr G.: “Guess there's been foul play here!"


' LARGE
■ <49r.:>..
zs
Makers
Established
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-mating
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq'rt’rs, lra-lfiOWilliam-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address i
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue I'rea. on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Wort!)i&)gt©o P(in)pii)g Efygioc Conjpaoy-
(Australasian Branch.) J3i!lT!lClL J3SCU!JtX J=Esl*C3'fcl3L<E3X*£3» (Australasian Branch.)
82 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHING'iV'
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.\Y.
iV-gencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A astral inn Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to th • Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, jf*' - Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. A&ents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THIS LADIES,
W. O- & CO.,
DYERS h CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where -
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any 1 ocality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably uu.derta.he its sale.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
3ST ortb. Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-m
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making
■ t®tv
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk,
Game,
Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Poultry, Pastry, etc,
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING
is
OF
in the WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
S"ST3D3SrE"ST-
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
... Sole Agents for . . .
The New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho’s
5 8kin 9 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & C 0..,
Melbourne, GunmakeTS, corneiyLittle Collins and Elizabeth’
Streets. The Trustees offer to tire Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, oomplete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s fid each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib; extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the late-t improvements{ with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £H, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced f 7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEAPON, THOMAS,& CO.
B.S.A
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple's, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10, - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perrv’s
8 3 gross. f%T SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
percent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date £7, 8, 4 9, Lit), £l2,guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 43d Bourke Street,
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J. A. Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
IN STOCK
FAY’S DOUBLE SPINDLE
SHAPER.
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
&e., &c.,
&c.
